The following lines contains multiple episode transcripts of a Dungeons and Dragons game played by a group of players. Each episode transcript is delimited by [START OF EPISODE] and [END OF EPISODE]. The transcripts are followed by a question about the game statistics. Answer the question based on the transcripts. Do not try to guess, estimate or approximate the result. Do not ask the user for clarification or follow-up. Do step-by-step reasoning if needed. Return the final answer in \boxed{{}}. 

The following lines contain the mapping between player names and character names.
Matt plays the character DM.
Laura plays the character Vex'ahlia.
Travis plays the character Grog.
Marisha plays the character Keyleth.
Orion plays the character Tiberius.
Taliesin plays the character Percy.
Liam plays the character Vax'ildan.
Sam plays the character Taryon.
Ashley plays the character Pike.
Felicia plays the character Lyra.
Mary plays the character Zahra.
Wil plays the character Thorbir.
Will plays the character Kashaw.
Kit plays the character Lillith.
Jason plays the character Garthok.
Chris hardwick plays the character Gern.
Chris perkins plays the character Shale.
Patrick plays the character Kerrek.
Noelle plays the character Tova.
Jon plays the character Lionel.
Darin plays the character Sprigg.
Joe plays the character Arkhan.

Use this mapping when answering the questions below.

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello everyone, welcome to the fifth episode of Critical Role! Before we start and get into the videos for our initial intro, let me go over a couple of things for the evening. First off, we're shooting to get to 1,500 subscribers by this evening, and as soon as we get there, we're giving out a promo kit that's worth about $250, which is awesome. We'll all go ahead and sign it at the end of the day and get it out to you as well. Also, Tabletop Day is coming up this Saturday, and a few of us will be showing up during the stream as well and any of you guys playing your own tabletop games at home, or whatever the case may be, if you go to the website and register, for each person that registers, we're giving away a boardgame to the charity Big Brothers and Big Sisters, so that's a really, really cool thing that you guys should get involved with. That's this Saturday, at International Tabletop Day, and also, we received a present apparently from the audience.
Travis: A present?
Matt: That I get to open.
Liam: Vat eez zis present? [static]
Matt: I don't know vat zis present eez, but now I get to open zis.
All: Ooh!
Matt: This is for all of us, apparently.
Taliesin: What kind of sack is that?
Matt: It is a big-- oh, it is a gigantic sack.
Orion: Ooh, I love gigantic sacks
Matt: Oh my god guys, this is, this is amazing!
Laura: There's a card on it.
Matt: All right.
Laura: On the other side.
Matt: There's a card? Oh snap. By the power of #TeamNoStream, you have the power. By Negihama, thank you Negihama.
All: Thank you Negihama!
Matt: That's amazing, as we now have for the group, a castle Greyskull.
All: Huzzah! Yay!
Matt: So during the intro break we're going to go ahead and open this and find a place for it nearby, 'cause this is now representative of the keep that the players have waiting for them at Emon once they get out of this horrible mess. Anyway guys, welcome to Critical Role, let's get into those intros, shall we?
Ashley: Pike grew up in the outskirts of town, near the Bramblewood. Her ancestors were a family of deep gnomes with quite an unfavorable reputation. Thievery, destruction, and trickery left them with the curse of the last name of Trickfoot. Sarenrae, the goddess of healing and redemption, had other plans for Pike's great-great-grandfather Wilhand, who left his family at a young age after a dream-- a dream that changed the course of the Trickfoot family. Wilhand devoted his life to Sarenrae, and pledged from then on that him and his family would live a life of service and devotion. As a child, Pike seemed to have an affinity to heal. Whether it was animals, people, or even flowers, she felt she had a purpose in making things whole that had once been broken. She studied and learned the ways to heal through divine magic. She lived a peaceful life, quiet and simple, until one day, Wilhand was captured and almost killed by a group of goliath barbarians. One of the goliaths took a stand against the murder of the innocent gnome, and he himself was beaten, bloodied, and left for dead, abandoned by his herd. Wilhand went to Pike for help. She prayed, and healed this barbarian as best she could, bringing him back to life. When he awoke, she discovered his name was Grog Strongjaw. After that, they were the best of friends, a rather unlikely pair. Little did she know that in a few years' time, Grog would soon return the favor and bring her back from the clutches of death. After being killed in battle, Pike felt angry. She wanted to be stronger, so that it would never happen again. She spent four months at sea, training with the men and women aboard a ship called The Broken Howl. Gripping her holy symbol in one hand, and her morningstar in the other, this time, Pike is ready.
Travis: Right, listen up! If you have ale, then you have a friend in Grog Strongjaw. A goliath of towering height and size, this barbarian has an appetite for the two great loves in his life: combat, women, and ale. Wait. Easily the brains of the group, Grog is often consulted for his vast knowledge of shapes, colors, and shiny things. Also ale. In his early years, armed with his two-handed greataxe, Grog often enjoyed proving his might amongst the ranks of his family's wandering herd. But after coming upon an unsuspecting elderly gnome in the woods, he objected to the killing of such an innocent life. A creature of impulse, Grog felt only pity for this terrified little thing. His disobedience cost him dearly. Beaten bloody and banished by the herd leader, his uncle Kevdak, Grog was abandoned and left to die. Exiled from his herd, it was then that the relative of the very gnome he fought to save, saved him. It was the kindness of a gnome cleric named Pike that healed Grog, bringing him back from death's edge. And they have remained close friends ever since. Most nights, Grog can be found challenging entire taverns to wrestling matches! Or accompanying Scanlan to the nearest house where you pay for lady favors. Also ale.
Marisha: A first impression of Keyleth would leave you with little information on the half-elven druid. You might even think that her social awkwardness due to her sheltered upbringing is kind of sweet. Of course, it would be unwise to underestimate her based on first impressions. Under that unintimidating petite frame is a vicious beast waiting to be unleashed, whose natural powers have made even the fiercest of champions pee their pants. Literally. Born to the Air tribe of the Ashari people, Keyleth was raised with a deep love of nature and the elemental magics. It is her people's inherent duty to protect the delicate areas in Tal'Dorei where the four elemental planes begin to bleed with this realm. Since she was a little girl, she had quite a knack for air manipulation and beast shaping abilities. Well, if you consider kittens and flying squirrels to be little beasts. Which I do. Anyways, it wasn't long before the headmaster of the tribe, her father, Korren, realized her true prodigious abilities and she was inveterated to succeed him as the next headmaster. Just like that, her jovial childhood was stripped and replaced with endless spell memorization, teachings from ancient traditions, and exceedingly high expectations. Every druid leader-to-be must embark on a journey to seek out the sister tribes in order to introduce and establish respect amongst the fellow headmasters. They call this the Aramente, or Noble Odyssey. When her father felt she was ready, he set her on the path to truly discovering herself. Not knowing when, or if, she will ever return. As she hiked down the mountain towards Stillben, she meditated on the task ahead. Part of the Aramente is proving yourself a strong warrior, a valiant protector, and a wise and compassionate leader. With this knowledge, one thought plays in repeat in her mind: is she even worthy?
Taliesin: Percy was the third of seven children, born to a noble family who lived far to the north, in the ancient castle of Whitestone. With so many siblings to share the burdens of lordship, Percy turned his attentions to the sciences, engineering, and naturalism. One day, a mysterious couple, named Lord and Lady Briarwood, came to court. During a feast held in their honor, the Briarwoods violently took control of the castle, killing or imprisoning everyone who would stand in their way. Percy awoke chained in the dungeon, only to be freed by his younger sister. Together they fled, chased by the Briarwoods' men. As they ran, Percy's sister took several arrows to the chest and fell. Percy kept running, eventually jumping into a freezing river and floating unconscious to freedom. He did not remember waking up on a fishing boat. He barely remembered the next two years, as he slowly made his way as far south as possible. Then one night, Percy had a dream. A roaring cloud of smoke offered him vengeance against those who destroyed his family. When he awoke, Percy began to design his first gun. (gunshot)
Sam: Oh, you haven't heard of Scanlan Shorthalt? Well, gird your loins, ladies, because he has his eye on you. A talented musician, master of disguise, and dashingly handsome in his own mind, Scanlan sings songs almost as much as he sings his own praises. Born a poor gnome, Scanlan used his endless charm and soaring tenor voice to croon for coin and support his single mother. One day, he was discovered by a half-orc promoter, and joined Dr. Dranzel's Spectacular Traveling Troupe, where he learned the ways of the world and honed his skills as a bard extraordinaire. A loner much of his life, Scanlan has never quite come to terms with the violent death of his mother at the hands of a goblin invasion. While his years on the road provided many, shall we say, educational experiences with the opposite sex, deep down Scanlan yearns for the one thing he's never known: the true love of a fellow gnome. Still, Scanlan considers himself a lover first, performer second, and fighter distant third. On the battlefield, he'll support his allies, but rarely draws blood unless it's to protect fellow gnome, Pike. Count on Scanlan for a hearty laugh, a rollicking song, and a twinkle in his eye that melts hearts and makes the females swoon.
Orion: Greetings and salutations. I am Tiberius Stormwind. I hail from a town called Ty'rex, located in the heart of Draconia, born from a politically respected family. At the age of 15, I succeeded in passing the Sorcerer's Rite, showing prodigy-like control of my magic. The judges and the Draconian High Council were amazed at how powerful my spells were for how long I had been training. At 20 years old, I was the youngest appointed member of the Magic Guild in Draconian history. For the next few years, I almost went mad from the malaise of being a guild member, as it's rather boring. However, one day I happened upon a chamber, unused for quite some time. In the room were stacks of books and maps of the surrounding cities and areas around the known world. For months I would frequent the chamber, and learned of artifacts from legend. After a long period of research, I made a list of artifacts that caught my eye. I brought these findings to the High Council and was told that all of the information in the chamber I had stumbled upon was either believed to be fiction, or unsolvable mysteries, and hence were lost forever. I found those answers to be unacceptable. A year later, I devised a ruse and managed to convince the city council to lend support in me leaving Draconia on a mission of peace and diplomacy for the surrounding kingdoms, going from town to town and making friends and allies, in and for the name of Draconia. Being a red dragonborn, I had quite the task on my hands in that respect, but it was exactly what I needed so I could explore the world and find these artifacts, as I felt the truth was out there. Some may describe me as buffoonish, but I say poppycock to all that. I am much sharper than most give me credit for. I just don't pay attention to things sometimes. I've also been known to be rather cunning, loyal, happy-go-lucky, and well, dangerous. I can't help but show my true scales every now and then. But overall, I think I'm quite friendly for a dragonborn.
Liam: Never entirely welcome in the company of elves or men, Vax'ildan learned at a young age to skip past formality, preferring instead to invite himself in your door. Along with twin sister Vex'ahlia, Vax was born by a chance encounter between elven royalty and human peasantry. Raised by their mother in their early years, the twins were eventually sent off to their father in the elven capital of Syngorn, but their cool reception among the elves there never warmed, and their time in the capital didn't last. The siblings stole away one autumn night and set out on the open road. After a few years of wandering, they eventually decided to return to their mother, and journeyed back to the lands of their youth. But instead of finding their childhood home, they returned to a pile of rubble. Their mother was gone, their home burned to ash. Pressing the townspeople for answers, they learned of the day the dragon came. With their ties all severed, Vax'ildan and his sister set out to find their fortune together in Tal'Dorei. An outsider since birth, Vax quickly learned to solve life's challenges in his own particular way, often by sidestepping them entirely. And when his knack for circumventing adversity isn't enough, the way of blades the elves schooled him in more than makes up the difference.
Laura: Like so many half-elves, Vex'ahlia has spent most of her life suffering the cool reception of a people who don't fully accept her. Born of a human mother and an elven father who only later in life took an interest in their existence, Vex'ahlia and her twin brother Vax'ildan quickly realized the only people they could truly rely on in this world were each other. It was at the age of ten when the two were taken from their mother, and brought to live in Syngorn, the isolated elven city for which their father was an ambassador. He quietly took them in, but always kept an icy distance, and after too many years of disdainful looks, the pair decided to leave his indifference behind, and set out on their own. Vax took to the cities, stealing small trinkets and learning the ways of the thief, while Vex kept to the woods. She preferred the isolation. Always the keen observer, she learned to hunt and to track, to spy and to shoot. And through a series of fateful events, earned herself a companion in the form of a bear, her own stolen Trinket, to fight alongside her and protect her fiercely. Also, he is adorable and gives expert massages.
Matt: Welcome back, guys. So we finally have Pike's video finished, so I hope you got to enjoy that. As a heads-up, too, unfortunately we're going to be down one Scanlan due to work, but that's okay, the bard will be in our hearts this evening, and you're welcome to tweet at him angrily to make sure he makes the next session.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: So, without further ado, let's go and kick into the recap. So, the party has initially been sent down on a mission by the arcanist Allura Vysoren in search of a halfling paladin who has gone missing, named Lady Kima of Vord. A folk hero and a very respected individual, she went on a vision quest and apparently went alone into Kraghammer seeking some sort of great evil that was festering beneath the city, and hasn't been seen for weeks and weeks. The party was hired by her to go and try to find her whereabouts and hopefully bring her back safely. Since traversing and meeting individuals in Kraghammer, they then spearheaded into the Greyspine Mines where apparently these monstrosities have been burbling out time and time again over the past few weeks. Pushing down, they had encountered umber hulks, they managed to inquire some duergar, which, apparently there's a lot of them down here. Duergar being an ashy-skinned, subterranean dark, evil dwarf-type offshoot. One of which had with it a brain-type quadruped that managed to Brain Spike Grog and send him catatonic for a short time. They, wandering through the caverns, discovered there was a duergar war camp across the way from-- across this large chasm that was currently being run by a general duergar alongside what appeared to be, and what they've now discovered to be, a mind flayer or an illithid. They managed to, upon looking deeper into this cavern, finding hidden behind a waterfall, thanks to the druid and the ranger, completely stealing from the rest of the group their flying carpet, made a very tenuous relationship and alignment with another mind flayer, apparently cast out of his own society, searching to find a way to both get revenge and find his way back into his colony of people. And his name was Clarota, lovingly called Clarence by the group, probably much to his own chagrin. After which they decided to go ahead and try to extract information from this duergar general, and stop this war camp from preparing itself for battle and attack, seemingly, on Kraghammer in the near future. Through a strange, crazy plan they came up with, they managed to fly undetected over via flying carpet and eagle, and floating sorcerer, over the entire war camp, made a Metal Gear run into the center of their main barracks-- (all laugh)
Matt: -- threw a bucket of goblin shit into the face of the one mind flayer--
Ashley: Whoops.
Matt: -- after which, Vax bisected it, pretty much, in one surprise round of attacks that led to a large battle in the center of this building, partway through which ground began to rumble. And then digging a forth from underneath, a bulette, a gargantuan armored, burrowing creature that was hungry and very dangerous that then made the battle that much more intense. A heavy, blood-filled battle later, involved with Percy getting his hand caught and firing his gun into the gullet of the beast, eventually it had its armor pulled apart and was defeated by the party. The remnants of the duergar army inside of this building have been destroyed, aside from a few stragglers who have laid their weapons down, and the general now lies beaten, on his knees before the rest of the party. And that is where we pick up and begin. So, as you all are catching your breath, breathing heavily, as the adrenaline slowly leaves the system. Looking around this building, with the large hole still glaring through the roof.
Orion: I'm waving through it.
Matt: Tiberius is waving through it.
Laura: Oh, you're still up top.
Matt: The general's on the ground, warhammer at his side, blackened armor still kind of sizzling with the arcane energy from his temporary Banishment via Scanlan. He sits there with this kind of gnarled, brackish beard, looking about the rest of you with these wild kind of white-coated eyes. "So you found your way in. What's your purpose? What do you want from me?"
Liam: Well, Vax walks right up to him and walks behind him and grabs him by the hair, and right back to this position. Let's have a talk.
Laura: Oh.
Liam: Would you care to have a chat?
Laura: Of course I would, thank you.
Matt: "If you want blood, take it. It's all you're getting from me."
Travis: Okay, kill him.
All: No, wait!
Orion: Hold on a second, ask the question.
Laura: We don't want your blood.
Orion: What are we asking?
Laura: We're looking for a halfling. Have you seen one?
Matt: "I don't know what you're talking about."
Laura: A female halfling. She came down here.
Matt: "Well, she wouldn't have gotten far if she did. Not with my people."
Liam: I take my dagger and stick it in about a centimeter and say, your master is gone, it's just you and your friends here now, I think it's in your best interest to talk. You could walk away from here. You don't have to die if you can play nicely.
Orion: And believe me when I tell you he usually kills everybody. He doesn't give that offer very often. (all laugh)
Matt: Go ahead and make an intimidation roll with advantage.
Travis: First roll of the night. First roll of the night.
Orion: Yeah!
Liam: Natural 20! (all laugh and cheer)
Matt: That's a way to start.
Marisha: The first one tonight!
Laura: That's the way!
Travis: Probably those eight miles you rode.
Orion: Shush!
Matt: As you pull the blade to his throat, he chuckles deeply against the strain. "Your halfling lass was foolish. We took her. We delivered her to King Murghol as a present. If she lives, she's probably ruined and broken deep within the dungeons of Emberhold. You're welcome to go for her there."
Liam: Who's this king of yours?
Laura: King what?
Marisha: Murgholt?
Matt: "Murghol."
Orion: Which way should we head?
Matt: "Ooh, down, probably."
Orion: I mean, is there any particular shortcuts or less running into your kind along the way, I suppose?
Matt: "I highly doubt it." He spits in your direction.
Orion: Oh! Prestidigitation. And I catch it and throw it back into his face.
Marisha: Can I do an insight check to see if he's lying about that?
Matt: Go for it.
Taliesin: I think we have some prisoners to free or something as well.
Laura: Yes.
Marisha: 22.
Matt: He does not appear to be lying about his interpretation of her, apparently she is where he is. As to where her current state is, you don't know, but he seems to have a very, very made-up mind as to her possibility of her being alive still.
Marisha: What about a secret path that we can maybe get through to avoid some of these people? Was kind of wondering if he's lying.
Matt: You can press him that information even harder.
Marisha: Hey guys, we should press him for information about this passage.
Liam: Just a couple of more questions.
Laura: Can I start speaking to him in Underdark?
Matt: Of course.
Laura: And I ask him--
Marisha: That's hot.
Laura: Yep, it's an awesome language. Tell me about the hidden passages. I know there are some. I am good tonight, you guys
Travis: What does Underdark sound like, by the way? (all laugh)
Laura: It sounds kind of like--
Taliesin: Parseltongue?
Liam: It's like Pig Latin.
Laura: (speaking Undercommon)
Travis: Mm, no!
Liam: Ere-way are the idden-hay assages-pay?
Matt: It's kind of reminiscent of Black Speech from the Tolkien universe, that has that guttural (speaking Black Speech) very, very deep.
Laura: Oh right, that.
All: (speaking Black Speech)
Matt: A little bit like a whispering darkness to it. As she speaks this tongue, it catches a lot of you off guard, you've not heard her use this tongue until this point. Make an intimidation check.
Ashley: (gasps) Vex, what are you doing? What is this coming out of your mouth?
Travis: That sounds real pretty.
Laura: Right, I have my papers.
Matt: Get your sheet ready.
Laura: Oh noes, hold on, hold on.
Matt: You got your paper today? Lovely.
Liam: She's bonafide.
Laura: 18.
Matt: 18. He says, "No passages to the stronghold, but there is a way in. Aside from the front. Good luck getting up in there from that point."
Ashley: Is it through the lake?
Matt: "Yes, through the lake. Deep below, you'll find a tunnel. This tunnel will lead you to a subterranean passage straight to the stronghold."
Laura: Can we check to make sure he's not untruthful?
Matt: Make an insight.
Laura: (groans) Okay. 16?
Matt: No, he's bullshitting through his teeth.
Laura: Oh, okay.
Liam: Vex'ahlia?
Matt: Hey, he seemed honest about the passage but dishonest about the-- he's basically following her lead. "Uh-huh."
Laura: You're lying.
Matt: "Perhaps."
Laura: Tell us true, where is it?
Matt: "If I tell you, will you let me live?"
Travis: Ooh. Well.
Taliesin: I think that's very reasonable.
Laura: I think that's reasonable. We'll--
Matt: "I'm essentially--"
Taliesin: We will not kill you.
Laura: I think we can--
Travis: We can lock him up. And then kill him.
Liam: We'll leave you alive.
Laura: We'll leave you alive.
Liam: Yes.
Matt: "Don't just leave me alive. Give me a chance to walk from this building, on my own, arms intact."
Travis: No.
Matt: "And I'll give you the secret entrance to Emberhold itself, leading you straight within the throne room."
Orion: Well, that's a good thing.
Taliesin: So we have to leave you alive, and let you leave this building intact?
Matt: "Correct."
Travis: I go over and pick up his warhammer and say, you may-- maybe-- leave. But I get to keep this as a souvenir.
Taliesin: I actually think this is an appropriate moment to play with a bit of banditry. I say we take everything from him and he can make his way out all on his own.
Travis: I like that idea.
Laura: Yeah--
Marisha: Ooh, that's fun.
Laura: -- all his clothes, everything.
Travis: Butt naked.
Liam: And you can advise--
Marisha: Wait, wait, hang on.
Orion: As is his undergarments on for--
Travis: Why?
Orion: I don't care to see that.
Marisha: Why don't we take him with us? Just in casies--
Matt: At which point, a cold, clammy hand touches your shoulder and pulls you aside as--
Marisha: Ew.
Matt: -- a partially hooded Clarota steps forward and says, "I'll attempt to read his surface thoughts. If he tries to keep it from me, I'll know."
Travis: Smart, smart!
Matt: As he steps forward, he puts one hand in front of him and his eyes gleam with a sickly green hue. You can see the general tips his head back for a second and begins twitching an eye. Sweat begins to bead around his brow as Clarota takes another step forward, tensing his hand once more, his head beginning to bow forward with an intensity, a force of focus towards his direction. You can now see the general, "Let me live. Let me go and I'll tell you. This isn't necessary. I'm willing to give you the information." You can see a trickle of blood begin to pour out of one of his nostrils.
Travis: Yeah.
Orion: That's a mind flayer.
Laura: What do we do? I think we should stop him. Should we stop him?
Liam: Clarota.
Laura: Wait.
Liam: Does he know anything about K'varn?
Matt: "Let me see." And the mind flayer pushes once more into his brain. You see a twitch to his face as his head kind of lolls back and rolls for a second, resisting as best he can. But his will is currently being beaten by the defeat of the battle, the lack of his compatriot mind flayer, and the sheer intensity of Clarota now focused on vengeance and returning to his people. The blood beings to stream not just from his nostrils, but from his ears as well. As Clarota releases him for a second, he goes, "He has not seen K'varn, but knows a bit of his nature. I cannot read it, but we could press for more information."
Liam: I walk up--
Laura: I think we should just ask him.
Liam: -- next to Clarota, push the dwarf against the wall, and say, our friend here is not as patient as I am. We want to know about this K'varn, and we want you and all your men, all your little mates here, to throw your weapons into the chasm, you can go fuck off, but we want to know everything. And this is your last chance. Right now, right here. Talk.
Travis: And you have to get naked.
Laura: (whispers) And you have to get naked.
Liam: That's correct.
Orion: Will you stop with the naked? Grog--
Travis: What?
Taliesin: I'm with you on that.
Travis: Thank you.
Ashley: Yeah, me too.
Marisha: It's starting to become a thing now. I'm just saying.
Matt: "K'varn was responsible for forging the alliance. For centuries and generations, his people and mine killed and fought. It wasn't until K'varn came that we decided to work together for a common cause. Expansion, unification, dominion over this land and these mountains. Divided, we were weak, petty, greedy. With K'varn leading us, we have purpose, we have growth. We could take what we'd like, and I'm but one dwarf. If I fall over here, many more will take over where I fell."
Taliesin: Well, we can see that's obviously worked out really well for you. I think that I'm satisfied, are you satisfied?
Laura: What kind of creature is K'varn?
Liam: What is K'varn?
Matt: "I have not seen K'varn personally."
Laura: But you've heard rumors, though?
Matt: "What I know of K'varn-- a being of immense intelligence. A creature that needs not walk this earth, one that does not touch the land that it traverses. I know it sees all, it smiles from a toothy maw and laughs, laughs in the darkness. Protruding from its forehead, one nasty, gnarled black horn, terrible source of its dark power. That is what's beneath here."
Laura: Is he telling the truth?
Matt: Insight check.
Liam: Insight check for me as well.
Taliesin: Would I recognize this creature he's describing?
Matt: Go ahead and make a nature check. Or arcana, either one.
Marisha: Can I assist him?
Taliesin: Or arcana? 14.
Marisha: Can I do a nature check?
Matt: This'll be more for your own personal knowledge, probably not. But you can make one yourself.
Marisha: Well, that's what I'm saying.
Taliesin: 14.
Marisha: 'Cause you're doing arcana?
Taliesin: I did arcana.
Orion: A d20 roll.
Marisha: I'm doing nature. 29, nature.
Matt: All right, so. No natural creature you've ever heard has this type of essence to it, having a single black horn.
Liam: It's clearly a narwhal.
Matt: It is.
Liam: It's a sentient narwhal.
Matt: It's an awful, awful narwhal. Way to spoil the story, Liam.
Marisha: Demon narwhal.
Ashley: (singsong) Well, maybe we should go.
Matt: Gnashing teeth, black horn, very intelligent. That doesn't seem to be anything from nature itself. From your experience, there are different entities, but usually there are multiple horns. Singular, demonic beings that would have extreme intelligence, sharp teeth, horns, and you've had brief brushes in the past with demonic entities that seems to run in a similar vein, but nothing in particular is creeping into mind. It's going to be difficult for you to specifically come up with this, with what little information you currently have. Yeah.
Orion: Well, I'm satisfied.
Liam: I am, too.
Laura: Maybe we should let him go.
Liam: Why don't you strip?
Orion: I agree.
Travis: Do you wanna handcuff him?
Ashley: Take off your clothes!
Laura: Yeah, let's take his-- We take Grog's handcuffs out of his bag.
Matt: "Let me-- That was not the deal! You leave me, unspoiled, on my life, and I tell you the way into Emberhold."
Laura: Well, tell us!
Orion: Take the hammer. That's rough on him. Leave his armor on.
Laura: You haven't told us yet, have you?
Liam: We already told you your weapons are ours.
Taliesin: In fact, we'll be keeping your weapons, your armor, and I believe, your pride.
Marisha: Yes.
Laura: But your life is yours.
Taliesin: You may even outrun the dwarves we're about to set free.
Orion: Oh good, yeah.
Travis: Oh good, yeah.
Travis: Nice! Percy's fucked-up tonight, I like it.
Taliesin: I'm in a mood.
Matt: "Emberhold."
Liam: He tried to make a book out of someone's flesh once.
Laura: Wait, wait. He's telling us, shut up.
Liam: Yes, sorry.
Matt: "Emberhold is the fortress of our people, built to resist assault from all sides."
Liam: Shite.
Matt: "We've an army, hiding about the outskirts of it. Kind of like an army you might have in one of yours, if you think you have a chance. However, since I don't think that's what you carry, your best bet is on the left side of the fortress. There are two streams of molten rock that pour down the side. The smaller of those two streams covers a secret tunnel."
Liam: Insight check. Is he full of shit? I rolled-- Oh, nothing too hot at all. Never mind, forget it. Forget I said anything.
Matt: All right. He seems to be forthright and honest with his information. "However, that'll take you through the lava. That's up to you. It's meant to open from the inside. A trapdoor-like mechanism that spreads the actual flow. From the outside, well, good luck. I've done my side of the bargain. Let me free."
Liam: Stepping behind, I take my knife, and I cut his belt loose and let his pants fall, and I give him a little nudge.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: You're free to go. Not toward your stronghold, but towards the surface.
Matt: So his belt falls, changepurse, and everything. He is wearing full plate black armor--
Liam: Sure.
Matt: So his trousers do not plummet.
Liam: Aw, that's a shame.
Travis: Can't we have Scanlan turn him into a porpoise?
Matt: He picks up his warhammer.
Travis: I don't think so. No, that's mine. As a token to remember you by.
Matt: "Unspoiled was the deal."
Liam: Wasn't the deal.
Travis: No, it's great. You can really argue all you want to, or I'll just smash your fucking head in.
Liam: Wasn't the deal!
Taliesin: Alive was the deal.
Liam: We said you were alive, your weapons were ours. What, have you got shit in your ears?
Orion: I thought you meant you wouldn't get dirty, like you know, not spoiled. Which I was totally fine with.
Matt: Takes a couple of steps forward towards you, holding the warhammer out.
Liam: Your skull is unspoiled.
Matt: Suddenly, he turns completely invisible, vanishes from sight.
Laura: My perception's really high, can I try to find him?
Liam: Yeah, we can. Perception check.
Travis: You dicks.
Matt: You hear (footsteps running).
Liam: Perception check.
Laura: Wait, no!
Orion: He's gone.
Laura: Mother bitch.
Marisha: It's fine.
Liam: 18 for me.
Marisha: Just let him go, it's all he's got.
Ashley: We should throw something.
Travis: (high-pitched) I want the hammer!
Marisha: It's all he's got right now. He's naked, and now he's invisible running through a cavern.
Laura: He's not naked!
Matt: At this point--
Liam: I'm gonna attack him.
Matt: Before you have the opportunity--
Liam: Yeah?
Matt: -- he becomes visible again, about 20 feet out, gone down the stairs and towards the front door and he just--
Liam: I'm throwing a dagger at him.
Marisha: Oh look.
Matt: Go for it.
Liam: Yeah.
Travis: And I'm throwing my ax at him with the chain of returning as well.
Liam: Oh good, that's great. 28 for me.
Orion: Oh shit.
Matt: All right, that hits.
Liam: Yeah, sure it does. Dick!
Matt: It's not a Sneak Attack, just damage.
Liam: Yeah, that's fine.
Matt: You chuck your ax at him.
Travis: 17.
Marisha: And I just yell, sorry!
Matt: Okay.
Travis: 17.
Liam: Ten for me.
Matt: All right, so go ahead and roll damage for both of you.
Liam: Ten.
Matt: He is there, standing in place with his arms locked like this.
Laura: Oh, Clarota.
Travis: 15.
Matt: 15 damage?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: All righty.
Travis: Should've left the hammer.
Liam: Ten.
Matt: Ten damage, all right. There's now a significant amount of blood beginning to pool down his feet, as he's standing there. As he is frozen in place, Clarota just kinda steps up to the front of him, grabs his cheeks and pulls his head in towards him, as his tendrils slowly wrap around his head. You can see them meet at the back of his skull, and with this horrible crunching sound, you see his head shudder, as his limbs go limp.
Liam: (sings) Do do do do doo, I'm lovin' it. (all laugh)
Matt: A few moments of this horrible slurping sound--
Laura: Oh no.
Matt: -- and you hear this dull, sickening, hollow (suction) sound. The tentacles release, Clarota releases his grip from his head, and the captain falls onto his back, a giant bloodied hole in the center of his skull.
Ashley: He ate his brain?
Travis: I guess you should've left the hammer, shouldn't you?
Taliesin: Some people are terrible losers, just really terrible.
Orion: I'm going to loot the body.
Laura: Yeah, well. Yeah, we definitely do that.
Travis: I would like to pick up the hammer.
Marisha: This is a good lesson, to no one else that's watching.
Orion: Clarota, that was incredible. Well done!
Laura: Clarota--
Ashley: Clarota, I am a fan.
Marisha: No one is watching this valuable lesson.
Taliesin: Do not be an oathbreaker.
Marisha: To not be an oathbreaker.
Taliesin: Know when you've lost your clothes.
Laura: Was that actually, like, a meal for you?
Matt: As you're looking, you can see there's that kind of weird purplish crimson around his tendrils, as he kinda wipes it off with his hands, and goes, "It's enough to sustain me a while. I was getting hungry."
Laura: Well. Better him than us, I say.
Travis: Right. Me, I'm just an appetizer.
Orion: Yes, indeed.
Laura: Loot the body!
Matt: Yes, so you loot the body. You find amongst all the duergar bodies here, as you're quickly jumping around and grabbing, it's hard to count the exact amount, but you're looking at somewhere in the neighbourhood of about five to six hundred gold pieces. You'll have to check later.
Laura: Ooh!
Liam: Mm-hm.
Laura: I write that down.
Orion: He was a general.
Matt: A series of black iron weapons. None of them seem to, at a quick glance, have any sort of magical value. The blackened plate armor on the duergar itself does radiate a magical essence, as does the warhammer he was holding.
Laura: Is it just him wearing the black plate armor--
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: -- or any of the other bodies wearing it, too?
Matt: There are a few that are wearing black plate, but they're not equivalent enchanted.
Laura: We should take that and put it in the bag of holding, so we can sneak in if we want to.
Travis: Okay.
Liam: Tiberius, can you tell us anything about these things?
Laura: How many sets were there?
Matt: From what is in here, that would be 11 sets, total.
Orion: Yes, that hammer is amazing, obviously, because we saw it in action. I'd say Grog should have it.
Laura: 11 sets of armor!
Matt: Because there were also sets that were on the rack at the very front.
Laura: Nice!
Ashley: Hey.
Marisha: Is Grog about to get a new weapon?
Travis: 11 sets of armor, okay.
Orion: And I'll do an arcana check, right? An arcana check on the stuff?
Matt: An arcana check, yeah.
Taliesin: Laura, you got a grapple arrow, last I gave you, by the way.
Laura: I did?
Orion: 23.
Taliesin: Yeah, I got it-- you now have a trap arrow.
Laura: A grappler arrow?
Taliesin: Yeah, you fire it and it prones somebody.
Laura: Seriously? That's so cool, thank you!
Matt: There you go, sir.
Taliesin: I'm gonna Hawkeye you out at some point.
Laura: Oh my gosh.
Taliesin: I know.
Travis: Can you do a magical check on the-- Oh, he's got it.
Orion: I did.
Matt: So, as Tiberius is looking over the equipment, kind of poring through his arcane knowledge.
Orion: Oh, oh, ooh! I think Pike and Grog would benefit from these, most definitely. Here.
Laura: What is it? What was it?
Liam: There's not any kind of dark magic about the armor, is there?
Orion: I mean, it's dark in color.
Liam: Yes, that's fine.
Orion: But it's, you know, your standard arcana magic.
Ashley: Clarota, so when you eat their brains, do you also get their thoughts, maybe?
Travis: Ooh! The heavy plate armor has resistance to fire damage.
Ashley: Or it's just-- it's gone after that.
Travis: The warhammer--
Liam: Sh!
Matt: "There are residual memories, thoughts. It's delicious." And you can see, there's this almost rapturous look in his face you haven't seen before. For a moment, Clarota looks a little younger, a little stronger, a little more dangerous. And you're put off a little bit by it.
Travis: Clarota is Dracula.
Matt: But there's kind of this momentary kind of relishing in the moment and--
Marisha: Do we need to give you a moment alone? We can leave.
Matt: "He speaks the truth about the path into the Emberhold."
Laura: All right.
Liam: So, he spoke of some sort of trap door that's easy to open from within, but not from outside, correct?
Marisha: It was hidden by a lava flow.
Laura: Yes, two lava flows--
Matt: The smaller of the two.
Laura: -- the smaller of the two.
Liam: The smaller of the two.
Matt: On the left side.
Marisha: On the left side of the keep.
Laura: Yes. Can I ask a question?
Matt: Yes?
Travis: I'm raising my hand.
Laura: Are there a lot of other soldiers still in the camp, or did we--
Matt: Oh, there are plenty of soldiers still in the camp.
Liam: Yeah, we--
Laura: Ooh.
Matt: You stealthed into the barracks.
Laura: Oh shit! We should've kept him alive, you guys! Okay, okay, okay. Yes, Grog?
Liam: Well, he was about to walk out the door and cause mayhem.
Orion: That's true.
Marisha: That's true. He was gonna alert everybody.
Travis: Can I harvest any natural armor from the bulette? The kitty?
Laura: Ooh!
Matt: You can certainly try. There's plates that have been broken and cracked. You can try and start cleaving away at it.
Travis: All right, yes, I start butchering, or something, the bulette.
Matt: Okay, you start-- It's really tough hide. You know, 'cause you tried to cut through before and you managed to make a few marks. It takes you a few minutes. You manage to get, let's say, about three saucer-shaped pieces of armor out of it.
Travis: All right.
Matt: You could definitely get more, but then you start hearing bells going off.
Laura: Shit.
Travis: Shit.
Orion: What do I see? I'm still on the roof.
Laura: Okay, we should all-- Can we all--
Matt: You don't see anything yet. You just hear bells starting to go off in the city.
Laura: Okay, we should all put on black armor. Does that matter?
Liam: We should just get out of here. Keyleth, can you fucking eagle up and let's go.
Matt: You start hearing horns.
Laura: We need to free those dwarves.
Marisha: Eagle up?
Matt: Big horns. You start seeing torches being lit.
Laura: Stealth, stealth. And get out. Go stealth and get out.
Liam: We need to get out, now.
Orion: Oh guys, the jig is up!
Laura: I shoot my grapple thing and go up out of the ceiling.
Liam: Tiberius.
Orion: What?
Liam: Cast Fly on this fucker right here, we need to get out of here. We just need to get out the way we came in.
Marisha: I cast Pass Without A Trace. Everyone stand near me. And I'll turn into an eagle and I scoop up the gnomes.
Matt: Okay, what's the radius on Pass Without A Trace?
Liam: Like a thousand yards.
Marisha: Like a hundred yards.
Matt: Four miles, it's all I got.
Laura: But I take the dust of tracelessness out of the bag of holding and I sprinkle it around the room.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Can we grapple up out from the ceiling?
Matt: Well, the arrow that you have that he made, it's essentially an arrow that bursts into a tanglefoot bag. When it bursts, it grapples whoever's there, it's not like grappling an arrow.
Taliesin: Yeah, it's not like a string arrow, although I'll build that.
Laura: Oh, I thought it was like a grappling--
Taliesin: It's a trip arrow.
Laura: Oh, that's cool, okay.
Marisha: A 30-foot radius.
Taliesin: I'll make you a grappling-- I didn't follow that though. I'll make you a grappling arrow.
Laura: I have a grappling hook. Yeah, we should grapple out.
Matt: 30-foot radius, okay, so you could just--
Marisha: Just, hug me.
Matt: -- barely get Tiberius in there if you--
Marisha: Stay close.
Travis: You can go on my back.
Matt: On the platform, so yeah.
Ashley: Okay, I'm gonna jump on Grog's back.
Travis: Yeah, and I pick up Scanlan under my arm.
Laura: We have a regular grappling hook, we'll just get up out of the--
Taliesin: We have a flying carpet.
Ashley: And hold onto some straps.
Matt: All right, so Scanlan-- Both gnomes get grabbed by Keyleth as--
Orion: And we're all on the carpet?
Liam: The carpet's away, but this guy is flying?
Orion: Yes.
Liam: Flying Grog.
Travis: I am? I thought we were all-- Okay.
Liam: No, you can't go on the carpet. You're too heavy.
Laura: What are we doing?
Liam: We're going up. Straight up.
Laura: Up and out. Can we stealth, while we do it?
Matt: So, you guys, right now, as you're carrying the two gnomes, all of you except for Grog are on the carpet, correct?
Travis: Yep, I'm flying.
Matt: You're flying. Okay, so how many spells do you have left on that? One left? All right.
Laura: Where's Trinket?
Taliesin: Trinket's back on the other side.
Matt: Trinket's back on the other side. Trinket didn't come with you to the battle, because there was nobody to get Trinket across.
Laura: Oh, he's just on the other side by himself, all lonely?
Matt: Yeah, I know.
Liam: He's in goblin town.
Matt: Eh, you weren't here. (all laugh)
Matt: You weren't here to protect your bear.
Laura: That's so terrible.
Ashley: He's safe over there?
Matt: Hopefully.
Ashley: Oh Trinket!
Travis: He's been raging.
Matt: Everyone, make a stealth check. With a plus ten additional modifier thanks to Keyleth's spell.
Travis: Oh, awesome. That helped.
Orion: 20.
Ashley: Oh, 20!
Marisha: 18.
Travis: Natural? Oh.
Laura: Nice. Ooh, natural 20!
Taliesin: 19.
Travis: 19.
Ashley: 20.
Laura: Natural 20.
Travis: Natural 20.
Laura: 31 for me.
Liam: 29.
Matt: All right, so you all take off. As you do, you can see now, probably close to 30 or 40 duergar have now begun rushing towards the barracks in the center of that main open area where that wooden platform was, where Scanlan originally saw a mind flayer. As you rush up, you hear (speaks Undercommon). You hear it as Undercommon, screaming, "There! Above, look!"
Laura: Oh, they saw us.
Ashley: Maybe you should scream, like, no, they went the other way!
Liam: Just keep going up, up, up.
Matt: A stream of javelins comes firing up in your direction.
Laura: How did they see us? I thought we were stealthed.
Orion: I see where it's coming and I shoot a Fireball.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: That's good, that's good.
Marisha: Wait, what are you doing?
Matt: Okay, so there's a volley of javelins and a Fireball streaking past. You'll be able to get ten of them in that Fireball blast, go ahead and roll for damage on that. However, for those that rolled less than 20 on stealth, each of you are getting three javelins each to you. So that's you two, and Grog. What'd you roll again?
Marisha: Less than 20.
Orion: 22.
Matt: Okay, yeah. So you three. So three javelins against you, miss you entirely. Percy. Actually, one more against you, Keyleth. That one does hit. You take 14 points of piercing damage as the javelin just gleans off the side of your giant eagle torso.
Marisha: (eagle noises)
Matt: Percy, that's a 21, an 18, and a 20. So you take three javelins. 24 points of piercing damage.
Taliesin: 24 points?
Matt: Yeah, 24 points total, as three javelins-- Two strike you off the shoulders and one actually embeds itself partway into your waist and you have to pull it out, and probably dug a good six, seven inches in.
Ashley: What are you at?
Taliesin: I'm at 15.
Ashley: 15?
Orion: By the way, 41 points of fire damage.
Taliesin: I was already really low.
Travis: Take me instead.
Laura: We haven't healed him yet.
Ashley: Wait, we healed the other game. Even with that?
Taliesin: Oh, did I fully heal?
Matt: All right, the three that are going towards Grog--
Travis: Yeah, come on.
Matt: That-- Natural 20. A 17, what's your AC?
Ashley: No, it was like 24.
Travis: 18.
Ashley: 24 points.
Matt: That one misses, and the last one-- Yeah, two natural 20s.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Ashley: That was 24.
Matt: Not even joking.
Liam: Double crits, oh.
Matt: All right, so--
Laura: Two crits against you?
Liam: Good thing you got a thousand hit points.
Travis: (high-pitched) Oh no.
Liam: That's the point of a meat tank.
Matt: You take a total of 36 points of piercing damage, Grog.
Ashley: And he still has more hitpoints than we do.
Matt: Yeah, probably.
Marisha: Ouchies.
Matt: Oh, barbarian.
Liam: If Scanlan were here, he'd moon and blind all.
Laura: He is here, technically.
Matt: He is here, Scanlan's holding on tight as--
Liam: He's here, he's watching.
Taliesin: Scanlan's peeing, peeing down.
Matt: However, as the javelins strike all you guys, moments later there's a gargantuan explosion, and there's a flash of reddish light from below. A giant fiery blooming explosion bursts into the center of that area. You can see duergar thrown left and right. You manage to take out about 12 of them in that one blast.
Orion: Yes!
Laura: Nice!
Liam: Yeah, home slice.
Matt: You guys continue, cresting over the top. You can now see more and more are starting to gather, the bells are going off, the horns are blowing hard. You can see a bunch of them are now running over to what looks like some of this siege equipment they had constructed--
Marisha: Oh.
Laura: Oh.
Matt: Which includes a few large ballistae.
Liam: I think we should friggin' dive bomb towards the far tunnel past this war camp.
Laura: No, but Trinket!
Liam: Is fine, he's hiding out. They don't know he's here.
Travis: Leave him.
Taliesin: He'll be fine.
Orion: I'm not concerned with the bear right now!
Liam: We're going to dive. Yes, dive bomb, dive bomb!
Taliesin: The bear can take care of himself.
Liam: I take hold of the front of the carpet and steer it up and over, along the roof and then down towards the tunnel. I'm steering the carpet.
Matt: Okay. You guys are coming down. You basically shot up, curved around--
Laura: We shouldn't go down.
Matt: And you're going backwards towards the barracks. As you do, another volley of--
Laura: We got to free those dwarves, y'all.
Matt: Another volley comes to the guys who were under-stealthed.
Liam: We don't have to. That seems complicated.
Orion: Who's not stealthed?
Matt: However, there is one attack less each because of the duergar that you had taken out. So, against Keyleth, one hits. You take 12 points of piercing damage.
Marisha: I am no longer an eagle.
Taliesin: Oh my God.
Travis: Oh shit, really?
Matt: All right, a two and a one versus Percy.
Marisha: Yeah.
Travis: Are you paying attention?
Orion: Wait, what?
Travis: She's not an eagle anymore.
Matt: All right, so.
Laura: Keyleth isn't a--
Marisha: I hit zero hit points as an eagle.
Ashley: Wait, what are you again?
Laura: What happened?
Liam: She's not an eagle and she's falling with the gnomes.
Matt: Keyleth's form shifts back into that of Keyleth. You guys are about 80 feet up.
Marisha: Help!
Laura: Okay, okay!
Ashley: Can I--
Matt: At which point, both Scanlan and Pike go into a free fall along with Keyleth.
Ashley: Wait, can I--
Laura: No, no, she was on Grog, she was--
Orion: Are we under them? Are we under them?
Liam: I don't know, are we?
Ashley: No, I was on her.
Matt: No, you guys are about parallel. You guys were moving together.
Liam: Parallel?
Orion: Go under them!
Laura: Yeah, we dive under them.
Liam: Dive, dive, dive, dive!
Orion: I cast Glacial Blast and I create a bridge that scoops them up, right under them. As we dive right under them.
Liam: Party trick.
Matt: Okay, you guys are out in the middle of the open cavern. There's no place to connect the bridge, so you're essentially creating a giant ice--
Liam: Chunk.
Laura: Chunk.
Matt: Chunk right beneath them. Which is also now in freefall.
Orion: Huh? No!
Matt: Yes.
Liam: Even wizards make mistakes.
Orion: Damn it!
Matt: So as you guys try and swoop underneath as they're plummeting-- You're riding this, go ahead and make an acrobatics check.
Liam: Okay.
Orion: No, I didn't think of that.
Marisha: I don't know what to do.
Laura: Can we try to catch-- can we try to-- what do I have?
Ashley: Wait, can I--
Travis: Are we over the war camp, or are we over the--
Liam: 25.
Laura: Over the war camp.
Matt: All right, so you swoop underneath. A sudden motion, as you're trying to cast. Go ahead and roll a concentration check on this.
Marisha: Oh, come on, Tiberius.
Taliesin: Oh boy.
Marisha: Oh, save my life, again, Tiberius.
Orion: Oh no.
Laura: Can I try to--
Marisha: Oh shit.
Liam: I let go of the front of the carpet, I stick a--
Ashley: Wait, wait, wait, wait, can I cast War God's Blessing to give him a plus ten?
Matt: Unfortunately, you're falling.
Ashley: Fuck.
Matt: You're like (worried noise), you're just plummeting through the air like a rock because you're in full plate armor.
Laura: Can I use the rope of endless twine and try to lasso one of them? 'Cause I'm really a good shot.
Ashley: How far are we falling?
Matt: You have to pull it out of the bag of holding and then turn into a lasso, that's gonna take you a full minute, so you don't have time.
Liam: I have a rope. I let go of the front of the carpet, I put one end of the rope in my sister's hand, and I jump off towards Pike, holding it around in one hand as I go--
Laura: Oh god.
Taliesin: I grapple onto her to hold her down.
Ashley: No! No, no, no, I have so much armor.
Laura: Okay, then you should--
Matt: All right guys, so here's what happens. In the time this has transpired, you've rushed underneath with the magic carpet, all of you barely managed to hold on, as both Pike and Scanlan and Keyleth all slam into the top of the--
Laura: Oh okay, except you're dangling off of it now by a rope.
Matt: You lost your concentration, so Glacial Blast didn't go off, thankfully. That would've been really bad.
Marisha: Wait, wait, we slam into the top of what?
Taliesin: Us.
Matt: You guys slam onto the top of the rest of the group, in there.
Laura: That's too many people on the carpet.
Matt: Because you lost your concentration, your flight spell also dissipates. Grog is now plummeting.
Laura: Oh no!
Travis: Yay!
All: (worried noises)
Laura: We're gonna die!
Matt: The carpet now has too much weight and is currently giving out.
Liam: #savecriticalrole.
Orion: Get me close to him. I cast Featherfall on you.
Matt: It's slowing your fall, but you guys are-- you're coming down at a very, very fast pace at an angle over the barracks towards the back end of the war camp.
Laura: Oh shit.
Marisha: Can I cast Wind Wall right underneath of the carpet to kind of like airbend us up?
Matt: You can attempt to. Grog--
Travis: I begin to fart to slow the fall.
Orion: Who needs Featherfall? I can do it in a bunch!
Marisha: Ahh!
Matt: Everybody, at this point--
Liam: But wait, Dungeon Master?
Matt: Yes.
Liam: Re-explain what's happening. So the carpet is falling, not as fast as it would, but--
Matt: Essentially, you guys are flying beside each other, the three that were falling, you guys swooped underneath and caught them, however it's too much weight to bear, the carpet's now--
Liam: How high are we at this second?
Matt: At this second, you're about 60-70 feet up.
Marisha: Ohh.
Liam: And the closest building, the highest building under us is how tall?
Marisha: Oh, Jesus.
Matt: It's about 15 feet tall.
Liam: Ohh.
Matt: Grog, however, goes into a full plummet. You guys have just caught the rest of them, you've all caught them, you're crashing down.
Marisha: And did the Wind Wall thing work?
Matt: Go ahead and roll a concentration.
Laura: Everybody jump up in the air!
Matt: Your constitution modifier.
Marisha: Fucking shit. Not good. Seven.
Matt: The spell fizzles.
Liam: Unpause. How far are we from the tunnel that we were talking about?
Matt: From what you can see here, you're probably about 50 to 60 feet.
Laura: We're right over the camp, aren't we?
Matt: You're towards the back of it, thankfully, the barracks are towards the back of it, so maybe about 50 to 60 feet from the full tunnel.
Orion: Before where the drop is, and that's where that bottom tunnel is down there?
Matt: Yep.
Orion: Okay.
Matt: You guys go crashing at an angle.
Taliesin: I'm going to brace to jump. I'm bracing to roll.
Laura: Yeah, we're all like bracing.
Marisha: Three-point landing!
Liam: I'm grabbing for Pike and going like this.
Laura: I have Scanlan!
Marisha: What's Grog doing?
Orion: Where's Grog at?
Laura: He's falling.
Liam: Grog's gone. Grog's down.
Matt: Grog is completely separate from you. He was flying, and lost concentration of his spell. Grog's like a stone.
Laura: No, Grog!
Orion: Can I leap towards him?
Taliesin: Off what?
Marisha: And do what?
Matt: Off of the carpet--
Orion: Off of the carpet! Yes!
Liam: Do what?
Laura: You leap off of the carpet?
Matt: Go ahead and make an acrobatics check. With a disadvantage, because you are jumping off of a currently flimsy flying carpet to try and catch up to him.
Laura: Oh no.
Orion: Right now, while I'm doing this, I'm going to cast Featherfall on myself.
Travis: Wait, before, you gotta get to me first, because it will slow you too much.
Orion: Oh. It would, wouldn't it? I thought it was only when going down.
Travis: Gotta get to me first, motherfucker.
Matt: Go for it.
Orion: Whoa. Okay.
Matt: So what's your acrobatics check? The lower of the two.
Liam: You fall a lot.
Travis: Yeah. Big things go down.
Orion: 15 and 13.
Matt: Okay. You manage to fumble out of the carpet, however, you are now just end-over-end falling now off of the side of the carpet on your own.
Liam: This is tense.
Laura: This is tense.
Matt: You're having a hard time even seeing Grog now. The world's just spinning and spinning and spinning.
Laura: Oh God.
Travis: It's like Gravity.
Matt: You can attempt--
Orion: Now I'm going to cast Featherfall.
Matt: Go ahead, cast and roll concentration check. What did you roll?
Marisha: He rolled a 19. Which is good.
Matt: Okay. Featherfall gets to you just in time. Your descent slows. In that time, Grog has impacted.
Marisha: Fuck!
Laura: Oh no, Grog!
Liam: We're gonna hit, we're gonna hit. I'm shielding the healer.
Laura: I'm shielding Scanlan.
Matt: So you all brace for impact. The actual carpet's careening out of control. You can see there's just barely the top of a building you might be able to try and skim.
Laura: Can we jump onto the top of the building?
Matt: This is going to be up to the one who's been steering this whole time. Go ahead and make an intelligence check.
Laura: Intelligence!
Liam: Intelligence?
Matt: Yes.
Ashley: Can I assist?
Matt: No.
Travis: Thank God it's not me.
Marisha: Can we do nothing and--
Liam: Good, good, good, good. 24.
Matt: 24?
Liam: Yeah, so I'm pretty smart.
Matt: You just managed to skim the edge, which lessens your impact slightly, however, it does send you all into a full end-over-end topple.
Liam: Still holding a gnome!
Matt: Everyone. Everyone. Make an acrobatics check.
Laura: Oh, god. Which one to roll, which one to roll.
Marisha: Oh, no. What's going on with Grog?
Liam: I guess that's what we'll find out afterwards.
Matt: Grog's impacted. He was falling faster than you guys were, he's six hundred pounds going into straight freefall. You guys had a little bit of a fall break.
Marisha: Ah, this is going terribly! I'm failing!
Orion: Do I have to do one also?
Matt: Everyone. Oh, except for you, because you're floating.
Liam: Do the halflings-- Shit! Do the gnomes get an advantage since the half-elves are protecting them?
Laura: Depending on how we roll?
Matt: It's based on how you guys roll, because you're the ones who are holding onto them.
Liam: Oh, okay.
Laura: Welp, Scanlan. I'm sorry to let you know--
Taliesin: No.
Liam: Oh no!
Matt: So you got Pike?
Liam: Yeah, I got Pike.
Matt: What'd you roll?
Liam: 18.
Matt: Natural one.
Ashley: 13.
Travis: 18.
Taliesin: 23.
Marisha: Four.
Matt: Okay, so half-damage for you.
Laura: But I have a plus nine acrobatics! Plus nine acrobatics!
Liam: Doesn't matter.
Laura: Doesn't matter on a natural crit fail.
Taliesin: Still gonna knock me out.
Matt: Roll some fall damage here.
Laura: I'm sorry, Scanlan!
Liam: It's all right, I got the healer, I got the healer.
Marisha: It's not gonna be good.
Travis: You're gonna be like an ACME cartoon and just leave a (pff)
Laura: (pff)
Liam: (pff)
Matt: 18 points of damage.
Taliesin: I'm out.
Marisha: You're out again?
Laura: You're unconscious again?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: He didn't have a lot of hit points left.
Laura: Oh no, we're all dead!
Marisha: This the second time Grog's almost fallen to his death.
Matt: 18 points of damage to you. The rest of you all take 36 points of fall damage, except for Grog.
Liam: Everybody, everybody?
Laura: Everybody? As a group, like we all failed as a group?
Matt: Well, no, no, sorry. You succeeded, you rolled a--
Liam: 18.
Matt: 18, so you would also take half-damage, so you would take 18 as well.
Ashley: I take--
Matt: You take half that as well, thanks to his roll as well.
Travis: I rolled an 18.
Ashley: Everybody in this club getting hit points.
Matt: Right, you were in full plummet, you can reduce the damage slightly.
Travis: Well, I was very graceful on the way down.
Matt: Yeah, you take 45 points of damage from the impact, Grog.
Marisha: 45?
Matt: 45 points of damage.
Marisha: Oh.
Liam: It was halved, so eight.
Matt: And leave a small crater from the impact.
Travis: Thank you.
Marisha: You know what, that could've been worse.
Laura: And I take 35?
Matt: You and Scanlan both take 36, which puts Scanlan into a negative as well, because he wasn't-- he was not at--
Laura: No, no! He was fully healed.
Travis: Nope.
Matt: No, he wasn't.
Laura: (Softly) Fuck.
Liam: No, sorry, no.
Matt: So, you all tumble end over end, come to rest.
Marisha: We just crash-landed in a war camp.
Matt: Yeah. On the far end of it, thankfully.
Marisha: Oh boy.
Matt: You guys can hear the bells and the horns going in the distance. It looks like all the rest of the folks that were stationed here moved towards the center. You managed to arc over them, but they're going to be here shortly.
Travis: Are we near their big war machines?
Matt: No, the ballistae are on the opposite--
Orion: So we can see the ledge and that cavern where we were, where we found the--
Matt: Well, the ledge is back in the other direction. You guys are going towards the tunnel on the opposite side.
Liam: Vax is pulling up Pike onto her feet and dragging her towards Scanlan, 'cause I know how fucked up he was from the last battle.
Ashley: Where's Scanlan? How close--
Matt: Okay, you guys-- and you, you're kinda getting up on your knees, coughing--
Marisha: How, how--
Ashley: Percy's out, let's go--
Liam: But so is Scanlan.
Matt: Percy's just face-down in the ground, scrapes across the side of his face.
Ashley: Scanlan's out, too? Fuck.
Liam: Scanlan's out, too, right?
Matt: Scanlan's also out.
Travis: How about-- I'll give him a level three potion and you go heal Scanlan.
Laura: No, you, here, you take care of him, I'm right next to Scanlan,
Matt: You guys are roughly about ten feet from each other from the impact, just, you were scattered, and then you kind of regrouped.
Marisha: Okay. Can we see people running towards us?
Matt: Not yet, but you assume it's only a short period of time.
Orion: Yeah, yeah, we have some time left--
Marisha: We don't, I don't know.
Matt: Grog, what you at?
Travis: 39.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: She's doing a Mass Healing--
Ashley: A Mass Healing Word.
Matt: Okay. You barely get yourself out of the crater. That's gonna suck tomorrow!
Marisha: Mass Healing Word?
Liam: You take Scanlan, I'll take Percy.
Laura: Okay! I'm gonna--
Liam: Healing potions out.
Matt: As this is happening, Percy, go ahead and make a death saving throw.
Laura: Oh!
Travis: A death saving throw?
Liam: Sorry, here's three--
Taliesin: Is that-- Is that just--
Matt: What did you roll?
Taliesin: A nine.
Matt: That's a fail, so mark off one fail on your death saving throw on your sheet.
Laura: (gasps)
Ashley: No no no no!
Laura: No no no no!
Travis: Oh shit!
Liam: Sorry I'm late, Percy.
Matt: Scanlan does make his.
Liam: He's all right, he's all right, he's all right. I've got a healing potion and I'm pouring it--
Ashley: But I'm doing--
Liam: I'm pinching Percy's nose and pouring it in his mouth.
Laura: And I'm pouring some down Scanlan's throat.
Matt: Okay, all right. So both you guys pour healing potions. That is-- those are the normal ones? The common? The regular healing?
Liam: I think so.
Laura: Yeah?
Matt: 2d4 + 2. Go ahead and roll that.
Liam: (whispers) 2d4 + 2.
Travis: I'm taking a level two potion, myself. Just--
Taliesin: 2d4 + 2?
Matt: Okay, go for it.
Liam: Eight. Eight for Percy.
Matt: That's four--
Taliesin: Oh! So I'm at plus eight now?
Matt: Yes.
Liam: Yes.
Liam: You're up.
Matt: Scanlan also comes to consciousness.
Laura: 2d4? That's pathetic.
Matt: That's the cheapest one you've got. 2d4 + 2.
Liam: Let's get the fuck out of here and they can--
Laura: Okay, fine.
Taliesin: She was gonna do a Mass Healing--
Marisha: Yeah, what's your Mass Healing Word?
Orion: I'd like to know-- on the way down, I was doing a little chant and I was expending my sorcery points to do Flexible Casting, so I regain a slot spell on my third-level spells.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: As we're getting up, can I see-- Is the camp nearby, where the prisoners are? Is that anywhere near us?
Matt: No, that's towards the center of the camp.
Liam: We gotta keep moving. I pull out another corked potion and slap it into Percy's hand.
Marisha: Yeah, we gotta go.
Liam: And then grab him by the wrist and just start walking.
Taliesin: I'm up.
Marisha: Here, wait. Save the potion, I cast Healing Word on Percy.
Ashley: Hold on, I'm gonna do a Mass Cure Wounds.
Laura: Mass Cure Wounds?
Matt: All right. So as you guys are running towards the back, towards the main tunnel, which you can now see, it's roughly a 40- by 30-foot tunnel. You go running through the buildings. You see a few duergar kinda poke out from the buildings.
Laura: Can we stealth while we're doing this, or are we too, like, injured?
Orion: No, this is--
Matt: No, you guys are just bolting at this point. You're not even concentrating on stealth right now.
Laura: Bolting it, right.
Taliesin: This is, this is--
Matt: Plus, with the group-- Basically, a few of you would stealth and the rest of you would be left in the dust, so you're just kind of all pushing for speed at this point.
Laura: Okay.
Orion: Yeah.
Matt: You all manage to push towards the back of the entire war camp, into this tunnel. Hearing behind you the distant echoing shouts of approximately 30-plus duergar heading in your direction. You hear a few other ballista bolts hitting the wall above you of the stone.
Orion: Are we all in the tunnel?
Matt: You guys have now pushed into the tunnel.
Orion: I wait for everybody to pass and I cast all my Grand Columns.
Matt: Okay, how many can you--
Orion: Three.
Matt: Three per spell? And how many spell levels do you have currently?
Orion: That's it, that's what I did the SP for, so that I could cast this right now.
Matt: Right. So you have one.
Orion: I have none in my column.
Matt: Right. How many spell castings did you have left? Two?
Orion: No, I had one.
Ashley: (whispers) 24.
Taliesin: 24?
Laura: 24 mass?
Ashley: 24 mass cure.
Matt: One left. So you get three columns. It's 30 feet wide.
Laura: Oh, she just healed everybody for 24 points.
Orion: (whispers) Oh, it's 30--
Marisha: Oh, dope.
Matt: Okay, everyone heals for 24 points. Add that up.
Liam: Oh, I feel good!
Laura: I feel pretty good now.
Travis: Dude! Kick that shit.
Laura: What what!
Orion: It's not enough, is it?
Matt: No.
Ashley: (sighs) Okay. Including myself?
Liam: Yes.
Travis: Yes.
Orion: Are the caves stone? Like the cave--
Matt: The walls are stone.
Travis: Ugh, that's huge.
Laura: Oh my god, it's major.
Orion: Can I like, do it from the side? Can I attempt to?
Matt: Pillars go straight up, unfortunately. It's the nature of the spell's creation.
Marisha: Well wait, I can do what you're trying to do.
Orion: Oh! Oh yeah!
Marisha: I do Wall Of Stone.
Orion: There you go!
Matt: Okay! So as you're trying to figure this out, Keyleth steps over--
Marisha: I'm like, oh, is this, oh--
Orion: It's-- Oh!
Marisha: Sorry! You should've just-- I would've-- they're not very--
Orion: They're columns.
Marisha: Yeah.
Orion: You're good. The wall's good.
Marisha: Right.
Orion: Good.
Laura: Are we running? I don't know what you guys are doing. What's happening right now?
Matt: As you guys are doing this and rushing in, you're realizing there's one member of your party that you haven't had a lot of time with--
Laura: Clarota!
Liam: Clarota!
Matt: -- that you didn't think about until this moment.
Liam: Clarota, yeah. Clarota.
Marisha: Oh, yeah!
Matt: You now see, kind of, like, floating, via levitation ability, about 30 feet away, slowly descending towards you, as you're putting up the wall of stone--
Orion: Oh! Wait! Hold on!
Travis: Come on Squidworth, over here!
Matt: Two bolts go firing towards him; one whooshes overhead, a second one--
Marisha: Clarota!
Matt: (impact sound) -- through his back, out the front of his chest--
Laura: No!
Matt: -- off the shoulder.
Orion: Come on! We need to save him!
Liam: He's gotta have more than ten hit points.
Orion: Recess the wall, recess the wall!
Marisha: Wait!
Matt: You can see now-- and the bolt itself is about 4 feet long, made of this long, jagged, pointed arrow tip.
Laura: Oh, man.
Matt: Clarota begins to falter, and begins to hover towards you, almost, like, trying to swim through the air in your direction.
Laura: Can we run out, try to grab him?
Ashley: Can I grab him, hang on to him?
Orion: Oh!
Matt: He's about 20 feet from you now, you can try and reach out and put your hands towards him--
Orion: Boom!
Laura: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Travis: I take off and run to him.
Orion: Now I cast Glacial Blast, right under him, like a slide, right towards us-- and catch him.
Matt: Okay. So as you guys are running towards him, instead, this giant crystalline form of ice just--
Laura: Oh, all right.
Matt: -- crackles up into what looks like some sort of strange, winter festival slide that would be made for children in the center of town. Clarota--
Ashley: Awesome.
Matt: -- as it descends, two more bolts come towards him. Both (whoosh, whoosh). At this distance, in the darkness of the cavern, it's kind of hard for them to get a bead on him. Both just pass overhead. With eyes kind of lolling, Clarota comes down and hits the edge of the slide, and almost loses consciousness at that moment, sliding through the ice. You guys manage to capture, grappling his arms, lift him to his feet--
Marisha: And now, Wall Of Stone.
Matt: You all make it into the tunnel, Keyleth turns around, raising her hands, the actual blackened stonework of this tunnel shakes for a second, and then a giant, thick wall of natural rock closes off the entire tunnel behind you.
Orion: Nice.
Laura: I love you, Trinket!
Liam: Completely seals it?
Marisha: Oh, gosh.
Matt: Completely seals it. You guys are now in complete darkness.
Orion: Ooh! Light!
Matt: As the light hits, you can hear, just on the other side of the surface of the stone wall, javelins, other things are being shot at the stone wall--
Laura: Yeah!
Matt: -- but it's keeping it at bay. You guys are now at the wall, and behind you the tunnel continues into a passage you haven't seen yet.
Travis: Whatever we do from here, I sprinkle dust of tracelessness behind us the whole time like a fucking flower girl. (all laugh)
Liam: They could have magic in their possession, they could use magic as well, so let's move.
Laura: Yeah, they could get through it.
Orion: Yes.
Taliesin: Will a healing potion work on Clarota?
Ashley: So, Clarota's with us?
Laura: Clarota's with us.
Ashley: Can I go over to Clarota and try to heal him?
Laura: Don't get too close, he might just suck in your brain.
Matt: You can certainly try.
Taliesin: I've got a potion, so--
Marisha: Grog?
Ashley: Should we give him a potion?
Travis: What?
Marisha: Do you have any ale?
Travis: Yeah, I do have a cask, actually.
Marisha: I think I need a drink.
Travis: Right. I'll--
Taliesin: What's a level two potion do?
Travis: There you are.
Matt: A level two potion would be 4d4 + 4.
Travis: I go and hold his shoulders--
Marisha: I really need a drink.
Travis: -- whilst she tries to heal him, just in case he gets all sucky on her.
Ashley: I think he's gonna give him a potion.
Travis: Oh.
Taliesin: I am.
Travis: That's much less--
Laura: No!
Liam: Felicia Day, that's not nice!
Travis: Hey!
Taliesin: 17 points of healing.
Matt: Okay. 17 points to Clarota.
Ashley: What'd she say?
Matt: Which-- administering a potion to a mind flayer is an experience that very few in this world have probably ever, or ever will, experience. As you kind of reach over, grab his shoulder, you look for where to put it, and the tendrils kind of, like, flail about, but begin to-- they, as he notices what you're doing, kind of relax and open up, and you can now see the circular, lamprey-like, toothy maw of the mind flayer. It's a very disturbing, disgusting image, with this jagged, yellow teeth, in a circular form. You pop the cork, and just pour it in. As you do, you see the wounds across Clarota's form begin to seal. The arrow is still stuck in its torso.
Laura: Can we try to pull it out?
Ashley: Try to break off the part--
Matt: You can certainly try.
Travis: I got it (snap)!
Matt: Go ahead and make a-- this would be a medicine check.
Laura: Do you wanna do that, Grog?
Travis: I'll do the breaking part.
Matt: It's iron. It's solid iron.
Ashley: My medicine's a four.
Laura: Oh.
Matt: Breaking it off is not gonna work.
Ashley: What's your medicine?
Travis: So? Zero.
Matt: You have to pull it from the wound.
Ashley: Okay. I'll try.
Taliesin: Who has a medicine?
Laura: So what are you--
Ashley: A four.
Laura: Okay. All right.
Ashley: What does everybody have?
Matt: Go for it.
Laura: Do it!
Ashley: Roll this guy? Okay. Nine?
Matt: A nine.
Laura: (laughs) Oh no.
Ashley: Sorry!
Matt: So. You take your moment, you view up where the puncture wound is, with a little bit of Grog's help, you both grab the edge, and you're like, 'On three. One, two, three, pull!' You pull through the wound, not against the arrow--
Travis: Right.
Matt: -- 'cause that would just tear everything out in the process, but nevertheless, in doing so, Clarota does take an additional eight points of damage.
Ashley: I'm sorry.
Matt: But, the wound is now no longer a giant--
Laura: Able to be healed.
Matt: -- it's now able to be healed completely, so. Clarota takes a moment and kind of grasps the wound.
Laura: I hand him a little healing potion, and say, sorry.
Matt: Shatters the glass. At which point, you now hear (impact sounds) against the stone wall.
Laura: We should move!
Ashley: Time to go!
Liam: Let's keep moving, yes? Yes.
Travis: I pick up Clarota. Yeah, why not.
Laura: Yeah, all right.
Travis: I pick up Clarota and we start running balls.
Laura: Is he good enough to walk or is he--
Matt: He's good enough to walk with you guys. Well--
Travis: Well, how about I put one arm under his face and help him.
Matt: So you're helping him.
Liam: No, that's-- hold on a second. I take out the flying carpet--
Laura: We still have the flying carpet?
Liam: Sure we do!
Matt: Yeah.
Liam: Here, sit on this, Clarota.
Laura: If you need it.
Liam: That'd be easier, yes.
Matt: Clarota gets up on the carpet and-- "Thank you." The carpet kind of drifts alongside you guys. You guys are pushing backwards towards the cavern. The tunnel kind of begins to pinch a little bit. It gets to about a 15-foot width before it opens up again. You're about a hundred feet back. You can now see it opening into a-- what looks like an extension of the war camp. (all groan)
Laura: We should've gone down! What were we thinking?
Matt: Go ahead and make a perception check.
Liam: That guy was lying.
Laura: Well, he said go down. We didn't go down.
Liam: 21 for me.
Laura: 13 for me. I like how my passive perception is way higher than any rolls that I ever do.
Matt: I do keep that-- I keep tabs on that.
Taliesin: 22.
Marisha: Are we all doing perception rolls?
Matt: For the most part, we've got a few rolls, and it worked fine. Looking inside though, this camp looks like it's been abandoned.
Laura: Oh, good!
Matt: It looks like it was built, and then the expansion into the war camp you just escaped from seemed to be the next step. Like it's slowly advancing and this section of it has been in disuse. As you push in towards the center of the camp you can see there's older campfires, lots of the tents have like partially collapsed. Dust has gathered.
Liam: I'm keeping my eyes peeled for useful shit.
Matt: Okay. Looking around as well, you see all the equipment. Any pieces that would be of interest have either been taken-- either destroyed and are broken or have probably been moved into the war camp. You glance through a couple of the tents. Looking about, it's definitely been abandoned. It no longer serves a purpose and anything of use has been stripped and taken. This cavern is maybe about 60 feet up or so. It's a little domed section, and you can now see there are two exit tunnels to this section. One that is kind of straight ahead, a little bit to the left. And one that veers off to the direct left of you. So if you're looking straight from the direction you came, there is one right ahead of you, a little bit to the left and one that goes quickly to the left.
Laura: Should we take the left one?
Travis: Which one's the left one?
Marisha: He mentioned the left.
Laura: Yeah, so maybe we should stay left.
Matt: Yeah, do that.
Liam: Clarota, do you know anything about these passages?
Laura: Do you remember anything?
Marisha: Wait, why did he say that? Why did you say that?
Matt: 'Cause they're both kind of left. It's a joke. Clarota takes a moment and kind of looks at you, kind of-- his breath. "I've not been this far up these tunnels. It's too dangerous this close to the war camp. I would've been killed in a second."
Laura: What about the general's memory? Anything there?
Matt: He kind of closes his eyes for a second. "One of these leads below, one of them leads to the surface. I can't recall which."
Laura: Can we go up and--
Travis: Let's split up!
Laura: No, can we go next to the one on the far left and see if I sense any like wind coming down, is there--
Matt: Going to the one on the far left, as you're stepping you hear a (muffled impact noise)--
Laura: Oh, well, good.
Matt: -- against the distant stone wall that you put up.
Travis: I think we get to pick one here.
Marisha: Are there any--
Ashley: He did say go left.
Matt: As you head to the tunnel, you don't sense any sort of temperature change, but it does seem to steady off into a decline that curves to the left.
Laura: We should do that.
Taliesin: Sounds good.
Marisha: Do you mean, are there like-- is there any wildlife, any bats, any type of animals, anything like that?
Matt: We shall say, a general sense of this area, you look and you can see, in this area, unlike the previous sections, there are small clusters of bats on the ceiling.
Marisha: Okay, I'm going to--
Matt: As apparently they have an exit of some kind to the surface.
Marisha: I'm going to go ahead and cast Beast Sense on one of the bats.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: And I'm going to channel myself through the bat and I'm going to make him fly down the far left tunnel.
Matt: Okay. So as you guys are walking over there, one of the bats--
Ashley: Good call.
Matt: -- heads down into the tunnel, continues into the darkness.
Marisha: Can I just see--
Matt: From the echolocation, which is a very strange sensation, you haven't really done this before for a bat and it's a very weird experience.
Marisha: Wow, guys, this is really trippy.
Taliesin: We just hear (bat sounds).
Matt: It continues about a steady 40-degree decline that goes further and further down.
Laura: Keep going down. Down, down, down.
Matt: Eventually, you get to a point where the bat is out of your sphere of influence and you lose your connection to the bat.
Laura: Keep going down?
Marisha: Well, I didn't really see much, but definitely there is a pretty steep incline. We could try it again and go down the other one.
Liam: This is a coin flip.
Laura: I think we keep going down. Just stick with it.
Orion: Hold on! Incline means up.
Laura: Oh.
Matt: No, it's a decline.
Marisha: Decline.
Orion: Decline means down.
Laura: Well, then let's go with the decline. Yes?
Taliesin: Yes.
Laura: Let's do it!
Taliesin: We go. With haste.
Laura: Yes.
Matt: All righty.
Travis: With haste!
Laura: With stealth! With Dust of Tracelessness behind us.
Travis: Hey, flower girl!
Laura: Flower girl!
Orion: Actually, there's two tunnels, right?
Matt: There are two tunnels, yes.
Orion: And one's smaller than the other?
Matt: Correct.
Orion: Hm.
Matt: Yes?
Taliesin: There's no right answer here. It's just--
Orion: I know.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Orion: How big is the-- how wide is the smaller one that we're going through?
Matt: There's one, the one on the far end, the one that does not appear to be a decline, seems to be the widest of the two.
Travis: I pull out a torch. Will you light my torch?
Orion: Yeah.
Travis: Nice. (all laugh)
Travis: Are we going to the left?
Laura: Yeah.
Travis: I take off running to the left.
Laura: Oh, god. Grog!
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Running, running?
Travis: Running!
Liam: Really running?
Travis: Running to the left.
Orion: Oh man, oh no!
Matt: Grog goes charging into the darkened tunnel to the very left--
Laura: Grog! Stop!
Orion: Let's go, everybody!
Marisha: There he goes!
Laura: I'm gonna take off after him.
Matt: The heavy footsteps of Grog disappearing into the darkness--
Travis: (maniacal laugh)
Laura: We take off after him, 'cause he needs help.
Orion: Let's go!
Marisha: Grog, Grog! Don't run too far ahead-- He's gone.
Matt: You guys give chase.
Laura: Yes.
Liam: It's like having Goofy as a party member. (all laugh)
Liam: (Goofy laugh)
Ashley: Hodor!
Travis: Hah. Hodor.
Ashley: Hodor.
Matt: As you guys catch up to Grog, which isn't too hard--
Travis: What? I'm fast.
Matt: Are you going to a full sprint, though?
Travis: No, no, no. I mean. A leisurely jog.
Matt: Right. You catch up to Grog. The tunnel itself is about 30 feet wide, 20 feet tall. And it is a slow, continuously gradual decline and curve to the left.
Laura: Can you do another wall?
Matt: Like a spiral, downward.
Laura: No?
Travis: Maybe we could do a cave-in.
Laura: Well, that might be dangerous.
Travis: Yeah, but it'd be fun.
Matt: You guys continue for another 20 or so minutes down, before it opens up into a small alcove to the right, but the tunnel continues. This alcove, it's about 35, 40 feet in, and it looks like there are remnants here of a camp that was set up once. Similar to the war camp, but once again abandoned, or at least currently not in use.
Liam: Any useful shit?
Laura: Can we go, oh! Can we go in? We should probably rest, heal up, get our spells back. Can you cast the illusion terrain and make it look like there's no hole in the cavern here?
Marisha: No. I can't, today. I'm sorry.
Orion: If this is where we're gonna be chilling, I can seal off that tunnel still.
Laura: But we have to be able to get back out.
Orion: Right.
Travis: Not necessarily.
Ashley: If I--
Liam: No! If you seal off the passage, right, we keep going down, and if that's a dead end-- it's probably not-- if it is, can't we rest and use the same spell to open it up?
Orion: No, it's permanent.
Liam: That sucks.
Orion: But we would just have Grog hack away at it for a while--
Travis: Thank you!
Orion: It can be, you know, destroyed.
Travis: They do call me 'Grog the Locksmith.'
Orion: Right!
Travis: They don't call me that.
Laura: Can we go in and look at the camp and see, like, stealthily--
Matt: Yeah!
Laura: -- check out what the camp is?
Marisha: I can make it really foggy.
Matt: Go ahead and make an investigate check.
Marisha: I could do that.
Liam: Yes, we know that about you.
Travis: Oh, I can too!
Liam: What about in the game, though?
Marisha: I can make it look like a--
Laura: 20.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: Well, that's a different story.
Matt: As you guys are having this conversation, Vex does a quick glance over, there are about four tents that are still set up, there appears to be a small ring where a fire was set up, and you can see kind of bits of charcoal--
Taliesin: Yes!
Matt: -- and bits of long, long, long forgotten burnt meat, remnants, charcoal, and such there.
Travis: I have two firewood bundles.
Taliesin: I'm gonna look for a seal, to see if there's a seal anywhere around.
Matt: You do see, on one of the walls--
Taliesin: Bam!
Matt: -- there is a similar seal of Bahamut.
Laura: (gasps) Oh! This was her camp!
Taliesin: Kima was here!
Laura: Kima was here!
Marisha: #kimawashere.
Matt: However, there are four tents here--
Laura: Oh.
Orion: Kima was here.
Matt: Which means-- previously you saw just one, from what you saw. There are four here.
Travis: She had babies.
Matt: It's an interesting change to your appearance. Means either been repurposed, or there were more people with her, or since then the tent, the camp has been used by other individuals aside from her.
Travis: Oh.
Matt: However, glancing through, you do notice that there are a few discarded travel bags--
Laura: Mine! Mine! Mine!
Marisha: Ooh!
Matt: -- carrying rope, grappling hooks, general cluster of torches, about eight in total--
Laura: Okay, that's nice. Torch, torch, torch, torch.
Travis: Thank you! Bag of holding, bag of holding.
Matt: And as you glance about you can see, in this alcove, looking at the dirt itself, it looks like there was a serious struggle. You can start seeing drag mark--
Laura: Can I use Tracking and see what happened, like Prince Humperdink, please? Can do?
Matt: Ah, well, this is part of your investigation roll, essentially.
Laura: Okay, okay.
Matt: Unless you want to track to where the tracks went, that's a different story. That's--
Laura: Well, can I see who was attacked first? Does it look like Kima was attacked, or she--
Matt: It's hard to tell, you see some of the footsteps, and some of the drag marks, while mostly worn over, elements do show some of the fairer folk. The duergar have a very distinct footprint or size. You do see one that resembles more of, like, gnomish or halfling origin. You see drag marks in the dirt, you see other individuals, looks like there were chunks of rock that have been chopped off the side of the wall that look fresh, where you can see the soot that has settled into this part of the cavern is no longer visible where these scratch marks basically took off and exposed fresh rock.
Laura: The drag marks, do they lead outside of the alcove and down?
Matt: They do, and they lead down the tunnel further.
Laura: Okay.
Travis: Let's go that way, or are we resting?
Laura: Do we need to rest? I mean--
Liam: I think we should rest.
Orion: I need to rest.
Laura: -- I feel like we need to get our spells back, otherwise we're just gonna get killed.
Orion: Yes.
Marisha: Are we being chased right now?
Taliesin: Possibly.
Orion: Possibly.
Marisha: Are people hot on our tail?
Orion: Possibly.
Taliesin: We can rest in shifts.
Laura: Yeah. I guess that's the best thing to do.
Travis: I'll stay awake.
Liam: I'm totally fine at the moment, so I'll stay awake too.
Orion: Should I seal the tunnel?
Marisha: I need to sleep.
Laura: Maybe seal the tunnel behind us, yeah, so that--
Liam: Yes.
Laura: -- if they do come, they have to like, try to get through.
Ashley: I can stay, I can stay awake too, I'm okay.
Orion: Cool.
Ashley: So maybe everybody sleep--
Orion: So I do.
Matt: Okay. So you use your spell, you seal off the tunnel with pillars. You can just barely get most of the entranceway covered, there's a couple of small slivers and spaces between.
Orion: But we would sure hear them, if they were--
Laura: Trying to get through, yeah.
Matt: Yeah. If they were.
Laura: All right.
Matt: All right. So you guys end up making camp, are you guys lighting a fire? Or are you keeping it dark? What's your plan?
Travis: Yeah. I've got two firewood bundles in the bag of Ikea holding.
Taliesin: I don't think we need a fire.
Liam: I don't think it's a good idea.
Ashley: Do we need a fire?
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: We're fine. It's warm down here.
Matt: It's fairly warm.
Liam: Yes.
Orion: Oh.
Travis: Then, no? (all laugh)
Liam: We've got Tiberius, if he's awake, can cast Light, let's just go into one of these tents.
Travis: I wanna burn something.
Laura: I know.
Marisha: Yeah, two to a tent.
Laura: You can keep burning a torch.
Marisha: We can each have our own tent! There's enough.
Laura: Stick it in the ground.
Travis: Is there anything made of wood down here?
Orion: I actually have to rest completely, so I can't do shifts.
Travis: I want to set it on fire.
Matt: Okay. Fair enough.
Orion: I need all my spell slots.
Marisha: I need to sleep as well.
Matt: What wood there is, is used charcoal in the abandoned fire pit, unfortunately.
Ashley: Yeah, but can you--
Travis: I wanted to pyro shit.
Matt: You guys get set up?
Liam: I pull out some dice, so that Grog and I can gamble while everyone are sleeping.
Travis: Ooh!
Matt: Fair enough.
Taliesin: How much does a rest heal? Out of curiosity?
Matt: A rest heals you to full.
Taliesin: Oh, excellent.
Laura: Oh, sweet! Yeah, let's fully rest.
Taliesin: Do I have time to do a quick engineering feat, as well?
Matt: You do not have--
Taliesin: Oh, okay. Never mind.
Matt: Like at this point, I mean, you could-- what're you trying to do? I should say.
Taliesin: Make an explosive arrow. I'm just in a mood.
Matt: Do you have any currently built explosives?
Taliesin: No, but I have gunpowder.
Matt: You know what, I'll let you go ahead and try it with just your tinker's kit--
Taliesin: Yeah.
Laura: Tinker's?
Matt: It's gonna be a difficult--
Taliesin: That's fine!
Matt: -- roll, but go for it.
Taliesin: What do I add? Am I just straight roll?
Matt: You add your proficiency bonus, which is, the tinker's kit is four.
Taliesin: Oh, okay. Proficiency bonus. 15?
Matt: 15? Okay, okay. You manage to fasten what appears to be a black powder, impact-based explosive to the tip of an arrow. It's a little weighty and unwieldy, it might not be the most accurate thing in the world, but if it hits it's probably gonna pack a punch.
Taliesin: Okay. I have another gift.
Laura: You do?
Taliesin: Explosive arrow!
Laura: This is the best day ever!
Taliesin: It's a bit iffy.
Liam: (Cary Elwes voice) Gently! Gently!
Orion: It's a bit iffy.
Laura: Gently!
Marisha: Don't trust it!
Taliesin: It's a bit iffy.
Laura: I gingerly put it in my quiver.
Orion: More like a shotgun.
Taliesin: It'll get better. It'll get better.
Travis: Can you make me an explosive axe?
Matt: You very gingerly place it within your quiver.
Laura: Oh god, all right.
Taliesin: I don't think you want an explosive axe.
Matt: It's heavy in the tip.
Travis: Why?
Matt: It's one of those things where, you know, shooting it is going to be an interesting challenge.
Laura: Should I keep it away from the rest of my stuff?
Matt: That's up to you!
Laura: Is there a possibility it could explode just--
Orion: You haven't even played with your hammer yet!
Matt: I dunno.
Taliesin: It's very unlikely to explode on by itself. 'Cause it needs to be moving at a high speed. But it's just not the best thing ever.
Laura: Maybe I won't keep it straight behind my head.
Taliesin: Yeah, no. Not straight behind.
Laura: Let's just kind of keep it down at my waist--
Liam: Off to the side.
Laura: With the dagger, maybe.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Is that cool?
Taliesin: The next one will be better.
Matt: All right.
Laura: All right. Did we all rest? Are we all rested?
Taliesin: Yep.
Matt: As the evening transpires, you all get your evenings of rest, you guys kind of keeping watch, gambling away. At a certain point, throughout the evening, something perks up your ears. You begin hearing footsteps, many footsteps.
Liam: Many footsteps.
Laura: (gasps) Oh no. How many is many? A lot.
Liam: How many does it sound like?
Matt: It sounds like anywhere between six, ten, more--
Liam: From, right, from up? Or down.
Matt: From above, yeah.
Liam: From above.
Travis: Up. Oh.
Laura: We should wake up.
Ashley: From above?
Travis: Like, the ceiling? Or--
Laura: Well like the-- no, no, no. From like--
Ashley: Like where you have the--
Laura: Up the path, right?
Matt: Up the path you guys came from.
Liam: Wait. Grog and I are the only ones awake, right?
Ashley: That he shielded off?
Orion: Yeah, it's sealed.
Travis: Yep.
Matt: Yep.
Liam: Grog and I are the only ones awake.
Orion: Right.
Liam: Do we lay low, and hold quiet in these tents? Or do we get everyone up?
Laura: They're gonna know, 'cause we blocked off the friggin' path! I'm asleep. Sorry.
Liam: Yeah.
Ashley: I'm still awake.
Travis: Lay low. Let them come.
Liam: I think so.
Laura: (whispers) What? You're just really--
Travis: Keep sleeping and shut up!
Liam: No, no, no, I rouse my sister quietly.
Laura: What?
Travis: Oh. Fine.
Liam: She's in this tent.
Travis: Wake her up.
Laura: What's going--
Liam: (whispers) Quiet.
Matt: All right. Leaving the rest asleep?
Liam: Yeah.
Laura: I stealth.
Matt: The three of you make a stealth check.
Travis: I stealth as well.
Matt: You do, Grog. You do.
Laura: God damn.
Travis: Fuck yeah! A two!
Laura: I should stop rolling this fucking dice.
Travis: 17.
Ashley: Wait, are you guys asleep?
Liam: 23.
Marisha: I'm still passed out.
Laura: Oh! Yeah, that was a one. This, by the way--
Matt: Again?
Laura: -- was given to me by Wil Wheaton.
Travis: Yeah. Wake up your sister.
Laura: Thank you, Wil.
Travis: It was just us boys--
Matt: Thank you, Wil.
Travis: -- and then you woke her up.
Matt: All right, so--
Ashley: Wait, I was awake too.
Matt: You were awake too?
Ashley: Yes.
Matt: At this point? You weren't resting?
Travis: What. You?
Laura: No, she was--
Travis: Oh, she was actually awake.
Ashley: Because I was, I was still at full--
Laura: (whispers) But you needed your spells.
Matt: Okay, then--
Ashley: Oh, but my spells? Actually--
Matt: If you're not resting you don't get your spells back.
Orion: Yeah, you need--
Ashley: -- I fell asleep! I totally forgot. I am sound asleep.
Marisha: Totally forgot I fell asleep!
Ashley: I was dreaming--
Travis: She dreamed, in the dream she was still awake.
Matt: You are welcome to stay awake if you want, but you just won't get your spells back.
Ashley: I was dreaming, it was real--
Matt: You'd probably be exhausted.
Ashley: -- I was so confused, by my dream.
Taliesin: You were just going all Inception on us.
Liam: You know, when you can't fall asleep--
Ashley: My perception was off.
Liam: -- and you're like, am I dreaming? Or is this the dream? Or is it real?
Taliesin: Spin the top. Spin the top.
Ashley: I was totally sleeping.
Liam: And you wake up, and you have to pee, it's hard to tell.
Ashley: And I spaced.
Travis: So the three of us are up.
Ashley: I was asleep.
Matt: All right. So. Between the three of you, thankfully, you had two successes against one failure. You manage to cover for your sister--
Liam: Shake it off.
Laura: Thank you, thank you.
Matt: -- who, who, 'Huh? What? What?'
Laura: Ah-- what? What?
Matt: When you wake her up.
Liam: Sh! Sh.
Matt: You guys quietly wait--
Travis: Oh no, that was a bad expression!
Liam: Daggers out! Daggers out!
Ashley: Or that was good?
Matt: All right. So.
Laura: Oh no. Did eyebrows go up?
Taliesin: (whistles In the Hall of the Mountain King)
Matt: The footsteps progress through, and you-- there's no light source, as duergar for the most part do not require light to see in the tunnels.
Laura: Can we see through the dark-- but we can see in the dark?
Matt: You guys have low-light vision, not dark vision.
Liam: Not dark vision.
Laura: There's no light in this area at all?
Travis: No! It's balls-ass dark!
Liam: There's no fire--
Matt: No, it is pitch black. You just hear--
Liam: On purpose no fire.
Matt: -- you just hear the footprints go by.
Travis: Good thing we didn't make a campfire!
Liam: Sh, sh!
Matt: You hear them approach the outskirts of the alcove.
Ashley: I have dark vision, gosh dang it!
Matt: But you're asleep.
Ashley: I'm fucking sleeping.
Matt: Yes, you are. (all laugh)
Ashley: Bad choices, all around!
Liam: They're going!
Matt: As the footsteps approach the outskirts of the alcove, the rest of you sleeping soundly, unaware of what's transpiring-- A few moments pass, and the footprints appear to be passing, past, downward into the tunnel. (all laugh)
Matt: Eventually, when the footfalls dissipate, and silence once again takes the camp, you breathe a sigh of relief and remove your hand from Vex's face.
Travis: Well, maybe just leave it there.
Liam: Last time I did that I got kicked in the nuts, very hard.
Travis: And liked it.
Matt: All right. So. Eventually, when you feel enough time has passed, where those who've been resting come from their sleep, spells recovered, wounds are healed, except for those who didn't sleep, you guys maintain the same health you had previously.
Ashley: What a good sleep I've had! I have all my spells back!
Matt: That also puts a level of exhaustion-- So. There is one level of exhaustion on both of you currently.
Liam: Sure. So what does that do to us?
Laura: Oh no.
Orion: Ah. You fools!
Matt: It just means any ability checks you take--
Liam: Yes.
Matt: So, any skills you take are at disadvantage until you get a full night's rest.
Travis: I'll take one more level two potion right now.
Liam: Skill? Skill. Okay.
Travis: One more level two potion.
Matt: Okay. You can use-- remember, you can use your hit dice to heal still, before you start throwing potions around. If you have a moment to rest--
Laura: Hit dice. We forgot about that because it wasn't there before.
Matt: Yeah. (sings) Fifth Edition! Before you start throwing potions around, 'cause remember, you're far away from civilization right now, you have a very limited number of potions now to lead you through here, unless you find some way to return to the surface.
Liam: Just for emergencies.
Orion: What's happening?
Liam: In combat.
Matt: So. You all eventually come back to consciousness, in this darkened alcove, pitch black. It is still warm, slight smell of soot and dust in the air, what do you guys want to do?
Liam: I have a question.
Matt: Yes.
Liam: Outside of existence. Tiberius put up a stone, right?
Matt: Mm-hm.
Liam: But I didn't hear any (impact sounds), right?
Laura: Oh, no, he put it up next to our alcove. So, they just kind of passed by our alcove.
Matt: It basically matched the wall as you guys went around.
Liam: Oh. So we sealed ourselves into this little pocket?
Laura: Yes. We did.
Liam: Oh. We didn't even friggin' need to hide in the tent! We were in a little bubble of air!
Laura: Well, no, well, it's pillars, though, they could have--
Matt: You're not completely in there.
Laura: -- they could have seen us.
Liam: Okay.
Matt: He could block off most of it, there's like little spaces between--
Liam: Spaces. Okay. All right. Thank you.
Laura: I think we should all freshen up, since it's a new day!
Liam: Right. We're all healed, maybe-- Does anyone have to pee? Or perhaps--
Laura: Yeah, that.
Ashley: Yeah.
Laura: That.
Orion: Is anyone particularly dirty?
Laura: Intermission!
Matt: Indeed. So. This, given the point in time that you all wake from your slumber, we'll continue this in a few minutes. In the meantime, we're gonna go ahead and go to our intermission break. See you guys back here in about 12 minutes or so.
Marisha: Oh, cool.
Zac: So we're gonna update everyone real quick.
Matt: All right, what you got, man?
Zac: You guys can go, you guys can go.
Matt: Go, go!
Zac: Matt and I are gonna chat. Lucas, can you turn down all the other mics while they're exiting? (fart noises in background)
Zac: So guys, we already gave away one promo kit, so we reached our first goal.
Matt: Awesome. Fantastic.
Zac: That's one. I'm gonna bring out a poster for you guys to sign that we'll put inside the promo kit with it.
Matt: Perfect.
Zac: And we're actually pretty close to giving away our second promo kit. So, just so you guys know-- what the shit? If we get another 50, I think it's like 40 more, or 38 more? The number's on the bottom. We'll give away another promo kit, and these guys will all sign the poster that goes inside, and we'll get that shipped out to you as quickly as possible.
Matt: Yeah, do it.
Zac: That's pretty much the only update there. Oh, do you want to make a quick mention about the charity that you guys work with? Because we've been posting that in the chat room.
Matt: Yes, yes. Yes, 826LA, guys, is a charity that we've been been trying to raise money for. Essentially, it's a Los Angeles-based, also in San Francisco and other parts of the nation. It helps teach and tutor children in literacy, storytelling-- it's a really great charity. Go ahead and look on the website 826LA.com for any and all information you require on it. But they are a really good cause, they're good people, and been a fan of their work for a long time. So we are happy to help however we can and however you guys are able to help as well. So.
Zac: Great. If the mods want to post the command 'criticalrole', you guys can link to that charity and we'll go ahead and roll those videos so you guys can get updated on the characters, and we'll be back in a little bit.
Matt: See you guys in a little bit. [character intros]
Matt: Welcome back, guys. All right, I think everyone is sufficiently rested and bathroom breaked.
Laura: Yep.
Matt: And so we will pick it back up. So as you all regain consciousness and prepare yourselves for the day ahead, once again, you've gone a number of days without sunlight, without any vision of the sky. It's a very disorienting experience for all of you who are unfamiliar with subterranean territory. Even though you are rested, you don't feel rested. There's kinks in your back from the rocky floor. The best you could find yourself any sort of comfort here is from whatever you have on your back. Most of you sleep in your armor out of necessity and paranoia. As consciousness comes to you, you guys are able to try and find your way back out now that you've been sealed in.
Laura: Can we squish through the little cracks?
Matt: No.
Laura: We have to cut it down?
Matt: You have about a five, six-inch gap between each of them.
Laura: So we've gotta break our way out of here, Grog.
Travis: Oh, do I get to hit things?
Matt: You do.
Liam: Start smacking the wall.
Travis: My god.
Ashley: Can I just give it a try, just to see? Try make a dent.
Matt: Yeah, go ahead and make an athletics check.
Travis: And just to try it out, I would like bring out the flaming hammer of--
Matt: Actually, for this I would say it's a straight strength check. This is just physicality, strength against the stonework.
Liam: Might need to take your armor off.
Ashley: Strength is?
Travis: Yeah.
Laura: Oh, it's right here.
Travis: 23.
Matt: All right.
Travis: With the hammer.
Ashley: Ten.
Marisha: We're playing pillar pinata.
Matt: All right, so as Pike-- as you go and swing at the pillar, you impact with all your might and the pillar cracks at the impact. You're like, 'that is awesome', then you look up a few inches and notice that Grog's ax is also in the same pillar.
Ashley: Oh. (all laugh)
Ashley: Yay teamwork, teamwork.
Travis: Yay, you loosened it up for me.
Ashley: Yeah I did!
Marisha: Yeah.
Liam: (singing) That's fuckin' teamwork.
Ashley: Best pals!
Matt: You guys, you take five or six minutes or so. You manage to hack away enough in one of the pillars to leave enough room to squeeze through. It takes a while. You manage to cleave that open. You all gather your things, you group together and you can continue in whichever direction you wish.
Ashley: Down.
Travis: Yeah, we're going down.
Matt: All right, as you guys--
Laura: Stealth!
Liam: There are also some, I believe some duergar we didn't tell you--
Laura: Ahead of us.
Liam: Yes, while you were sleeping in the middle of the night, duergar walked-- I assume--
Laura: Dooragar?
Liam: Duraga.
Liam: (in odd accent) Duergar, some duergar walked down the passageway while you were sleeping.
Taliesin: Doo-agar.
Orion: Duragar.
Ashley: Dooagar.
Liam: But we thought it best to lay low and they went on.
Marisha: That's good.
Laura: Yes.
Liam: So, steady as she goes.
Laura: They might be ahead of us.
Taliesin: We should probably be quiet.
Marisha: Before we leave, I wanna go ahead and take a minute to meditate. If you guys can, you know, just watch while I meditate.
Taliesin: Oh god.
Laura: And lend our energy to you.
Marisha: Yes, if you guys could lend your positive energy it would be very helpful.
Travis: (fart sounds)
Marisha: So I can Commune With Nature.
Taliesin: I'll be out of the hole.
Marisha: I want to do Commune (pronouncing incorrectly) With Nature.
Matt: Commune? (pronouncing correctly)
Marisha: Yes, or Commune, whatever.
Matt: You wanna start a commune in nature?
Travis: Commune.
Marisha: Yeah, I want to start a commune in nature.
Taliesin: Commune in a commune.
Orion: Can we do that? How high is that roll again?
Marisha: Commune in commune in a commune.
Liam: Going the homeopathic route, I like it.
Marisha: That one.
Matt: Okay, keeping the best essence--
Taliesin: Oh god.
Matt: -- of the scenery around you, you take a moment. What's the reach of that one?
Marisha: Just read it, where is it?
Matt: Whatcha got?
Marisha: Three miles.
Matt: Three miles. The natural entities that you can sense in this cavern system are the few clusters of bats that exist in the back portion of the war camp that you guys just ran from. That's about it, I mean, there are a few other strange things that you've seen that live down here, but they wouldn't be anything that you would naturally sense.
Travis: What more do you see?
Marisha: Lots of bats. They're very nice bats
Travis: Well, that's good.
Orion: I love bats.
Marisha: Very pleasant, they're very friendly. That's about it.
Orion: Very good.
Laura: Bats.
Marisha: Bats.
Taliesin: Bats.
Marisha: Okay, carry on, let's go.
Travis: Oh, good.
Laura: All right.
Marisha: Thank you for your positive energy.
Laura: Nice.
Matt: All right, you guys step back into the tunnel, all of you squeezing through with the rest of your materials, heading further down. About 15 minutes of travel go by and the very air itself is becoming steadily warmer.
Taliesin: It's humid in here.
Matt: The smell is this combination of still water, groundwater type of a scent mixed with an ever-growing kind of sulfur-type, brimstone smell.
Liam: Smells like Grog.
Travis: I would like to trip Vax. (all laugh)
Liam: That was quick. (all laugh)
Travis: As he's walking.
Liam: I insult you and you trip me in a half a second? Would you like to take a shot at my nads as well?
Laura: You knew it was coming, as well.
Matt: Make an athletics check.
Travis: Yes! 24!
Matt: Make an acrobatics check.
Travis: Suck it, elf.
Liam: What goes around comes around, baby. 22.
Marisha: Ooh.
Matt: (impact sound) Face down, Vax.
Travis: Yes!
Matt: A slight bruise on the cheek as you go faceplanting into the stonework ahead of you.
Taliesin: For god's sake.
Liam: I'm going to voluntarily erase one hit point.
Travis: What, what happened? What happened? Did you not stealth past that little pebble?
Liam: It's all right, when the illithid general is bearing down on your walnut-sized brain--
Travis: Yeah?
Liam: I may be there, I may not.
Ashley: Hey! Don't be rude to him!
Laura: You guys, you guys.
Travis: Oh, I'm so happy right now.
Laura: These caverns are getting to us. (all laugh)
Matt: Clarota shuffles alongside you guys.
Liam: Right, everyone, we're getting slap-happy.
Laura: All right, all right, all right, let's call this.
Travis: That's all I wanted.
Ashley: Lack of oxygen.
Laura: We're going crazy down here.
Marisha: Grog, it's only 9 30 in the morning.
Orion: I feel fine.
Marisha: For christ's sake.
Matt: As you guys are walking, you're welcome to make chatter, any discussions you'd like.
Liam: That was a high acrobatics roll. I think the DM wanted me to eat shit.
Matt: No, it was yours versus his.
Travis: Yeah.
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: Oh, really? It was a direct contest?
Matt: It was a direct versus 24 versus 22. He won.
Liam: You still wanted me to eat shit.
Matt: No, it's up to the rolls, man.
Marisha: So wait, we get a chance to chat for a second?
Orion: Yes.
Marisha: Pike, did you ever fully tell us what all you saw in your vision? I mean, have you perhaps had any more visions?
Laura: Visions? You had a vision?
Ashley: I did, I did.
Laura: What?
Ashley: So, when I stayed away, I went to a shrine of Sarenrae, just to sorta see, 'cause I had a feeling that I'd been here, or something like that. So in this vision, I basically saw what we've been going through already.
Marisha: What?
Ashley: And what the soldier was talking about. So I saw something that was-- there was a single twisted horn of blackened soul matter.
Laura: Oh, soul matter?
Marisha: Soul matter?
Taliesin: Oh.
Liam: Sounds dirty.
Ashley: It was a point of concentrated evil.
Orion: Oh.
Laura: This horn?
Ashley: Yes.
Marisha: Concentrated evil.
Orion: Nasty horn.
Ashley: And it was so strong that I couldn't stay in the vision, because I could feel that it was taking over, so I pulled me out of the dream, among various things. But I saw--
Marisha: Like the horn of Sauron?
Ashley: The horn of Sauron, is what it said.
Orion: Is that your cousin?
Liam: Did you see any whales?
Laura: The horn of--
Ashley: I didn't see whales.
Liam: No whales.
Laura: Okay, no narwhals.
Marisha: No whales, no narwhals.
Laura: The horn of K'varn, yes?
Ashley: Yes.
Laura: Okay.
Marisha: Horn of evil.
Ashley: I some visions of where sort of-- 'Cause I kind of went in past and then got to this thing. So I guess depending on where we are--
Laura: Can you lead in the direction to go?
Ashley: Yes, if I see things that are familiar. Such as-- (all laugh)
Ashley: I went past a jagged onyx-colored fortress framed in molten rock.
Liam: Oh.
Laura: I think that probably--
Marisha: The place we're heading.
Laura: The place we're going to.
Ashley: Yes.
Liam: That sounds creepy
Ashley: Past a field of broken glass and bone.
Orion: Right.
Marisha: We haven't seen that. Oh no.
Travis: Obsidian, maybe?
Ashley: Yeah.
Taliesin: Or just melted sand.
Travis: I mean, whatever that is.
Ashley: And the prettiest was into a cavern of blue crystal, where a fungal fortress--
Laura: A fungal fortress?
Marisha: Ooh.
Ashley: -- sort of entwined an ancient city of marble and jade--
Orion: Three different places.
Liam: That sounds really shitty.
Laura: Did the blue gemstones look valuable?
Marisha: It sounds amazing, that doesn't sound shitty.
Matt: As you start to mention that now, Clarota kind of nods and says,
Liam: It feels a bit-- broken glass.
Matt: "Aye, that's where the colony resides."
Laura: Your colony?
Matt: "Our great city."
Liam: In which of those places? In the--
Laura: In the fungal city.
Liam: Fungal.
Matt: "Amongst the ruins of jade and glass."
Laura: (whispers) Jade.
Orion: Is that where we should go?
Marisha: That's Yug'Voril?
Matt: "Surrounded by the forest."
Marisha: That's Yug'Voril?
Matt: "The city below Yug'Voril, that is where the temple resides, where K'varn holds the Elder Brain."
Laura: Ah.
Orion: Ah, this is where we need to go, I'm assuming.
Matt: "Ah, yes."
Liam: He sounds like a real fun-guy.
Travis: Oh god. (all groan)
Taliesin: Trip him again, trip him again.
Marisha: Trip him again!
Liam: I'm a dad. (all laugh)
Laura: So I bet the fortress--
Matt: Make a will saving throw. (all laugh)
Ashley: Oh my god.
Liam: What is that? Wisdom?
Matt: Yes.
Liam: 12.
Matt: Okay, you feel a mental slap as Clarota glares at you from across the tunnel. "There'll be none of that in my presence."
Travis: You got bitch-slapped.
Matt: "I hate puns." (all laugh)
Travis: (high-pitched voice) I hate puns.
Liam: Noted, noted.
Laura: So I bet, first fortress you saw, I bet the one of obsidian was where--
Liam: Percy's losing his shit.
Orion: There's a bathroom right over there, Percy.
Laura: -- where Lady Kima is being held.
Ashley: I think--
Laura: I bet that's the one, because he mentioned molten lava or something. So she's being held there and then further in is K'varn.
Ashley: Yeah.
Orion: So get there, get K'varn.
Matt: "Yes, Emberhold, yes."
Laura: Emberhold, yes. Is that an obsidian fortress?
Matt: "It is black and jagged, I think, yes."
Laura: Well, let's keep going that way.
Marisha: So the ultimate question is, are we heading the right way? Are we heading the right way, Pike, do you know?
Ashley: Can I perception check? (all laugh)
Matt: You guys are unfamiliar with this tunnel, Clarota is unfamiliar with this tunnel. All you know is it's going down. That's better than up.
Ashley: I feel like that's the way we need to go.
Laura: So, just keep going, then?
Taliesin: Let's keep going.
Travis: Do I need to take off running again?
Laura: No.
Ashley: I think basically we need to go down, 'cause if we go up that means we're going out.
Laura: Yeah, let's keep going.
Travis: We can go--
Matt: You guys press forward and you begin to encounter little trickles on the ceiling of orange, glowing little puddles.
Laura: Avoid that!
Marisha: If we learned anything from Minecraft-- (all laugh)
Laura: Don't touch that.
Matt: Progressing further down, you start seeing large clusters, little pools of molten rock beginning to form under certain sections. In a little ways up, you begin hearing some additional footsteps to your own. Further down the tunnel.
Laura: Oh. Can we stealth, can we stealth? And my favored terrain is the Underdark.
Matt: It is.
Laura: I don't know what that means, though. (all laugh)
Laura: No, no, no, I know. But I don't know what favored terrain gives me, because I tried to look it up and couldn't find it.
Ashley: You just love it.
Laura: Does it give me an advantage?
Matt: Here, there's a sheet that has all the information you need.
Laura: Oh good, thank you.
Orion: By the way, I take one of the earrings from Scanlan and give it to Grog. So Grog, now you've got one of the--
Travis: I've got an earring?
Matt: Scanlan is not happy about this.
Orion: Well? He's not saying anything.
Liam: Everyone, there's footsteps coming from ahead. Let Vex'ahlia and I scout ahead. Wait for a moment.
Laura: Yes, okay. Let's go.
Matt: Stealth checks, both of you.
Laura: Yes, finally.
Liam: 22 for me.
Matt: All right.
Laura: The same for me, actually. Twinsies. Sorry.
Matt: All right, so you guys vanish into the darkness best as you can tell, kind of weaving between the portions of the tunnel that naturally shift and give you moments where you can hide up inside. As you guys hold back, you guys push ahead, and you can see the little points of glowing light where these lava pools every 100 or so feet begin to appear. You begin listening out, and you hear these footfalls are very heavy, and the gait of whoever is walking seems to be wider than that of the normal humanoid.
Travis: Ah, let me play. Please.
Liam: Well it's definitely not duergar. How far ahead of us do they sound?
Laura: Can we see it?
Matt: Probably a good 60, 70 feet. You hear some muttering.
Laura: Can I understand what they're saying?
Matt: No.
Liam: I'm listening, trying to make out how many sets of footsteps I can hear.
Laura: And I look on the ground and see if I can find multiple sets of footsteps as well.
Matt: Looking on the ground, you guys have no light source currently. It's pitch black.
Liam: But there's lava spilling and we can see in dim light.
Matt: Do you want to go to the nearest lava pool? All right. It's very, very faint visual. You can see there are a number of tracks, up and down. All different sizes. This area, this tunnel is traversed quite a lot. Listening, you hear two sets of heavy footsteps. And you hear what sounds like some sort of squeak sound, like a (squeaks).
Travis: Shit.
Liam: Cart. Could be some sort of device--
Matt: From around the edge, you can just barely make out these two lumbering humanoid shapes.
Liam: Can we tell what they are?
Laura: Oh, he's trying to see if they're seeing us.
Liam: Yes.
Matt: They begin to step towards your direction.
Laura: We back away.
Matt: You guys back and kind of flatten yourself against the wall.
Liam: Separate sides.
Matt: You can see they're now both dragging behind them this small roughshod cart, with something inside it.
Laura: We string a rope across the tunnel.
Matt: Okay, you pull it across.
Marisha: Oh, yeah!
Matt: (deep grumbling and laughter)
Liam: I also yank my serpentine belt off--
Laura: Oh!
Liam: And throw it out, right under the rope.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: What does that do?
Liam: Snake.
Matt: So, as he throws the leather, the leather shifts form suddenly in midair into a serpent that slips onto the ground, and slithers in place, curling up at the approaching two monolithic entities.
Laura: That is stupid.
Liam: Yes, it is.
Laura: This is gonna go really poorly.
Matt: As they begin to cross in front of you, you both pull taut on the rope.
Laura: This is dumb.
Matt: The immediate one falls forward, tripping face-first on the ground, a heavy (impact sound). You guys hear in the distance this loud thud, impact sound.
Laura: And we call, I go, Grog!
Travis: I'm raging.
Liam: And I leap out, daggers at the fallen one.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: Run!
Matt: You guys come rushing in, let's go ahead and roll initiative.
Taliesin: Yeah!
Travis: I raged.
Matt: I figured you were raging.
Travis: Well, you know, when the ladies call my name.
Taliesin: That sucks.
Marisha: That's not too bad, could be worse.
Orion: Yes, sounds good.
Marisha: What are we fighting? What are we fighting?
Laura: I know, right? Oh god, here we go.
Marisha: What are we fighting, we don't know.
Laura: Oh! Lava pools.
Taliesin: Lava pools.
Marisha: Lava pools, Lava pools.
Travis: Wow.
Ashley: Wow.
Marisha: Grog, you better be throwing bitches into that lava.
Travis: Last time I tried to do somebody to something, I did it to myself, so.
Liam: Hashtag bitches in lava?
Marisha: Hashtag bitches in lava!
Matt: You guys, coming in this way.
Marisha: Bitches in lava, bitches in lava.
Ashley: Oh god!
Laura: Oh god!
Orion: She's excited about the lava.
Liam: I got 99 problems and a troll ain't one.
Laura: Are they trolls, are they ogres?
Matt: They are two giant ogres.
Laura: Oh, god, one's on the ground.
Travis: Oh, shit.
Laura: It's huge, these are really big.
Matt: One is back here and one's just fallen over there.
Ashley: Holy cow.
Matt: And they are carrying some sort of large cart-like object, I'll just say for now.
Laura: This is so dumb, why did we do this?
Taliesin: This is a d20.
Matt: Let's say it's about there. All right.
Travis: What's in the cart?
Matt: So, initiative order, guys?
Laura: Do we get the surprise at all?
Matt: You do, actually! I'm rolling initiative, so we have the order. You guys are gonna have a full round of surprise on them first.
Laura: Okay, cool.
Matt: All right, so, 25 to 20?
Laura: Oh, man, really?
Matt: 20 to 15?
Orion: 19.
Laura: 15.
Liam: 15.
Orion: I got scared and I cast Stoneskin immediately.
Ashley: Cast what?
Orion: Stoneskin.
Matt: So Vex and Vax, both at 15?
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: 15, yeah.
Liam: Oh!
Laura: Oh!
Matt: 15 to ten?
Taliesin: 13.
Marisha: 13 as well.
Ashley: 11.
Laura: Oh no, Grog, what did you roll?
Travis: I farted when I rolled, I rolled a 9.
Matt: Oh! Grog.
Ashley: Greg.
Orion: How much does the ogre weigh? Or the ogres, as you said?
Matt: The ogres, each one weighs nearly a ton.
Travis: Oh, shit, really?
Laura: Oh, they're huge.
Travis: So, like, 200 pounds.
Matt: Yes.
Liam: Yes.
Liam: Yes, exactly.
Matt: Yes, Grog, close to that.
Laura: Yes, Grog.
Matt: All right, let's go fast here. Here we go. All right, so, top of the round-- No! Surprise round for both of you guys first, as the rest of you rush in, so Vex and Vax, you guys get a surprise round.
Laura: Awesome.
Liam: I'm already jumping in the air, so I'm gonna go.
Matt: To the guy on the ground.
Liam: Okay, and this, since it's a surprise, it's automatic crit?
Matt: Yes!
Laura: Oh, nice.
Marisha: Hell, yeah!
Matt: He's on the ground, so you get advantage on your attack rolls.
Liam: Okay, okay, all right, so that's 28.
Matt: That definitively hits.
Liam: Yeah, 1d4 for-- this is my poison dagger. Two, eight, okay, I'm doing my Sneak Attack damage, here we go, four, nine, 12, 18, yeah, 23. Total for that, 62 points of damage.
Matt: 62 points of damage.
Laura: Wow.
Matt: You leap on and entirely eviscerate the ogre. You jumped onto his back, slashing the back of his torso. As you pull open the flesh, you expose the back of the ribcage, and he goes into this kind of gurgling sound as it dies immediately on the spot.
Laura: Oh, what?
Marisha: Oh, what?
Ashley: Oh, what?
Liam: And I use my bonus action to hide.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Do you wanna talk to the other one, since--
Laura: 62.
Matt: Okay, roll and make a stealth check.
Liam: Natural 20.
Orion: Nice.
Matt: All right.
Liam: See you later, motherfuckers.
Matt: The ogre is right there. There is the ogre on the ground, big squishy ogre.
Laura: What?
Travis: Big squishy ogre.
Matt: It's considered rough terrain, because now you have to go over this giant dead body in the middle of the-- All right, your turn.
Laura: I Hunter's Mark him, and I'm gonna shoot him with the explosive arrow.
Taliesin: Yeah!
Travis: I like it.
Laura: So I'm gonna see if it hits. I'm gonna use the blazing bowstring. That's a 22.
Matt: 22 definitely hits.
Laura: Okay. Also, blazing bowstring that gives me a plus d10. So, okay, 14 plus d10, wait, that's a ten? Yeah!
Liam: That's a ten.
Laura: Plus 19 and then Hunter's Mark! Plus six!
Liam: Ah yes!
Matt: 25.
Laura: 25, plus whatever the explosive damage is.
Matt: So! As you pull the arrow out, it's a little wonky, it's actually, what you rolled, it's a minus four penalty to hit with it, but you still manage to hit because it's a big creature, even though it's in very big darkness, you-- you know, in darkness you ignore partial cover.
Laura: Right!
Liam: Bellybutton.
Matt: You fire it. It arcs slightly, smacks in the side of its chest and stomach area. It's this cacophonous explosion sound that rocks the immediate vicinity.
Taliesin: Whoa! Yes!
Travis: Yes!
Matt: It takes an additional 2d8 points of explosive damage.
Marisha: Ooh!
Taliesin: Yeah!
Orion: Nice.
Matt: Nine points, and everything around it also takes the additional damage--
Laura: Oh shit!
Matt: -- the whole radius does.
Laura: Oh, I hope I didn't blow up the cart.
Matt: The cart-- the wood on the wheels had shatters and breaks, it falls to one side. What you see, some sort of a glass container that was at the back of the cart shatters and cracks.
Laura: (gasps) Oh no.
Marisha: Oh.
Taliesin: I'm still happy.
Laura: Welp?
Liam: Still pretty cool, still pretty cool.
Marisha: Collateral damage. It's bound to happen.
Matt: Top of the round. Tiberius.
Laura: Oh, and can I move away?
Matt: You can move if you want. Yeah.
Laura: Yeah, I move back.
Matt: Back to here?
Laura: Yeah. Sounds good.
Travis: Where's your pointer?
Matt: Use your pointer if you need it.
Laura: Oh right! Well, there.
Matt: All right. Tiberius, you're up first.
Orion: Very good! I'll take a few steps forward and be like, well, this is poppycock! And I'll shoot a Scorching Ray right at the dude.
Matt: All right, go for it, roll for the attack.
Laura: Does anybody speak Ogre? Nobody speaks Ogre, though. We can't talk to him.
Travis: No.
Liam: They're dumber than Grog is.
Orion: So what am I rolling?
Matt: Do you ignore partial cover?
Orion: Oh! Like can I just in general?
Matt: I mean, did you take that feat?
Orion: No.
Matt: No. Okay. So yeah. So you're rolling-- okay, so yeah. So what did you roll to hit?
Orion: I rolled all three at once. 'Cause I have to do one for each.
Matt: Right, yeah.
Orion: So I got a 12, a 13, and a 12.
Matt: Okay. All three rays unfortunately miss--
Orion: Damn it!
Matt: -- due to the darkness in this room it's very hard to see, other than the slight glow from the lava. So you fire all three rays, and you see them streak through, and each one gives off just enough light from the actual flaming ray to glow to the vicinity, but not the actual target. You see them both streak off and slam the wall on the opposite side.
Orion: Wait, do I add my dex on those?
Matt: You add your spell modifier.
Orion: (whispers) What's my spell modifier?
Matt: It's on top of your spell page!
Orion: Oh! Oh, no, I'm sorry, 20-- plus nine on all that.
Matt: Good to know.
Orion: Yeah, sorry.
Matt: All three hit. Go ahead and roll damage.
Orion: Okay.
Matt: There you go.
Orion: Okay, first one does five--
Matt: It's his first time casting spells, guys. (mouths) It's not.
Travis: Yeah.
Orion: -- plus five, ten! I rarely do this one, kids.
Liam: It's part of his charm.
Orion: Ten on the first one.
Matt: All right.
Orion: 17 on the second one. And 17 on the second one.
Laura: He's so dead!
Matt: Okay, is there a saving throw for half damage?
Orion: No! I mean, 12 on the third one.
Matt: Is there a saving throw on this one, or is it just straight damage?
Orion: Yeah, straight damage.
Matt: Okay, cool, gotcha. All right.
Orion: Yes!
Matt: All right, so you, you blast the ogre with three. As each explosion hits, you see the rippling of its kind of grotesque flesh from the impact, the third one blasting off a portion of its shoulder, exposing this meaty bone and blood. It gives out this horrible (roars) into the tunnel itself, causing just the atmosphere to shake, as bits of stone begin to rumble and fall from the ceiling. All right, that ends your turn?
Orion: Yeah!
Matt: Still standing. Barely. It's now its turn.
Laura: (gasps)
Matt: It steps away.
Liam: (whispers) You can't see me.
Laura: Over the dead body of his brethren.
Matt: To that point. It's just going to charge through, as all it can see is the figures in the distance.
Marisha: Pick me.
Matt: That's where it is. At which point, the cart seems to shift slightly.
Travis: Oh shit.
Laura: Oh no, what did we do?
Liam: Oh dear, something's coming out of the jar.
Marisha: What did we open?
Laura: Oh, god. We let something out.
Matt: You can see something slowly-- dark something--
Orion: I thought it was going to be a good thing!
Matt: -- amorphous and liquid in nature beginning to shift in the shadow.
Marisha: Oh, great.
Laura: Does it-- Oh no-- Is it on fire so we can see--
Liam: No.
Laura: -- is it on fire so we can see what it is?
Matt: No.
Liam: No.
Taliesin: Oh my god!
Laura: The cart wasn't on fire?
Liam: It's dangerous! It's dangerous! It's fucking dangerous!
Matt: It's just this giant, black, liquid--
Marisha: What is that?
Matt: -- ooze-like creature.
Liam: It's black ooze. It's dangerous!
Marisha: We just opened Pandora's box.
Laura: This is really, really bad!
Liam: It's fucking dangerous.
Laura: I'm sorry I exploded it.
Marisha: Great. That's good. Good.
Liam: Stay away from it. Stay away from it. Stay away from it.
Travis: So go wrestle it?
Ashley: So go jump in it, is what you're saying.
Liam: French kiss that shit!
Travis: It's mine!
Laura: (whispers) Don't attack it.
Travis: Don't attack it?
Laura: I'm scared of it.
Marisha: Black ooze.
Liam: Ranged attacks.
Matt: All right.
Laura: What does a black ooze do?
Liam: Fire and ranged attacks.
Marisha: How do I handle that?
Matt: So! That brings us to--
Taliesin: Fire?
Liam: Think!
Matt: Scanlan. Scanlan.
Laura: Oh no, oh god, Scanlan.
Matt: I know you're out there, Scanlan.
Laura: Do something amazing, Scanlan!
Liam: Sing, Sam! Sing!
Matt: Scanlan's going to go ahead and sing a song of inspiration to-- I'd say Grog just in case he needs to-
Taliesin: (sings) When we have to fight the ooze, you'll never have to lose.
Travis: What?
Laura: You received an inspiration.
Travis: Oh good, yeah, thank you. It's an eight, right?
Matt: Yeah, it's a d8 inspiration dice.
Laura: I want some food. I'm so hungry.
Liam: (sings) We're up all night in the dark, we're up all night in the dark.
Taliesin: (sing) We're up all night in the dark.
Marisha: (sing) We're up all night in the dark.
Orion: Is that what Sam would do?
Matt: Scanlan is then going to cast Invisibility on himself as an immediate self-sustaining reaction.
Liam: Oh shit, the music! The music!
Matt: That brings us to Vex!
Laura: Me?
Matt: Yes.
Liam: Ranged attack, ranged attack.
Laura: Okay, on the thingie?
Marisha: Pew pew.
Orion: Take out the ogre first.
Laura: Okay. Well I'm gonna Lightning Bolt the black ooze!
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Sounds good.
Laura: Okay. Which--
Matt: So you Lightning Arrow.
Laura: Yes, I do. Okay. Oh, and, oh, the other-- never mind, that other guy's still Hunter's Marked. Okay.
Marisha: Well, yeah.
Liam: Hit it, hit it, hit it.
Laura: Okay, that's good.
Liam: Yes, it is!
Laura: That's a 19 plus-- that's a regular attack bonus, right?
Liam: It's a crit.
Laura: Was it?
Liam: Isn't 19-20 crit? That's just for me.
Matt: No, that's just for you.
Laura: That's just for you, yo.
Matt: Yeah, so that hits.
Laura: Okay. So.
Marisha: What if it's like a sentient alien lifeform?
Ashley: This music is so stressful!
Laura: Okay, 4d8 of lightning damage.
Marisha: You know, like some Spiderman shit.
Matt: Go ahead and roll the arrow damage.
Marisha: Some alien lifeform shit.
Taliesin: Well, we should kill it.
Laura: Oh, okay.
Marisha: Yeah.
Laura: Just kidding, I'm just so excited! 11.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Okay. And the 4d8 of lightning damage.
Matt: As the arrow disappears into its form--
Laura: No.
Matt: -- the bolt of energy, as you pull out the arrow and release it, it sparks and you can see the blue energy kind of streaking behind the arrow. It plunges into this thick, black, gooey mass and as it does, the lightning just gets absorbed into its form.
Travis: Oh, shit balls.
Matt: It sits for a second, shakes and quivers, and then splits.
Marisha: Oh! No.
Laura: Splits?
Liam: Yeah, it splits into smaller ones. Smaller sizes.
Matt: Dividing into two separate smaller slimes.
Taliesin: No!
Laura: What is this thing?
Matt: Seemingly unaffected by the damage of the lightning. Other than the fact that you altered its form slightly.
Laura: Great. Cool. Awesome.
Matt: So, do you wish to move?
Laura: Oh, yeah! I back the eff up. Actually, should-- yeah, yeah. I'm gonna back up. To there sounds good.
Matt: All right! That brings us to-- Vax, you're up.
Liam: All right, I'm gonna run up to the back of Tall and Ugly, and try to stab him. I'm gonna do the reach-around again, and try to stab him in the eyes.
Orion: The ol' reach-around.
Ashley: The ol' reach-around.
Liam: And I'm hidden-- I'm stealth already, I think, right?
Orion: Courteous!
Matt: You are, yes.
Travis: It's like his character move.
Taliesin: The stealthy reach-around.
Travis: Action figure Vax'ahlia.
Liam: So the first attack is an 18.
Taliesin: The stealthy reach-around.
Laura: That's Vax'ildan.
Matt: Hits.
Travis: Sorry. Vax'ildan.
Liam: Okay, Sneak Attack, here we go.
Travis: The signature reach-around move!
Liam: For the eyeballs. Two plus seven is--
Laura: I'm sorry I let the ooze loose.
Taliesin: It's okay.
Liam: 40. 52.
Matt: 52. As you reach behind, the daggers plunge into it, and the ogre lumbering over doesn't have any more to its life. Its jaw just goes slack as it releases the last bit of air in its lungs, tumbling forward, piling onto his friend.
Liam: As it does, I want to use my bonus action to spring off his shoulders towards my friends.
Matt: Okay. Okay.
Laura: That's good.
Matt: This direction? All right, go ahead and make an acrobatics check.
Liam: Sure.
Laura: Over the lava pit.
Travis: Kill it.
Laura: Don't fall in the lava pit.
Liam: That's a 15.
Matt: 15, okay. You barely manage to catch your footing. Thank god you didn't roll a one. That would've been very bad. This ogre then plummets to the ground, now piling on top of his friend.
Laura: Okay, that's good.
Matt: So now that whole section there is considered rough terrain. All right, that brings us to Percy!
Taliesin: Okay, I'm going to try something weird, here.
Travis: Oh no.
Taliesin: Where am I? Okay. I'm going to step forward and to the right a bit. Just sort of joining this little-- like getting right in here. And I'm going to try and shoot, and this is gonna sound weird, but as I'm running I'm going to-- Actually, back me up to about there.
Matt: There?
Taliesin: I'm going to try and shoot about right here, I'm gonna try and unleash the lava to send the lava-- to see if I can get it to start flowing towards. Does that make sense?
Matt: I will tell you, the pool of lava right there isn't brimming really close to the surface.
Taliesin: Oh, it's just down?
Matt: It would take a significant impact to carve anything that would release it.
Taliesin: Okay, well--
Matt: It's self-contained.
Taliesin: -- I've come forward enough, I'm gonna take a shot at one of these guys, then.
Matt: Okay. This one, or this one?
Taliesin: That one.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and roll for attack--
Taliesin: I'm gonna try something else. I'm gonna try an ice shot.
Matt: Ice shot. Okay.
Taliesin: 15?
Matt: 15?
Liam: (sneezes dramatically)
Laura: Bless you.
Matt: 15 hits!
Taliesin: Oh my god. All right, and that's a--
Travis: 15 hits.
Laura: 15 hits.
Travis: Let's just take it.
Laura: Well, what else are we gonna do with it?
Taliesin: -- that's 15 points of damage, plus six points of ice damage.
Matt: Okay. The bullet pierces his form. You can see a part of its gelatinous, physical structure quiver. The ice explosion, you see go off, and just get absorbed into the gelatinous form.
Marisha: Fuck.
Taliesin: Fuck!
Matt: Seemingly unaffected by the additional damage. That's your first shot. You get two shots, don't you?
Taliesin: That's right. Oh, good god.
Marisha: But it didn't split, right?
Matt: Nope.
Orion: Nope.
Marisha: That's cool. It's a perk.
Taliesin: Yeah, no, that's-- Okay. I'm going to attempt to-- Is there any loose-looking rocks that are up above? Or is there anything that looks like, if I gave it a push, would fall down, from up above?
Matt: This tunnel looks pretty, at this point, pretty cleanly carved out.
Laura: What about the areas I exploded?
Matt: Over there? I mean, there's parts of the rock, but the explosion was more damaging to things that were fragile--
Laura: Okay, okay.
Matt: -- the stonework is pretty solid.
Taliesin: I'm gonna take another shot at the same one and see what happens.
Matt: Okay, go for it.
Taliesin: 20, that hits.
Matt: Yep! Damage.
Taliesin: Not a lot. That's seven points of damage.
Matt: Okay. Gotcha. Both shots into it. You see its form kind of quiver at the impact, but it's still slowly slithering forward. Now comes to Keyleth!
Marisha: Okay. I wanna move, kind of be like, whoops, sorry, 'scuse me, pardon me, and come like heresies. Would you say that I'm 30 feet away from that guy?
Matt: Just barely. Like, he's just in the cusp of 30 feet from you.
Marisha: Will my Thorn Whip reach him? My 30-foot-range Thorn Whip?
Matt: You can certainly try!
Marisha: I'm gonna try and Thorn Whip him!
Matt: Okay!
Liam: (Cosby voice) You see, the black goo thing--
Matt: What's the Thorn Whip do?
Liam: -- is not so easy to kill. (all laugh)
Marisha: Huh?
Matt: What's the Thorn Whip do? Read the spell for me.
Ashley: Too soon?
Laura: Too soon?
Marisha: Well, it does 2d6 damage, it's a 30-foot range, and it pulls 10 feet. Notes I have on it-- Okay-- piercing damage-- if they are large or smaller, you pull the creature up to ten feet closer.
Matt: What type of damage is it?
Marisha: Piercing.
Matt: Okay. Gotcha. All right. So, you hit, go ahead and roll damage.
Marisha: I hit. I don't hit. That's funny. Okay.
Matt: You rolled a 20, right?
Marisha: I didn't roll yet.
Matt: Oh, you didn't roll yet. Sorry.
Marisha: No.
Matt: Okay, go ahead and roll to hit.
Marisha: What do I add, my spell modifier?
Matt: Yep.
Marisha: 18.
Matt: Yeah, you hit.
Laura: Woo!
Ashley: Woo!
Matt: So, go ahead and roll damage.
Marisha: 19, sorry, it's actually 19.
Matt: That still hits! It doesn't move very fast, it's a little easy to hit.
Laura: Okay, that's good.
Matt: All right, takes its damage.
Marisha: One piercing damage, but I pull him ten feet closer to me. Does he go into the lava?
Matt: Gets pushed just ever so slightly into the hole. As it does, you can see this blackish steam and smoke begin to billow up from where it hits, and it (growls).
Laura: Good!
Matt: -- begins to quiver as you're kind of yanking it back with the Thorn Whip.
Liam: What was that sound it made again?
Matt: (growls) (all laugh)
Matt: It takes 2d10 points of damage--
Laura: Woo!
Matt: -- from the impact of the lava. That's an additional 17 points of fire damage to it.
Taliesin: That's nice.
Liam: Yes!
Laura: Fire damage!
Ashley: Nice!
Liam: Aw, yes!
Laura: Kill it with fire!
Marisha: And I've got him on a leash now.
Liam: Burn it!
Matt: You do. Is it considered grappled?
Marisha: Nope.
Matt: Then that would be the end of the attack. The spell dissipates after that.
Marisha: Oh, okay.
Matt: You've gotta do it again the next turn.
Marisha: Okay.
Liam: Hey, that was pretty good.
Laura: Yep.
Matt: All right. That ends your turn, Pike, you're up!
Ashley: Okay. So, question. I want to use something I think that I can use called-- this may be stupid, so I have another option if this is dumb.
Travis: That's what it's called?
Laura: (laughs)
Ashley: Yes.
Orion: That's a weird spell!
Liam: So long!
Ashley: Something called 'Insect Plague'.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Ooh, yeah!
Ashley: Which you can use as a ranged attack in a 20-foot-radius sphere?
Matt: Yes. So, you do it at range, and it creates a 20-foot radius that does this.
Ashley: Okay, and then it's a 1d10-- creature takes 4d10 piercing damage-- oh, on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: Cool! So there's that, yeah.
Liam: Very Old Testament!
Ashley: So, I think--
Matt: Do you wanna move--
Laura: Yeah, do it!
Ashley: Okay, you know, let's give it a try!
Laura: And then we can see what it does to creatures within its zone!
Matt: Where do you wanna go, girl?
Ashley: Okay, so, where am I? I'm sorry, I can't see.
Matt: You're right over here. It's your gold base.
Ashley: So, where do I need to be to do it-- like over here?
Liam: Get closer.
Laura: Maybe up next to the ogre dead.
Liam: Gotta run up.
Matt: Okay. One, two, three, four. That's about as close as you can get there, yeah.
Ashley: Okay. So can I still get it there?
Matt: Yeah, you can cast it. Where do you want to put the radius?
Ashley: Are these all five?
Orion: Yeah.
Matt: These are all five-foot squares.
Ashley: Okay, so can I--
Liam: I'd just like to point out, this is like the Avengers trailer, where all the heroes run out and jump at the same time. (all laugh)
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Yeah. Yeah, you can get these both from there.
Ashley: Okay, so I'll try to get them both.
Matt: Okay, all right, so--
Ashley: So then ten.
Matt: So you go ahead and roll the damage.
Ashley: Okay, so how-- Wait, how many do I roll, again? At fifth level?
Matt: You're casting this as a fifth-level spell?
Ashley: Well, maybe I shouldn't--
Matt: It's up to you.
Laura: Yeah, do it.
Ashley: Okay, I'll do it.
Liam: Do it, do it, try it.
Ashley: But do I save a healing?
Liam: Do it.
Laura: Go for it, Pike.
Liam: Come on, you're a warrior.
Matt: It's up to you, Pike. You do what you gotta do.
Ashley: Okay, so-- Cool, one.
Laura: Ten.
Liam: Ten.
Ashley: Ten, 11.
Laura: 18.
Ashley: 19.
Matt: Okay.
Ashley: So how many do I roll? That was three--
Matt: It gets to make a saving throw to see if it gets half damage.
Ashley: So I roll another one then--
Laura: Yeah, four. She gets four.
Matt: What's--
Ashley: I roll, I roll four. Hold on. 19.
Laura: 25.
Liam: 25.
Ashley: 25.
Matt: Okay, what's the DC? What's your spell DC at the top of your spell sheet?
Ashley: Eight plus-- Or-- No, sorry, sorry, sorry, sorry.
Matt: DC should be--
Ashley: 16.
Liam: That's better.
Matt: 16, okay, one makes its save, the other doesn't.
Ashley: Okay.
Matt: So what's the total damage?
Laura: 25.
Ashley: 25.
Matt: Okay, so one takes 25, one takes 13.
Orion: Cool.
Taliesin: Wow.
Matt: Piercing damage. Got it. And, just, insects appear in the area, doing that much damage. Does that stay? Or does that go away at the end of your turn?
Ashley: Let's see here.
Matt: What's the duration?
Ashley: Concentration. Up to ten minutes.
Matt: So you can keep it there if you want to.
Laura: Ooh.
Ashley: I'll just keep it.
Matt: It just does damage every turn to everything in that radius.
Ashley: Awesome, let's just keep it.
Matt: Okay.
Ashley: I'm just really concentrating.
Matt: That ends your turn. Grog, you're up.
Travis: Right, I would like to pull the flaming hammer out of the bag of holding.
Laura: Yeah.
Travis: And I would like to run at the-- this little-- this guy.
Orion: No, you'll get in the insect cloud.
Travis: What?
Orion: You'll get in the insect cloud.
Matt: All right. One, two, three, four.
Laura: Stay away from the insect cloud.
Travis: I forgot there was an insect cloud.
Matt: Five, six, seven, eight. That's as far as you can get, currently.
Travis: Oh, because there are bodies in the way?
Matt: Because of the rough terrain, and you have to jump over the bodies to get there.
Laura: Wait, but my natural ability--
Travis: Then if that's as far as I can get, I would like to take the hooded lantern I have out of the bag of holding and throw it--
Laura: Difficult terrain does not slow my group's travel when this is my favored terrain.
Marisha: Ooh! (all cheer)
Travis: Yes!
Matt: Nice one. Boom, boom, boom. So you just go charging up overtop the ogre bodies, leaping, coming down with the-- hammer, you said?
Travis: Yes, with the flaming hammer.
Liam: Oh man, you the real MVP.
Travis: -- activating the flaming properties of rage, and urine, and death.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: Flame on. (all laugh)
Orion: Rage, urine, and death.
Liam: Wow.
Laura: Don't get touched by it. Don't let it touch you.
Travis: We'll see.
Ashley: Don't let it touch you.
Liam: Work those rules.
Matt: Go for it. So go ahead and roll for attack. You have three attacks with this, at--
Marisha: Rage, urine, and death.
Matt: Are you frenzying or regular rage?
Travis: Raging, raging, rage. Just regular rage.
Matt: Okay, so you get two attacks.
Travis: Yeah. 19.
Matt: 19 hits.
Travis: And 12.
Matt: 12 also hits. (all cheer)
Travis: Awesome. And this is a 1d--
Matt: And damage, are you using it two-handed?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: 1d10 damage.
Travis: 1d10.
Matt: Plus whatever the fire damage is on the weapon.
Travis: That can't be right.
Matt: What did you roll?
Marisha: What? What the dice rolled?
Travis: 1d10? Is this the right dice?
Taliesin: If you rolled zero, you rolled a ten.
Laura: If it's a zero, it's a ten.
Marisha: Yeah.
Travis: It's a 30.
Laura: Oh, that's a three. He rolled the--
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: I was like, 30!
Matt: So, three plus your proficiency modifier, which is four.
Travis: Yeah. Seven.
Matt: No, this is for damage, so the damage would be plus your strength modifier.
Travis: Oh, four.
Matt: Yeah, so four still. So seven.
Travis: And plus seven for rage.
Matt: Plus two for rage.
Travis: Plus two for rage.
Matt: Yeah, so whatever the bonus is to your greataxe--
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: What's that?
Travis: Oh, it's-- to the greataxe is seven when I'm raging.
Matt: So then ten points of damage, then roll the fire damage as well.
Travis: Okay.
Liam: How is he keeping all of this in his mind? It's like a computer in his brain.
Laura: I know.
Travis: Is that a 1d10 also? 1d10?
Matt: It should say on the actual magical item.
Travis: Yep, yep. 1d6.
Matt: So 1d6 additional fire damage.
Travis: Five.
Matt: All right, so 15 points of damage total from the first strike. Go ahead and roll damage from the second one.
Travis: Oh, Jesus. Seven.
Matt: So 14, plus an additional 1d6.
Liam: Grog, math hard.
Travis: Three.
Matt: All right, cool. All right, so as you come running over, leaping in the air, over the ogre bodies, you then slam the hammer once in the side, the fire catching on the metal, on the black iron as it streaks through the air, lighting up the cavern around you.
Laura: Yeah!
Matt: You guys see this, like, red arc, as Grog comes slamming down into the ooze.
Orion: Fire hammer!
Matt: First one, it hits, boom, smacks, the flames ignite, and the impact, you see it kind of freaks out and quivers backwards, screeching sound. As it does, there's a splash of the black ichor that hits your shoulders--
Laura: (gasps) No!
Matt: -- and you feel it burn and bite into your torso. You take ten points of acid damage.
Travis: Oh, shit.
Laura: Acid.
Ashley: Acid.
Matt: You reach back, not even thinking in the frenzy in your brain, you feel like, just seeing blood and red in your eyes, as you slam down your second strike.
Ashley: Grog is gonna start tripping.
Matt: You feel the second impact. Once again, you feel the spray of black across your body. You take an additional ten points of acid damage.
Travis: Up close sucks.
Liam: That's nothing for Grog, that's nothing.
Ashley: Nothing, nothing.
Marisha: Nothing, he likes it, feels good.
Travis: I'm pretty low.
Matt: That ends Grog's turn.
Laura: You're low? On health? Have you not healed at all?
Liam: No, we stayed up and kept watch.
Marisha: Just helped with that itch you couldn't scratch.
Laura: Jeez Louise.
Travis: No, I'm fine.
Matt: On this turn, this one pulls out of the lava--
Laura: No.
Matt: Takes an additional 2d10 from being in at the start of its turn. An additional eight damage, and moves up, both of them flank over to Grog.
Travis: Come to me, woodland creatures.
Matt: Both of them attempting to strike you from each side. As you're flanked, that is a 20 versus armor class.
Travis: That will hit.
Matt: And a 21 versus armor class.
Travis: That'll hit, too.
Marisha: You're being attacked by jello.
Matt: All right, both of the creatures, they (oozing sound) up next to you. These pseudopods kind of come billowing out, slamming into you with the force of an extremely thick, heavy battering ram. Both hit you for-- let's see, here--
Travis: You broke in their glass casket.
Matt: One hits you for 12 points of damage--
Laura: Oh.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: The other hits you for 14 points of damage.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: Remember, you're raging, so that's halved.
Travis: Oh, halved. Both of those?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: Awesome.
Liam: Tank.
Ashley: He still has more than me.
Matt: However, both impacts slamming into your body, the leftover sludge begins to eat away and corrode the flesh upon impact. You take from both sides-- non-halved, because it is not slashing, bludgeoning, or piercing damage-- you take a total of 56 points of acid damage.
Taliesin: What?
Ashley: What?
Laura: What?
Matt: From both slams.
Travis: That's gross.
Laura: (gasps) Grog's unconscious.
Travis: No, I'm not.
Laura: You're not?
Liam: Double that? Double that, or that?
Matt: No, from both sides. 28 from each.
Ashley: How many have you got?
Travis: 14.
Laura: Oh my god.
Travis: Okay, so little piles of shit have got huevos.
Ashley: Wait, and I can't--
Matt: Clarota moves from here, up to here.
Laura: Clarota, save us!
Marisha: Really bad jello. It's, like, fridge experiment jello.
Taliesin: Coffee jello.
Marisha: Coffee jello?
Ashley: Grog!
Travis: That's me, all smart with the fire hammer.
Matt: Hey, it did damage, didn't it?
Travis: It certainly did something.
Matt: It certainly did something Clarota is going to move forward and is going to attempt a-- It's kind of close-- He is going to attempt a Lightning Bolt against this guy here.
Marisha: No.
Laura: Don't do a Lightning Bolt! What? Why would Clarota use a Lightning Bolt when he saw that the lightning did not work for me?
Matt: Clarota did not see.
Laura: Ugh.
Marisha: Clarota didn't see? Where was Clarota?
Matt: Way back here.
Liam: He has to look. He was hanging back.
Laura: Clarota is trying to screw with us.
Marisha: Why was he trailing? What the fuck?
Liam: Nah, he was hanging back.
Marisha: He's a slacker.
Liam: He's weak.
Marisha: He's a fucking slacker.
Orion: That's right, he's weak.
Liam: He's got this, but he doesn't have this. He's weak, he's hanging back.
Marisha: All right.
Liam: What is the deal with the mind flayer?
Matt: I would recommend not arguing with the DM.
Orion: Right.
Travis: Yeah, right.
Marisha: I'm not arguing with the DM, I'm calling Clarota a slacker.
Matt: Clarota, as it released the bolt of energy, it streaks past, through the air. It arcs into the side of the entity, which then absorbs it. Clarota's eyes go wide for a second. Nervous, it looks at its hands, and puts them back underneath its robe. As it does--
Laura: Fudge!
Marisha: Damn it, Clarota.
Matt: The entity divides once again.
Laura: God! Darn it.
Matt: Into two more--
Laura: What is that?
Travis: Oh, shit.
Laura: What is happening?
Travis: Balls.
Taliesin: Oh, god.
Matt: That ends its turn. At this point in time, now the loud ruckus has been glaring through this tunnel--
Liam: Shit.
Matt: You hear (clicking sound).
Liam: Shit.
Travis: Ah, not an umber hulk.
Laura: Is it another one of those--
Matt: A pair of clacking sounds. And you, as soon as you look up at the ceiling and you see two large creatures clinging to the ceiling, scurrying across with these strange hooked hands, before both immediately leap down from the ceiling.
Travis: We're in big trouble.
Taliesin: Jesus Christ.
Liam: Oh, man.
Laura: Are you freaking kidding me?
Marisha: What are those? What is that?
Laura: He's trying to kill us.
Orion: Oh.
Laura: What is this?
Matt: These two large, armored, beak-faced subterranean creatures with shells on their backs and giant hooked arms leap down from the ceiling.
Laura: We're gonna die.
Matt: One is going to attempt to strike with both of its hook attacks at Pike.
Laura: Pike isn't here!
Matt: This is one is moving over Tiberius.
Liam: Oh, Tiberius, our soft, vulnerable spot.
Orion: What are you talking about?
Matt: So, against Pike, that is 21.
Laura: Hits.
Travis: Hits.
Matt: And 13.
Travis: Misses.
Laura: Misses.
Matt: All right, you take 11 points of piercing damage.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: Wherever she is. And the other one misses, clanging against the armor. The hook scrapes across metal, leaving this extremely loud sound. The other one goes twice against Tiberius. That is a 16.
Orion: A 17.
Matt: And a nine. Both miss. Barely getting out of the way. This giant, large, armored creature.
Ashley: Falling from the ceiling.
Matt: Right there, take a look-- All right, that ends that, so top of the round. Tiberius, you're up.
Orion: Oh, I look at him with a funky grin.
Matt: All right.
Orion: It's a funky one. How much does he weigh? 800 pounds?
Matt: Pretty heavy. Say probably close to 500-600 pounds.
Orion: Ah, beautiful. I cast Telekinesis and I hurl him over my head and chuck him at the other one. I want to get him away from Pike. I don't think I can throw him that far. How far away is he from the lava, actually?
Matt: It's about right there. It's about 35 feet.
Ashley: I'm okay. I have a lot of armor.
Laura: She's good.
Orion: Then I'll try that instead. I'll try to slam dunk.
Matt: He makes a saving throw. That fails entirely. So the creature in front of you lifts up in the air, and starts flailing about with its hooks, trying to find some purchase in the ceiling. You toss it over, and it lands squarely into the pool of lava in the center of the tunnel. You hear screeching in pain as it begins trying to find his way out. Okay.
Liam: Yes! Yes!
Marisha: I like lava pools. I like lava pools.
Matt: As it's fully submerged, all right, that is 45 points of fire damage on it immediately as it's slowly sinking into the pool of lava.
Travis: He starts sinking into the pool of lava?
Ashley: Whoa.
Matt: Tiberius just Telekinesis-ed him up in the air, and threw it into the lava pool.
Travis: Yes.
Laura: Good job.
Orion: I use two sorcerer points, and with the other one I do Glacial Blast at the other guy.
Matt: The other one there? Okay. Go ahead and roll-- Add your--
Laura: Damn, Tiberius is getting really freaking cool. Badass.
Orion: Spell attack, right?
Matt: Yeah.
Orion: 13 plus two. 15.
Matt: 15? Right now, because of the level of darkness in the room, and because of its distance from you-- You just managed to fire, just out of the range of the creature. It hits the wall behind him, leaving the slick of ice across the stone wall behind it, but unfortunately not the actual creature.
Orion: Okay. Okay. Oh! Right behind it? Do I see myself missing too? Fine. As I'm missing I'll form it into a spike at the end where the walls hit.
Matt: Okay!
Travis: Yeah!
Matt: There is now an ice spike jutting out of the wall right there. All right, that ends your turn, unless you want to move. Still got your move action.
Laura: Ooh. Nice!
Orion: I'm going to-- where's the-- that way.
Matt: This way.
Orion: Out the hell-- with the stuff-- yes.
Matt: Now it would be the ogres, but they're all dead. (all cheer)
Matt: Scanlan's up.
Travis: Yeah, come on, Scanlan!
Matt: Sees Pike in great danger. Sings a quick little ditty to go ahead and give an inspiration dice to Pike. So you get a d8.
Ashley: Okay.
Matt: To help you with any sort of attack rolls, any saving throws, ability checks.
Ashley: How about for healing? Does it help with healing? Can I add it to anything?
Matt: Just attack rolls, saving throws, and checks.
Ashley: Okay.
Matt: Scanlan is going to attempt to dominate the monster using his Dominate Creature spell. Saving throw. It does not make it. The creature that was harrowing Pike suddenly drops its claws for a second, turns away from you, and starts looking back towards the oozes and Grog. That brings us to Vex. You're up.
Laura: Okay. Do I have line-of-sight on the other ooze that's attacking Grog? The big one?
Matt: The big one over here? You do. It's dark, and you have no light source currently, so you can try a shot, but it's going to be at disadvantage.
Laura: Okay, then I guess I should just--
Liam: Half-elves see in dim light up to 60 feet. Does that pool of lava give anything?
Matt: It gives a very dull glow to the room. It's enough where you can see there is something there. You can even take a shot as opposed to not having any chance.
Laura: What about the little ooze? One of the little oozes?
Matt: Same possibility because you're currently blocked by this creature that's currently sinking into the lava.
Laura: I guess I should attack the one that's in the lava.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Okay. Well. Oh! Can I-- Is he within ten or five feet of the other, the little ooze?
Matt: No, he's ten feet from it.
Laura: Okay, then I'll just attack him with my-- I'll just attack him.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: This is lame, that's a lame--
Travis: Do it!
Matt: So you have two attacks.
Liam: Oh.
Laura: Oh right, two attacks. 13?
Matt: 13 misses, unfortunately.
Laura: Pathetic. 20-something.
Matt: That hits. So the first one, you fire towards it, except the arrow just (whoosh) into the lava and (puff).
Laura: All right, cool.
Matt: With a slight puff of smoke.
Laura: Can I have used my flaming bowstring on the second one?
Matt: On the second one? If you'd like to.
Laura: Sweet. Oh! And I Hunter's Marked him, because I can do that.
Matt: All right, so you moved the Hunter's Mark over, he is now your quarry.
Laura: 13.
Matt: Go ahead and roll the additional fire damage and your quarry damage.
Laura: 13. 19 and 22 damage.
Matt: 22 damage, all righty. The one arrow disappears. The second one, as you release it from the bowstring, you feel the slight tingle of the arcane energy released into the arrow. The arrow bursts into flame as it releases from your bow, streaking and piercing the front of its hide as it's trying to claw its way out.
Orion: Nice!
Matt: Both of its claws are at the edges of the lava, and it's pulling itself, screeching, its mouth and eyes wild with the severe pain it's feeling as it's slowly melting him from the bottom. The arrow (impact sound) into its shoulder and burst into flame. It's now freaking out. It looks like it's having a really, really rough time making its way out.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: Do you want to move, or you going to stay where you are?
Laura: I'm gonna back up and get against the wall. Oh wait, that's me!
Matt: That's you there.
Laura: Oh, I was thinking I was Keyleth, I'm gonna come up next to Keyleth.
Matt: All right, so right there?
Laura: No, against the wall.
Matt: All right, there?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: All right. That ends your turn. Vax, you're up.
Liam: Okay, I'm gonna run over the dude in the lava, I'm gonna jump on him, probably make an acrobatics check and land right around here, between the two little slimes.
Matt: Acrobatics check.
Liam: Yeah.
Laura: Don't let the slimes hit you.
Marisha: Vault the lava.
Liam: It's acrobatics. 22.
Marisha: Vault that lava.
Matt: You jump, impact, and barely land next to them.
Laura: Oh my gosh.
Liam: Now, because they are, because Grog is--
Matt: It does get one swipe of attack of opportunity on you as you pass by.
Liam: Fine.
Matt: That is going to be a 20.
Liam: Okay. It's fine.
Matt: So, as you leap off of it, its hook swipes up towards you. You go ahead and take 14 points of piercing damage.
Laura: That's a big hit!
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: All right.
Liam: Okay. Okay and since I land, since Grog is right up against those two--
Matt: I will eat this later.
Liam: I can Sneak Attack one or both of them, so I'm gonna hit the one closest to the party first.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: This is Sneak Attack.
Matt: All righty.
Liam: This is, this is-- It's an 18.
Matt: All right, that hits.
Liam: Three plus seven is-- this is my flametongue dagger, so that's-- Oh, hold on, no, I don't know what it is yet. Where's my pencil? I'm sending my dice everywhere. Nine plus six, ten, 15, 18, 40. 58 on one slime.
Matt: What is the piercing damage from the dagger?
Liam: The piercing damage?
Matt: Daggers are piercing, so yeah.
Liam: So I don't know. What is that? Is that what's besides the Sneak Attack damage?
Matt: Thank you kindly. Mysterious appearance of paper towels.
Liam: That's 18. If it's doubled for the Sneak Attack? I don't know. It's nine, without a Sneak Attack. 18 if it's Sneak Attack.
Matt: Right. Well, it's a Sneak Attack, because it is flanking.
Liam: So 18 for Sneak Attack.
Matt: Okay, got you. Cool.
Liam: That's first dagger.
Matt: All right, so second dagger. Go ahead and--
Liam: Second dagger attacks the other one. I just turn around and sink down into the other one for 16 with the keen, yeah, 16 with the keen dagger.
Matt: That hits, go ahead and roll damage.
Liam: Okay, and this is probably not Sneak Attack at this point, or is it? I don't know.
Matt: No, you'll do only one Sneak Attack per round.
Liam: Okay, eight.
Matt: Eight, gotcha. So as you rush, you leap off, take the scratch in the air from the hook horror creature. You land on the ground, slash one with your dagger, slash the other. Both slashes are almost simultaneous. As you hit, you feel your blades gain purchase in both creatures, and you look down at your arms as the horrible burning sensation filters onto your hands as the splash-back. You take a total of 20 points of acid damage from the melee attacks you took against the creatures.
Liam: 20, you said?
Matt: 20 total, yes.
Laura: (whispers) Oh my god.
Liam: Okay. All right.
Matt: All right. That brings us to Percy.
Ashley: You're at 24? Fuck.
Liam: It's all right.
Taliesin: Where's the laser?
Marisha: So they're all still alive, all the oozes are still alive.
Taliesin: Laser.
Marisha: It was around here somewhere. You had it last.
Travis: What are you looking for?
Laura: What? What's happening?
Taliesin: Oh, never mind.
Marisha: Did I have it? Oh, wait, wait, wait, wait.
Taliesin: Yeah you had it, aha!
Matt: Percy, what you got?
Taliesin: I wanna move just slightly to my right. Just over there so I can get a clear shot at the oozes.
Matt: Okay, so right there?
Taliesin: Yeah, about right there, so I'm not going to hit anybody.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: I'm gonna take two shots at the little oozes. At the--
Matt: This one here?
Taliesin: Yeah, that right little ooze.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Little ooze.
Taliesin: First shot. 27 to hit. And that does ten points of damage. And then I'm gonna take another shot at him, I'm going to take a fire shot. And I'm gonna take a negative five to hit. And that's 14.
Matt: Hits.
Taliesin: So that's 15 plus-- that's 23 points of damage plus three points of fire damage.
Matt: 26, nice.
Travis: Yeah, boy. Perce!
Marisha: On the little ooze?
Ashley: 26 points of damage?
Laura: Woot woot!
Travis: Wow!
Taliesin: Plus fire.
Laura: Plus fire.
Travis: Get on it, nasty.
Liam: Pow, pow, pow, pow.
Matt: All right, that brings us to Keyleth.
Marisha: All the oozes are still alive?
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: Damn oozes. All right. I'm gonna do something crafty.
Travis: Yeah!
Ashley: Get it!
Matt: Gotta eat sometime, guys.
Marisha: I'm gonna bamf into an eagle.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: I'm gonna fly over-- I think I'm going to land right by here.
Matt: There?
Marisha: Uh-huh.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: And I'm gonna do Thunder Wave. Which is--
Matt: So you're coming out of eagle form?
Marisha: So I'm coming out of eagle form. I was just using the eagle to fly.
Matt: Okay, okay.
Marisha: Coming out of eagle form, and I'm gonna do my thunderpush. So I take my staff and I throw it down. Kerplash.
Travis: Yeah.
Marisha: Today it's kerplash.
Travis: I buy kerplash.
Marisha: Kerplash!
Taliesin: Okay.
Matt: All right! So what is the radius effect on that?
Marisha: It's a 15-foot cube and it pushes everything ten feet away from me. Directly away.
Matt: 15-foot cube, okay. So like this cube here?
Marisha: Sure. Yeah, a cube in front of me.
Matt: All right, cool. So, they both get saving throws.
Marisha: Not Grog, though. I'm gonna just--
Matt: You can do that. Okay, neither makes their saving throw. So go ahead and roll damage, or whatever it does.
Marisha: 2d8.
Matt: 2d8 to each. What is the damage type on that?
Marisha: Six. It just says damage and then they're pushed. I was--
Matt: Okay. So I'll go ahead and say it's thunder damage. All right, so they're pushed how long? Ten feet?
Marisha: Ten feet. Directly away from me.
Matt: Yeah. So they're pushed right there. Got it.
Marisha: I was hoping they would go into the lava.
Matt: Unfortunately, it's not far enough. Is that your turn?
Marisha: Yep!
Matt: All right. Pike!
Ashley: Okay, can I sprinter's boot over to Grog? Sorry, no glasses, guys. So I don't see where I am.
Travis: A boot?
Matt: You can, yes.
Ashley: Okay, so I'm going to Cure Wounds.
Matt: All right.
Ashley: 'Cause that's what I do.
Matt: It's what you do as a healer, yo.
Ashley: So let's see, 1d8 plus spell damage. Wait, so I'm gonna do it at fourth level, so that means I can roll how many times?
Matt: 4d8.
Ashley: Okay, so--
Matt: Plus five.
Ashley: Five, eight, 16.
Laura: Ooh! That's good! 24?
Ashley: 24. So you heal 24.
Travis: Thank you!
Matt: Nice.
Ashley: And then--
Laura: Plus, do you add that to anything?
Ashley: Well, he adds it to his 14 that he already has.
Matt: Sorry.
Ashley: And then, can I do anything else while I'm there?
Matt: No, bonus action to do the item, move, action to cast the spell.
Orion: No.
Ashley: Okay.
Matt: So that's your turn.
Ashley: Okay.
Matt: Well done. All right, that brings us to Grog.
Travis: Right, yeah. I would like to come out of my rage.
Matt: All right. So it's level two exhaustion.
Travis: For the first time ever.
Laura: Ever.
Liam: Wow. Not sure how I feel about that.
Travis: What do you-- where do you wanna go? Towards Keyleth or toward the-- Okay. I'd like to pick up Pike and run balls over this way.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Right towards this area.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: I'm all on my own.
Travis: Well, yeah, look. It nearly killed me the one time I hit it.
Orion: You shouldn't be doing melee on things that can split in half to begin with.
Laura: We're gonna die.
Matt: All right, so you pick up Pike. Level two exhaustion, your speed is halved.
Laura: Oh no.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: So you can only move 20 feet.
Travis: Right.
Orion: You messed everything up.
Liam: Hey man, if I can't be a hero here, where am I gonna do it?
Orion: Oh, every other time is fine.
Travis: Do you want to stay? It doesn't really matter.
Matt: You grab her, you turn--
Travis: You want to stay over there?
Matt: -- run that way?
Travis: You know what? I'll--
Marisha: Aim for in front of the Scientology Center. It always goes over really well.
Travis: Do you just wanna stay?
Ashley: I'm gonna-- I'll stay, I'll stay.
Travis: I'll leave Pike where she is and I'll run up and flank Iceberg Lobsterface.
Matt: Right there?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: Okay, so, that's as far as you can get, unfortunately--
Travis: Okay.
Matt: -- 'cause you're double-fatigued.
Taliesin: My name in high school.
Matt: As you run past, both of those slimes--
Ashley: Double?
Marisha: Double-fatigue?
Taliesin: Iceberg Lobsterface.
Matt: -- flash out with pseudopods, as reactions.
Liam: I'm surrounded by shit.
Taliesin: It's what all the kids called me.
Matt: So, two attacks against you.
Taliesin: Long story.
Matt: That's a 22.
Travis: Yeah.
Ashley: Fuck!
Matt: And a 19.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: All right, so both slam you for 24 points of bludgeoning damage. You're not raged, so it's not halved.
Travis: Okay.
Laura: Ugh.
Matt: So 24 against you, with an additional 56 points of acid damage.
Ashley: Wait! What?
Travis: Unconscious!
Taliesin: Damn it.
Laura: Why didn't you get acid damage?
Marisha: Son of a bitch.
Matt: They haven't hit him yet. That was just Grog running away.
Laura: Oh.
Matt: Both of them getting attacks of opportunity on him, and both hitting.
Liam: I am surrounded by shit.
Ashley: Guys, guys, guys.
Matt: Grog falls face-first, right next-- right, like, literally cradling-- His unconscious body is cradling the two dead ogres right now.
Laura: No!
Matt: This slight sound of 'sss' as the acid is, like, sizzling and scarring his flesh.
Laura: Nobody attack the things up close!
Matt: That brings us to their turn.
Laura: Oh, no!
Liam: I'm going unconscious here, kids.
Laura: All of our heavy hitters are dead.
Matt: These three oozes turn. Actually, this one's going to move here--
Ashley: Oh, hello!
Matt: -- towards Pike.
Liam: (Tommy Wiseau voice) Oh, hi, Pike. (all laugh)
Matt: You get an attack of opportunity on it, if you like--
Laura: Oh, hit it!
Liam: Hit it? Yeah.
Matt: -- as it slips away.
Laura: Get it!
Taliesin: Get it!
Liam: Do I have to roll to do that? Right?
Matt: Yeah, you still have roll to hit it.
Liam: 26.
Matt: Hits.
Laura: Why is it going up there?
Ashley: You're gonna kill this thing!
Liam: 11.
Matt: 11?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Points of damage?
Liam: That's the damage. 11.
Matt: Yeah.
Liam: Oh, yeah yeah yeah.
Matt: All right, cool.
Ashley: What did you guys vote on?
Marisha: No shit.
Laura: Did they vote on this?
Ashley: Probably.
Matt: So, the one that's attacking you, Pike, that is a--
Laura: You guys suck.
Matt: -- 23, versus armor class.
Ashley: Yes, that hits. (all laugh)
Matt: All right. You take 12 points of bludgeoning damage from the impact of the pseudopod, with an additional 28 points of acid damage.
Liam: Son of a gun.
Marisha: Pseudopod?
Ashley: Okay, so an additional 28 on top of that.
Travis: You guys are dicks.
Matt: Yeah, so a total of 40 points of damage from the strike.
Ashley: I understand.
Marisha: Did he just call it a 'pseudopod'?
Liam: Masochists.
Matt: The other two are going to attack you.
Liam: Sure they are.
Matt: That's going to be a 19 versus armor class.
Liam: Yeah, that hits 'cause I'm at 19. Right? So that hits if I'm at 19?
Matt: It hits. Yeah. Okay. The other one is a 14, so that misses.
Liam: Okay, so I use Uncanny Dodge on the one that hit.
Marisha: Oh!
Matt: All right. So.
Taliesin: Nice!
Liam: Whoa!
Marisha: Yeah you do.
Matt: As you pull that away, you-- You take half-damage from the strike?
Liam: Half-damage. That's right.
Matt: All right, so that's-- this was a 40. Take 20 points of damage, total, from the bludgeoning and the acid.
Liam: Oh, I am rough, kids. I am rough.
Laura: Plus acid?
Matt: All right. That ends their turn.
Laura: Oh my god.
Matt: Clarota--
Laura: Clarota, save us!
Matt: -- is going to step forward to there.
Liam: Use your magic, you strange flayer, you.
Laura: Do not use Lightning Bolt.
Marisha: Yeah. No Lightning Bolt, Clarota.
Matt: Clarota reaches forward, uses his own-- Taking a note from Tiberius, uses his Telekinesis spell. The arcanist marks on its body flare up, and as it does you can see this large creature--
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: -- gets lifted up, and slams on top of this hook horror--
Orion: Yes!
Liam: That's awesome.
Matt: -- pushing it further into the lava and doing additional acid damage to the hook horror, which--
Laura: Yeah! And it dies?
Orion: Damn hook whores!
Liam: (Cosby voice) You see--
Matt: -- which completely dissolves and melts the hook horror. (all cheer)
Travis: All right, Clarence!
Matt: As it pushes down, the ooze just touches the edge of the lava, not taking full damage from the impact, but just enough from the portion of it. LIAM (Jimmy Stewart voice) Clarence! Clarence!
Matt: Taking an additional five points of fire damage. All right, it's that one there. Great. All right, that brings us to the hook horror's turn, who is currently dominated by Scanlan. Is going to rush forward to the edge here, and strike twice at the--
Laura: Yeah, Scanlan!
Matt: -- creature in the lava. Both hit.
Travis: Yes!
Laura: I'm full.
Matt: It's prone. That deals six plus 14. Eight. All right. The hook horror that Scanlan's controlling slams its hooks down into the ooze, causing the ooze to get pushed further into the lava. As you see its form begin to dissipate and slowly disintegrate into the pool of lava.
Laura: Yeah!
Matt: Leaving this dark, cooled kind of surface element to it. Slowly breaking apart, dissipating over the magma.
Ashley: Bye, bitch.
Matt: End of its turn, it's going to try and make a saving throw against the domination effect. Rolls a natural 20. Breaks the effect, however I feel like it did its good for the turn.
Laura: Damn it. Did he take acid damage? Is he hurt?
Matt: Yeah, he did. He took 20 points of acid damage from each strike.
Laura: Nice. Good, good, good.
Ashley: So there is only one left?
Laura: No, there is two little oozes and a big one.
Liam: Two oozes and a monster man.
Matt: All right, that brings us to the top of the turn. Tiberius, you're up.
Orion: Ah very well. I scooch myself a little bit over behind him.
Marisha: (sings) One little two little three little oozes.
Matt: Over here?
Orion: Yeah, that's good, I can see his fanny from here. I'm going to cast Glacial Blast again, but I'm going to form a giant spike once more and jam it right in his asshole.
Liam: Oh, he's pulling a Vax.
Orion: And I'm going to try and catapult it right where it's over. Because it's still at the edge of the lava pool, right?
Matt: Mm-hm. So you're going to glacial spike in the-- Kancho him. Magically kancho.
Orion: Magic ice kancho blast.
Matt: Arcane cheat code. All right. So go ahead and roll to attack.
Liam: Up up down down left right left right.
Travis: A B A B N.
Orion: 24.
Matt: That definitely hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
Orion: Yeah. One, two, three, four, six. That is eight. What is that, a 12? 15, 16, 18, 19. 20. 20 damage.
Matt: 20 damage? All right, and he's grappled, correct?
Orion: I'm not trying to grapple him, I'm trying to just push him.
Matt: Push him? Shove?
Orion: Yeah.
Laura: Into the lava.
Orion: Because he's like swinging at that dude so I'm like up his keister.
Matt: All right. All right. So he does make his saving throw.
Orion: Okay.
Matt: Unfortunately, so it doesn't push him into the lava, but it does slam him and does a shit-ton of damage to him, so.
Orion: Nice.
Marisha: In his pooper.
Matt: Looking rough. Just a little bit.
Orion: Yeah. I'll spend another two points.
Matt: How many points do you have now?
Orion: After this, I'll have five.
Matt: Okay.
Orion: Because we had the rest, I regenerated all my stuff.
Matt: Right. Right.
Orion: So I spent two already.
Travis: He's making trouble.
Orion: I spent another two on the fight. And I'm going to do another one. Up his ass again.
Matt: All right, go ahead and roll for that.
Orion: Yeah. 20.
Matt: Uh-huh.
Marisha: Uh-huh.
Orion: Yeah and that is 15. 15 points of damage.
Matt: Makes his saving throw again, unfortunately. It does not push him. Does additional points of damage. He's looking really rough. You can see now, this ice has encrusted around the outside of its armor.
Orion: And his butt.
Matt: And where the wounds from the impact are, there's cracking shards of ice crystal jutting outward.
Orion: From his arsehole.
Matt: From his asshole. Scanlan's turn. Should have had your sheet, Scanlan. Scanlan's going to go ahead and, for the hell of it, run up and make an attack. (all laugh)
Travis: Eff him up, Scanlan.
Ashley: Let's go, Scanlan.
Matt: Why not? Pulling out, his singing sword arches in the air, and begins humming to it as he walks upon-- The humming kind of adds this vibration element, like a tuning fork blade, as he arcs the sword down.
Matt: A natural 18. I'm going to assume that hits. That's going to be a 1d8 longsword damage. That's an 8 plus-- 12 points of damage.
Laura: Woo, Scanlan.
Travis: Yeah, Scanlan.
Marisha: Yeah, Scanlan.
Ashley: Go Scanlan.
Matt: The blade swings down to where the ice has encrusted the back of its armored shell. Scanlan takes the blade, swings it down, and pierces it directly into where that ice has gathered. As it does, it cracks open the back of its armored shell. Almost peeling it open like a shrimp. You can now see all its fleshy innards are exposed to the outside. It's looking extremely, extremely close to death. It's screaming in pain, kind of thrashing about now.
Liam: Shrimping, cool.
Matt: Vex, you're up.
Laura: Okay. I'm gonna Lightning Bolt the bad guy.
Matt: This guy?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: All right.
Laura: Oh wait, no, I should save my brother.
Liam: Maybe.
Laura: Okay, I'm going to attack one of the oozies instead.
Liam: The one right behind me.
Laura: The one right behind him.
Matt: All right. Go ahead and roll for attack.
Laura: Yeah. Yeah, 23.
Matt: Very nice, very nice, that hits
Laura: Oh I Hunter's Mark him first. Bonus.
Orion: Bonus.
Liam: Excellent.
Laura: 14 for the first attack.
Ashley: Wait, do we still have Scanlan's inspiration song?
Matt: You do, yeah.
Liam: You do. You have the die.
Ashley: I have the die. Is what I'm talking about, sorry.
Laura: Do I get six on both attacks? I do, don't I?
Matt: Mm-hm.
Laura: Yeah. 17 on the second attack.
Matt: All right.
Liam: Kill it. Kill it.
Matt: With a sickening (splat) sound, the ooze splatters across the floor.
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: Thank you.
Matt: Leaving a small, sizzling pool that's scarring the rock below it. You can see it slowly depressing into the ground. You gonna stay where you are?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: All right. That brings us to Vax.
Liam: All right. I walk back about 15 feet, and I go (shnk-shnk). Throw daggers at it.
Matt: Both daggers?
Liam: First one's a 15.
Matt: That hits.
Liam: Okay and that is-- this is my keen dagger. That is nine.
Matt: Nine hits.
Liam: Second dagger. Definitely hits, that's a 26.
Matt: Hits. None of them are Sneak Attack, unfortunately.
Liam: That's fine. This is flametongue. I don't know if fire helps, but that is an eight. So nine and an eight.
Matt: Nine and an eight, gotcha. Both daggers splash into it. You can see where they would slowly be scarred and damaged.
Liam: Except that they teleport back to my blink belt.
Laura: Yay, blink belt.
Matt: As they return to your belt, you can feel there a slight bit of liquid left, and you shake it off quickly.
Liam: Shite.
Laura: (sings) Shake it off.
Matt: But no other effect that that. It looks like it's having a hard time keeping its form together. It's kind of shaking and (oozing sound) as it moves. Still running towards Pike.
Liam: Finish that shit, Pike.
Matt: That brings us to Percy.
Liam: Hit it.
Taliesin: All right. I'm just taking the shot. Taking a shot with the bonus. So that's 14 to hit.
Matt: Mm-hm.
Taliesin: That hits. So that's 18 points of damage.
Matt: All righty.
Taliesin: And I'm gonna take the other shot.
Matt: Is this against the ooze?
Taliesin: Yeah, yeah. Sorry, the ooze.
Matt: All right. Yep.
Taliesin: And that's 13 to hit.
Ashley: Grog's unconscious?
Liam: He'll be fine in ten minutes, Pike.
Ashley: What?
Liam: He's out of the fight, but he'll be fine.
Ashley: Oh, okay.
Taliesin: And that's 11 points of damage.
Matt: The first shot hits, and the ooze kind of quivers. It leaves this kind of gaping hole, and it begins to slowly reform itself. Before it can, you see the other weak spot where the top of its physical form is barely wavering, and it's able to keep corporeal. You aim the second shot, and as you fire, it detonates and that portion of its upper torso-- whatever it would be-- gets flung off and splats against the wall, the rest of it slowly liquefying as the rest of the slime is destroyed.
Ashley: Nice.
Travis: Yeah, buddy.
Laura: Yeah.
Taliesin: So I'm going to back up against the wall. I'm going to back to the wall of the-- Yeah.
Matt: Okay. Keyleth.
Marisha: Do I have enough speed to get next to Vex there? 30 feet?
Matt: Vax, you mean? Yeah, you do.
Marisha: Is that Vax? All right, once again, I'm going to Thorn Whip this bitch.
Matt: All right, go ahead and roll for attack.
Liam: (sings) Thorn Whip.
Marisha: 26.
Matt: That hits, definitely, go ahead and roll damage.
Liam: (sings) Thorn Whip, the bitch is dead.
Marisha: Eight points of damage.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: And I pull him--
Matt: How do you want to do this? (all cheer)
Matt: The creature is slashing about with its claws.
Marisha: So I take my Thorn Whip, and I go (whip sound). And I grab him. And I see he's still struggling. So I take another one and I go (whip sound) on the other one. And I just go Spiderman-style.
Matt: And (dragging sound). As you do it, it plummets face-first into the--
Laura: Woo!
Matt: -- both into the magma and the slightly still-sizzling form left over from the ooze that had melted there.
Orion: Magma and acid.
Marisha: And just for flavor, I take a big gust of air, a big Wind Burst and I go (whoosh) down into the lava pool. Encrusting it all.
Matt: As you do, it slams down. You hear it scream underneath as its body begins to quiver. The Wind Burst hits, and the cool air rushes through the tunnel. All of your guys' hair and everything gets blown back for a second. You have to cover your eyes, and as you look back-- (all laugh)
Matt: The magma has cooled to a solid rock-covering surface. As darkness falls back into the tunnel--
Orion: Oh, Light!
Matt: As Tiberius hits Light, in the tunnel you can see the--
Laura: Grog!
Matt: -- hook horror, which, a portion of its upper torso is now encrusted into the actual cavern floor.
Laura: Awesome.
Travis: Amazing.
Laura: Save Grog!
Ashley: I'm going to go over to Grog and Cure Wounds at fourth level.
Matt: All right.
Liam: You tried to kill us, but you failed.
Laura: Don't challenge them.
Ashley: Don't.
Taliesin: Nice try.
Ashley: Nice job, guys.
Travis: I did a pretty decent job, actually.
Matt: I ate pizza in front of you guys. I don't care. It was tasty. Thank you.
Orion: Yeah.
Marisha: I don't care. No shame.
Matt: Delicious pizza.
Laura: No. We're not gonna have Trinket this whole thing. We better get back to Trinket soon. I'm freaking out, you guys.
Marisha: That's true, if we keep going.
Ashley: 25 points of heal!
Liam: Just in seven more weeks.
Travis: Thank you!
Ashley: You're welcome!
Marisha: I might be able to guide him--
Liam: Trinket's on the sidelines, man.
Laura: That makes me so sad!
Liam: We're not going back.
Laura: And it's all you guys' fault!
Liam: But it was like three years, Trinket was by your side. This is the first time ever.
Matt: As Grog, you come to consciousness again--
Travis: Ah! Did I kill it?
Laura: You did, Grog! Good job!
Taliesin: Yes, Grog, you killed it good.
Laura: Also, handful of pizza.
Travis: I put my hand in my pizza! (all laugh)
Liam: You killed them all, Grog! You were magnificent!
Marisha: Yay, Grog!
Travis: Aha! Tell me more! (snores) (all laugh)
Ashley: Wait--
Marisha: Now we pass out.
Ashley: -- so can I also do a Mass Cure Wounds? Since I just did a--
Matt: Yeah, if you'd like!
Ashley: Okay. So I'll also do a Mass Cure Wounds.
Laura: Yay!
Liam: Yes, 'cause I'm at four hit points.
Ashley: Yeah, you're pretty bad.
Marisha: Oof.
Laura: Brother.
Taliesin: I'm fine.
Liam: Oh, brother, where art thou?
Orion: I feel fine!
Laura: I feel fine.
Marisha: Ah, me too.
Taliesin: I feel fine.
Liam: Oh! Oh! Oh! Fancy you! Blah-blah-blah-blah! (all laugh)
Taliesin: Seems that there's one table where everyone is perfectly reasonable!
Orion: All the time, yes, Vax!
Liam: I'm at four hit points! You go fuck yourself.
Marisha: Yes, everyone on this side of the table's good.
Orion: There's an acid guy! Stab. (all laugh)
Liam: I was trying to save his ass! I was hurting myself on purpose.
Matt: All right. So, as you guys steel yourselves for a moment, kind of recovering from that fateful encounter, you--
Ashley: 22 points of healing--
Laura: To everyone.
Matt: To everyone.
Liam: That's pretty good.
Matt: Everyone heals 22 points of damage.
Liam: That's half-ish.
Taliesin: I reload.
Laura: Well done, well done.
Liam: Half-ish.
Ashley: Something additional.
Travis: Thank you, Pike.
Ashley: Oh, you're welcome, Grog! My best pal.
Travis: Hell yeah. (growling noises)
Ashley: (growling noises)
Matt: All right. (all laugh)
Travis: It's a language we speak.
Ashley: Yeah, man, it's like our own thing. (all laugh)
Matt: You guys push forward down the tunnel--
Laura: Oh!
Liam: Yes.
Laura: Limping.
Matt: For another 20 or so minutes, bringing yourself along, sore from the impact of the battle.
Liam: I'm burnt.
Matt: Bits of your armor scarred. By the way, your armor--
Liam: Yes.
Matt: -- what type of armor was it?
Liam: It was-- it's magical. I found it in the goblin city. Studded leather armor, plus two.
Matt: All right. For the acidic nature of this--
Liam: Wait. Do you know what's funny? What's funny is, the armor I had before this, that I wasn't paying attention to, was acid resistant! Isn't that funny?
Marisha: And now you don't have it no more?
Liam: That's so funny!
Laura: That's great!
Matt: Look at that!
Travis: That's really funny. Keep going.
Marisha: That is funny.
Liam: It's in my bag!
Matt: You wipe it off. Thankfully, the magic enchantment protects the armor entirely.
Laura: Ah! See! That was acid-resistant, too!
Matt: Grog, what armor do you have?
Liam: Even better!
Travis: Oh, it's like hides and leathers and--
Matt: Just regular hide.
Travis: Yep.
Matt: Currently, as you're walking, you look down and notice that the armor on your torso has near-completely dissolved.
Laura: (gasps)
Travis: Son of a-- Well, you're welcome, ladies!
Laura: My, my, Grog!
Travis: (sings) It's time for a show!
Orion: Grog! Will you put those away!
Matt: As it stands, you have no additional armor class bonus for any armor.
Laura: Oh no!
Matt: Your hide armor is gone. It is completely dissolved.
Laura: What about the black armor? Put on the dwarven black plate armor!
Travis: They're dwarves.
Ashley: What if we melt it and then make it a big one?
Laura: If it's magical, it might fit you if you just try it on!
Ashley: I don't know, would that work?
Orion: It's true!
Liam: Hold on, hold on. DM! DM. I take off my magical armor, which was dwarven in shape before--
Laura: (gasps) Oh, good!
Liam: -- but I take it off, it shrinks down to like a little toddler--
Laura: Oh! Ew. Cover yourself, Vax!
Liam: I'm wearing, like, a Scientology unibody underwear underneath-- (all laugh)
Laura: Oh, okay.
Ashley: Wouldn't that be-- that's mormons!
Liam: The armor shrinks down to like toddler-size--
Orion: I don't know what that means!
Liam: -- and I hand it to Grog.
Taliesin: It's probably for the best.
Liam: And I go to my pack and I take out my old armor, which is acid resistant. Not quite as cool as what I was wearing, but I don't want him--
Travis: You had two pairs of gloves?
Liam: I can't-- huh?
Travis: Kidding. It's Dumb & Dumber.
Liam: I can't stare at his pecs for the next three days, so I'll give him my armor.
Laura: I can.
Liam: Ooh! And put on what I had on before.
Matt: All right. So you take a moment, and hand him new armor, and Grog, this scarred, nearly naked goliath form, has been lumbering through this hallway--
Travis: Ooh!
Matt: Hoo! Modesty, Grog! (all laugh)
Matt: You place the studded leather on--
Liam: Studded leather armor plus two, okay?
Matt: So mark that for your AC.
Travis: Studded armor leather plus two.
Ashley: Wait, but then what are--
Laura: He's got his own armor.
Liam: I've got my old armor. I found that armor down here.
Taliesin: I'm gonna be the person who actually examines the cart, at this point.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Oh! That's a good idea.
Laura: Plus we have other plate armor!
Liam: That's a loaner.
Taliesin: You know, I just figured someone ought to.
Marisha: What the fuck did we open?
Travis: Plus two to AC?
Laura: Yeah.
Taliesin: And it should be me.
Marisha: Yeah.
Liam: No, it's more complicated than that.
Matt: Okay, here's the circumstance for you, real fast, before we get to that. So, Grog.
Travis: Yep.
Matt: The armor you had on was hide, which was a dex bonus of 12 plus your dex. Studded leather is also the same, so your AC actually goes up.
Travis: Oh! Ho! Something that you'd think!
Matt: So, what was your AC previously?
Travis: 18?
Matt: 18?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: It should now be 20.
Travis: Yay! Yes!
Laura: Yay, Grog!
Travis: Grog takes the top off and does a--
Liam: Loaner! Loaner.
Taliesin: Put it back on.
Liam: Loaner.
Laura: It's his, he's keeping it. It's going to stink like Grog, you won't want that back.
Travis: The things I'm gonna do in this armor, you're not going to want it back. Just give me and Scanlan one night to break it in, and I promise you, it will be mine.
Matt: Just the two of you?
Travis: Well, uh, you know what I mean. Who am I talking to?
Matt: All right, well, go ahead and roll an investigation check.
Taliesin: An investigation check, what is that? Eight.
Matt: Okay. Looking at the cart, the cart is a rickety wooden thing, but what was in the cart was a large glass unit, a containment unit that was sealed off. You can see the inside of it has slight scarring to the glass, but it seems to be resistant to whatever the loose creature was contained in it. Along the inside of the cart, you notice there are a couple of just left over chunks of flesh of different colors, patches or pieces you see, like part of a hand that's just in there.
Laura: Ew.
Matt: Partially decomposed, to a certain extent. It looks like these were either used to feed whatever the creature was in there or remnants of some other strange collection. Based on the best you guys can ascertain, this creature was part of the experimentation-type process that the weird naga creature you fought earlier came from.
Laura: Oh, great, so there could be more.
Travis: Did we search the ogres?
Laura: Yeah! Loot the ogres!
Matt: Ogres are wearing nasty, nasty, tattered at this point, hide armor
Liam: Grog could do it.
Matt: They both carry total, amongst the two of them, about 24 pieces of gold.
Laura: Sweet.
Travis: I wanna take it.
Laura: I add it to party funds.
Travis: I am searching the ogres, and I keep the 24 gold, but I give two to Vax.
Liam: Thank you.
Travis: You're welcome.
Marisha: Can I go and grab shards of the broken glass of the case?
Matt: If you'd like to, yeah. So mark that in your inventory, you have some hand-sized shards of broken glass.
Travis: And two to Pike for healing me.
Ashley: Oh, thanks.
Matt: Anything else you guys wish to do in this section?
Liam: So we searched the ogres, that's it. I guess we should just start walking further down.
Travis: You take a poo on the black puddle of acid?
Taliesin: I think-- Well, no. That's the only heat source, that's the only lava there was, and now it's cool.
Matt: And now it has cooled, yeah.
Taliesin: Okay, never mind, then.
Marisha: Sorry.
Taliesin: It's all right, I think it's worth it.
Travis: I'd like to take a hit dice.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and do that. As many as you'd like.
Liam: Let's rest for a half-hour or so.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Take a moment, you can spend any hit dice now that you need to to heal yourself. Just make sure to mark how many you've used.
Taliesin: I just hear the sounds of ones.
Matt: All right. As you guys take a moment to heal yourselves, you pull yourselves back up to your feet, and you tread further down this tunnel. Another 25-30 minutes of the slight curvature, and it gets steeper and steeper, until eventually it opens up into a familiar cavern to some of you. You see a large waterfall pouring down from above--
Ashley: (gasps)
Laura: Mother bitches.
Marisha: It looped around?
Matt: You are on the outskirts of where the next tunnel opens up, where there are a few small streams of lava pouring from the ceiling. You look above, and you can see the top of the downward cavern. There's the giant lake beneath. And across the way, you can see the waterfall where Clarota was originally discovered.
Marisha: Well, we should go pick up Trinket.
Taliesin: At least you get your bear.
Laura: (gasps) Trinket!
Marisha: Let's go pick up Trinket.
Laura: Oh yeah yeah yeah yeah.
Travis: You're going to get your bear killed.
Liam: Can you explain? I don't think I understand.
Marisha: We left Trinket over there.
Liam: Can you explain with your map, Matt?
Matt: Yes.
Marisha: We're at the bottom of the cave.
Orion: We went down and just--
Liam: I get we doubled back, but it would help the visual, I think.
Matt: Yeah so-- and I'll have more of this for you guys next week.
Travis: It was a warp tube.
Matt: The path you guys took was essentially-- lead to this back area, which I'll draw for next week, and a tunnel that curved all the way around and exited right there.
Laura: So we're--
Liam: All right, we'll go get your bear.
Laura: We'll go get Trinket, and then we'll go down the path we should have gone down in the first place next week.
Marisha: Son of a bitch.
Taliesin: Except we get Trinket.
Laura: But Trinket!
Marisha: So it's not useless.
Laura: It was absolutely useless.
Liam: That's fate, that's kismet.
Marisha: Is there, like, any other way down here?
Matt: Other than the fact you've completely destroyed one of the mind flayer generals as well as the one helming the war camp above. You've acquired new magical items and defeated one of the abominations that was created for the siege war. I think you accomplished quite a few things, though maybe not as directly as you were hoping.
Taliesin: And we acquired our bear.
Laura: We got our bear back.
Matt: All right, so you, taking the flying carpet, it's a very precarious journey as the weight limit for the carpet--
Liam: You go on it, right?
Laura: He's with me, and he cast Featherfall.
Matt: You can go ahead and cast Fly on your bear. Trinket awkwardly (bear noises) manages to swim her way down to the bottom floor.
Laura: Come, Trinket, come.
Matt: As you make your way to the base of the watery lake, at the bottom, you can see a swish to the water, and a very familiar sight briefly shows itself in the distance. As you see a slick domed fish-like head protrude with a few tentacles in the distance, you all instinctively step quite a distance away, and it seems to withdraw back into the water.
Marisha: Can I-- While I see it real quick, I'm going to go ahead and channel and cast Beast Sense through it.
Matt: Nothing bestial of it. This is not a natural creature.
Marisha: Good to know.
Matt: Clarota once again whispers to the rest of you, "Stay at bay. The Aboleth is dangerous."
Laura: Aboleth?
Marisha: Aboleth.
Matt: You all step back and turn now into the the tunnel that extends further into the heart of this mountain. You see streams of lava pouring from the top occasionally, and one central flow of molten rock tends to fill half of the cavern, like a small river heading down into the base of the mountain. This is very familiar to you, as it's the path that your dream took you.
Ashley: Guys, this is really familiar to me. (all laugh)
Laura: We spent a whole game doing--
Marisha: Well, we took a wrong turn, I guess.
Liam: I don't know. We were flexing our muscles a little bit.
Laura: Flexing our muscles.
Marisha: Yeah, I like it.
Laura: Plus you got us new armor out of it.
Travis: And I got naked, too.
Matt: As you guys begin to step into the next lengths of your subterranean journey, we'll pick that up next week. Thank you all so much for tuning into Critical Role.
Laura: Man, oh man, oh man.
Matt: Some tense battles. An intense encounter choice on you guys' part. Well done on that.
Ashley: I want to keep going.
Liam: Who's this guy?
Matt: What is this?
Zac: All right, so. Amy was the winner of our first giveaway.
Matt: Congrats, Amy. (all cheer)
Marisha: Huzzah.
Zac: I ask whoever hasn't signed this, we're going to pass it around to all sign it for Amy.
Matt: Awesome, we'll all do that.
Zac: As a thank-you for Amy, she's an avid fan.
Laura: Yay!
Matt: Thank you, Amy, that's awesome.
Marisha: Thanks for being a fan.
Ashley: Thanks, Amy.
Zac: As a personal challenge, guys, from me to you, I think we are, what are we, 18 away, Lucas?
Lucas: 19.
Laura: 19?
Matt: 19 away from our next package?
Zac: From the next one.
Lucas: Is it at 1,550?
Zac: Yeah.
Lucas: Oh, we're 29 away.
Laura: Oh, okay.
Matt: Aw.
Zac: Are you sure?
Lucas: Yeah, we're at 1,521.
Zac: Okay, so we've got a little bit of a ways to go, but I'm going to go ahead and have these guys sign this one as well, and I'm going to push you guys that by the end of tonight, if we reach 1,550, I'll go ahead and throw this in with the next promo kit, as well. And if not I'll hang onto it for myself, and I won.
Matt: Boom.
Zac: Thank you guys so much. That was fun. It gets more intense like every week.
Matt: That's apparently the path this is taking, so--
Marisha: We keep getting knocked unconscious.
Travis: We make amazing decisions. (all laugh)
Zac: And just so you guys know, that was the chat room that decided on your fate.
Laura: You?
Travis: Sons of bitches.
Matt: Yeah, second week in a row.
Travis: (sings) Why can't we be friends?
All: (sing) Why can't we be friends?
Matt: So the chat room creature choice, those will be an occasional thing, not a weekly thing, 'cause it's too difficult to keep up with that and a little too random. Plus that's just too many creatures to be prepared for. But every few weeks or so, I'm gonna throw one out there for you guys. So come and watch. Hopefully you'll be there for one of those episodes. Put your friends together, vote for the creature you want to see them fight, and if a TPK happens, not my fault, it's totally on you guys.
Laura: Is that a total party kill?
Matt: Total party kill.
Zac: That's intense. So, guys, we're not going to go offline just now. We're going to stick around for a little while. We're going to throw it up while we move some cameras, so I'm going to leave it up to the chat room. It's up to you guys, we can either come back and play some Bloodborne on the PS4 that you guys bought us, or we can come back and play some Just Dance 2014 that you guys also bought us. So there's dancing or Bloodborne. It's up to you guys.
Matt: Dancing is fun to watch, Bloodborne just to watch him get really, really angry.
Zac: I don't get angry. Lucas gets angry, though.
Matt: This game, the beginning of this game will make you angry. All right, all right.
Marisha: You don't get angry? Have you played Dark Souls or Demon Souls? Because--
Zac: I think actually--
Matt: Demon Souls mimics, man, I know the pain you're in for.
Zac: What was it like, Bachee or something like that? Man, that game pissed me off.
Orion: Bocce ball?
Zac: Wings of-- ire, ear, something like that.
Matt: Oh yeah, I know what you're talking about.
Zac: Man, that was heavy. Would any of you guys be interested in sticking around to dance a round or two if we were to go to Just Dance? It's a nightly staple here. We end the nights with dancing. I don't know if you guys have seen that ridiculousness, but--
Matt: Who would want to stick around for that?
Zac: They're all shivering in fear, you guys
Liam: How soon will that start? I'll stay for 20.
Matt: We can stay for a little bit.
Zac: I bet they're are all going to ask for dancing now.
Lucas: See a lot of Bloodborne, actually.
Zac: Oh, really?
Matt: Oh, I live for Bloodborne, man.
Zac: Well, the second--

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to this evening's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy voice actors sit around a table and play Dungeons & Dragons. If you are returning, welcome back. For those who it's their first time watching us live on the stream, welcome to the chaos. So, before I begin, a couple of quick notifications I want to give you guys. We had our first subscriber giveaway hit before the show started at 4,200. It was LL1973. Turn the mic around. Oh, now you can hear me. Look at this! The magic of live. Live communication. You have a wonderful view of this fantastic midsection. It's delightful. There we go. Is that better?
Zac: Yep.
Matt: Velcome. So, welcome to Critical Role, for those who didn't hear me before. D&D, voice actors, you know the drill now. So our first giveaway already happened tonight for the subscriber count at 4,200 to LL1973. Congratulations. You're going to be winning a signed Player's Handbook of Dungeons & Dragons Fifth Edition, as well as a signed photo of the Critical Role cast. Our next one will be at 4,250, so, up to every fifty subscribers after that we will be giving away an additional Player's Handbook and photo signed by the cast. Awesome times. (cheering)
Marisha: Awesome times?
Matt: Indeed, very awesome times.
Marisha: Good times, good time together.
Matt: I think so, indeed. Also, as a heads-up to you guys, there will be no Critical Role next week because the San Diego Comic-Con is happening. Down in San Diego.
Marisha: We're doing a panel, aren't we?
Matt: I know, we have a panel, though. We have a panel Thursday, I'll be on the main Geek and Sundry panel with Laura at 1-2 and then we have our actual full Critical Role panel from 4-5. So if you are going to be there, come see us at PetCo Park on Thursday.
Laura: You don't need a badge.
Matt: Nope, you can just come and walk on in.
Marisha: Yeah, it is at PetCo Park, so don't get lost looking around the convention center. Because it won't be there. It's at PetCo Park.
Matt: It's the big sports stadium, which to me is a wonderful irony of us giving a panel about Dungeons & Dragons in the center of a giant sports stadium. That's right! Indoor kids. However, however, they are also filming the panel for those who can't be there. The panel will be on the stream the following day, I believe, so check it out there, after, with the rest of the Comic-Con stream coverage. It'll be fun. Yeah, so that'll be good. The week after that, me and Marisha are going to be out of town in New Zealand, so this means a two-week period without Critical Role main-story stuff, and I apologize, this is all stuff that got planned before the stream even started. We'll be at a convention in New Zealand. For those out there planning to come to Armageddon, please come see us, we'll be down there. It'll be fun for all New Zealand fans. Otherwise, the rest of the Critical Role cast that are available will be here and will play some other sort of game together and generally interact with the chat and have a good time until we return. So.
Marisha: We're working it out.
Matt: Yeah, we're getting the circumstance ironed out.
Marisha: Hi, Liam!
Orion: Hi, Liam!
Matt: We have Liam on Skype over here.
Liam: Hi, guys.
Matt: What's up, buddy?
Liam: Hi!
Matt: Liam, who's finishing up his vacation as well. As far as I understand, we have a--
Marisha: How's New Jersey?
Liam: I am deep in upstate New York on the Canadian border.
Matt: Slowly migrating into expatriotism. Don't go Canadian on us.
Liam: It's frightening to drive here at night. I can't wait to do it at two in the morning.
Laura: Yay.
Matt: Yes.
Ashley: I'm drinking out of your mug.
Matt: She is.
Liam: My mug? Here's mine.
Matt: On river time, there you go.
Marisha: On river time, what?
Matt: That is-- that's a mug.
Marisha: Did you instantly turn into a 64-year-old golfer as soon as you went there?
Liam: I'm on a river. I'm on a river.
Laura: I'm on a boat. I'm on a boat.
Matt: So that's going on. Other things we want to mention. We'll have a special presentation at the break today. We're taking a break from the 826LA charity for another special charity that has been running for the past week known as GameChanger: it's a cancer charity and it's been working in conjunction with SquareEnix this past week. To raise money for cancer research, they've been doing-- if you donate $1 to it they're giving away codes for the first Deus Ex game for PC and a lot of other fun stuff. We'll have more information and a presentation for you at the break. So be aware that's the fun charity we're promoting tonight, so if anyone has the ability to give, please do, they're an awesome charity. We're also waiting on Sam Riegel and Taliesin Jaffe, they're both fighting traffic but will be here shortly. However, let's go ahead and cut to the intro to give us a one-minute break, and then we'll jump right into this crazy, crazy episode. So see you in just a moment. [no audio] Well, while we get that figured out--
Orion: Oh, is this a podcast now?
Matt: Apparently.
Orion: (old-timey voice) Old time radio.
Marisha: Well, I think the intro--
Matt: Intro video's frozen.
Orion: Damn it.
Matt: Also, this is, as opposed to making it a surprise, this'll be our last game for a little while with--
Laura: No, don't say it, don't say it yet.
Matt: Don't say it-- okay.
Travis: If you say it, it makes it true.
Marisha: Makes it too real.
Matt: Okay, you're right.
Orion: Ooh.
Matt: I'll hold off, all right.
Liam: Unfortunately, Travis has to leave the show.
Matt: No, that's not true. Grog's ale still needs to be filled.
Travis: Smash.
Matt: Indeed. So we'll patiently wait, folks, pizza at the ready. Now.
Marisha: What's going on?
Liam: Is there a full table behind this computer?
Laura: Pretty much.
Matt: There is, yes.
Laura: Travis is directly behind you.
Liam: Am I in his chest again?
Laura: Yeah, you might be even in his face at this point.
Orion: It's pretty good, though, I like this better than the iPad.
Marisha: And we can see you more.
Laura: Can you still see Travis?
Marisha: Yeah.
Orion: Yeah.
Laura: Oh.
Matt: It'll be fine.
Orion: How can we not see him?
Marisha: Yeah. (laughs)
Laura: That's true.
Orion: He's a mountain of man.
Travis: I am Rushmore.
Marisha: Travis takes up this side of the frame.
Orion: I'm Rushmore.
Matt: If we're having an issue with the intro video, do you want to just go to the game?
Travis: We can do a live intro video.
All: (intro video music)
Matt: Grog! Goliath Barbarian.
Marisha: (crow sound) (laughter)
Matt: -- and we're done.
Travis: I'd been thinking that this had to happen at some point.
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: Boomf! I was being you, Tiberius.
Marisha: Yeah.
Travis: We could totally do a Brady Bunch.
Marisha: Ah ha!
Laura: Light!
Matt: That was pretty good.
Travis: You guys are on the bottom of the feed, right?
Orion: Right.
Travis: So if you looked up and we looked down, we'd essentially be looking at each other.
Marisha: Oh right, Brady Bunch style!
Laura: (gasps) Oh, no way.
Travis: Oh, hi guys.
Marisha: Hi, Travis.
Orion: Is that how it looks?
Travis: And then everyone looks to the right to look at Mercer.
Laura: No, yeah, everyone looks to the same--
Travis: Oh, we look right, you look left.
Travis: No.
Matt: No.
Matt: They look right. Everyone looks right.
Marisha: Everyone looks right? So if we're looking this way, "Hi, Matt!"
Matt: And I disapprovingly look to my left. There you go.
Ashley: Are we still on?
Marisha: Yeah.
Ashley: Still going?
Matt: Real-time Critical Role.
Marisha: We're still kind of confused.
Laura: I can't tell what happening.
Matt: So I figure if the intro video's not working, let's not worry about it. Let's just jump into the game and get this started. How about that?
Travis: Yeah, why not.
Matt: Cool with that?
Ashley: Wait, can we show someone that's here that's really cool?
Matt: What's up?
Marisha: Go ahead and bring him on?
Matt: Oh, well, we're waiting on the break, unless you want to do it now.
Ashley: Do it on the break.
Orion: So we have video problems?
Marisha: You can come say hi.
Orion: I'm Periscope-ing until we're not having video issues.
Matt: Well, as far as I know we're on camera.
Orion: Oh, we are?
Crew: Yeah.
Matt: Yeah, just the intro video's not working.
Orion: Okay.
Marisha: Oh, we probably could have been going for a while. We've just been like dicking around.
Orion: Bye, guys, we're live.
Matt: Ah, welcome to the chaos of live internet. All right, so let's--
Liam: I don't think we should go any more meta than it has to be.
Matt: Let's jump in, guys. Let's jump in. So a little bit of overview for those of you who are just joining us. At this point in the story, Vox Machina, this intrepid band of adventurers, misfits, whatever you must call them, completed an adventure through the Underdark, a very dangerous, cavernous--
Laura: Oh, Sam's here.
Matt: Oh, we're gonna let Sam in.
Marisha: Sam's here!
Orion: Yeah, he texted.
Matt: All right, so after completing this Underdark challenge, they discovered and managed to extract an evil artifact known as the Horn of Orcus that held great power and seemingly has a partner somewhere in the world that is unknown. But the one they have acquired is indestructible, as far as folks know, and it was decided by the Council of Tal'Dorei and Vox Machina that it should be sealed away and hopefully forgotten for the rest of eternity. The best place to do so came up in the conversation to be the city of Vasselheim, which is on a different continent far to the northwest of Tal'Dorei, the kingdom where most of the story as to this point has taken place, to be sealed in what is referred to as the Platinum Sanctuary, the oldest existing temple to Bahamut, the good platinum dragon deity. So they were given passage on a skyship to cross the Ozmit Sea to Othanzia, the continent that houses the capital city, Vasselheim. So the group gathered together, rode on to the magically elevated skyship, and are traversing the ocean carrying the Horn of Orcus within this holy container. Hello!
Marisha: Hi, Sam.
Matt: Sam has joined us.
Sam: Hi!
Matt: They found themselves over the ocean, suddenly attacked by a band of what seemed to be wyvern- and griffin-riding bandits. The battle took place on the top of the skyship, some of the magic being taken out, a few lives lost, but the party managed to persevere, take a captive, and continue on their journey, the Horn of Orcus and its container kept safe. And that's where we pick up and begin.
Sam: Can you say all of that again for me? (laughter)
Travis: You don't listen, anyway.
Matt: No.
Marisha: (laughs) You don't listen, anyway.
Matt: All righty, so as you guys have settled in, the Horn safe, you've taken a couple more days on this journey, what was told to be about a six-day journey across the ocean, six to seven days. Is there anything you guys wish to accomplish at this moment?
Sam: Are we in the air?
Matt: You are still in the air on the skyship.
Sam: Not much we can do.
Marisha: Well, we just-- so we fought off the wyverns.
Sam: Oh, do we have one? We have one.
Travis: Is the little magician halfling still being polite and brushing her teeth and stuff?
Laura: Oh, that's right, our little halfling that we--
Travis: Who you saved. Wuss.
Matt: Yes.
Sam: She's a mage, right?
Matt: That you saved. She is a mage, and she has also been bound, at the orders of the captain, so as not to cause any issues on the ship while she's there. So as to her future, after your conversation with him, as to whether or not she could work on this ship, based on the fact that their first meeting involved her and her band attacking and trying to murder his entire crew, Captain Damon was not too keen on the idea at the time being and decided to lock her up.
Laura: Oh.
Matt: So. We shall see her fate in the near future.
Travis: She's locked up.
Laura: Okay. She's locked up.
Travis: She's got tricks, though, right?
Matt: She has tricks, but there is an anti-magic brig built into the ship specifically for this purpose.
Sam: Ooh. Fancy.
Travis: That's all I needed to know.
Laura: Oh, that's good to know. I was going to pay you to put the kibosh on her.
Orion: She's negged.
Travis: Cool.
Matt: (laughs) So. I'll say that Percy is continuing to read his book. The next few days pass without incident. Is there anything you want to accomplish? Anything?
Orion: You said the next few days without incident? Cool.
Travis: Could I try to further my beard?
Sam: Oh, yes! Try to grow a beard.
Marisha: Yeah, his beard. Let's go for the beard.
Matt: Go ahead and roll another percentage dice.
Travis: Yeah! It's a d20, right?
Laura: It's a percentage die.
Travis: Oh, that's right, that's right. The two in a row. I remember.
Matt: Two d10s.
Travis: I'm learning. I'm learning.
Marisha: Yep.
Matt: First one and the second one.
Travis: Three. Eight.
Matt: 38. The little bit of peach-fuzz stubble on the chin of your goliath face begins to slowly grow. It's coming out colorless. It's almost translucent with a hint of gray and white.
Sam: Ew.
Laura: Ew.
Travis: I'm a Targaryen, baby. (laughter)
Liam: That's hot.
Laura: It's translucent, like--
Matt: A color is there. It's almost like fishing line is growing out of the bottom of his chin.
Travis: Yeah.
Sam: Ugh.
Ashley: Whoa.
Travis: Don't be jealous.
Ashley: Grog, it's sparkling. It's sparkling!
Laura: It's really creepy, Grog.
Ashley: Hey, I feel it. It's like sandpaper, a little bit.
Travis: Thank you. Thank you.
Matt: Keep in mind, goliaths, predominantly-- especially pureblood goliaths-- do not grow facial hair. The fact that this magical feat is even achieving any modicum of growth is in itself an arcane marvel, and who knows what detrimental effects this may have in the long run, going against your physiology.
Travis: Oh, crap. It's all right. It'll make me look really wise, you guys. Nobody will know.
Marisha: I have some beads. If you want, we can braid it and put beads in there.
Laura: Ooh.
Travis: I'm all about it. Beads and bells and shit?
Marisha: Okay!
Marisha: I braid Grog's beard.
Travis: Give me a staff and I'll be Gandalf.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: And put beads in it. And a few flowers, as well.
Travis: Wait! Ooh, weird.
Marisha: It looks nice.
Travis: All right.
Matt: It takes you a lot of concentration to try and get any sort of braidage through the about an inch to inch and a half facial hair that is growing from his chin.
Marisha: Looks good!
Travis: It's really tight when you braid it like that. It pinches.
Marisha: You'll get used to it.
Laura: Maybe you can cast Grasping Vine on his chin and grow it out.
Matt: What could possibly go wrong? (laughter)
Travis: Do it. Could be great.
Orion: I suggest against this.
Travis: I thought you suggest violence.
Orion: No.
Sam: He encourages violence.
Laura: I encourage violence.
Orion: I'm against this.
Ashley: Is it just violence?
Laura: So we're healed. We're healed, right?
Sam: Oh, days have gone by, right?
Matt: Yeah, you guys have rested. Days have gone by, your spells have returned to you--
Liam: Hey, DM, days have gone by?
Laura: Trinket's feeling good.
Matt: Days have gone by at this time. You've continued traveling over the Ozmit Sea.
Orion: Are we nearing the destination?
Matt: I'll get to that in just a second. Do you have a question, Liam?
Liam: No, not a question, but last night while Grog was sleeping-- I can see right up Grog's nose. While Grog was sleeping, I went and got a bit of rope from the ship and used my disguise kit that I have. I sort of frayed a part of the rope and spent about an hour using spirit gum to glue bits of frayed rope to Grog's chin into a small Gilmore-esque goatee. And he didn't seem to wake up, and I'd like to see how that worked out.
Matt: (laughs) All righty.
Travis: I'm gonna do a sleep check or something, right? I can't let him survive that.
Matt: For this, go ahead and make a perception check with disadvantage.
Travis: With disadvantage?!
Sam: Because you're asleep!
Travis: One. (laughter)
Orion: Get it out now.
Matt: You wake up the following morning and immediately run to the nearest reflective surface to check on yourself, and you have a glorious, dark brown, well-braided, mildly frayed, thick, coarse goatee braid. It goes about a good three to four inches from the bottom of your chin. And you are very proud.
Travis: I knew it! I knew it! I am a special boy. (laughs) (laughter)
Travis: Only this one strand is this color and everything else is white and translucent, whatever--
Orion: I think it looks good on you, Grog.
Travis: Thank you! I wave my head and it whips around.
Ashley: (sings) I whip my beard back and forth.
Travis: (sings) I whip my beard back and forth.
Matt: It stays taut on your chin. All right, so as you reach the middle of the sixth day of travel, the sky, which up to this point had been fairly sunny and clear, begins to slowly cloud over. The weather grows more gray, and the clouds themselves seem to cluster more into-- I wouldn't say a stormfront, but definitely a more gloomy atmosphere.
Marisha: Can I do a nature check to see if this seems to be natural or arcane?
Matt: Certainly.
Orion: Nice.
Laura: (sings) With her big fancy die!
Marisha: Okay, that's a 10 plus-- 20, total.
Matt: All right. Looking at these clouds, it is a slow formation, and they aren't moving at an unnecessary speed or seem to have any ominous press towards you. It just seems like the weather itself towards this northern continent seems to be of a colder variety.
Orion: I'm going to sense the weather, I suppose, because this doesn't look fun.
Matt: Okay. The weather is cold.
Orion: Ooh, it's cold.
Travis: So the weather outside is frightful?
Laura: Good call, Tiberius. Good call. I agree, it is rather cold.
Orion: I don't like this. Scanlan.
Sam: Oi?
Orion: Like we were discussing earlier, would you be interested in the still-standing trade of my Ioun Stone for your circlet-crown thingy?
Sam: Oh, you know what, Tiberius, I have been giving this a lot of thought and consideration. What's for lunch?
Orion: What would you like for lunch? I already ate.
Sam: Oh. No. No, I was done with the conversation.
Travis: Oh, good diss.
Laura: Oh.
Ashley: Oh.
Orion: Well. Keyleth, if you could put a little slate up for me, I'd like to illustrate something for little Scanlan. And perhaps his tiny mind can comprehend it. (clears throat)
Laura: Ooh!
Ashley: Hey, that's rude.
Orion: Would you, perhaps, do this?
Laura: His tiny mind is exactly proportionate for the rest of his body, Tiberius.
Sam: Well, not the entire body.
Orion: I'm going to walk up to the hull and be like--
Marisha: No! Write it right here! I throw up a slate.
Orion: Oh. (clears throat)
Matt: Okay. It's the strangest wall you've constructed, as up in the air on the ship that is mostly constructed out of iron and metal, there is little to no stone available of which you can sprout a Wall of Stone. However, there are weights set up on top, so what you create is less of a smooth Wall of Stone and more of a very thin, brittle shale wall that may function for the time being, but probably won't stand up for more than five to ten minutes.
Orion: I see. Prestidigitation. Some chalk.
Matt: All right.
Orion: You see, Scanlan, you've had this particular piece for over ten, let's say, matches or weeks. You have used it zero times. In over six battles, over the same course, using it zero times. (laughter)
Orion: I, being a sorcerer, have a special ability called sorcerer points, where I can do multiple spells in a single round.
Sam: Yes.
Orion: Which none of you can do. Other than monks, of course.
Laura: That's true. Brag about it, Tiberius. Just keep bragging about it.
Orion: When I can do multiple spells, like two, versus you, who can do one, that means that I can do one more spell than you can per round. (laughter)
Sam: All right.
Orion: And every round after that. One hundred percent. (laughter)
Sam: This is amazing.
Orion: Your utilization of the actual item has been equivalent to nothing. In the interest of the group and the use of items in general, it would be wise to switch it, because you have needed extra spells like Invisibility--
Matt: The shale wall cracks. (laughter)
Orion: Several times.
Marisha: I'm sorry.
Orion: Where my item would be more useful in general to you.
Liam: May I ask, is magical ability inversely proportionate to wisdom?
Orion: Oh, me?
Sam: Who are you asking?
Ashley: Is magical ability inversely proportionate to wisdom?
Orion: Absolutely not. I am one of the strongest casters in all of Draconia, and it only takes the strength of my charisma to do my stuff.
Laura: Oh. Everything makes sense now, Tiberius.
Travis: So are you saying you want what he has back?
Sam: (laughs) I didn't recognize you, Grog. Is that you?
Travis: It is I, Brad Pitt from Legends of the Fall. (laughter)
Travis: My beard of glory.
Orion: That is a movie.
Travis: It's an old bard's tale.
Orion: So, Scanlan. What say you?
Sam: Your mathematical skills have been quite impressive.
Orion: I don't like to show them off.
Sam: No, no. For a man of such low wisdom, you are proving wiser than I ever imagined. (laughter)
Sam: I will gladly make this trade with you. You have convinced me.
Laura: Hey.
Marisha: Aww.
Orion: Oh, wonderful. Thank you.
Sam: Yes. Yes.
Ashley: Hey.
Laura: That's wonderful.
Sam: All right. Hugs, hugs, hugs. (laughter)
Orion: (explosion sound)
Sam: Now, what does this thing do?
Orion: Now you can store up to three level spells. Three of them in there.
Laura: Oh, it's better than the Pearl of Power!
Orion: And you don't have to expend spell slots to do the spells.
Sam: All right. Thank you very much.
Ashley: Hey.
Laura: That's a good trade.
Travis: Oh my god, that was so good.
Ashley: That was amazing.
Orion: You can put three Lightning Bolts in there and it costs nothing.
Ashley: Oh, math!
Sam: All right, all right. I'm man enough to admit that he's convinced me.
Travis: That was so good.
Ashley: That was awesome.
Travis: I don't know what you wrote, but it looked good.
Marisha: Oh, man.
Orion: I'm sorry.
Matt: The Ioun Stone which you had taken, you place by your head and release. It seems to fix itself in the air and slowly rotate above your head.
Orion: It orbits.
Matt: Almost held in its own orbital gravity around your head.
Laura: Ooh.
Sam: Pike.
Ashley: Oh. (laughs) Oh, wow. It's like you have a halo.
Orion: It is fancy.
Sam: It's like a halo. Like your god has smiled on me, maybe, and said, "He's cool. Go for it."
Ashley: Oh, wow. Well, I don't know if that's what it means.
Sam: Well. You know, religion is up to interpretation, so I interpret it that way.
Ashley: It is very cool-looking.
Sam: Thank you, Pike.
Travis: (laughs) So casual, her god. "It's cool. Go for it."
Matt: (laughs) Sarenrae. The she-bro you never had. (laughter)
Sam: Sarenrae's my wingman.
Ashley: We cool, Sarenrae.
Travis: I can't breathe.
Matt: Many a cart hold that bumper sticker. All right, so as this conversation comes to a close, the temperature in the sky has gotten noticeably chillier. And you swear for an instant you start seeing what looks like specks of white snow beginning to drift from the clouds ahead.
Marisha: (gasps) It's snowing.
Laura: It's snow, Keyleth.
Sam: (sings) I'm dreaming of a white whatever-we-celebrate.
Travis: Festivus!
Orion: Festivus.
Marisha: There was something I should probably tell you. In this area of land, in Vasselheim, on this continent, somewhere, I'm not sure where, resides the Fire Ashari. Somewhere in the town of Pyrah.
Laura: What's that?
Ashley: Ooh.
Laura: What are Fire Ashari?
Marisha: Well, they're my sister tribe. They're a part of my sister tribe. I come from the Air Ashari.
Laura: Right.
Travis: Uh-huh.
Marisha: Yeah, from Zephra.
Ashley: (whispers) Fire Ashari?
Laura: So they-- oh.
Marisha: Yeah, so there are Fire Ashari. So the point behind the Ashari-- I'm not sure I have expressed this to you all in the past few months. The point of our tribe is we sought out the weakest points where the elemental planes start to bleed with our plane of existence, and these planes need to be protected, so our people have sought them all out in order to make haven there and be the protectors that we were all born to be. And as part of my Aramente, I have to seek out each of the headmasters and prove myself a worthy leader.
Travis: Ooh.
Marisha: Which makes me really nervous.
Laura: We've got your back, Keyleth.
Ashley: Oh, you'll do it. You'll totally do it.
Travis: Yeah. Yeah, we can burn shit for days.
Marisha: So I just thought, you know, maybe after we handle the Horn, maybe we can pop in. You know, since we're here.
Laura: Totally. You know, if you want to, Keyleth, when we go, we'll all follow your orders and make it seem like you're an extraordinary leader of us.
Travis: Ooh, yeah.
Marisha: Oh. That could be good. Oh, that sounds fun!
Orion: Oh. Good idea, yes. Of course, I will be your mage guard.
Travis: Do they make you burn things as a display of your abilities?
Marisha: Well, they kind of teach me new things.
Laura: Ooh!
Marisha: They kind of instill me with their knowledge.
Laura: So the tornado thing. You could be like a fire tornado?
Marisha: I could. I know!
Travis: Shut up!
Marisha: I'm so excited! But yes. Super nervous, because social skills aren't my strongest suit.
Laura: We've noticed.
Travis: You're a natural. You're great.
Laura: You're great, though.
Marisha: Oh, you guys.
Ashley: But it's very charming.
Travis: We gotta go there. It's fire everywhere!
Orion: (laughs) Oh.
Marisha: Yes. Yes.
Liam: Is everything copacetic between the different tribes?
Travis: Oh, good question.
Marisha: What? What?
Travis: Is it copacetic?
Laura: Are you guys friendly with each other?
Liam: Are they happy?
Orion: The tribes.
Marisha: Well, yes. Yeah, no, we're all happy. I mean, that's kind of the thing, where once a generation someone sets out and goes on the Aramente in order to come back a headmaster, and it's kind of like our once-a-generation check-in, if you will, to make sure everything's okay.
Travis: Exchange students.
Marisha: Unfortunately, the last person to go on the Aramente didn't come back, which happens sometimes. Yeah.
Travis: Like, didn't come back ever?
Marisha: No.
Laura: So, like, you could die?
Orion: Or maybe they got lost to the winds of the road.
Travis: Right, yeah.
Marisha: It was actually my mother.
Orion: Oh, goodness.
Laura: (gasps) What?
Travis: To which tribe?
Marisha: I-- we don't know. She left when I was a little girl, so I don't remember much. So I don't know if she's alive or dead, really, but--
Laura: Keyleth.
Travis: We did not know that.
Marisha: It's okay. It's okay.
Travis: Yeah, no bigs, right?
Laura: Yeah.
Travis: Just your mother.
Marisha: I mean, it's-- I mean. Well. It's fine. It's just. It's weird. I haven't seen her, so I don't know.
Sam: Awkward.
Marisha: I barely remember her.
Travis: Do you think there's a chance of when we visit this place, we might have to defend ourselves?
Marisha: No. No. I wouldn't think so.
Orion: Which means "of course."
Laura: It's not like your family, Grog. They're actually nice.
Marisha: Yeah, we're pretty-- we're cool.
Travis: Look, my family is nice, too. We just share love with fists.
Orion: Understandable.
Laura: That sounds wrong in so many ways.
Travis: It does, actually.
Liam: Keyleth, did your mother have to go alone, or does your tribe permit there to be help for you?
Marisha: I'm assuming it would be okay. We're pretty welcoming.
Laura: That's good.
Travis: Yeah, we should totally be there.
Laura: All right. We will go.
Marisha: Yeah.
Travis: And maybe ask them if they've seen your mom.
Marisha: Yeah. That'd be interesting.
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: It's weird. There's this part of me in the back of my head that kind of always wonders if I'm going to run into her.
Travis: How old-- when was the last time you saw your mother, or do you even remember?
Marisha: I was five, six maybe, years old when she left.
Travis: Wow.
Marisha: So I'm the next in line.
Laura: (whispers) Wow.
Sam: This is heavy.
Travis: Yeah.
Ashley: This is very heavy.
Marisha: I'm sorry. I didn't mean to bring the mood down.
Sam: No, it's fine. It's good to know this.
Marisha: I'm just letting you know that we're going to be in that neck of the woods, so I should probably--
Laura: Stop by.
Ashley: Yes.
Marisha: -- you know, go.
Travis: Absolutely.
Laura: Give a little hello.
Matt: "Land sighted!" A voice breaks out from the side of the ship's bow.
Orion: Ooh.
Matt: You guys glance over quickly to the edge of the skyship, and you see, right over the edge of Deera, what looks to be this ominous continent slowly approaching. Through the mists, the low clouds of this area, you can make out what looks to be a fairly heavily wooded and overgrown landscape. You can see dark forest peppered with a little bit of snowfall across the top.
Laura: My kind of place.
Matt: Occasional mountaintops and peaks breaking through the canopy of the distant forest.
Laura: Look, Trinket! Home.
Matt: Trinket looms up to the side and looks a bit chilly and shakes it off. At which point, Kima comes up and joins the rest of you. Puts her elbows over and looks off wistfully for a second and goes, (sighs) "It's been some time. Welcome to Othanzia, folks. It's an interesting place."
Travis: It is, isn't it?
Laura: We'll follow your lead.
Matt: She points off, says, "This forest here we refer to as the Vesper Timberland, and it goes for miles and miles and miles before bleeding into endless tundra to the north, so let's hopefully not travel that far." (sighs) "This'll be interesting." And she turns around and heads back down into the ship. As you continue--
Laura: Good talk!
Marisha: Why did she say that? (laughs) I know!
Orion: Who was that person?
Marisha: That was so weird, right?
Orion: Everywhere we go. It's everywhere we go. Why can't people be normal?
Travis: She's warming up to me, I can feel it.
Matt: As the ship slowly begins to descend, you can see, in the distance, from one of the various mountain ranges that break past the top, there is one singular mountain spire that tends to protrude from the center of the forest, about 20 to 30 miles off the shoreline of the Ozmit Sea. Around the base of this mountain, you can see, the closer you get to it, what looks like hundreds upon hundreds of stone buildings. You can see little details along the mountainside. Countless staircases are spiraling up this mountain in different directions in a chaotic fashion. There are large structures, fortresses, built into the side of this mountain spire as you progress up the top. And this city proper, which spreads out, I'd say, about a third larger than Emon. Layers of walls and walls and walls. This is probably the most-fortified city you've seen in your existence up to this point. Slowly it begins to bring itself down towards-- and you can see, as you get closer to the city, the walls vary in color and material. Some look recently built. Some look like they'd been constructed in the past 50 to 60 years or so from fine, smooth stone, using modern architectural techniques. Some walls look extremely ancient, partially crumbled and having to be refortified. You also notice the top of these walls are completely covered with what looks like these strange dragon-headed ballistae. These defense ballistae that are along every single row of walls. This is a city that is meant to withstand--
Marisha: A siege.
Matt: -- any sort of a siege or onslaught.
Laura: Does it look like it's suffered a lot of sieges? I mean, is there battle damage to the--
Matt: It's hard to tell from this distance. You're just starting to pick up details as the ship slowly descends into the city of Vasselheim proper. But from what you can tell, there are scars across some of the larger buildings. Some of the walls look like they have sections that have been knocked down and then rebuilt and then knocked down and then rebuilt. This is a very, very old, old city. Slowly, the ship descends towards what looks like a smoothed-out, flattened platform on top of some mill of some kind. It doesn't look like it's built for skyship purposes, more than it's been haphazardly put together to receive a skyship should it come to the city. But it looks like that type of travel doesn't come to this area too often. At this point in time, you can see now, the crew is gathering their ropes, they're getting ready to go ahead and lower it down. Captain Damon is slowly steering and shouting directions back and forth to his deckhands. The Scalebearers and Kima come up to the top of the ship, carrying the box that contains the Horn of Orcus, as well. As the ship slowly makes its way to dock on the top of this mill, Kima, who has all of her materials over her shoulder, says, "All right, so. It's everyone's first time here in the city?"
Sam: Yes.
Travis: Yeah.
Sam: Yeah, well. Keyleth?
Orion: I've never been here.
Marisha: No.
Sam: Okay. Yes.
Matt: "All right."
Orion: And there's enough in the interim for a short rest from us getting from there to the last day to where we're at?
Matt: Yeah, yeah.
Travis: A day's rest? All right.
Orion: Okay, cool. Awesome.
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: Tiberius, you ever been here?
Orion: No. (laughter)
Laura: Is it cold in the city?
Matt: It's pretty chilly as you come down. I mean, you wear furs naturally in cold environments, but this is-- the temperature's to the point where you may have to consider getting a little bit of warmer clothing if you travel too far outside of the city.
Travis: How do goliaths do? Not wearing much.
Laura: I have a lot of winter cloaks already in my--
Sam: We have some fancy cloaks, too, don't we?
Laura: Well, those are fancy clothes.
Sam: Oh.
Laura: But I've got winter coats that I bought for the group a long time ago.
Sam: All right. Pass them out.
Laura: All right.
Matt: So she pulls out the really nice, thick--
Marisha: Oh, that's right. We went shopping.
Laura: Remember?
Marisha: I remember.
Ashley: Oh, we went shopping.
Travis: We have three other fancy robes.
Ashley: We had a girl shop day.
Marisha: Yep.
Sam: A fancy. I want a fancy robe.
Travis: You do? It's huge on you. You want it anyway.
Orion: I'd have to take off my cloak, though, to wear that, right?
Matt: Yeah.
Orion: I won't wear one. I keep my cloak on.
Travis: I give you a colorful one.
Sam: I'll gird it.
Matt: We'll say you could probably put it over. It will just look a little chunky.
Orion: Okay.
Sam: I'm going to take a large fancy robe and try to tie it up-- to gird it so that it looks okay.
Laura: He wants a fancy robe, not a fur.
Travis: Be aware, we only have two left.
Sam: I'm going to gird my loins.
Matt: And you gird them well. You look like the tiniest Turkish wrestler you've ever seen.
Laura: Oh. (laughter)
Matt: It's kind of adorable.
Sam: Also, I'm going to cast Lightning Bolt into the Ioun Stone.
Orion: Yay.
Matt: Okay. So mark that down, you have a third-level Lightning Bolt saved. You still used the spell slot, but after you rest, it'll be safe inside there. Which is an interesting experience, you see him do this arcane finger wiggle in the air, and then he releases what is a burst of electrical energy that immediately funnels itself and vanishes into the stone, which is now humming with this low pulsing glow of greenish-blue light.
Sam: (whispers) Pike, are you watching this?
Ashley: Wow, and you're--
Laura: It's green? It's a green-- wait, is it like a diamond shape?
Sam: I don't know.
Laura: It's like a Sim!
Marisha: Oh, it's like a Sims thing.
Orion: It's like a little--
Laura: As long as it's green, you're happy, Scanlan!
Orion: But I believe it's white, right? It's a white stone?
Matt: It is a white stone, but the energy glowing off it is greenish in color.
Orion: Ah, there you go.
Marisha: He's happy.
Ashley: And you're so well-girded.
Sam: I'm girded and I've got a shiny head.
Matt: Eventually the ship comes to a stop. You feel a little bit of a lurching sensation as the ship suddenly halts its advancing. All the ropes get dropped off the sides. They start bringing what looks to be some sort of a haphazard crane also, in preparation for Trinket to be lowered off the ship. You can see, there's a look of-- I can't describe it better than anxiousness to Kima. She says, "If you have any questions about the city, just speak up and I'll do my best."
Laura: Where do we take the Horn?
Sam: (laughs) That's a good question. (laughter)
Matt: "I believe--" And she looks over the edge of the ship. "I believe our escorts will be happy to guide us."
Laura: Our escorts?
Liam: I'd like to do an insight check before we hustle off.
Matt: On?
Travis: Kima.
Liam: Kima.
Matt: Go for it.
Orion: I would like to look for any places-- oh, sorry.
Liam: I rolled an 18.
Matt: Okay, and what are you trying to glean off of her?
Liam: Why does she seem anxious? Does she seem different? Does her demeanor seem different, or does she just seem in a hurry?
Matt: You can probably take it as a little bit of being in a hurry, but you also get the feeling like-- there's a nervousness to her that stems-- it's hard to really tell where it comes from, but there is a nervousness to her.
Laura: Kima, when was the last time you were with your Order?
Matt: "Proper? That would be eight years."
Laura: Oh.
Orion: That's a long time to be out of Order.
Matt: "Of which-- we are about to meet them."
Orion: Sorry.
Sam: High five.
Laura: Do you get along well with them?
Matt: "Yes. Yes. They're just, well." (laughs) "You'll see." And she leaps over the side of the ship, grabbing the rope, and lowers herself down, as do the rest of the-- the two Scalebearers come down in tandem, clutching the chain on the sides of the box, bringing it down almost like a big Jacob's ladder.
Travis: (quietly) I love you.
Matt: Eventually, you all make your way onto the platform, and they're waiting for you. You see there's a cluster of well-armored men and women, wearing semi-matching gray tabards over patchwork and plated armor. They look like a really rough-and-tumble militia, but they all stand firm and as you guys walk up, they give a nod of respect and understanding. Amongst them, you see one gentleman, an elderly gentleman with no hair, completely bald, thick spectacles on the tip of his nose, wearing the same silver and blue robes as the envoys that met you at the Council of Tal'Dorei, the ones that are carrying the box. As you all approach, Kima steps out ahead and says, "Yonn. It's been a while."
Sam: Yonn.
Matt: The old man steps forward. "It has been, indeed, Kima. It has, indeed. And that's Scalebearer Yonn, if you don't mind--"
Travis: Scalebearer.
Matt: "I would prefer in mixed company the proper niceties of our presentation."
Laura: Oh, we're no proper company. It's all right.
Matt: "Hm. And you are?"
Sam: We are--
Orion: I'm Tiberius Stormwind, and we are Vox Machina. Everybody has names, too.
Laura: Hmm.
Ashley: I'm Pike.
Marisha: Keyleth.
Sam: I'm Ioun Stone-bearer Scanlan. (laughter)
Matt: He cocks his head curiously.
Sam: You can call me Kingslayer. I also did that.
Matt: "Very well." Percy introduces himself, as well.
Travis: I have a beard. (laughter)
Matt: He gives you the most curious look of all, which is hard to follow off of Scanlan over here. "And I'm to understand these are the bearers of the artifact?" Kima gives a nod. "Yes, and I think we should be on our way quickly." "Yes, yes, of course. Please. These are our escorts. Follow suit. We will bring you onward to the Platinum Sanctuary proper to dispose of this thing."
Sam: How far is the Platinum Sanctuary?
Matt: "No more than a 25-minute walk."
Laura: Oh.
Sam: Oh.
Ashley: May I insight-check Yonn?
Matt: You may.
Liam: Yes, please.
Marisha: Oh, so--
Orion: I'm going to look for any temples that might have a sigil inside while we're going through the town.
Matt: All right. Do you want to ask around about that?
Orion: I'll ask the Yonn guy.
Matt: Okay. Well, first off, you finish your insight check. What did you roll?
Ashley: What did you get, Liam?
Liam: 13.
Ashley: Okay. I got 15.
Matt: Okay. He seems stuffy. He seems definitely dedicated to whatever his intent is, but there doesn't seem to be anything deceptive in his speech.
Marisha: So am I correct to assume our plan is that we're going to march this Horn through the town? Until we get to the temple?
Laura: Well, nobody knows what it is.
Orion: Right.
Sam: Well, unless someone--
Laura: So we'll just be aware there's a huge envoy.
Marisha: I mean, we can only assume-- Yonn?
Matt: "Yes?"
Marisha: How many people in this city are aware of this Horn being brought here?
Matt: "Well, up until now, other than myself, you travelers, and the Highbearer Vord himself, no one else."
Orion: Hm.
Marisha: Highbearer Vor-- his name is Vord?
Matt: "Vord. The Highbearer of the Platinum Dragon."
Laura: What kind of man is he?
Matt: You hear when he mentions Vord, Kima twitches a little bit, and you remember Kima's official title is Lady Kima of Vord.
Laura: Hm.
Orion: Hm.
Sam: Her ex?
Travis: Is that her pops? Her pops?
Orion: Vonn. Yonn?
Matt: "Scalebearer Yonn, yes."
Orion: Oh, Scalebearer Yonn, that's a fun name. (clears throat) As we travel through town, if you could point me to any place that would have a sigil of arcane-ness--
Sam: Arcane-iosity is what he's trying to say.
Matt: "There are none."
Orion: Oh.
Matt: "This city, arcane magic for the most part, is not allowed within consistent practice. This is a divine, a holy place."
Orion: Ah.
Matt: "And the arcane tends to, ah. How do you say, when unwatched, corrupt and destroy from the inside. "
Liam: Oh shit, Tiberius.
Orion: No, I'm fine! He's talking about other people.
Travis: You don't have any arcane abilities anyway, right?
Orion: Oh of course I do, I'm a sorcerer.
Laura: No no no, right?
Sam: Ix-nay.
Travis: Wink wink, nudge nudge.
Orion: No, no, I think he-- sure.
Matt: "This here in Vasselheim, the cradle of faith, the Dawn City, of once all civilization and current faith once stemmed from. There is no way in but by foot. It is a pilgrimage, a journey for each to come here, and those that stay, stay of their own will and divine right." And as he refers to the guards, each guard you see now has around their neck a very visibly shown holy symbol of some kind of deity. Most seem to fall--
Marisha: We've basically walked into the Crucible.
Orion: It's fine.
Matt: -- into the realm of Arathis, Avandra, Melora, and a couple with Bahamut. None of--
Ashley: None of Sarenrae.
Matt: None of Sarenrae.
Travis: Or as Liam calls it, Sa-REN-rae.
Laura: The best one?
Ashley: The best, the best one.
Liam: Sa-REN-rae! (laughter)
Ashley: Sarenrae!
Orion: I'm going to take it you don't see very many dragonborn in these parts.
Matt: "No, and frankly you're making me a bit nervous."
Orion: Oh.
Matt: "However, as we ourselves are followers of the Platinum Dragon, we understand that it is dragonkind at the heart of it, the metallics, that bring life and civilization and order to this world."
Orion: Yes.
Matt: "Your color I find off-putting."
Orion: It's--
Laura: I've always noticed a fine metallic sheen coming from your red scales.
Orion: No, I'm of the chromatic nature, I'm a bit of an anomaly in my family, they're all of the metallic brand, I assure you. The Stormwind name runs true and wide throughout Draconia, but--
Matt: "I have heard of the Stormwinds, yes."
Orion: I cast Alter Self real quick and I turn myself into, I believe, gold. Because that's the red-- equivalent of red. On the metallic scale.
Matt: Okay. He gives you a curious look and goes--
Orion: I think that would be better for everyone involved.
Matt: "I would be mindful to not do such things so openly in public in the future."
Orion: Oh, sorry.
Matt: "Ahem." And he kind of adjusts his robe. "This way please, follow me." And Scalebearer Yonn leads you--
Laura: You look very nice, Tiberius.
Ashley: You look really great in gold.
Orion: Thank you, thank you.
Marisha: So wait, hang on, hang on, hang on.
Travis: What?
Marisha: Before we move on-- we're about to leave, I'm assuming?
Matt: You're stepping off the platform onto a staircase that leads off of the top of the mill.
Marisha: Should a few of us kind of like flank around and--
Laura: Definitely, we should all kind of surround the box, sure.
Travis: Like rooftops and shit.
Marisha: Rooftop shit, yeah.
Laura: Oh.
Travis: I like it.
Marisha: I can go eagle form and have aerial support.
Travis: I love it.
Laura: I can stick to the rooftops, I guess, try to follow along.
Travis: Overwatch.
Marisha: Overwatch. What's that? Yeah.
Laura: I'll snick to the rooftops and try to follow along, sniper eye.
Marisha: Okay.
Travis: Yeah, you two up top.
Ashley: I'll just stay right on the path.
Travis: Yep, you and me.
Matt: All right.
Travis: Smash hands.
Matt: All right, so.
Orion: I'll take the six.
Matt: Okay. As you--
Liam: I'm gonna stay with it but try to blend in with the crowd.
Matt: All right, all right. Go ahead and make a stealth check.
Liam: Yes.
Travis: Scanlan?
Liam: 23 for stealth.
Matt: All right, ah, if you wouldn't mind, Vex, making a stealth check as well?
Laura: Oh.
Travis: Overwatch.
Matt: Just to keep your rooftop activity inconspicuous.
Laura: Not disturbing.
Travis: We have a UAV.
Laura: Oh, well I rolled a one. So that's lovely.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Are you flying up above?
Marisha: Yeah, I'm going eagle.
Travis: Don't you have advantage?
Laura: Do I have advantage in-- no.
Orion: And I'm taking up the rear, following behind.
Matt: No. Not in this terrain, unfortunately.
Ashley: But there are forests here.
Laura: But with the forests I'd be amazing.
Liam: I do applaud your honesty, though, sister.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: So as you loudly clomp up and begin rooftop-hopping, a few individuals in the city kind of take notice and they point up, which by the way--
Laura: I wink at them as I'm climbing up.
Matt: Ah, the classic Vex wink. All right, so. Just you guys-- kind of atmosphere, as you step down the staircase and get to the main city street proper, the first thing you notice, the roads themselves are not cobblestone, are not brick, they are mud. They are thick, recently sleeted mud. You hear the clomping of horse hooves as carts are pulled through and each one is a sickly (squelch) sound as each footstep makes it through. The people of this city are a very hardened and rugged folk. Most clothing is swathed in furs and thick leathers, armor is patchwork in itself, most of the men grow coarse facial hair and the women themselves, their hair is wild and their appearance very stoic and grizzled. The landscape of Vasselheim-- oh, thank you kindly. Delivery of our chicken.
Marisha: Chicken through the magic door.
Matt: The people who live here, you gather, quickly walking through-- and Kima gives you a bit of insight as well-- live here not because it's easy to live, not because there's many comforts, it's a very harsh living in the city of Vasselheim. But the city is also currently the oldest known bastion of civilization in the world. As far as it's understood, most human civilization, and a lot of humans believe pre-elf and pre-dwarf, although the dwarves and elves very staunchly disagree, all stemmed from this city, which is believed to be tens of thousands of years old. They have uncovered the single oldest temples to the main deities of good and neutrality within this city, and as such it is considered the holiest place in the modern world, which is why it has been through many, many wars and has seen much warfare and strife and difficulty. And those that live here live here because they feel that they can fight against this, and they actually call it a privilege to exist in this harsh landscape as devotion to their respective deities. Also, because it is such a holy place, this is why the arcane is considered, for the most part, profane in public and very carefully controlled otherwise.
Travis: So we gotta be sneaky with that.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: The buildings look old--
Travis: So I'll put my spells in my back pocket for now.
Matt: The buildings range from old to newer stone, warped wood from just the weather itself. You can see a lot of the wood has a kind of mossy texture to it just from the general overgrowth that tends to take the city. It's not kept for beauty, it's kept for function. There's scars across most of the buildings where you can see warfare has bled into the city, and there are markings and various points of ancient damage and certain structures that have not been rebuilt, that have just been left in ruin where they stand, because they have not yet found somebody or a purpose to be restructured. It's a very different landscape than what you're used to, and the walk itself is a very solemn, quiet walk through the city. The folks that do take notice just kind of give a nod of acknowledgement or a gruff grunt as they pass by. There doesn't seem to be a definite interest in your travel, this isn't a special occasion. It seems like travelers and strange occurrences are not that unnatural in this city.
Marisha: Okay. So it's like New York.
Matt: You could say that, yeah. It's a very ancient New York.
Sam: And we're carrying a large ark, or a box of some sort?
Matt: You are carrying the platinum box that the Horn was kept in.
Sam: How big is it?
Matt: It's approximately like a foot and a half, or two feet by two feet.
Ashley: Oh, Taliesin's here.
Laura: Oh!
Travis: Taliesin's outside.
Sam: And it's platinum? It's just a platinum box?
Matt: Yes, it is made of like solid platinum and silver with a series of very, very intricate scrolling and engravings on it.
Marisha: Is it sticking out like a sore thumb?
Laura: There were some sapphires in there, too, some blue sapphires, I remember.
Matt: Yes, yes.
Marisha: Is it sticking out like a sore thumb?
Matt: Best you can tell, there are people taking notice of it, but none that like stop and gawk, they just kind of, "huh." Keep walking.
Marisha: Damn, maybe we should've thrown a blanket or something over it.
Matt: You could if you want to, now.
Travis: Can we, though?
Marisha: Burlap sack or something? Anybody?
Matt: The guards still flanking you guys, surrounding this ensemble as it presses towards the base of the mountain. You make your way towards the edge of the mountain, or where the mountain begins at the bottom of the floor, and you can see dozens of staircases ascending the outskirts of this giant pointed cragless spire that just sticks up into, actually, the clouds cut off the top of it. It's reminiscent of Gatshadow, the mountain outside of Westruun that you guys traveled to long ago.
Travis: Right.
Matt: But even larger. You continue up this staircase, and the stonework itself is a little lopsided and awkward, and with each step sometimes you have to kinda catch yourself, especially as the wind begins to pick up the higher up the mountain you go, and it takes about 15 to 20 minutes to ascend this staircase. Your legs begin to grow a little sore, until eventually you reach the base of what you can only imagine is the Platinum Sanctuary. You see before you, built into the side of the rock of this mountain, a grand stone fortress that looks older than time in itself. You can see the elements have weathered to the point where even the solid points and how the stonework was meant to be an edge has been rounded and smoothed down. There are a series of silver markings across the outskirts of it, which Tiberius, you recognize as Draconic.
Orion: Look, Percy, it's Draconic.
Taliesin: Oh, so it is. (laughter)
Matt: Certain words in Draconic--
Marisha: Percy, you've been so quiet here lately.
Taliesin: I don't want to talk about it.
Matt: You see phrases emblazoned on the side of this giant temple that say things like "honor, justice." Various, very old base Draconic stuff. The current language is a more refined version. This is a very, very ancient basis of that language.
Orion: See that, Scanlan? That says something like Apollo Justice something.
Sam: It's Phoenix something.
Orion: It's maybe the rise of the justice of the phoenix.
Sam: Nah, I don't know.
Orion: It's a lot of things.
Travis: Dawn of justice--
Matt: On the top of this fortress, you see three constructs that don't match the stone structure. These may have been constructed or built many years later and have been added onto the temple. But three ivory and silver spires, towers that ascend from the top of the fortress itself, almost parallel to the very steep mountainside that this fortress is built into. You come to the front doors of this structure. Two very, very large gray stone doors with almost what looks like white marbling through them, and you can see, mostly worn away but still barely visible, the symbol of a shield with a dragon head emblazoned on the front of it, the symbol of Bahamut. As the Scalebearer-- yes, that there-- as the Scalebearers approach the front, the doors, on their own, and open to the interior, the grinding sound of stone across the marble flooring of the fortress proper. You can see the interior. Did you have a question?
Marisha: Can I see inside the temple? Or are the temples pretty enclosed?
Matt: You can see now as the doors begin to open.
Marisha: Well, I was an eagle flying overhead.
Matt: Oh, yes! You--
Marisha: And I was gonna do a perception check to see if I noticed, like kinda do a loop of the temple.
Matt: Go for it.
Sam: So, I'm an eagle.
Marisha: So I'm an eagle right now, so.
Taliesin: You're such an eagle. Oh my god.
Laura: I very, very poorly fall off of the roof and clamber down.
Marisha: 20 total.
Matt: Best you can tell, there are for the makeshift guards in the city-- which, you've heard them referred to as Bastions, they're all volunteers, and actually from what you gather here, probably a quarter of the populace are Bastions. So they have a very, very heavy civilian-based militia that guards this city.
Sam: Are those the guys who were with us, the envoys?
Matt: Yes. No, no, not the envoys, the envoys' come from the temple of Bahamut, they have the blue and silver robes. You see, they're just wearing makeshift patchwork armor, whatever that could be scavenged or constructed to outfit a militia, essentially.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: You see them going up and down every which staircase, just doing various passes and patrolwork. Some of them have spyglasses and you see them looking off in the distance, and as you're getting higher up the mountain, too, you look out about, and you can see the entire forest around you. Very thick, ominous, and you swear every now and then you can see some trees move suddenly and heavily before coming to rest in the distance.
Marisha: I'm gonna go check that out first.
Matt: The rest of you are entering the temple. Keyleth is not there.
Orion: Is it lit in there?
Matt: The doors close behind you.
Sam: Hope Keyleth is okay.
Laura: Keyleth--
Marisha: (eagle noises)
Liam: I don't think that I was with the group, I think I was back with the crowd--
Laura: No, you--
Sam: Great.
Liam: -- so I see the eagle fly off and I'm just gonna follow after her.
Laura: What?
Matt: The eagle flies out of the city.
Liam: Yeah.
Laura: You're gonna leave the city, brother?
Liam: No.
Orion: You're leaving?
Marisha: Gonna see if I can figure out what's making the trees move.
Liam: Now that I understand the--
Laura: Come on in the temple.
Liam: But do I still get shut in my face? So.
Marisha: I'm flying! I'm fine.
Liam: It's a big solid building, doors are shut, that's it?
Matt: Yeah, I mean, the temple, would you like to enter the temple with the rest of the group?
Laura: Yeah, you would.
Ashley: Yeah, do it.
Matt: All right.
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: So just as the doors are closing, you rush out of your subtle following pattern and, wait, and put your hands up and manage to make your way into the temple right before the doors close, catching up with the rest of the group. Keyleth, make a perception check.
Marisha: I have advantage because I'm an eagle. Ooh, natural 20!
Sam: Nice!
Travis: Nice!
Taliesin: On the shiny die.
Matt: All right.
Orion: It is on the shiny die.
Matt: It's hard to see much of anything because the canopy of this forest is so dense and so thick, and the snowfall itself, which is getting stronger through the air, and is kind of obscuring some of your vision, but you glance down and you see another set of trees shift suddenly about a quarter-mile away from the city's walls. And you can see on the edge of the city wall a number of guards are beginning to swarm up to the ballista and starting to load them and prepare them. You glance down, and all you see are something fast-moving beneath the canopy, something large. Something you can swear you see it looks serpentine-like. But multiple serpentine-like bodies or forms. And then it's gone in a second.
Laura: Hydra! You think it's a hydra?
Orion: I don't want it to be a hydra.
Liam: Stop gasping, I don't see shit, Laura.
Orion: Oh, that's right.
Laura: Shut up!
Matt: You see a couple ballista set loose. The bolts go flying through the air, entering the forest. You can hear a loud screeching sound, and a few dozen forests now begin to shake to the side as the creature makes its way away from the city before going still in the distance.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: You get the sensation that this is a--
Marisha: A common occurrence.
Matt: -- a common occurrence.
Marisha: Okay. Good to know. I'm going to loop back around. Is there like an open window in the temple that I can just fly through--
Orion: Ooh. Is there a super clear one that she could try to go through first?
Marisha: Be like that Windex commercial, back in the day.
Matt: The temple--
Orion: (crashing sounds) Dammit!
Matt: You make your way--
Marisha: I break my neck, I die.
Orion: No.
Matt: There are small-- they are not windows, more than they are slits for arrow defense.
Travis: Right.
Matt: You as Keyleth could squeeze through. It would be one of those things where you have to careen in, transform, and then squeeze through.
Marisha: Okay, I'll do that.
Matt: Which you do, and as you do, you come right into the face of a spear right there--
Laura: (gasps) You should have transformed into a fly.
Matt: -- as another one of the Platinum Dragon guards says, "Who goes there?"
Sam: Oh boy.
Marisha: Hi. Hi.
Matt: Another guard begins to approach from the side.
Marisha: I am with Vox Machina. I'm pretty sure they just came through the front door. It's cool. I was just doing-- just like aerial support. I'm just going to go and reconnect with my group. It's fine.
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Marisha: I'm Keyleth.
Travis: (whispers) Mention the Scalebearer.
Marisha: I'm not good at this shit.
Matt: You're not there, Grog.
Marisha: What am I doing? A persuasion check?
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: Christ.
Orion: You're going to roll a one.
Matt: Sorry, Miss Charisma.
Marisha: Shut up.
Taliesin: Oh, wow.
Marisha: Oh, wait. I don't know why I'm rolling two.
Taliesin: That's real funny.
Marisha: Six?
Laura: Oh no!
Sam: Keyleth's dead.
Orion: (whispers) No, they'll probably just put her in prison.
Matt: The guy holding the spear to you keeps it there. The other guy walks up behind and says, "Let me see your hands."
Laura: (gasps)
Liam: Shit.
Marisha: Why?
Matt: "Let me see your hands." He takes your hands, pulls out a set of shackles--
Laura: (gasps)
Ashley: Oh no.
Matt: -- and locks them on.
Laura: This is the second time you've been arrested!
Marisha: Yeah, it is.
Matt: The guy with spear turns behind you and just holds it to your back as the gentleman who just cuffed you grabs the chain between and starts pulling you towards the main chamber.
Marisha: You know, can we just buzz by the front foyer, and then we'll find my friends, and then we'll all be like, hey, those are my-- It'll be fine.
Orion: I think that's where you're going.
Matt: He leads you down the stairway to an area where it opens up into a small courtyard, takes you to the right of the courtyard into a central chamber, where the rest of Vox Machina is currently being led.
Laura: Keyleth!
Orion: Do I see her?
Matt: Yeah, you guys all see her being led in, in cuffs, essentially.
Orion: Seriously? Again?
Travis: What did you do?
Laura: Again, Keyleth?
Orion: Your Highness, what is your problem?
Ashley: Oh. She's with us. She's with us, she was just outside, we got in before.
Travis: No, we don't know who she is.
Taliesin: Actually, can we have a few minutes to discuss this?
Marisha: Shut up, Grog!
Matt: At this point, Kima turns and says, "She's with me."
Laura: Oh.
Matt: And both the Scalebearers go, "Lady Kima, I am so sorry." And they go ahead and take the cuffs off real fast and pull the spear back and step back.
Ashley: Wow.
Laura: Yeah, you listen to Lady Kima.
Orion: The classic.
Marisha: The classic.
Orion: The classic handcuff wrist twist.
Marisha: Ouch.
Liam: Hardass. (laughter)
Marisha: Yeah, I'm with her.
Matt: They back off and bow deeply and escort themselves off, embarrassed.
Marisha: Did you guys see that?
Ashley: That was cool.
Orion: I nudge Grog.
Travis: That was cool. You were arrested.
Orion: Grog, Grog, I'm nudging you.
Travis: You hadn't done anything.
Taliesin: I knew you had it in you.
Marisha: I'm starting to feel so hardcore.
Orion: I'm just nudging you.
Travis: Oh, okay.
Orion: Because Kima did something super hot.
Taliesin: You need a tattoo.
Marisha: I do need a tattoo.
Travis: I know, I noticed. She doesn't love me, though.
Laura: She does, Grog.
Travis: No, not yet.
Matt: All right. Scalebearer Yonn continues to lead you through this main chamber. And this chamber, like I said, it's the temple. It's strange, because most temples you've seen to Bahamut or many other deities are extravagant or are, you know, built with a modern-day sense of architecture. This is a very plain, simple stone fortress. It's hard to grasp what time it was built, but just the smell itself seems very ancient. There's a scent of dust and age, and functionality to its construct. But there's still a sense of power to it. Especially you, Pike, where you're sensitive to divine energy. This whole place is humming with it. Even though it's not the kind you're used to connecting with. This is-- When they say this is a holy place, you can feel it.
Laura: Is everything okay, Pike?
Ashley: It's just-- there's a lot of holiness here. (laughter)
Orion: I would imagine.
Marisha: Oh.
Sam: On a scale from one to five, five being super holy--
Ashley: Probably six.
Sam: Whoa.
Laura: Whoa.
Marisha: (gasps)
Orion: That's extra holy.
Marisha: This temple goes to six.
Ashley: This temple, I mean this--
Orion: (laughs) This temple goes to six.
Ashley: Just this whole land in particular. I mean there's a lot, there's a lot here, but--
Orion: That is good, though.
Ashley: Yes, good.
Sam: Do you need a moment? Do you need to sit down? Do you need me to hold you?
Ashley: I think I'm okay to keep going.
Laura: All right.
Ashley: But maybe later. We'll see. If I get a little tired.
Matt: At which you feel a nudge at your side and it's an armored elbow from Kima, saying, "If you wouldn't mind holding off on the fraternizing in the temple of Bahamut, I would really appreciate it."
Marisha: Oh, that's right.
Sam: Message understood.
Matt: At which point Scalebearer Yonn is now at the second set of double doors and he presents his holy symbol above his chest, it glows a second, and what was originally just smooth stone doors, you see a divine glow and the symbol of Bahamut you saw at the front of the temple appear for a moment, and then as it vanishes the two doors open on their own into a central worship chamber. This is a much larger domed room. It looks like it goes up about 80 feet to the top of the ceiling, and the dome itself has what looks like an extremely ancient, detailed drawing, like Sistine Chapel-style, the tale of the entirety of creation. You see all the elemental planes represented in the corners, the theoretical corners, where corners would be in a domed room. You can see a crude representation of how all the planes lay over each other, you can see the Astral Plane, you can see where the Nine Hells would exist, and the Abyss itself, and in the center there's the Prime Material Plane, and across it you see a giant image of the great platinum dragon Bahamut drawn in all of his glory, currently snapping down on one of the throats of a multi-headed dragon. This other dragon, with five different heads of five different chromatic colors, and this struggle between what you know to be Bahamut and Tiamat.
Travis: Tiamat?
Matt: Tiamat.
Laura: Is that the bad one?
Matt: You gather.
Liam: That is the baddest one.
Laura: I mean, I know that because I know a lot about dragons.
Matt: Indeed.
Marisha: Whoa. Do I see or learn anything about the elemental planes that I didn't know before?
Matt: Not from the artwork. It's very pretty.
Marisha: Ah, so pretty.
Orion: I take it all in and I'm reminded of one of the museums at home.
Matt: And actually, you've seen this art piece in a book. It's been a long time, but you know that this has been studied before and exists somewhere in Draconia, the tome that talks about this exact temple.
Travis: A book?
Marisha: We just made cave drawings, I don't--
Sam: That's those square things.
Orion: The square things with all the paper leaves in them and squiggles.
Travis: Right.
Laura: Is Tiamat still alive? Is he still around?
Orion: I read a lot of those. Can't put my finger on it.
Matt: At which point both Yonn and Kima and the Scalebearers kind of turn to you with a look of-- kind of understanding that you don't quite know, but also the fear and the knowledge that-- they don't say anything, they just give you a look that says, yes, very much so.
Laura: Oh. I mean. (nervous laugh) Tiamat's still around, huh?
Orion: Unfortunately, yes.
Matt: They continue walking.
Laura: Oh.
Matt: Now, the floor of this chamber, which is a very simple stone, you can see there are small sculptures, each one representing some sort of a humanoid entity dressed in similar robes to the other envoys and members of this temple that you've encountered thus far. Some of them are in full armor, some are wearing just robes, and they're very, very old. Some of them seem a little more recent, and you gather these each have some sort of cultural or religious significance to this temple. However, one of these is not a statue. In the center of this worship chamber, which is strangely, eerily quiet, there is one humanoid that turns to the rest of you. What you see before you is a slender, elven male draped in long, white robes that drag a few feet behind his form across the ground. He has jet-- not jet, stark-white hair that is slicked back against his head, no facial hair, frail but very handsome features. Elves, when they age, they age very gracefully--
Laura: Yeah we do.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: -- and from the look of most elves you've seen, this is a very old elf that has aged very gracefully. He turns to the rest of you and you see across his neck a very, very well-crafted, intricate series of draconic symbols that finishes with a giant emblem of Bahamut himself. His voice rings out and echoes throughout the hallway as you approach, each footstep echoing as you get closer. "Welcome, everyone, to the Platinum Sanctuary. I am called Highbearer Vord."
Laura: Oh, right.
Matt: "Keeper of this most holy of places. I received word from a disciple of mine--" At which Kima has now stepped forward, and bows, kneels before him and says, "Your holiness." At which he looks down with a smile. "Ah, Kima. I am pleased to see you. It has been a long time, my disciple." He looks up to the rest of the group. "I understand you carry something of terrible omen. Let us discuss how to be rid of it. Please. Present the container."
Laura: Right here?
Matt: The Scalebearers step forward and set the container on the ground. They go to reach for it and he goes, "No no no. Do not open it." And he kind of takes a second and holds his symbol to his chest and closes his eyes, and you can see this kind of divine glow pulse off of him for a second.
Marisha: Kima, what's happening?
Matt: She goes, "Shh, shh."
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: The box begins to pulse with the divine light as well, and then suddenly vanishes and he kind of (gasps) catches his breath. "It is as you said. This must be sealed immediately."
Orion: Well, yes.
Marisha: Yeah-huh. We could have just told you that.
Matt: He gives a look to the rest of the group here, and you can see there's a noticeable bead of sweat he kind of wipes off his forehead. "I just needed to confirm that this was not some haphazardly constructed fake or some other artifact mistaken for such a horn, but we indeed have within our presence one of the Horns of Orcus, and this does not bode well."
Laura: (whistles)
Matt: "Thankfully--"
Laura: Are you guys-- oh, sorry.
Matt: "No, please. What do you want to say?"
Laura: I was just wondering. You've had one of these before, yes?
Matt: "No, but we know that these exist. A few of us do; the knowledge itself has been lost to time intentionally. It was brought to my attention, and through discussions with the Council that sent you on this journey, that this would be the safest place to seal such an artifact, and amongst all our other options, as of this time, I see no other choice. So. What's been proposed. Allow me to explain to you the plan. One of our most divine relics of our most beloved protector Bahamut was kept deep beneath this temple, within the mountain we rest against. The Star of Exaltation, a crystal born from the tear Bahamut shed for the sacrifices his first devoted made in the Great War of the Beginnings, the Dawn War. This item was unfortunately lost nearly 300 years ago, giving the last of its power to protect this very Vasselheim. The intervention it brought from our great deity expended and left the artifact destroyed. Since the chamber that held this Star, a blessed and ever-watched nexus beneath the gaze of the Great Platinum Dragon Himself, has gone empty, we've tended to it. We've kept it fairly well-watched and in the state it was originally constructed for. And we think no greater location to seal such a deeply-rooted evil exists within our spheres of influence or any other. Unfortunately, the last time the chamber was cleansed and prepared was some 15 years ago. Our curate tasked one of our own Scalebearers--" And he looks over towards Yonn, who sheepishly backs away. "-- was tasked with preparing it for your arrival, and the artifact's, and it was found that the lower chambers have been infested with some manner of foul subterranean spider creature."
Marisha: Oh, man.
Matt: "Our Scalebearer fled." At which point Yonn leaves the entire conversation and exits the room.
Ashley: (quietly) Excuse me.
Sam: Yonn.
Matt: You hear Kima kind of give a spit in his direction.
Matt: "But not before initiating the vault's defenses." (sighs) "So thus, I ask you to complete your journey into the Hall of the Exalt below, clear out these meager beasts, and guide your reliquary into the vault chamber to seal it for good."
Orion: Will we have to contend with the defense systems as well?
Matt: "Not all of them, but apparently in his haste to escape and defend himself, he set a few of them to aid his escape."
Laura: Great. (shouts) Good job, Yonn!
Marisha: Thanks, Yonn.
Matt: You hear no response other than the pitter-patter of steps.
Sam: Why does he still work here?
Travis: (laughs) Right?
Orion: (laughs) Very good question.
Taliesin: Would you like to speak to his manager?
Sam: Does he have tenure or something? Is it a union thing?
Matt: "He's been with us for many, many years, and he has great heart and devotion. Though addled may be his mind, he does bring much to the temple."
Marisha: He has seniority.
Sam: All right.
Marisha: So wait, you said you lost the Crystal of Exaltation during the War of--
Matt: "It was destroyed during a siege of the city."
Marisha: During the War of what? Beginnings?
Matt: "The War of the Beginnings."
Marisha: The War of the Beginnings.
Taliesin: That was close.
Marisha: And how long ago was this War of the Beginnings?
Matt: "Well that, oh, I'm sorry. It was created in the War of the Beginnings."
Marisha: It was created then?
Matt: "It was lost in a battle, a siege of the city of Vasselheim 300 years ago."
Laura: 300 years?
Marisha: Called what? During what war?
Taliesin: The Siege of the Metal Champions.
Matt: "That had no particular name."
Marisha: Oh.
Laura: Oh.
Marisha: Just a siege.
Laura: It was just a thing?
Matt: "It was one of the sieges and there was--"
Sam: The Battle Where the Thing Was Lost.
Matt: Yes. There it is.
Orion: Right. (laughter)
Liam: Vord. Hi. Question, please. We'll clear out your basement, that's not a problem. I'd like to understand how you plan to protect this horn, how you plan to keep it out of the hands of entities who would use it for ill--
Laura: That big scary creature living out in the woods. Sorry, brother.
Liam: Then how-- that's fine.
Matt: He glances towards you and says, "Oh, that is but one of many."
Laura: Huh.
Matt: "Let it be known that this temple is extremely well-guarded. It is continuously under the gaze of our patron deity and while some of the defenses have been put in place for your arrival, if the entirety of the vault is triggered, there is nothing that will make its way there unannounced."
Travis: Good sell.
Sam: Are we to carry the box down as we journey into the dungeons below, or are we to leave it here while we go clear out the basement?
Matt: "The Scalebearers will bring it with you."
Sam: Okay.
Matt: "Keep them safe."
Sam: Keep them safe? Oh. All right. We've got enough to worry about keeping ourselves safe.
Marisha: So just to get one thing clear, and I mean no (clears throat) disrespect, but how was the crystal lost 300 years ago, if it was in this chamber? So this chamber has been broken into before?
Matt: "We can enter the chamber under very specific circumstances. We, at the time, requested the use of the Star of Exaltation as a divine focus--"
Marisha: Oh.
Matt: "-- a ritual that required the intervention of Bahamut to keep the city safe."
Marisha: Oh, so someone brought it out and then was clumsy and lost it.
Laura: And then it was lost.
Sam: And you know what--
Matt: "It wasn't clumsy and lost. It was used as a focus in the ritual."
Marisha: Oh.
Matt: "It was by the will of Bahamut Himself that the Star no longer was required to exist on this plane."
Orion: She gets it. She gets it.
Matt: "It served its purpose."
Marisha: So it was destroyed.
Laura: Lost, as in--
Orion: Like not around.
Marisha: You should change your verbage here.
Taliesin: Charisma of ten, ladies and gentlemen. Charisma of ten.
Laura: While everybody's been talking, can I have used my Primeval Awareness to see within six miles if there's any dragons around us?
Sam: (sings) Primeval Awareness, yeah.
Matt: So you take a moment and kind of zone out for a second. You do not sense any dragons in the immediate vicinity of the six-mile radius of the city, no.
Laura: Oh, okay. All right. That's all I wanted to know.
Sam: (sings) Primeval Awareness, over.
Travis: Can we drop off this box, or what? I want to go see the fire dancers.
Sam: Yeah, let's go.
Laura: No, we need to go-- we also need to-- are we going to do that now?
Sam: Let's just go.
Laura: Go clear out the basement?
Sam: Yeah, it's the morning, still. Okay? Let's go.
Orion: Are we all potioned up, are we all--
Marisha: Yeah, we're good.
Ashley: We're all healed.
Orion: We're good?
Laura: Let's clear out the basement.
Travis: There's nothing down there, right?
Laura: Yeah? I mean, you want us to do it now, yeah?
Taliesin: I'm not-- I haven't been paying attention.
Matt: "Lest this artifact be left longer in the open, which I would not be comfortable with."
Laura: No, neither would I.
Matt: "I would prefer this be taken care of immediately."
Travis: Yeah, we'll do it now.
Sam: Let's go do it.
Taliesin: We've got a bear.
Laura: I mean, obviously we want the Horn taken care of, but--
Travis: Here we go.
Laura: -- you know, we're taking care of a problem for you, too.
Sam: Oh, here it goes.
Travis: Here it comes.
Sam: Here it goes.
Ashley: Get it, girl.
Travis: Son of a bitch.
Ashley: Get it, girl. Get it.
Liam: The holiest place on the map.
Ashley: Yeah. (laughs)
Laura: The holiest place?
Sam: Haggle with the pope.
Taliesin: Shaking down the pope.
Matt: "You want a monetary reward--"
Laura: I was just wondering.
Matt: "-- for your aid."
Laura: I'm not asking.
Matt: "The temple can provide a sum of three thousand gold pieces."
Laura: Per party member, yes?
Matt: "Entirely. Three thousand gold pieces for your trouble on this journey." At which Kima steps forward and says, "Highbearer, we do not need to take money from--"
Laura: We don't want money, of course not. I mean, I--
Sam: But think of the good we could do with that money, giving alms to the poor back home where we are.
Laura: Yes, spreading the word of Bahamut where we go.
Ashley: Are we going to return for it?
Sam: We do a lot of charity work and it would be well-received back home. (under his breath) In our Keep.
Matt: You make a persuasion roll. You make a deception roll.
Sam: Deception?
Laura: It's not a deception, we really will--
Travis: No, no. Only one of you.
Matt: (laughs) No, he won't.
Taliesin: The ladies of the evening really, really do need the money, apparently.
Marisha: (laughs) No, he won't.
Travis: What did you roll, Sam?
Sam: A 30.
Orion: (laughs)
Laura: Oh. That's really good because I rolled a 19. Wait!
Marisha: A 30?
Ashley: No, you didn't.
Laura: Yeah, I did.
Liam: Three-zero?
Sam: Three-zero! I have a +13 for deception. (laughs)
Travis: Really? (laughter)
Taliesin: That explains so much.
Travis: We've got to get you deceiving more.
Marisha: (laughs) We've got to get you deceiving more.
Travis: Oh my god.
Marisha: You should lie more. It's good.
Taliesin: Lie to me, Pinocchio. Lie to me.
Matt: "Three thousand gold, at your disposal, to bring about and to share in the prosperity of your people back home."
Sam: Amen. (laughter)
Matt: "Once the artifact is delivered and sealed."
Sam: From one holy man to another, I think we've struck a deal. Let's go.
Orion: Burt Reynolds, you've done it again.
Travis: Amen. (laughter)
Matt: As you all turn, Kima goes, "I'll show you to the vault room."
Laura: Are you going to come with us, Kima?
Matt: "Yes, I'm coming with you."
Laura: Oh, good.
Matt: She glances over at you. (sarcastically) "Shall we, holy man?" (laughter)
Sam: Why yes, my sister, lead the way.
Marisha: Sister. (laughter)
Matt: As you guys are walking out of the chamber, the doors close behind, she turns to you and says, "Is that why you were blessed with such a temporarily swollen appendage before?"
Sam: I don't know how the lord works, it's mysterious. (laughter)
Matt: "Let us be on our way." She kind of walks off, flustered and frustrated. You guys are led down two layers. This actual temple recedes further and further into the mountain, until you're led into what seems to almost be a storage basement. It's a very musty smell. It's old earth--
Orion: It's dank down here.
Matt: Yeah, it kind of has that moldy scent to it. There are five guards stationed in this storage vicinity, and as you approach, they all stand up. They're all still wearing ceremonial armor, two of which you can see are really well-armed, one with a greatsword and one with a longsword at the side. They look pretty prestigious to be assigned to a basement this terrible.
Laura: At ease, soldiers.
Matt: "Of course, of course."
Matt: And they step aside. Kima steps forward and takes her holy symbol and removes it from around her neck. She looks at the wall for a second, then places it into what you didn't see before was some sort of a slight recess in the wood. It flashes with divine energy, and suddenly the wood illusion is dispelled and what you see before you is a stone doorway that begins to slowly shift to the side and open up into a staircase.
Laura: Are we going to find any of these defenses right away, or what?
Matt: Kima kind of gives you a look, shrugs, and, "To be perfectly honest, I have not been within the vault."
Taliesin: Well.
Ashley: Okay.
Marisha: Huh. Is there a blueprint somewhere?
Travis: Liam, you're up. I mean, (clears throat) Vax.
Sam: I thought he was Vex.
Liam: Sorry, my communication earring was a little low there. What was said?
Laura: Check for some traps, brother.
Liam: You got it. You got it. I'm glad to get out of upstairs, I mutter to my sister, because the decor up there was shit.
Marisha: (laughs)
Liam: That is... high. That was a 26.
Matt: 26 for?
Laura: Traps in the stairway.
Liam: Just traps.
Matt: Perception for traps? All right. As you slowly begin to descend the stairway, you keep an eye out across the staircase itself and any of the surrounding walls. The stonework here is also extremely ancient, marking probably a similarity to the most ancient of buildings you've seen in this city. This subterranean structure is probably one of the older parts of this temple. You don't see anything trap-wise. The stairway eventually comes to an end into a chamber about 50 feet by 50 feet. It's very, very low light. There appear to be--
Orion: Oh! Light!
Matt: Okay. The brief moment of light, before your eyes can really focus in, there's a flash of light at the end of Tiberius's staff, and the room actually gets harder to see. You see there is a thick white mist that just kind of hangs in the air throughout the entirety of this room.
Orion: Oh! (fssh)
Marisha: It's like having your high-beams on when it's foggy.
Orion: I de-cast Light.
Matt: Okay. You dispel the Light.
Orion: What is all of this poppycock?
Matt: Your eyes adjust a little bit, and you can see what looks like-- this room, for the most part, doesn't have any sort of details. There are a couple of sconces with low, flickering light that are embedded in the side of the walls of this 50 foot by 50 foot room. It's about 20 feet high.
Marisha: I go ahead and I do a little Wind Gust and I go, (blows air).
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Down the hall, to clear out the fog.
Matt: Which spell is this?
Marisha: Gust of Wind.
Matt: Okay, so you cast Gust of Wind. The mist that was filling this room blows out the other side and you can see, the room is a little more visible now.
Orion: Oh, very good. Light!
Matt: There's still a light mist on the sides, but the center of the walkway is clear for a second. You see now in the center of the room what were initially just dark spots in the mist, there are two pillars that are attached from ceiling to floor, roughly about 20 feet apart from each other, kind of in the center of each side of the room. Each pillar is solid gray stone with what looks like intricately carved small dragons almost curling and wrapping around the statues. Each one of their heads kind of turned, mouth opened kind of angrily in different directions.
Laura: Can I check for traps or see if there's anything--
Travis: You should re-cast that.
Matt: You guys, both of you guys make perception checks.
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: That's a 19.
Laura: Oh, he already rolled. Look at him.
Liam: Yeah.
Laura: Perception?
Matt: Mm-hm.
Laura: 25.
Matt: So looking about, Liam-- Sorry, Vax. You notice the base of each one of these pillars is not flush with the floor. There is a slight gap, meaning there is some sort of a rotation or a pivot to these pillars.
Laura: Hm.
Matt: You notice that these mouths of the dragons seem to be what's creating this white mist, and as time progresses, the mist begins to refill up the room rather quickly.
Laura: All right. Do I notice any-- does it seem-- Well, without touching it. Any kind of poisonous in nature, anything like that?
Matt: Looks like mist.
Ashley: Should we run through?
Orion: While we're standing around, I'd like to reassign the earrings to Vax, Grog, and Scanlan.
Laura: I don't get one anymore? You're taking it off of me right now?
Travis: Yeah, he's giving it to me. (laughs)
Orion: Because we're always together, we're always kind of in the back together, and they're always kind of like up in the fray, so--
Travis: That's true, I do wander off easily.
Sam: Oh, is that you, Grog?
Travis: (laughs) Hi. I know.
Orion: She's always kind of like in the middle. She's the wild card. He's always in the back with us also because we're the ranged dudes.
Laura: All right.
Marisha: Wait, do I still have one?
Taliesin: I'm putting down my mask, just in case this is awful.
Matt: Okay. You guys are still at the stairway. The mist has now filled the room again in front of you.
Laura: Ugh. Should we try breathing it and see what happens?
Sam: Yeah, sure.
Marisha: My Gust of Wind--
Laura: I just reach my arm into the mist and just see--
Marisha: My Gust of Wind lasts up to one minute, by the way, so I can keep--
Laura: Oh, maybe we should just not touch the mist and go straight through the room.
Marisha: I'm just airbending.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: You've been wanting to say that.
Laura: So you can blow it and we just walk through?
Matt: As this conversation has continued-- let's say about 30 or 40 seconds has gone by in transferring the earrings and the discussion, so there's still a little bit of-- there is a clear pathway in the center there.
Marisha: Not much time.
Sam: Let's go.
Laura: Should we go?
Sam: Let's go through.
Laura: Let's go before it gets back.
Travis: Yeah.
Ashley: I start running.
Taliesin: Yes, go, run.
Liam: Hustle, hustle.
Laura: Go, go, go.
Matt: Okay. You all start running through. You're running through with them and keeping concentration on your spell.
Orion: Vax, check for traps!
Sam: Vorak, Desona, come!
Laura: I perception-checked the room. It didn't seem like there was anything.
Orion: Oh, are we good? Okay.
Liam: I'm running ten feet ahead of everybody. I rolled a big old one. (laughter)
Sam: He tripped.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Wow.
Matt: You continue forward, and as you're rushing through the group, not paying attention, you gently hit the edge of the mist barrier with your shoulder, as you're rushing to the side instinctually to stealth along the wall. As your shoulder breaks the mist--
Liam: Bring it.
Matt: All of the dragon mouths burst into bright fiery flame and begin spinning rapidly in the room. The people that are in the center running through right now, which include Keyleth, Scanlan, Tiberius, and Pike, all of you guys make dexterity saving throws.
Ashley: What?!
Sam: Whoa!
Marisha: Son of a bitch.
Laura: Vax!
Sam: Way to go, Vax.
Taliesin: Teacher, teacher, did I have time to finish my book?
Matt: You have.
Taliesin: Yes!
Ashley: Dexterity check?
Liam: You said dex save? Dex save?
Matt: Dex save, yes.
Orion: 18.
Marisha: It's all right.
Matt: 18?
Orion: Mm-hm.
Matt: All right. Hmm. Scanlan?
Sam: Oh! 13.
Matt: 13.
Ashley: Three.
Matt: All right.
Liam: 26.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: Also 13.
Ashley: But I'm short! I'm so short. They would--
Laura: Super duper short.
Travis: Just going to hit you in the face.
Ashley: They would just flow right over me.
Matt: Okay. As the flames just burst out throughout the room, tearing into the air with this reddish-white flame, both Vax and Tiberius manage to try and dodge out of the way as best they can, only receiving, each of them--
Laura: Well, all Vax has to do is roll, because he's already on the freaking ground.
Matt: 12 points of fire damage to each of you.
Marisha: To who?
Liam: Well, rogue with Uncanny Dodge, for a successful save gets zero damage.
Matt: You take none.
Orion: And I take half.
Matt: So you take zero damage, you take 12.
Orion: So I take half. Is it 24 total?
Matt: No, 24 total. You take half.
Orion: Oh.
Marisha: The rest of us?
Matt: Scanlan, Keyleth, and Pike all take 24 points of fire damage.
Sam: Ugh.
Ashley: I got 24 points.
Marisha: Ouch.
Orion: Oh! My robe.
Sam: Ow. Are we still moving?
Liam: Tuck and roll.
Orion: Are you getting used to your new foot, Vax?
Liam: I'm back!
Matt: You guys move through-- that's the four of you guys. Percy, Grog, and Vex and Trinket are all behind, as they watch the flames burst out and they all kind of stop their inertia, and now the mist slowly fills up the room.
Travis: Whoa.
Matt: About the time that your spell wears off for the first minute.
Marisha: Okay. (weak chuckle) Let's move?
Travis: It fills up the room?
Laura: We're still in the room.
Sam: The three of us, you're still back.
Matt: You guys are split right now, with the bearers, the Scalebearers.
Laura: Oh, they're coming with us, they're like coming with us through the whole thing?
Matt: They're with you, yeah.
Marisha: Wait, hang on.
Laura: Keyleth, blow the smoke again. Blow the mist away. If you can.
Marisha: Burning another spell slot. All right, here we go.
Matt: Oh, no.
Ashley: We run through it.
Laura: And now we run.
Marisha: Oh, no. He doesn't care.
Travis: He doesn't care.
Taliesin: No, we walk gently through.
Matt: Burning the second spell slot. (wind noise) The mist clears itself. Now that you're aware of what it does, you're very careful to direct it towards the center and leave an open path. The rest of you rush through, including the Scalebearers, in the minute you have. The wind is blowing in your face from Keyleth's position. It's kind of like stepping into the force of a hurricane. You have to put your hand in front of you to see--
Laura: (shouts) Your breath smells pretty good, though, Keyleth.
Marisha: Thanks, I tried to get a little of a sage thing.
Ashley: Sagey rosemary?
Travis: Very minty.
Marisha: A little orange blossom. It's nice.
Orion: I'm going to Prestidigitate a tiny air shield in front of me.
Liam: When I bite into a York Peppermint Patty--
Marisha: It's also pure oxygen, so we could get a little buzz.
Matt: It's a very, very tiny shield. It protects this much of your face.
Orion: That's what I'm doing.
Matt: Your eyes are fine. The rest of your robes are still (windblown cloth sounds).
Orion: Yeah.
Matt: You guys all make your way across the room. You then finish your spell and the mist immediately fills up and completely obfuscates that room behind you once more.
Sam: One down!
Marisha: We made it!
Sam: 20 rooms to go.
Matt: You're now in what is a ten-foot-wide chamber for an additional-- a tunnel or hallway-- for another 20 feet before it opens up into another room, but there is no light source in there whatsoever. You, with Light on your staff again, you kind of step ahead to--
Laura: Do you want to shoot an arrow in?
Orion: Oh, would you like to see?
Laura: Yeah, let's do it.
Orion: Yeah, very good. Light.
Matt: All right, so as Vex releases her arrow, light bursts forth from the wooden shaft as it arcs across the room. As it does, you can see the room. As compared to the previous one that was square in shape, this one is circular. It is almost a cylinder in its design. Go ahead and make a perception check.
Laura: 16.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: 29.
Laura: He's better.
Matt: Okay. You notice that across this floor of the circular room, there are these circles marked across the entirety of the surface here.
Laura: Great. Those are probably traps.
Travis: I bet those are fun.
Laura: Pressure plates, maybe?
Orion: Okay, or sigils or-- maybe we have to activate them or not activate them?
Travis: I have darkvision, now with a range of 60 feet.
Sam: Can we see to the other side of the room?
Matt: Hm?
Sam: Can we see all the way to the other side of the room?
Matt: Opposite side, there is actually a much larger opening and what looks to be another staircase that descends. This one is 20 feet wide. It's a very wide staircase from what you're used to seeing, especially in these structures.
Sam: And I'm hoping there's no door.
Matt: No doorway. It's open. It just descends down below. And the only way you can tell is that the arrow arcs across--
Liam: Everybody stand back. I'm going to click my Boots of Haste--
Laura: What? Shouldn't we throw something onto one of the pressure plates first and see what it does?
Liam: Yeah, me. I'm going to click my Boots of Haste, I'm going to run, I'm going to do a sort of a running roll, land on the closest circle and wait for half a tick and then roll off of it.
Laura: Are you kidding me?!
Orion: What are you doing?
Travis: No, no, let him do it! Let him do it.
Matt: So as you guys are about to go, "Wait!", Vax is already off. Clicks the boots. The arcane magic of the Boots of Haste kick into his body. He leaps forward. Make an acrobatics check.
Liam: Okay. 22.
Travis: I hope you get your eyebrows burned off.
Matt: All right. You leap forward. Your hand touches the first circle in the room. As it does, there's suddenly a large shift in the room. All of a sudden, the hand which you had purchase on slides out from underneath you. You catch yourself on your feet, but now suddenly there's a loud grinding sound and the entire room seems to be shifting, moving, spinning in its own right, and you instinctually feel something moving towards you very quickly. Make a dexterity saving throw, Liam.
Sam: Oh, boy.
Laura: Vax!
Orion: I click my earring. You're an idiot, Vax.
Liam: I'm going to use Luck because that blew. And that's a natural 20.
Sam: Oh!
Marisha: Oh!
Ashley: Oh snap.
Orion: Yeah, 20!
Ashley: Yeah, 20.
Marisha: Yeah!
Matt: So. You barely manage to move out of the way before that circular portion of the ground skyrockets up like a pillar-- one very similar to the one that you created for your spell-- slams into the ceiling with a heavy thud, retracts, and continues again. In fact, looking around you, all of them in the room are now, at different levels, pistoning into the ceiling. (repeated crashing rock noises) This entire room is slowly rotating and there's just a series of pillars mashing into the ceiling.
Marisha: Oh, it's like a mini-game.
Matt: You have to make an acrobatics check to try and get through this now because you have very little space to move.
Liam: Okay. (laughter)
Liam: I'm going to use Luck again.
Matt: (laughs)
Liam: That is 18.
Matt: 18. You manage to make your way halfway across the room, dodging out of the way as these pillars are slamming and retracting. Kind of use the pattern of when they're pulling down from the ceiling, but they're moving very fast. One of them manages to catch you underneath your ankle. Go ahead and make a dexterity saving throw again.
Liam: That is 15.
Matt: 15. All right.
Travis: Uh-oh.
Ashley: You're going to hurt your foot again, Vax.
Matt: It catches you, takes you off of your balance, and it rockets you towards the ceiling. You manage to pull most of your body out of the way in time, but it still catches the back of your shoulder blade. You take 40 points of crushing damage.
Travis: Yes! (cackles)
Sam: Ohhh!
Marisha: Holy shit.
Matt: As you are slammed into the ceiling. And as the pillar retracts, you roll off with a heavy wheeze of pain. (groan) Catching onto your feet again. Make one more acrobatics check.
Marisha: Oh my god. If you get crushed to death--
Travis: (laughs) On Skype.
Liam: That's a 23.
Matt: What was that?
Travis: 23.
Matt: 23.
Liam: I'm like an acrobatic cheetah. 23.
Matt: 23. You manage to-- in the severe pain you're feeling, you can tell there's probably some serious bruising in there and you probably broke a couple of ribs, but you manage to just barely dodge and leap out of the way, making your way across the room to where the staircase descends, out of the immediate danger.
Sam: Ah.
Laura: Jeez.
Matt: The rest of you now are standing on the opposite side of this room, which is currently a rotating grinding mill.
Travis: That was great.
Liam: I'd like to check if there's any kind of device or anything on this side--
Orion: Okay, hold on a second, Vax, just chill out for a minute. We all just took a little damage this last time.
Liam: I'm just trying a perception check.
Sam: He's checking. He's checking.
Matt: All right, make a perception check.
Marisha: For a lever or something.
Travis: For a switch.
Liam: 25.
Sam: 25.
Matt: 25. You can see, in the ceiling, in the very, very center of the room, precariously placed right where one of the pillars in the center slams into the ceiling, there appears to be a small quarter-sized hole, gold piece-sized hole in the ceiling.
Ashley: Yeah, come on, Vex.
Taliesin: Race you for it.
Matt: It's in the middle of the room. In the ceiling, where--
Liam: Is there a clear shot of it or is there (bang bang bang) going on?
Matt: Oh, no, it's still going. The pillars are still slamming into the roof. And that one hole you see is right where one of the pillars slams into the roof. You only see it intermittently when the pillar retracts.
Marisha: Go, sharpshooters, go.
Taliesin: You first, or me?
Laura: Well, let's try this first because you might just break it down completely.
Taliesin: Oh, very well.
Laura: You are much more powerful than I am, Percy.
Travis: Yeah, ladies first, perhaps.
Taliesin: Ladies first.
Laura: All right, can I try to shoot an arrow into the little hole?
Matt: You can. This is a hard shot because it's at an angle now. We're talking, this is Robin Hood-level split-the-arrow. Because you have to hit it and then ricochet upward to see if it'll have any effect.
Laura: Oh, jeez Louise.
Travis: Well, get up there.
Marisha: I place my hands on her shoulders--
Travis: Can you inspire?
Sam: I can inspire her.
Marisha: And I give her Enhance Ability.
Sam: Ooh, Enhance Ability.
Laura: Okay, what does that mean?
Marisha: You have advantage on-- oh, ability checks. It's just ability checks.
Matt: Ability checks. It's not going to help for an attack.
Laura: This is, what, an attack?
Marisha: Never mind.
Matt: This would be an attack.
Travis: I would like to offer my beard for a rub of good luck.
Laura: Thanks, Grog.
Matt: As you offer the beard, it tears off.
Travis: What?
Ashley: Oh, no!
Travis: What did you do?!
Laura: You know what, I'm going to tie this to the arrow. It's going to give it really good luck.
Sam: That seems like it's aerodynamically--
Laura: I'm not actually going to tie it to the arrow.
Taliesin: Okay!
Laura: I'm just going to tuck it--
Matt: Mark in your inventory, you now have Fake Grog Rope Beard.
Travis: Is that a -1 to my confidence now?
Matt: (laughs) It will come into play.
Travis: (cries)
Orion: So the goal is to shoot an arrow into this-- like the Death Star?
Matt: Essentially, yeah.
Laura: Yeah.
Orion: Okay, cool. As I see her ready, I'm going to hold up my hand with my ring and point it right at that hole.
Matt: To do--
Laura: So you can deflect it if I--
Orion: I got your back.
Laura: All right, thanks, Tiberius.
Orion: Get it, Vex.
Matt: All right, and you're going to--
Sam: I'm going to inspire her. With inspiration. I'll sing, (sings) Ooh ooh, shut up and shoot that hole! Your arrow is my destiny, yeah I said,
All: (sings) Ooh ooh, shut up and shoot that hole! (laughs)
Matt: And with that, you feel your focus, you wait, you breathe in, you breathe out, you breathe in, you breathe out in pattern with the slamming of the piston against the ceiling.
Laura: Oh, I'm so nervous.
Ashley: Get it, get it, get it, you're going to do it.
Matt: You let out all your breath and you hold, hold, hold, waiting between heartbeats, and then (twwt), release. Go ahead and make your attack roll.
Laura: I'm going to roll the fancy one we got last week.
Liam: Get it, girl. Get it.
Laura: All right. (laughs) Oh, no. Okay. I add my attack bonus?
Matt: Yes, you do.
Sam: Plus an inspiration.
Laura: Plus an inspiration dice?
Matt: Plus a d10.
Orion: Oh, shit.
Marisha: (whispering) It's so quiet.
Orion: I know.
Laura: Oh, that's awesome! Okay. 35. (yelling)
Travis: Good inspiration.
Matt: As you release the arrow, you see the pillars slamming. The pillar comes down just as the arrow crests over it, past another pillar that just barely manages to miss it by a segment.
Orion: I cast Telekinesis to swoop it up. (whoosh)
Sam: Oh, god.
Orion: Just to help and guide it.
Ashley: No, but it's already gone in.
Travis: We don't need it! We don't need it!
Laura: Oh, let me just see if I got it first!
Liam: She rolled a 35, we don't need shit.
Orion: It's going in there, anyway. I don't even have to roll.
Matt: So. As the pillar pulls down, the arrow goes cascading forward. Go ahead and make a d20 roll with the +5 modifier.
Orion: Sweet. That's 17.
Matt: 17? Okay. So as the arrow makes its way, it ricochets off the bottom edge of the actual hole and immediately bends itself upward, the shaft bending. As it begins to start heading up the hole, there's a sudden force of arcane energy that slams it even harder up into the top of this tiny little slit.
Travis: Yeah, good.
Matt: As it goes up there, you hear what sounds like a splintering of wood and metal. Then you hear metal grinding. You start seeing bits and chunks of grinding metal begin to pour out of the hole and the pillars begin to (scraping stone).
Laura: Hey.
Ashley: Yeah.
Travis: Nice shot!
Ashley: Yeah, Vex!
Matt: Eventually coming to a halt.
Marisha: A wrench in the machine.
Taliesin: I could have done it.
Laura: You totally could have done that.
Taliesin: I could have made that shot.
Sam: Next room's yours.
Taliesin: Yes, next room, next room's all mine.
Orion: That was one of those impossible things, right?
Matt: Pretty damn close to impossible.
Orion: I knew it.
Laura: Nice.
Marisha: (laughs) Pretty damn close to impossible.
Sam: All right, let's go across and heal our rogue.
Travis: Yeah, we walk across.
Laura: Yeah, all right.
Liam: As they come to the other side, I clutch my broken rib and injuredly hold a hand up and give a half-assed high-five to my sister. (grunts)
Laura: Good job getting slammed into the roof like that.
Liam: Yeah, you're welcome.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: So can we take a short rest to heal up and then also a short rest to take a short rest in real life?
Matt: You can. We're going to go ahead and stop here. You're now taking a short rest.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: You guys take a moment. If you want to go ahead and heal up using any of your hit dice, you're able to, Vax.
Marisha: I'm going to do that.
Sam: Me, too.
Matt: And on that note, we're going to go ahead and take our five-minute break here, guys.
Travis: Cool.
Sam: Five.
Matt: While the party takes a short rest, we're taking a five-minute rest. We've got to be done by ten tonight with the stream, so.
Sam: Let's do it.
Laura: Woo.
Matt: So we're going to take a five-minute break.
Sam: True five. True five.
Matt: Orion, if you want to go ahead and come over, we're going to go ahead and give you guys-- yes, sir?
Zac: Bring them on up.
Matt: Okay, yeah, so we're going to go ahead and introduce our guests and give them an overview of the charity that we have currently on the stream tonight.
Travis: That was great work, though.
Laura: Yes.
Marisha: Oh my god, I rolled two eights in a row.
Taliesin: Nice!
Marisha: That's awesome.
Matt: I'm going to pass this over to Orion.
Orion: Okay.
Matt: Come on over. Gonna enjoy my chickens.
Sam: Don't forget to go to Teespring and buy our T-shirts.
Laura: Oh, let-- no! We haven't even talked about it at all!
Matt: Yes! By the way, our T-shirts are on Teespring. We'll have six more days.
Sam: Six more days.
Marisha: They also just went up on our website, on critrole.com. So you can go to our website and find the link.
Matt: All right, guys, we'll see you in a little bit. Meanwhile, take it away.
Sam: I'm going to tweet the Teespring link right now.
Zac: Lucas, go fullscreen.
Marisha: Sam is tweeting it.
Orion: Give me that chair.
Zac: Cool. Are you good, man?
Orion: Yeah.
Zac: Sweet.
Orion: We had points. We had points. Are we standing for this?
Taylor: Yeah.
Orion: Tell me that for the chat thing. Hi, everybody! Orion Acaba here and Taylor Carol. This is our special guest. And he's with GameChanger, and he has a couple of things to say for this particular awesome charity that we are working with today with SquareEnix and the Deus Ex anniversary.
Taylor: Yeah.
Marisha: Taylor!
Taylor: Well, first of all, on behalf of GameChanger, I just want to say what a blast it is to be with you guys. Personally, I've never watched D&D before. You guys have made me a huge fan.
Orion: Yes.
Taylor: And, yeah. So a little bit of backstory about GameChanger. About nine years ago, I was diagnosed terminal form of cancer. I was given about two weeks left to live, but thankfully it's been a long two weeks. I'm totally healthy now. (cheers)
Taylor: Thank you. But when I was sick, the most incredible thing that I saw was the impact that video games had on the people and on the children that were fighting cancer and other rare diseases. And witnessing the incredible good of the game community of video games. My dad and I resolved to make an organization that used and capitalized on that incredible good of the video games, of the gaming community, to help those suffering from rare diseases. And so one year later, GameChanger charity was born, and we started out just collecting games from the incredible gaming community, giving them back to kids suffering from rare diseases. And seven years later it evolved into what we have now. Now we're sponsored with some incredible gaming organizations like Square. A huge thanks to them for partnering with us for this awesome campaign. But yeah, today we go into hospitals and do things called GameChanger days where we go and we bring food for the staff, for the families, for the kids suffering from rare diseases. We bring them gaming packages so they can bond together. We provide college scholarships, and we really just try and provide hope and inspiration-- the same hope and inspiration that games really provided me when I was sick.
Orion: Yeah. That's awesome. And we here at--
Taylor: Oh, thank you. No, thank you guys.
Orion: And we here at Critical Role really love organizations like yours, which is why when we started talking, it was such a nice partnership for you to come on and tell us about this organization. Tell everybody where they can find to help, if they wanted to send to GameChanger.
Taylor: Yeah, GameChanger. Yeah.
Orion: Yeah, where would they go for that, to check it out?
Taylor: To support GameChanger, to learn more about what we do, you can visit www.gamechangercharity.org, and if you go to our website, you can see our campaign with Deus Ex. You can go online and if you donate anything more than a dollar, you get a free copy, a director's cut--
Orion: Oh! Well, awesome. That's cool. I'll probably do that too. It sounds like it's pretty sweet. And I want to thank you, the rest, with all of us. I'm doing this because I'm currently fighting cancer. I have-- I don't have that bad of a trek to go through, but it is very inconvenient and painful, but hearing stories like you. I mean, you're 20. He has a beautiful singing voice. He's a singer. And you're going to Harvard, is that what's going on?
Taylor: I am, yeah, I'm a rising junior.
Orion: Stupid doctors, they don't know shit. But people like you inspire me, because up until a few months ago, I didn't need any of that kind of inspiration. So it's great, and your organization's great, so we just wanted to thank you for coming on and speaking with everybody and letting everybody know, and we'll be working together in the future, too, and we'll be doing lots of fun stuff, so yeah. Check these guys out, please.
Laura: Donate, donate.
Ashley: What are you studying at Harvard?
Taylor: I am an English concentrator.
Orion: Whoa.
Marisha: Nice.
Taylor: Yeah, yeah.
Laura: I don't even know what that means.
Orion: Hold on a second. Do you mean like you concentrate on English?
Taylor: (English accent) English primarily.
Orion: Oh, very good. Okay, cool. That's like my second language.
Taylor: You guys have to teach me better accents. I love all of your accents.
Orion: (laughs) Any other questions for our guest, guys?
Zac: I'd like to let everybody know, the mods all have access to the GameChanger command in the chatroom, so if you guys are watching and are not in the chat, just join the chat really quick and you guys will be able to get that link for the donation link to get Deus Ex and anything over a dollar and you get a copy of the game. We're going to go ahead and let that run all the way throughout the rebroadcast and throughout the weekend, so mods, just keep spamming that throughout the chat.
Laura: So donations tonight are going to GameChanger, yeah?
Orion: Yeah.
Zac: It's up to you guys whether or not you want 826LA to go to GameChanger because the link right now just goes to Critical Role, so it's up to you guys for where it goes from there.
Orion: So we can do that.
Laura: Awesome. I think donations tonight will definitely go to GameChanger, yeah.
Orion: Yeah, so that's what we'll do. Awesome!
Taylor: Thank you all.
Orion: Right now. That's the decision.
Taylor: Go team.
Marisha: Tell them it's the last day.
Orion: And this is our last day. Is that right?
Taylor: Yes, so this is the last day to get your copy--
Orion: For the Deus Ex thing.
Zac: Okay, then I will not let it run over the weekend.
Orion: Yeah. But again, dude, thank you for coming on.
Taylor: Hey, thank you.
Orion: And we'll break because I have to pee really bad. But thank you so much.
Taylor: Thank you.
Zac: So guys, just to be clear, all of your donations tonight will go towards GameChanger, but if you want a copy of the game, just go and donate a dollar on the link that we have access to in the chatroom. And just so you guys know, there will not be time for them to read messages tonight after the show. Lucas and I both have to catch a flight, so sorry. We'll get to them next time.
Taylor: Anything more than a dollar.
Zac: Anything more than a dollar, to be clear. Anything more than a dollar.
Ashley: Go donate. Just do it!
Zac: Listen to Ashley. We're also really close to another giveaway, guys. If you guys subscribe, I think we're only like ten away from another giveaway, a large giveaway, which is a signed Player's Handbook and a signed photo of the cast. And every 50 we'll do a giveaway until the show's over tonight. We will not be going late, so just keep in mind, guys, don't send Geek & Sundry messages upset that your message wasn't read. We'll get to it next time. We appreciate you guys donating and Lucas, go ahead and go to drop cam. Yeah, go drop cam. [break]
Matt: Welcome back.
Zac: I had a really quick announcement before we get back into the game. The winner is Paula Konito, so congratulations--
Marisha: Paula Konito!
Matt: Paula Konito, congrats!
Marisha: Paula Konito!
Zac: -- and I understand that we crashed their website for donations--
Matt: (laughs)
Ashley: What?
Zac: So congratulations, guys, for crashing the website, but what is not crashed is our donation link, so if you scroll down and click on the 826LA link, all of the donations that are made tonight they've said will go to GameChanger
Laura: Yeah, the portion of the donations that would normally go to 826LA tonight are going to go to GameChanger.
Zac: So just scroll down on the channel page, click on 826LA or the donate link that's being spammed in the chat room, and all of those donations will go to GameChanger. And they let us know before they left, they just got 10,000 more Deus Ex keys, so we will let that run throughout the weekend.
Travis: That's amazing.
Laura: Oh, awesome.
Orion: Nice!
Zac: So the mods will keep spamming that throughout the weekend and you guys can donate throughout the rebroadcast and things like that for a one-dollar Deus Ex code.
Laura: Anything over a dollar.
Zac: Anything over a dollar, yeah.
Matt: That's so awesome.
Zac: One-oh-one! Enjoy Deus Ex.
Matt: Yeah! Thank you guys so much.
Laura: It would be good if you donated more than one dollar, if you want.
Taliesin: It's still needed.
Matt: The Critters are strong. The Critters are legion.
Travis: It is. They are.
Matt: It's amazing the things we can do.
Orion: It is on. YES.
Taliesin: There are Critters in the walls.
Marisha: They're in the god--
Marisha: -- damn walls!
Taliesin: -- damn walls!
Taliesin: Thank you for being there with me on that.
Matt: All righty, so! Back into the fray.
Laura: Oh, god, okay.
Matt: You guys, after finishing your short rest, healing up various wounds in that circumstance--
Sam: (plays note on flute) (laughter)
Matt: You make your way, playing a fancy little ditty on the flute. You make your way down this long, long staircase. You continue down for, I'd say, probably a good hundred feet or so before you start encountering, I'll say, a mild change in the scenery, at least. What was normally just a musty hallway is becoming thicker and thicker coated with large spiderwebs.
Laura: Ugh.
Travis: Awesome.
Orion: Everything's so sticky.
Ashley: Spiders!
Matt: You manage to push through and cut through, but it gets to the point where it's just so matted you guys are having to bushwhack your way through as if you had a machete.
Taliesin: I'm not taking off my mask.
Travis: Can I turn to one of those (clears throat) Scalebearers and ask if they've ever dealt with any umber-hulks in this region.
Matt: Scalebearer Vorak gives kind of a curious look to your question. Scalebearer Desona looks to you and says, "No, I don't believe they exist in this region. Nor this close to the surface, as far as I know."
Travis: Right. That's important, isn't it.
Orion: Are the spiderwebs-- are they becoming more as we traverse--
Matt: Yes, they're getting thicker and thicker.
Orion: Okay, so I'm going to make my way towards the front of the group because I'm noticing this and I'm going to do a Fire Breath, and I'm going to instantly cast Control Flame and catch as much as I can of it, and start spinning it, burning the webs as we go.
Matt: Okay. Very cool. So, Tiberius steps forward and breathes a heating breath of dragon fire out of his mouth. As it cascades forward, burning through the nearby webs, he casts a secondary spell and captures it and begins to shape it, almost like it's a fiery clay in the middle of the air. And he utilizes it in a very similar way to how he uses Telekinesis and begins to use that rolling fire to burn through the webbing as you guys continue down the stairway.
Laura: Nice.
Taliesin: That's convenient.
Marisha: At least it'll be disinfected.
Orion: Mm-hm-hm. Fire cleans all.
Matt: It also leaves a terrible stench. Burning web has this awful kind of--
Travis: Burnt hair?
Matt: It's similar. Burnt hair with burnt plastic, if you can think of it-- it's awful.
Laura: What's plastic?
Matt: This is more for your own player knowledge, sensory knowledge. (laughter)
Matt: The sound of crackling of the nearby webbing that's slowly retracting and burning and melting is immediately joined by the sound of a low clicking. (groaning)
Laura: I stealth immediately.
Marisha: Oh, that frickin' sound. Do we-- I can try to cast Pass Without a Trace on all of us, if we want to sneak through here.
Laura: Oh, yeah, that would be good!
Marisha: Do you want to try to sneak through?
Travis: Yeah, do it.
Marisha: I cast Pass Without a Trace.
Travis: Now let's vogue. This changes every time!
Orion: Sweet!
Matt: All right, so Pass Without a Trace is cast, while you two both make stealth rolls.
Laura: So, with the Pass Without a Trace?
Matt: With the Pass Without a Trace, yes.
Laura: 31.
Orion: (quietly, to Marisha) Is my magic on stealth, too?
Liam: 24.
Matt: With the plus ten?
Liam: Plus ten from what? Say again?
Laura: Pass Without a Trace.
Matt: Keyleth cast Pass Without a Trace.
Liam: Oh, 34.
Matt: All right. You guys dart off to the side, kind of using the remnants of the web to block your physical forms. The boiling fire that has been placed ahead of you is starting to reflect small little points of reflected light throughout the shadows in the distance that are moving towards you as you see giant hairy arachnid legs.
Orion: I back up! I have my cloak on. And I'm going to go ahead and cast Stoneskin. That's what I do right now.
Matt: You cast Stoneskin? I'm going to go ahead and ask--
Marisha: I'm also going to cast Stoneskin.
Laura: Can I cast, while they're coming-- where did I write it down?
Sam: I'm going to go invisible.
Laura: Never mind, I can't find my spell.
Sam: This is exciting, guys. There's a board of some sort.
Laura: I cast Entangle on the ground.
Matt: In front?
Laura: Yeah.
Sam: You have-- you can cast things?
Laura: (quickly) Yeah, yeah, yeah!
Orion: (quietly) Yeah, she's a ranger, she can cast stuff.
Travis: Apparently.
Taliesin: As long as it's at range.
Sam: Grog, you've got a beard spell.
Travis: I do.
Taliesin: That was my terrible joke and I wish I hadn't. Now I'm embarrassed.
Travis: I can also cast Flatulence.
Sam: And you have Frenzied Rage.
Matt: All right. You can now see skittering off to the side what appear to be a series of large arachnid-like creatures. As you cast Entanglement, you can--
Laura: I'm reading it now.
Matt: Go ahead and read the spell.
Orion: Did I manage to catch with the Control Flame my entire Fire Breath when I did that? And I'm controlling it still?
Matt: Currently you are.
Laura: Oh, that's not what it was. That's the wrong spell. Sorry, sorry, it's Spike Growth, is the spell.
Sam: Spikes growth?
Laura: I cast Spike Growth.
Matt: Spike Growth, okay, that is different.
Laura: Yes, which is-- the ground in a 20-foot radius centered on a point within range twists and sprouts hard spikes and thorns. It's difficult terrain for the duration, but anybody that can see me casting it doesn't take damage to it, it's only the people that don't see me casting it.
Marisha: Dope.
Sam: Really?
Matt: All right.
Laura: Yeah. Any creature that can't see the area at the time the spell is cast must make a wisdom check.
Orion: Cool.
Sam: All right, but can they see the area?
Matt: They can see the area.
Laura: Oh. Well, that's not quite the same thing, then, what I saw. (yells) Forget it, my spell is stupid!
Sam: No, no!
Orion: It's fine, just not in a hallway with stairs.
Laura: I know!
Sam: It's fine, just stick to arrows, really.
Ashley: She can do so much more than just arrows!
Orion: As I see this, can I release my Control Flame and let the Fire Breath just happen, and not control it anymore?
Matt: Looking into your spell now. Oh, Control Flames is a cantrip. You are able to control just enough fire to burn away the things. It wouldn't actually do any damage if released. Control Fire kind of like captures an element of it.
Orion: Okay. So that's what I was using, the element of what I did.
Matt: Yeah.
Orion: So I used it so I could have the fire.
Matt: Exactly.
Orion: Got it.
Matt: You set it as a catalyst to it.
Laura: They can see the ground.
Matt: They can.
Laura: Then no, don't cast it.
Travis: Doesn't it mess up the ground if we try to walk through it?
Laura: Not you guys, but they--
Marisha: But they're spiders. They're probably not that wise.
Orion: Can I cast something else?
Matt: No. Right now everyone rolls initiative.
Orion: Damn it!
Ashley: Ugh.
Matt: There are only so many things you can do here, Tiberius.
Orion: I know, but I like doing lots of things.
Matt: I know you do.
Marisha: That's not bad! I'll take that.
Sam: I lost my dice.
Laura: That's my punishment.
Travis: Fuck, yeah.
Taliesin: I love my new stats.
Laura: I don't think that should count.
Taliesin: I rolled terribly this time but my stats are good.
Sam: Every time, every time.
Orion: What?
Sam: I've never rolled a double digit initiative roll, ever.
Matt: Oh, Scanlan, but you roll when it counts.
Travis: Just Wil Wheaton roll every time you do initiative.
Taliesin: Is that what we're calling it? Wheatoning?
Travis: Yeah, Wheatoning.
Laura: Wheatoning? Yeah.
Taliesin: All right.
Travis: Wheatoning.
Sam: (announcer voice) Wha-Wha-Wheaton.
Matt: All right, so. 25-20.
Ashley: Natural 20. (yelling)
Ashley: I don't think that ever happens when it's like damage or something.
Matt: That's okay.
Laura: 23.
Ashley: I'm gonna go with it.
Matt: Okay, so 23. Grog, what have you got?
Travis: 21.
Matt: Okay, so we've got Vex, Grog, and Pike, what's your dex? What's your initiative bonus?
Ashley: Nothing.
Matt: Nothing, so 20. All right. 20 to 15?
Marisha: 17.
Matt: 17, Keyleth.
Orion: 15.
Taliesin: 16.
Matt: All right, Percy. Tiberius. Vax?
Laura: He's gone.
Matt: Has left the screen.
Travis: Oh, really?
Sam: Great.
Ashley: Last.
Matt: I'm going to consider that a low initiative.
Marisha: Oh-ho-ho-ho.
Orion: He just went to go poop.
Sam: Seven!
Matt: Seven for Scanlan.
Orion: Or deal with--
Matt: All right, we'll get to his turn when we get to it.
Ashley: (yells) Vax!
Matt: It's okay. All right, Vex.
Marisha: Wait, there he is.
Sam: He's holding a cat.
Orion: He has a cat.
Sam: It's Trinket! It's Trinket!
Matt: What did you roll for initiative?
Liam: That is a 16.
Matt: 16?
Orion: Okay.
Travis: Get your head out of your ass.
Sam: He's Dr. Evil. (laughter)
Matt: All right, Vex.
Laura: Me?
Matt: Yes.
Laura: Oh! I'm going to cast Conjure Barrage at all of the spiders coming at us.
Matt: All righty.
Laura: I'm going to Hunter's Mark whatever one looks the biggest.
Matt: Okay, from this position you will also hit Tiberius to hit all the spiders.
Laura: Oh, where am I?
Matt: You're right here.
Laura: Oh.
Travis: You gotta do what you gotta do. (laughs) Sorry.
Matt: I mean, you could--
Laura: I'm going to move to where I'm in the middle of them. I'm still kind of stuck.
Matt: Right there?
Marisha: Get it!
Laura: Yeah, and then I'll Conjure Barrage from there.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: (quietly) Don't encourage it.
Laura: I cast Hunter's Mark on the biggest one I see.
Matt: Okay, this one here is one of the larger ones.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: So I'm going to go ahead and mark that one. So go ahead and-- Conjure Barrage does what damage?
Travis: (quietly) Hate it.
Laura: It does 3d8 on all creatures.
Matt: Do they get a saving throw?
Laura: They get-- yes, they do. They get half-damage if they save.
Matt: Mmkay. What's the DC on your spells?
Laura: (in a funny gruff voice) My DC is 14.
Orion: (laughs)
Matt: All righty.
Orion: (mimicking Laura's gruff voice) MemememememeME.
Marisha: What's your DC, girl?
Laura: Okay.
Marisha: What's yo digits? Gimme those stats.
Matt: Okay, all you need--
Laura: Do I need to roll for attack?
Matt: Only this one makes it.
Laura: Oh, sweet!
Matt: No, the barrage just happens. They're all caught in it.
Laura: Okay, cool.
Matt: So all of them take full damage, except for this one takes half damage, so go ahead and roll the damage on that.
Laura: Okay. 3d8. 15, and then 20 for the big one with the Hunter's Mark.
Matt: All righty. So. So you moved, did that. Do you want to move Trinket as well?
Laura: Can I have Trinket attack?
Matt: Trinket--
Laura: Oh, that's a lot of them.
Matt: Well, that, and the spell you cast was an action. Trinket can attack as part of your attack round.
Laura: Okay, so I get a second attack?
Matt: Well, no, your spell was an action. So that's your turn. You do Conjure Barrage instead of your attack.
Laura: Cool, I'm going to step back against the wall.
Matt: All right, so you step back there. Do you want to move Trinket anywhere in particular?
Laura: Nah, he can't really get anywhere, it's fine.
Matt: All right, Trinket is there and-- (bear noises)
Laura: It's good times, guys.
Matt: Angrily, a growl in the distance. Grog, you're up.
Travis: I'd like to hold my turn.
Sam: What?
Orion: Ooh, yeah!
Matt: All right, Grog holds initiative.
Orion: Strategy.
Marisha: Must be something good.
Matt: Pike, you're up.
Ashley: Okay, how far can I move up to use a Spiritual Weapon? I can't tell where I'm at. I'm sorry, I didn't wear my glasses.
Matt: I mean, you can move through your allies without an issue. You can shift through your own guys without a problem.
Ashley: Okay, so I would like to cast a golden spiderweb of thorns.
Sam: Ooh.
Laura: (gasps) What?
Marisha: Ooh.
Orion: (laughs) Nice!
Taliesin: Fancy.
Matt: All right. Okay.
Ashley: And encase the spiders.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: That's cool.
Matt: Okay. (laughter)
Ashley: Like a thorny net.
Matt: This would be considered a net, if we are considering a weapon that you are conjuring for this.
Ashley: I'm just making it look really pretty.
Matt: Right.
Ashley: Basically.
Travis: (quietly) It looks so pretty.
Matt: So the effect of this-- I'm letting you hit multiple guys with this. It would not do any damage.
Ashley: It wouldn't do any damage, it would just contain them?
Matt: It would possibly have an effect on their ability--
Ashley: Even if they're thorny? Even like holy thorns? Oh.
Matt: It would be very itchy for them.
Ashley: All right, you know what?
Orion: Oh. Well, I mean, that's not out of--
Laura: I think you should stick with it, it's awesome.
Sam: Yeah, man, commit.
Ashley: Okay. Contain them.
Orion: Yeah, it's thematic.
Ashley: Contain them and then somebody could just--
Laura: Fireball.
Ashley: Throw fire, a fireball at them.
Matt: All right, go ahead and roll a d20 and then add five to it.
Ashley: Okay. 12.
Matt: 12? Okay. These four in the immediate front, right there, as you bring back your mace in the air, you kind of hang onto the side with the leather strap around your wrist. You reach up and grab your holy symbol. As you release the holy symbol to hold your hand up, divine energy streaks out from your fingertips and forms into this kind of gold and silver net. As your arm is doing this kind of throwing animation in the air like that, the net shoots out from the front and spreads down onto the spiders and contracts around. You can see it catches them and they start scrambling inside. These front four are considered grappled. (cheering)
Ashley: All right, all right!
Matt: The one in the back managed to avoid it.
Orion: Cool.
Laura: Nice!
Marisha: Nice!
Matt: That's it? That brings it to Keyleth.
Marisha: Okay, with that new development--
Orion: Wait. Can you do lightning?
Marisha: I can. I'm going to do Poison Spray, though. Where am I right now?
Matt: You're right here. Behind Pike as she threw her giant golden net.
Marisha: I'm going to be like, 'scuse me, 'scuse me, Pike, 'scuse me. Sorry, sorry.
Ashley: Yes? Oh, go through, go through, go go go!
Marisha: Thank you, thank you, thank you.
Ashley: Tag you in! Tag you in!
Marisha: (whoosh) Poison Spray! It's a ten-foot cone.
Matt: Ten-foot cone. If you want to get right up in here you could get these three there.
Marisha: I'll do that.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: (whoosh) So, it's a constitution saving throw.
Matt: Okay. This one succeeds, this one fails, this one fails.
Sam: (singing along with the battle music) It's the music that means we're having a fight.
Matt: All right. So, this one succeeds, so no damage, but these two take damage. Go ahead and roll it.
Marisha: Okay, so they take 2d12. Six. Ugh. Seven damage.
Matt: Seven damage to each.
Marisha: It's not great. I think he takes half damage, though, even though he fails.
Matt: Does he? I think Poison Mist--
Marisha: Poison Spray.
Matt: Oh, Poison Spray. It's a cantrip. I think it's damage or nothing.
Marisha: Oh, yeah, I guess so.
Matt: All right. It's your move, do you want to keep moving or do you want to stay where you are?
Marisha: Can I get out of everyone's way?
Matt: You're currently-- actually, down from where you cast it, you would be able to move out, yeah.
Marisha: Can I back up a little bit? Yeah.
Matt: You can, they're still grappled.
Marisha: I just kind of want to-- yeah.
Matt: To there. All right.
Marisha: Your turn!
Matt: That ends your turn. Vax, Percy.
Taliesin: Please, be my guest.
Liam: Did you say Vax, Percy?
Matt: Yes.
Travis: Yep.
Liam: I'm doing my best seeing from where I can see here. Keyleth is right in front of me?
Matt: She was. She just pulled behind you.
Marisha: I moved behind.
Laura: Now you're in front of the spiders.
Marisha: You're good, you're in front.
Liam: Okay, there's a little bit of distance, so I'm just going to start hucking daggers at them. I'm going to start with dagger of life stealing.
Marisha: You're only two squares away.
Liam: That is a 16 to hit.
Matt: 16 to hit? Hits.
Liam: Okay, so that is four, six, is ten of damage.
Matt: All right.
Liam: Then the keen dagger follows. That is a 27.
Matt: That hits.
Liam: That hits for ten damage, and then--
Laura: You're killing them!
Liam: And then the flametongue dagger.
Matt: You're not Hasted anymore, by the way.
Liam: You're right, forget it, yeah, forget that last. That's right, two.
Matt: So as you're off to the side hiding among the slowly burning webbing, you move around, huck both daggers. One strikes a spider right in the center of where its eyes are and it screeches for a second before it curls up, its legs kind of pulling into its torso. The other one begins to pull out of the net that Pike set, and as it does you throw the secondary dagger. It strikes it in its abdomen, and the blade retracts and returns to your belt, and as it does, it leaves this streak of greenish liquid. And you have a better view of these spiders now. Go ahead and make a nature check, both Keyleth and Vex.
Marisha: Dope.
Orion: By the way, I'm here, but I'm also there.
Marisha: Natural 20. (yelling)
Matt: You're also there?
Orion: Cloak of Displacement.
Laura: Good, because I rolled an eight.
Matt: Oh.
Orion: There's like two of me.
Matt: All right. So, Keyleth
Sam: (whistles with the battle music)
Matt: You notice as most spider-like creatures go, you're used to like the darker, furry, wolf-spider types. These have a different color. Their physical bodies are more white and blue. Their coloration is mostly white but with a kind of bluish hue to it and their eyes are almost pink-white in color.
Laura: Ugh.
Ashley: Because they live underground. There's no sunlight.
Matt: They're a very strange, different kind of spider.
Liam: I don't like this.
Marisha: Is that all I know, with my natural 20?
Matt: You haven't encountered too many types of arachnids, but there's something about them that seems loosely themed in the ethereal.
Laura: Oh.
Marisha: Hm.
Matt: You in your experience, you've heard of certain spiders that can travel through the planes rapidly.
Orion: Now damn plane spiders?
Travis: Maybe we don't have to kill it, maybe they just (pfft).
Marisha: Gotcha. Hey, guys, I think these are like magical bamf-ing spiders.
Orion: Oh.
Taliesin: Okay.
Sam: Cool, bro, let's kill them.
Marisha: Yeah, let's kill them.
Taliesin: There's one spider that's not caught?
Laura: There's what, there's three spiders left?
Matt: Yes, one back here.
Taliesin: All right, I'm going to take a couple of shots at it with my Sharpshooter, so let's start with 24 to hit?
Matt: What was it?
Taliesin: 24 to hit?
Matt: That hits.
Taliesin: And let's do this. My first shot--
Sam: Ka-pew!
Taliesin: That's depressing. Well, I get the bonus, so that's 18 points of damage.
Matt: 18 points of damage? All righty.
Marisha: That's not too depressing.
Ashley: That's not depressing at all.
Travis: That's not depressing.
Taliesin: That's not too depressing. It's because I'm taking a negative five to hit.
Laura: Oh.
Taliesin: And that's-- oh, that's not bad. I have new numbers. 16 to hit.
Matt: 16 does also hit, yeah.
Taliesin: Aha!
Matt: Same target?
Taliesin: Same target, with an added fire bonus. Three fire damage and 17 as well.
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: 17 plus three fire damage.
Ashley: That bonus is awesome.
Laura: He is so dead.
Matt: (gunshot noise) That spider gets splattered. You see there's a burst of flame and a (explosion noise) as its body is knocked in the air, torn asunder, and then consumed by the flame burst at the same time. You see what looks like a scattering of ash across the ground and the steps beneath it.
Marisha: It looks like flash paper?
Matt: Essentially, yeah.
Taliesin: And I duck back behind Grog. (laughter)
Travis: Where are you going?
Matt: All right. These two spiders that are currently caught in the net both (whoosh) vanish and the net falls flat.
Laura: Oh, bamf-ing spiders.
Matt: (teleportation noise)
Taliesin: Oh, shit.
Matt: One is striking at you.
Laura: Me?
Matt: That is a 21 to hit.
Laura: It hits me.
Matt: And against Percy, that is a 25.
Taliesin: Oh my god, that hits.
Matt: All right. You both take 13 points of piercing damage
Taliesin: Ow!
Matt: And I need you both to make a constitution saving throw. (groaning)
Taliesin: Oh, bugger.
Marisha: That can't be good.
Taliesin: 13 points of piercing damage?
Matt: Mm-hm.
Marisha: They poofed. Poofers.
Laura: 17? Oh, wait. 19.
Matt: 19 constitution saving throw.
Taliesin: Constitution saving throw. (blows raspberry)
Marisha: Oh, no, Percy!
Taliesin: Rolled a one.
Matt: So as all of a sudden, the strange (teleportation noise) sound streaks behind you, you turn over your shoulder just in time to see the spiders pop out of seemingly nowhere and strike into you. The fangs sink into your side and you knock them off with your elbow.
Laura: (grunts in pain)
Matt: You feel the venom extract itself from the fangs, but just as you pull it out of the side, so it actually does not envenom your body. Percy, you're not so lucky. The venom pulses into the side of your shoulder.
Taliesin: (groans in pain)
Matt: And you feel this burning sensation ripple through your entire upper right torso. You take 21 points of poison damage.
Marisha: Oh, shit!
Liam: What was that number, again?
All: 21.
Sam: He's fine, he's fine.
Marisha: Is that all it does, just poison him?
Matt: Yep.
Taliesin: I am poisoned, though.
Matt: You are not considered poisoned. It's the damage that's poison.
Laura: Oh, it's straight-up damage.
Marisha: Okay, that's not too bad.
Taliesin: It could be worse.
Matt: That ends their turn. Tiberius? You're still holding your turn, Grog?
Travis: Mm-hm.
Marisha: I did take Protection From Poison.
Laura: I should cast that on us.
Marisha: If that's necessary.
Matt: All right, Tiberius?
Orion: So we're in a hallway, a stairwell?
Matt: Yes, it's a stairway heading down, essentially, right here, and then it evens out at the bottom point there.
Marisha: Fighting on the stairs.
Orion: Is it like a big--
Matt: It's about 15 feet up to the ceiling. Ten, 15.
Orion: Oh. Very well. How many are left, two?
Matt: Two.
Laura: Yeah.
Orion: Obelisk of Stone.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Squishy spiders.
Orion: Yeah, these squishy spiders.
Matt: So as both the spiders are knocked off both Percy and Vex, you guys kind of rear back, ready to defend yourselves. Suddenly the stairwell shakes for a second and pillars of stone go (stone crushing noises) from underneath. Similar to the trap room you encountered earlier.
Orion: That's it. 21.
Matt: 21? And what's the DC on your spell?
Orion: 17.
Matt: 17? Both spiders get mashed pretty horribly into the ceiling. You see where the pillars are slammed into the ceiling permanently. You can see the legs kind of dangling out for a second and then slowly curl in towards where the edge of the stone pillars are at the ceiling.
Laura: Eat it.
Marisha: Are there any corpses that are more accessible than the one that got torched and the ones that are squished?
Travis: Yeah, are there any spider fangs we can put in the bag?
Marisha: Yeah, because I have that book that helps me do that now.
Taliesin: There's the one I shot.
Matt: You can, actually, there are-- there's one that you shot. No, actually, the one that you killed is the one that burst into flame.
Taliesin: Yes, the one that burst into flame.
Matt: That one's not going to be salvageable. There's a few that you and Vex killed. Vex and Vax both just kind of wiped out a few of the spiders. Go ahead and make an herbalism roll.
Laura: Ooh, I bet we can get some of that poison. Dip the arrows in it.
Marisha: What did the book do again, gave me a plus or an advantage? Did it give me an advantage on rolls or like a plus something?
Matt: I asked you to write that down. I will say advantage.
Marisha: Oh, wait, you did ask me to write it down and I think I did.
Matt: Advantage or a bonus, which of the two is it?
Marisha: Oh, no, I didn't write it down, I just wrote that I have the books.
Matt: Ah. I don't remember what I did for that. I will say advantage. That's the easiest to remember.
Marisha: That's better. 24.
Matt: 24. You managed to extract two poison glands from one of the spiders. The other ones were too damaged beyond repair.
Laura: Ooh.
Orion: Sweet.
Marisha: Two poison glands.
Matt: Two small venom glands.
Orion: Nice.
Marisha: I give them to the twins.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Oh, we can just use them?
Matt: You don't know.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: She hands you two nasty-looking glands that are still wet with spider ichor.
Marisha: I got this for you guys.
Laura: Oh, thank you, Keyleth.
Travis: Do you want me to hold onto them?
Liam: That's very... that's sweet. I love it.
Laura: Tiberius, would you happen to have a little glass vial or something I could put this in?
Orion: I think I have two left.
Laura: Oh!
Orion: I need to get more.
Travis: I have them.
Orion: Oh, here we go. (pop)
Laura: Thank you.
Taliesin: (laughs) Well.
Travis: I'm like a Wal-Mart over here. You could have asked me, but that's cool.
Marisha: Your book helps.
Sam: I'm ready to make my attack turn.
Matt: All right. There is nothing there. (laughter)
Sam: I sheath my sword.
Matt: There you go. (laughter)
Taliesin: A little help here, please? Would be nice.
Ashley: Yes.
Laura: Oh. Oh, wait, I thought you weren't poisoned-- oh, you need healing because you are--
Ashley: What are you at?
Taliesin: I'm at 47.
Laura: Okay.
Ashley: Okay.
Sam: Eh, you're fine. Suck it up.
Ashley: I guess we all need some-- what's everybody else at?
Liam: Ah, that's what I was at after I healed myself with a handful of hit dice after getting crushed into the ceiling.
Laura: Yeah, but we took a short break and we're not doing that now.
Sam: Use your hit dice, you'll be fine.
Taliesin: I could just use my-- oh.
Ashley: Um, hold on.
Matt: Are you guys taking a short rest, is that what you're doing?
Laura: No.
Travis: No, no.
Marisha: No, we're good.
Ashley: Let me heal you up, Percy, hold on.
Laura: Can I ask a question while she's healing Percy?
Orion: We've taken a short rest already, right?
Marisha: Yeah.
Laura: The grappling arrow I used on the little halfling, I can get that back, right?
Matt: Yeah, you retrieved it.
Laura: Just making sure.
Sam: I'll continue on down the hallway.
Travis: I join him.
Matt: Keyleth, are you still using Pass Without a Trace?
Marisha: No.
Laura: No?
Sam: She had to break it to use Stoneskin.
Matt: It's a concentration spell, isn't it?
Marisha: Yeah, but I cast Stoneskin on myself.
Matt: You did. All right. So go ahead and make a stealth roll.
Marisha: Sorry.
Sam: Not good. Nine.
Travis: I'm with you.
Matt: Nine. All right.
Sam: (nasal voice) Nine.
Ashley: Nine, Percy.
Liam: I would like to continue to stealth ahead of the group and also continue checking for traps.
Sam: We already went.
Travis: Scanlan's already ahead of you.
Laura: Sam already said it.
Liam: Oh, he is?
Matt: As you stealthily move along the side of the wall, Scanlan comes pattering down the stonework.
Sam: Skipping.
Ashley: Percy, 18.
Taliesin: 18? Thank you.
Laura: Scanlan, no. (groans)
Matt: Into what is a large central chamber. You can see webbing scattered throughout the entirety of the stone room. It's about 60 feet up. There is very low light from the flickering sconces that are on the walls of this towards the base of the actual room. The building in the center, it looks almost like an ancient mausoleum structure, how it's placed in the center of the room. Closed stone doors. But what catches your eye is that the entirety of the structure seems to be crafted of the same platinum-like material as the container that you guys are carrying the horn in.
Laura: Oh, wow.
Sam: Oh, we made it.
Laura: Are there sapphires all over the walls in here, then?
Matt: Not the walls of the actual chamber itself, just this central building right there.
Orion: We're not stealing from this place.
Matt: Go ahead and make a perception check, anyone who wishes to look for traps.
Sam: While we're out there, I'm going to check--
Laura: (gasps) Oh no, that was my big fancy one.
Orion: Nice. I'm going to check for any arcane stuff and I got--
Liam: 14.
Matt: 14 perception.
Liam: Yeah, 14.
Orion: I'm going to check for 25.
Taliesin: 21.
Matt: Perception?
Taliesin: Perception, 21.
Matt: Okay. 25 for arcane?
Orion: Yeah.
Matt: Best you can gather, as far as the presence of any arcane in this room, the scrolling on the structure in front of you, there are elements of the scrolling that you can see are based in the arcane runes that are used for ritual inscribing, but there's nothing of any magic that you've ever been familiar with that is utilized in this structure. What did you roll?
Laura: Really, really high. Eight.
Matt: All right. So, who is moving in? Who wants to--
Sam: I moved in with Grog.
Travis: I move in as well.
Liam: I'm moving in.
Laura: Can I try to stealth and move alongside just kind of keep to the edge?
Ashley: Going in.
Travis: We're all going in.
Liam: Ditto, kiddo.
Matt: All right, you move off to the side, kind of pushing through some of the webs and there's still webs on the side of the room.
Orion: I'll keep close to the guards and the box.
Ashley: Yeah, I'll go in.
Laura: Okay, I rolled 18 on the stealth.
Matt: All righty.
Ashley: I'll go in close to Grog.
Matt: All righty.
Travis: Yeah.
Liam: I'm going to tail my sister, actually.
Matt: All right. (whoosh) You move around over here with your sister.
Laura: And Trinket's going to stay next to Keyleth.
Matt: All righty.
Marisha: Come here, Trinket.
Matt: So they'll go back to this point.
Sam: I'm going to go invisible.
Taliesin: Wait. I'm furry, but I'm not Trinket. Jesus Christ.
Marisha: (laughs)
Matt: All right, you are currently marked as invisible, Scanlan.
Laura: Can we see a spider in here, like a big spider?
Matt: You don't.
Marisha: There's always a big mama spider.
Laura: Okay, can I-- it's dark?
Matt: It's very low light.
Sam: No one's cast Light yet.
Orion: I know.
Laura: I'm going to use my Primeval Awareness and see if I can sense any spiders in the area.
Matt: Okay. You take a moment to concentrate and you sense-- while not in visible range, on the opposite side of this room, a whole bunch of tiny little life sources and one rather large one.
Laura: Good to know.
Travis: Shit.
Ashley: Ugh.
Laura: (whispers) Lots of spiders. Lots. I'm going to cast Protection From Poison on myself.
Matt: All right.
Travis: I cast Terminix.
Taliesin: (laughs)
Liam: I'm drinking a healing potion right now.
Matt: All righty.
Ashley: I'm going to do the same thing.
Marisha: Also, I'll go ahead and-- nah, nah, it's fine.
Taliesin: What does a level two healing potion do, again?
Marisha: I'm going to keep my Stoneskin up.
Ashley: Yeah, what's the level two?
Matt: Level two healing potion does 4d4 + 4.
Orion: I'm going to go use Greater Invisibility, as well.
Matt: Okay. All right. You are also considered invisible.
Sam: Why greater?
Orion: Because I can cast and still stay invisible.
Matt: All right, Kima pushes ahead through the group while you guys are doing this, walks up to the front of the chamber, and you see she takes the holy symbol around from her neck, the symbol of Bahamut, and much like she did to the doorway at the bottom of the temple earlier to find this initial passageway, she feels around in the scrolling and eventually finds a section of it and rotates what looks like a circular part of it that shifts and then pulls out. When she pulls it out, you can see there is a kind of engraving, there is a recessed engraving of the same shape as her holy symbol.
Laura: Before she touches anything, can I let her know that there's a whole lot of spiders on the other side of the room.
Matt: You may do that.
Sam: Wait, what? You didn't tell any of us that.
Travis: Can I shift to her right flank, just at the corner of the mausoleum structure? Right there.
Laura: Just so everybody's aware, those things we just fought? There's a ton more of them on the other side of this little chamber.
Sam: Oh, thanks for telling us.
Laura: No problem.
Matt: Grog, make a stealth check.
Marisha: (whispers) Be very quiet.
Travis: Oh, shit. Natural 20. (cheering)
Taliesin: Spiderman.
Laura: Good thing you took that beard off because it had bells and shit in it.
Travis: Oh, the beard is still there.
Sam: No, no, it fell off.
Travis: Its most majestic part fell off.
Sam: Oh.
Matt: Yeah. There's still some goliath peach fuzz there.
Travis: Substantial Viking-ness happening.
Matt: Grog, for a moment there, you recess into your old hunter training when you were traveling with your barbarian tribe and you take in the darkness around you and walk, fleet of foot, to the edge of it, not making a single sound. You're damn proud of yourself.
Travis: I am.
Taliesin: (whispers) Quietly.
Matt: So as you tell this to Kima, she goes, (whispers) "What? Spiders?"
Laura: (whispers) Lots and lots of spiders. Is that going to make noise?
Matt: (whispers) "I don't know. I haven't been in this chamber before."
Laura: Perhaps we should deal with the spiders before we make noise, or maybe just be prepared. In fact, you know what? I'm going to cast Spike Growth on the ground in between where they're going to have to walk through.
Marisha: Ooh, good. Smarty-pants.
Laura: Because they can't freaking see it right now, can they?
Matt: Which way?
Laura: Yeah, there, yeah.
Ashley: Both sides?
Matt: You said Spike Growth. How much does it affect?
Laura: It affects-- damn it-- I didn't put it in my thingy because I'm dumb. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
Matt: That's okay.
Orion: You're not dumb. You're a strong, smart person.
Ashley: While she's looking, could I--
Laura: Spike Growth!
Ashley: You found it.
Taliesin: Way more than arrows.
Laura: It is a 20-foot radius. That's not that much.
Matt: Okay, cool. So you can do this whole area right here is all spiky growth.
Laura: And it's hard spikes. Hard spikes and thorns.
Matt: Good to know.
Taliesin: Briar.
Sam: All right, well, I'm going to follow suit and go to the other side and cast Stinking Cloud. No, over--
Matt: Over here?
Sam: Over there, yeah.
Travis: Our side's the best! (laughter)
Matt: Go ahead and make another stealth check.
Sam: Okay. 15. 17!
Matt: 17.
Sam: That's the best stealth I've ever done.
Ashley: Well done.
Travis: Yeah, buddy.
Matt: You quietly come by and mutter under your breath your arcane ritual and all of a sudden (quiet whoosh). And what was the size of the cloud on that one?
Sam: 30 feet, I think? I think it's 30 feet. Hold on, hold on, hold on. 90 feet! Oh, that's the range.
Matt: What's the radius?
Sam: It's a 20-foot radius.
Orion: Oh, your cards are cool!
Matt: 20-foot radius, which would be-- Actually, a 20-foot radius for this would be...
Orion: Nice, they have little bard thingies.
Marisha: Oh, they're purple. Mine has like a--
Orion: Nice color diversity!
Matt: This whole area here--
Laura: Oh, nice!
Orion: (laughs) Oh, I did see this.
Matt: This whole area here is done.
Marisha: I've got like a scythe.
Taliesin: A sickle.
Matt: And you also now make a very nasty cloud in this vicinity as well. This whole area is completely marked off on both sides now.
Orion: I'd like to walk up as I see this going on. I'm going to take out my deck of illusions. I'm going to toss two cards both ways, two cards on each side. So I'm going to do this, real quick.
Laura: Question. That chamber in the center of the room, does it go all the way to the ceiling, or is it--
Matt: No, there is a gap.
Orion: Deck of illusions, everyone.
Laura: So there's a huge-- so technically, the spiders could crawl up the ceiling and drop down on us?
Travis: Yes.
Matt: In theory?
Taliesin: Why would you give him ideas like that? Just feed him irony!
Travis: Let's go.
Orion: Ten of Hearts, Yes! Joker, Queen of Hearts, and another Joker! What?!
Sam: What does that mean?
Matt: Wait, you threw--
Orion: I put two on each side.
Matt: Oh, two on each side.
Orion: Yeah. So, like, two over in the spot before all that mess over there and two are in the other mess.
Ashley: Do you want to go one up top, just in case?
Laura: Yeah.
Travis: Yeah.
Orion: So the Jokers--
Matt: Are you.
Orion: And a female version of me.
Laura: Ooh, that's awesome.
Matt: All right, so a secondary Tiberius appears right there.
Orion: (falsetto) Hello, everyone.
Marisha: You know, you make a good woman.
Orion: (falsetto) Tiberiosa.
Matt: Female Tiberius appears over on that side.
Marisha: Tiberiosa.
Orion: And then whichever side you decide, a Queen of Hearts and Ten of Hearts.
Matt: Queen of Hearts-- oh, interesting.
Travis: (falsetto) Levi-O-sa, not levio-SA.
Matt: A succubus appears over here. Winged.
Marisha: Well, that's fun.
Matt: Sorry, what was the other one that you said?
Orion: Queen of Hearts and a Ten of Hearts.
Matt: Ten of Hearts. A cloud giant on this side of the room.
Laura: What?
Orion: (explosion noise)
Ashley: Rad.
Matt: We'll use that mini for now, it's fine. All of a sudden appear, kind of translucent, their image flickering. It's not a great illusion, but it's enough where it catches some attention.
Orion: And they're positioned right before the messes of each side.
Matt: Like right there.
Orion: Yeah.
Matt: All righty. Kima's now sitting there like, (whispers) "Put the key in now?"
Sam: No, no, do it.
Taliesin: Yes, yes, go.
Marisha: Okay, you're good. Go for it, yeah.
Matt: She puts her symbol into the recess. As it does, the stone doors shift and there's a dull kind of creaking of the stone as it slides not open, but into the walls, revealing an interior that is, as the light filters in, the entirety of the wall, floor, and ceiling of this room is of the same scrolling, the same platinum/sapphire material as the outside of the building and the box that's there, except for the design seems to all filter in towards the center, like the center of a spiderweb. All the design coalesces to the center point.
Laura: Had to be a spiderweb.
Matt: It's not an actual spiderweb. There's a raised dais up in the center there, about four feet wide, about a half-foot thick. Kima kind of takes her symbol and puts it back around her neck and kind of motions like this. The two Scalebearers begin to move down, carrying the case, looking about the rest of you like--
Orion: I invisibly follow right behind the box, still keeping my illusions in check.
Matt: All right.
Ashley: Same, same, same.
Matt: Everyone holds in place?
Marisha: Yeah, I'm not going to move far away.
Ashley: Following.
Travis: As you will.
Marisha: No, no, no, no.
Matt: You're staying right there?
Marisha: Yeah, yeah, if I held-- let me shift one over, just so I'm not in Trinket's way. The other way. Yeah.
Matt: There you go. All right, so. As they enter the chamber, Kima enters as well, you guys filing in behind them, I need you all to make stealth checks.
Travis: Everybody?
Laura: Everybody?
Matt: No, Tiberius, with advantage, because you're invisible.
Liam: What kind of check?
Sam: Stealth!
Travis: Not you.
Matt: Not you, don't worry about it.
Ashley: I don't?
Matt: You do.
Orion: 17.
Ashley: Three. (laughter)
Sam: Clang, clang, clang.
Matt: So you step into the chamber, losing your footing for a moment on the smooth, kind of platinum-like ridges across the ground, and you kind of catch yourself, your plate hitting the ground with a loud (ting) sound, at which point the two Scalebearers kind of look at you--
Ashley: (whispers) Sorry! Sorry!
Matt: With a heavy sigh, and Kima goes, "Go, go, go!" They both step forward and take and place the box into the center of the room on top of the dais. As they both release the chains, the box seems to levitate on its own to the center of the room, much like how the Horn itself ascended and was kept aloft in the center of the box. The box lifts up and slowly begins to rotate on its own. As it does, you can see the sapphire bits that are ingrained on this box flash with a bright blue light and all of a sudden the blue energy spreads into the ceiling and the floor of this room and all of the blue and silver veins that are carved into this begin to glow with a similar blue light.
Sam: Cool.
Marisha: Cool.
Orion: I love light.
Matt: At which point, the doors begin to--
Sam: Which doors?
Matt: The doors you guys entered this room through begin to close.
Sam: Ah, we should leave.
Orion: I'm going to scootch.
Matt: Yeah, you guys immediately scootch out of the way. Kima darts off. Both of them turn around and start running back.
Sam: (whispers) They're going to die.
Matt: They both make it out.
Ashley: Oh! That's good.
Matt: They both manage to just squeeze through real fast as the doors slam behind.
Marisha: That would be terrifying.
Matt: At which point, you see a series of spiders beginning to try to cut around-- these here, what's the DC on your--
Sam: My spell?
Matt: Your spell, yeah.
Sam: 17, because I didn't do it through the hand cone.
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: (whispers) Why?
Marisha: Should we run?
Matt: Both of these spiders get disoriented and try to find their way through the Stinking Cloud, kind of like (choking, clicking noises).
Marisha: Yeah, who's going to be back down here, theoretically.
Orion: The guards could come back.
Matt: None of them make their way through. The rest of these begin coming forward-- what's the roll they have to make for the Spiky Growth?
Laura: 14.
Taliesin: To repair the room that we broke, anyway.
Matt: 14. Both missed their save. What's the damage on that?
Laura: That's 2d4 for every five feet crossed.
Matt: They would probably be skittering around here halfway through before they changed trajectory, so-- 1d4, 2d4?
Laura: 2d4 for every five feet.
Matt: So 10d4 each.
Marisha: Nice!
Matt: They come charging around the corner rapidly (skittering noises).
Marisha: 10d4? That's cool.
Orion: Oh, nice, what?
Marisha: For her thorns.
Orion: (whispers) Sweet, thorns.
Marisha: My little sister once fell into a rose bush.
Sam: Good story.
Marisha: It was very painful.
Orion: Good story? (laughs) I once fell into a fire ant hill.
Marisha: That sucks, too.
Orion: It was very painful. I was riding my bike. It sucked.
Laura: 22.
Matt: 22. Both of these spiders stop in place, looking severely messed up and damaged and just kind of hold their ground, looking very confused. You see, crawling up over the top of this structure, one large white and bluish spider that leaps up. As this is happening, you guys are noticing that blue energy is cracking through the floor and now following the pattern across the entirety of the structure. It crawls up the walls--
Marisha: Oh.
Matt: -- and that blue energy reaches to the ceiling and illuminates it. And what you missed when you entered the room is you can see, recessed into the ceiling of this room, four large humanoid entities that are just currently held aloft, buried in the ceiling, of platinum armor.
Orion: Go.
Travis: We've got to go. We've got to go.
Matt: One of them suddenly flashes, dislodges, and (whoosh, thud), squashing the spider in the process. (yelling)
Marisha: What is that?
Matt: Just (spider screech, croak) screeching sound, the spider slowly tries to curl in place, the giant platinum golem now slamming on top and squishing on top. You see as it slowly comes to stand, each hand holding these giant platinum cleavers. You suddenly hear a voice ringing through your heads collectively: "Get out."
Laura: (whispers) We should get out!
Orion: You heard the man! You heard him! You heard him! The earrings, everybody heard him.
Sam: Wait, can we just leave the thing here with the golem?
Laura: Golems are meant to protect.
Orion: It's going to kill everything there.
Sam: Oh, then let's go.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: All right, so all of you guys start bolting out. I want everyone to go ahead and make a dexterity check.
Marisha: Okay. Yeah, sure.
Orion: 13.
Matt: All right, anyone lower than a ten?
Travis: What about on a ten?
Marisha: No.
Matt: Lower than a ten?
Orion: (quietly) We all got above ten?
Matt: Anyone? All right. You as well?
Ashley: 14.
Matt: Awesome. (laughter)
Orion: Even Pike!
Matt: You guys all come darting out of the room, except for Kima, who rolls a one. So all of you guys come running out of the room--
Sam: Kima's dead.
Marisha: Kima?
Matt: The rest of the Scalebearers come rushing out, they're no longer encumbered by the box. Kima's kind of helping everyone get by, trying to keep everyone at bay, being the hero. As she turns around, the first one comes leaping off of the structure, runs towards her and gives one giant sweep with one of its blades. Ooh, yeah, that'll hit. You see the blade streak across the front of her silver armor. She takes 24 points of slashing damage. It sends her flying back ten feet with the sheer force of it, but she manages to roll out of it, yeah! With an acrobatics check, catching herself to her feet and just keeps bolting behind the rest of you guys.
Laura: Can I see?
Matt: You now see behind two more (crash, crash) dislodging from the ceiling as the one that's charging after you is coming up the stairway. Through this, we're now going into a skill challenge as you guys are rushing out.
Laura: Oh, god.
Travis: Must go faster. Must go faster.
Sam: Skill challenge.
Marisha: Skill challenge!
Ashley: Ah, go, go!
Orion: Yeah, all right. Run for your life.
Marisha: We haven't done this in a while.
Matt: Now, as you're running to get through, there's still bits of webbing still in the way. I need everyone to go ahead and make another dexterity check.
Sam: All right, doing good.
Orion: Yes!
Taliesin: Yeah!
Marisha: Oh, okay, yeah, yeah, sure.
Orion: 21!
Laura: 25.
Taliesin: 22.
Travis: 21.
Liam: 26.
Ashley: 17?
Marisha: 11?
Taliesin: 22.
Matt: All right.
Sam: 19.
Matt: All right, as you guys are all charging up, kind of helping each other but also clamoring to get through, Kima is rushing up and you can see where one of the Scalebearers has now tripped and fallen on the stairs.
Sam: Oh, no!
Matt: She runs past, leans back to reach her hand out as the golem comes up behind--
Marisha: No!
Matt: -- with two hands, swings down with both blades.
Sam: Against Kima again?
Matt: No, this is against one of the Scalebearers.
Sam: Oh, okay.
Taliesin: Oh no.
Laura: Should I be rolling for Trinket?
Matt: I'm considering Trinket with you, so no.
Marisha: Too late, just leave them.
Laura: Okay, thank you.
Matt: We'll do that next round because I forgot. There's a lot of things to consider. One of them hits the stone and just streaks off, sparks flying through the air, illuminating the space secondarily. However, the other Scalebearer takes 28 points of slashing damage from the blow. As it reaches up again for a second blow, Kima reaches down and grabs Desona's arm and lifts her up off her feet and they both go charging forward. You guys make your way up the stairway as you see now the golem pushing its way through.
Orion: I'm going to dissipate my card illusion and I'm going to cast Fly on myself, so I'm hovering.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: How much of a gap is there between the last trailing-behind Scalebearer and the golem?
Matt: Well, now that Kima's got them, they're rushing up and there's about a ten-foot, 15-foot gap now.
Laura: Okay.
Marisha: I'm going to turn around and do Wall of Stone. Boof!
Matt: Okay. As they rush past, a wall of stone slams up as the golem goes smashing into it--
Orion: I'll do support. I'll do Obelisk right behind it, too.
Matt: All right. So as you guys come rushing up to the top of this, you guys are just doing the stone wall, obelisk, obelisk, obelisk. We'll say you cast it twice to go ahead and reinforce.
Marisha: Boof!
Matt: All right, you hear the impact from behind. You hear stone crack and break and you see two of the pillars that you put up impact, dust and bits of rock shoot out, but it settles. Apparently it's holding strong and you start hearing slamming of some sort of heavy weight behind it.
Marisha: Right, run.
Matt: As well as the following of additional giant heavy footsteps. It's now got its reinforcements caught up to it. You guys charge into the room with the broken trap, which now has partially raised platforms. You're rushing around and trying to find your way through. You get to the other side of the room. There's now an entirety-- a room filled with mist in front of you.
Laura: (gasps) Oh no.
Marisha: I still have it. I can Gust of Wind. That's my last 3rd-level spell.
Matt: Okay. All right, Gust of Wind. I'm going to ask all of you guys to make a wisdom check as you rush through.
Marisha: Including me?
Matt: Everyone.
Sam: Wisdom check or saving throw?
Matt: This is a wisdom check.
Marisha: Just adding your wisdom?
Ashley: Natural 20!
Laura: What what!
Matt: Nice!
Ashley: 24.
Marisha: Saving throw or just your ability modifier?
Orion: 12.
Matt: Ability modifier.
Taliesin: Oh.
Marisha: Okay, 16.
Orion: I thought it was negative three.
Sam: Ten. Ten for me.
Taliesin: 14.
Laura: 13.
Liam: Nine.
Travis: Two.
Sam: Nine, wow.
Matt: All of you guys are pushing through. So, as you guys come rushing in you're like, go go! You see Keyleth's focusing and getting the wind to escape, Keyleth rushes up, Kima comes through with the two Scalebearers, everyone comes through, Grog's bringing up the back. You can see now, in the back behind him, a giant blade-wielding fist as the golem comes smashing through the wall. The rest of you guys, ushering Grog along, Grog comes running, hears the sound, looks over his shoulder and in the chaos of it, his trajectory is off and he ends up brushing into the side of the mist.
Laura: Oh, no!
Matt: Grog, go ahead and make a dexterity saving throw.
Travis: 12.
Matt: You end up taking 24 points of fire damage as the pillars spin, unleashing a torrent of flame.
Travis: No, bad car wash, bad car wash!
Marisha: (laughs) Bad car wash.
Laura: Oh, no, Grog, your beard has been singed.
Orion: Oh!
Travis: What? (laughter)
Matt: You reach up instinctively, you feel it's as smooth as a baby goliath's face. (laughter)
Orion: All that work!
Matt: As you guys charge up the rest of the staircase--
Orion: Is Grog behind us now, like the furthest away?
Matt: He's just caught up to you guys as you're rushing up the staircase. You get to the final door. You exit. As Kima rushes everyone through, she brings out her holy symbol real fast, and as she pulls it off her neck, you see the first golem reach the bottom of the staircase. It begins looming up--
Orion: We're leaving! What are you doing?!
Marisha: Yeah, go home! Go home! Bad golem.
Taliesin: I take a--
Matt: Kima takes out her holy symbol and holds it aloft in front of her and says under her breath (murmurs), at which point it begins to glow with this extremely vibrant glow. As it does, you see a symbol emblazoned on the front of the golem and it flashes with light as it stops and just kind of holds its place-- and waits. And Kima looks at the symbol like "I wasn't sure that was going to work." She takes--
Orion: Tell it to go kill the spider.
Matt: She takes the symbol and puts it back in the side of the stone door that originally was closed. The doors slowly seal shut once again. She pulls the symbol out-- and she falls to her knees, breathing heavily.
Sam: Oh, Kima.
Marisha: We did it!
Travis: Next time, lead with that.
Orion: I agree, Grog. Very well said.
Matt: "It kind of happened very quickly, I'm sorry."
Ashley: All right, do some people need to be healed?
Taliesin: Oh, dear.
Laura: Yeah.
Sam: Kima, for sure.
Orion: I'm actually okay.
Marisha: I'm all right. I'm all right.
Taliesin: I'm fine.
Sam: Oh, Grog's got a burnt face.
Travis: No, I want to wear this pain as a remembrance of my beard.
Laura: You can grow it back, Grog.
Orion: It's okay, big fella.
Matt: You make your way back up to the main chamber, where High Bearer Vord is currently waiting for you.
Sam: Oh, this guy.
Matt: He turns to you as you enter. "So I am to assume that your journey was a success?"
Orion: Yes, surprisingly so. It went off without a hitch. Well, no.
Laura: You've got some good security down there.
Marisha: Very good.
Matt: "I told you. Once it's instilled, it will be safe."
Laura: A little warning next time would be great.
Ashley: 25 points of healing.
Matt: There you go.
Orion: You're really a girl on fire now.
Marisha: That really heals me up, then.
Taliesin: That will top me off very nicely.
Marisha: I'll take that.
Orion: Well done, everyone, by the way.
Laura: Yeah.
Taliesin: That could've gone worse.
Marisha: It could have gone worse.
Matt: At which point, the High Bearer Vord kind of raises his hand. "Yonn, if you do not mind." And Yonn kind of shuffles forward.
Sam: Yonn.
Orion: Such a bore.
Marisha: Yawn.
Matt: "Excuse me, I'm right here."
Orion: It was a play on words. Your name also means something that you do when you're tired.
Marisha: Yeah!
Matt: "I don't like you." (laughter)
Matt: He reaches out and puts a big old sack of coins in your hands.
Laura: Oh! I'll hold onto that.
Orion: Of course.
Taliesin: We should mention, you may have to have one of the rooms repaired.
Orion: I take a couple out.
Taliesin: The spinning column--
Sam: Circle of death.
Laura: Yeah.
Taliesin: May have gotten--
Laura: A little broken. We thought were maybe just disarming it but I think we probably broke it.
Taliesin: We put an arrow into it.
Travis: (tearfully) If you find the remnants of a glorious beard, preserve it.
Laura: Oh, Grog, actually--
Travis: What?
Laura: I've got some remnants of a lovely beard. And I try to smush it onto his chin.
Travis: It is not the same.
Matt: It is not the same.
Laura: It looks pretty good.
Matt: It is not the same.
Laura: Dang it.
Matt: At which point, the High Bearer turns to you, Pike. "Mighty cleric, I see this meeting, though it escaped my vision before, that you bear the holy sigil of the Dawnflower, the Lady of Redemption Herself. While we may walk under different stars, I offer these words that caught my ear naught but a week ago. In an excavation beneath the toppled tower of Syrac, the long-cursed ruin that sat like a blemish upon this city for hundreds of years, it was revealed that perhaps the five holy paths that began here at Vasselheim, there may indeed now be a sixth."
Sam: What?
Matt: "A forgotten temple to Sarenrae has been uncovered. Crumbled, lost, and without light, it sat, forever and a day, and few are around in this city of her guiding flame to recover and restore its glory. Perhaps you should look into it."
Ashley: I will gladly look into it.
Matt: "The ruin lies to the west of here, at the base of the city's mountain. Look for the dark stone ruin. Nevertheless, I thank you for your time. Kima, if you wouldn't mind, we have some things to discuss as well."
Marisha: Oh, quick, Vorg--
Matt: "Vord. High Bearer Vord."
Marisha: Vord.
Taliesin: Vord.
Laura: Highbearer Vord.
Matt: "Was that so hard? Yes?"
Marisha: Vord? You wouldn't have happened to hear of maybe a druid tribe called the Fire Ashari? They call their little hometown Pyrah. Do you happen to know, maybe?
Matt: He gives you a keen look and says, "There has been talk of a rogue band of druids, not more than two day's travel, in the-- let's see, where did I put the maps here?" He thinks to himself for a moment, considering it. "Towards the Sunder Peak Mountain Range. Dangerous territory, fraught with volcanic activity. Yet these folks seem to call it home."
Marisha: Is Sunder Peak like west or east to where we--
Matt: "Southwest of the city. It's hard to miss."
Marisha: Southwest.
Matt: "Look for the plumes of sulfurous smoke."
Laura: Is the temple to Sarenrae on the way to the--
Matt: "The temple to Sarenrae is on the same mountain that this temple is built on."
Laura: Oh.
Matt: "To the west of here. Follow the mountain base."
Marisha: Oh. So we can stop there first?
Orion: Yes, it's close, it seems.
Laura: All of us can--
Orion: Before we part, you seem to be quite learned about many things that I am not. Have you ever heard of anything called the God's Hammer or the Pale Stone? Or any particular artifact, Ropes of Mercy, perhaps?
Matt: "I can't say I have, unfortunately."
Orion: Of course.
Matt: "But I shall keep this in mind, should the information come my way."
Orion: Thank you. I bow.
Matt: He gives you a look, a quick glance, and notes: "For the record, while your color is not what it was when you first entered, know that the great Platinum Dragon sees through this guise to the heart beneath."
Orion: Yes, thank you for noticing. I agree with the same sentiment. And I bow in the Draconic fashion.
Matt: "Well, Kima. Business. Thank you all very much." And he kind of lends his hands out. As he extends his hand, the doors on the opposite side of the room open up.
Laura: Magic. Thought it was banned.
Matt: For the sake of brevity, because we have people who have to leave on this, very soon, it doesn't take you long to find your way across the city. You find some of the city's Bastions standing guard on the outskirts of this crumpled tower ruin. It's like, black and soot-covered stone that looks like a plot of land that has been left untouched. Like, once it fell, no one wanted anything to do with it. You speak with the Bastions and they eventually let you through, especially given the aid of those you've walked with since arrival. You come to the ruin and you can see there's about a 40-foot gap in this pile of stone that is a recess in the ground, almost like a small sinkhole. It looks like there is some sort of excavation that has been set here. Very haphazard. There is very simple wood boards that have been placed into the side of this small sinkhole to allow relatively comfortable, though a bit rickety, descent into the structure. As you make your way down, your eyes adjust to the little bit of daylight that spills into this dark subterranean cavern. There before you, you see a surprisingly glorious sight: a simple structure of brass and polished limestone, ancient as the day is long. One of the walls has partially collapsed, and you see what looks like three figures rummaging through the debris. An older human woman, who is being helped by two others: a young man of blond hair and simple clothes and an older gnome that's carrying a crutch under his arm. They're all in the process of collecting and setting aside and cleaning up various things that have been recovered from this temple. You immediately see against the brass structure the very simplified symbol of the wings of Sarenrae, multiple times across the structure in various incarnations. This is very much indeed a lost temple of Sarenrae.
Laura: (whispers) Wow, Pike.
Ashley: (whispers) Wow.
Sam: So, when you've fully excavated it, you can come back and check it out.
Ashley: Yes...
Orion: Or you can stay here and restore it.
Matt: At which point, the older woman sees you guys walk down and says, "Please! There's nothing to take. Nothing but history and rock, I guarantee you. Bandits are not welcome here."
Ashley: No no no! I take out my symbol and I say, no no no, I'm here to help.
Matt: You can hear an audible gasp from her. She says, "My eyes don't deceive. Oh my, I am sorry. My name is Gesyra, a simple painter, but one of, as far as I know, the three devoted to the Lady of the Everlight here in Vasselheim. And now a fourth. I don't know where you came from, but would you stay with us for a bit and help us rebuild? Bring her name into the light amongst the others here in Vasselheim? Restore it to its glory?"
Ashley: (tearfully) Yes. Oh, man, I don't want to leave you guys.
Matt: "It shouldn't take long, especially with your help. And we can bring the light into the heart of others." And you can see the two other kind of joined her at the side and they all look at you with this look of hope that you can probably tell from the crinkles in their face they haven't had in quite some time. And they look up to you in their simple clothes as the first true strong bastion for Sarenrae that they've seen in a long time. With that, Pike, you get to turn to the rest of the group.
Ashley: Well, I think this is a pilgrimage I have to take. So, Vox Machina, keep your eyes out. I will contact you every once in a while if I can, and we will meet up once this is completed. All in.
Travis: Right.
Ashley: Vox Machina on three. One, two, three.
All: Vox Machina.
Orion: (tearfully) You will be missed very much, Pike.
Ashley: I'm going to miss you guys very much.
Matt: And on that note, we have to close because people are in a rush. Yeah, Ashley will be leaving us for a time. She's going to New York for a few months to shoot a web-- a television series. (laughter)
Sam: A little web series.
Matt: A wonderful television series she has recurring. We're really happy and proud of her-- we're just a jumble of emotions under the circumstances.
Ashley: You guys have been so amazing and have made this experience even better for us, and thank you so much for going with us on our journey. It will keep going, but I will be back when I can.
Orion: You will be back.
Laura: You'll be back.
Taliesin: You'll be back.
Orion: She will be back.
Ashley: But it might be a long time.
Matt: Yeah, she'll pop in and out if she can, and there will eventually be a return of Pike, but for the time being she feels the calling to stay and help rebuild this temple of Sarenrae.
Marisha: We're going to miss you, Pike.
Ashley: I'm going to miss you guys.
Marisha: But we understand personal journeys.
Ashley: Personal journey.
Travis: You have a good time.
Ashley: I will.
Sam: Pike, I, Scanlan, will not physically wait for you, but emotionally-- (laughter)
Sam: Emotionally I will wait for you, and I will not stray emotionally. I will always be there for you emotionally.
Ashley: Okay, Scanlan.
Sam: But physically, I mean, come on, it's going to be months.
Matt: Thank you so much, Ash. We're going to miss you but we'll tabs and we'll have you back soon.
Ashley: Okay.
Matt: All right. Thank you all so much for watching. Everyone give Ashley love on the Twitter, on the internet.
Travis: Good going, Ashley!
Matt: And we'll see you guys at Comic-Con next week. Those that'll be at Anime Expo, I'll be there tomorrow for a couple of panels.
Zac: Buy those shirts!
Sam: Oh, yeah, buy the shirts.
Matt: Six more days for the Critical Role shirts before they go away.
Laura: Hey, it's still got Pike on it, you gotta get it now.
All: Yeah.
Sam: Collector's edition.
Ashley: Definitely limited edition.
Matt: All right, guys, thank you and have a wonderful evening, we've got to let these guys go. We'll see you-- me and Marisha will see you in three weeks.
Orion: See us at Comic-Con.
Marisha: We'll see you at Comic-Con.
Matt: The others will see you in two. All right. Have a wonderful night, guys.

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Welcome back to Critical Role this week, ladies and gentlemen, where a bunch of us awesome voice actors get together and play Dungeons and Dragons weekly. We have the return of some of our fantastic guests from last week, but we'll get to them in just a second. But first, let's go ahead and get you started with our fancy intro. [dramatic music]
Matt: Welcome back! (giggles) Welcome back. We got most everyone here right now. Travis is on his way. He flew all the way from Alaska, and thanks to some delays-- weather and everything-- he's getting here as fast as he can, so we may have a Grog arriving a little late during today's session. Pretty late for today's session. But in the meantime, our illustrious Laura Bailey will be controlling Grog.
Laura: (Grog voice) I would like to rage!
Matt: Excited for that prospect. It should be a lot of fun. So also want to thank you again, our invited guests returning for their second week. We have Felicia Day and Mary Elizabeth McGlynn. Thank you, guys.
Mary: Pleasure is mine.
Laura: Pleasure.
Mary: Pleasure.
Felicia: Pleasure. I smell like peanut butter.
Matt: That's delightful.
Felicia: That's why I smelled my fingers earlier.
Mary: Is this a normal thing, or just today?
Felicia: I just was like, hi! (sniffs)
Sam: That's normally how people greet me.
Felicia: If you smelled like grape jelly, we would be BFFs! Anyway, hi.
Matt: So welcome back. Well, cool. Before we get into it, a couple of quick announcements. One. For every 100 subs that we get during the show tonight, we'll be giving away our packages that include a picture of the Critical Role cast, signed, a Player's Handbook for Dungeons and Dragons, signed by the cast of Critical Role. We'll also be giving away a copy of Felicia's awesome new book that she's about to go on a book tour for. (cheering)
Sam: And it doesn't look like some self-published thing, that looks like a real-- whoa!
Felicia: Not to insult self-published things, but it's legit. There is a sparkle on my dress. That is a very high-class sparkle.
Sam: Does it have a barcode on it?
Felicia: That is an android, that's why I look so trim there. Yeah, but the book's coming out on Tuesday! So I'll be going on book tour, so if you guys want to come see me, I'm going to 12 cities. Sorry Midwest. I'm sorry. You're so angry at me. Anyway, thank you, yeah.
Matt: Awesome, cool, well you guys get some copies of that coming through. We also have a bunch of other random goodies we'll be throwing in with these packages that include other awesome DND stuff and comics and it'll be a little surprise, so for every 100 subscribers, we'll be giving one of those packages away, so that'll be fun. Also wanted to do a quick announcement for one of our friends recently put up a project here. Marisha, if you want to do the intro.
Marisha: Yes! Hi everybody. Okay, so. Boonzy Arts-- they make geeky candles. They have a Kickstarter right now called Wheel of Flame, and they're making essentially DND thematic immersive candles that smell like the environments that you're in! This one is Dragon's Lair and it's smoky and musky.
Matt: We're going to be lighting this tonight.
Laura: Is there moldy dungeon smell?
Marisha: They're coming out with a few more because their Kickstarter's doing pretty well.
Matt: Basement tavern refuse candle.
Taliesin: Ogre's nest.
Marisha: I think they're making a tavern one.
Sam: Bed crap? (laughter)
Matt: That's a Critical Role exclusive. The Scanlan offshoot.
Marisha: Yeah, I think they have one that's Elven Forest, that smells like a forest and they have one that's Sorcerer's Lair, that smells like sage and stuff. But yeah, Wheel of Flame is their Kickstarter. Go check them out, I know they have a limited amount of candles they can give out. Also, there's a d20 hidden in every candle, so when the wax melts, you get a d20!
Laura: That's lovely.
Marisha: So yeah! Check them out. Wheel of Flame.
Matt: Great. Thank you, Marisha. (cheering)
Matt: So much flame. So yeah, for all you guys who pay the extra subscription dollars for the smell-o-vision twitch stream, you will be able to also experience the sensory death of the party.
Laura: Why would you say that?
Matt: You guys picked it. But yeah, so that's actually pretty cool. Hopefully there's not a flammable d20 in there somewhere. That would be problematic.
Felicia: That was weird.
Sam: That happens all the time.
Felicia: Is it really just random kiss-bys? Drive-by kiss?
Matt: Two weeks in a row. We already have a winner?
Zac: PrimeJohn1.
Matt: PrimeJohn1 is our first winner! Congratulations, PrimeJohn1.
Sam: PJ Uno!
Felicia: Did you have to rename him?
Sam: Well, I gave him a nickname to the nickname.
Felicia: That's really adorable. It's a sub-nickname.
Sam: A sub-nick! (laughter)
Felicia: It'll eventually just be like (grunts).
Matt: Awesome, so let's go ahead and jump in here. Anyone else have any other announcements they want to say before we get into the game?
Laura: Travis and I will be in Vancouver next weekend. Not this coming weekend, but the weekend after. But we're not going to be here next week, so yeah, should say that.
Matt: Awesome, so in Vancouver?
Laura: It's a con. And you should come say hi.
Matt: In Vancouver.
Laura: In Vancouver. Go look at my Twitter. You'll see what it is about.
Matt: There you go. Vancouver convention. Laura and Travis; it's going to be awesome. Also, me and Marisha are flying out early morning tomorrow to a convention called AkaiCon that's over in Tennessee, so we'll be there this weekend. So if any of you guys are over there on the eastern seaboard and that vicinity that want to come say hi and hang out with us for the weekend, we have a bunch of fun panels and stuff, so. AkaiCon. Come say hi.
Felicia: That smells delicious. I want to eat it. Or is that you? No, it's not you.
Sam: No, I rubbed peanut butter all over my chest. (laughs)
Matt: Homeopathic VapoRub, really.
Sam: Oh wow, I do smell it now. Yeah, that's nice.
Taliesin: Nothing fun right now.
Felicia: Does it smell like ogre butt, because isn't that what we're doing? Troll butt?
Matt: Oh, and I also wanted to give a big thanks out to Obsidian! They actually approved my use of the Pillars of Eternity soundtrack in our music for the show. So now I'll be able to use elements of their soundtrack for our game, so thank you guys. And I guess, let's get into this game. So. Where we left off. Our party of adventurers, Vox Machina, had broken a few rules in the city of Vasselheim and had actually infracted upon a contract for a guild of creature hunters known as the Slayer's Take. And this group essentially told Vox Machina that either they could go and be arrested for this and put on trial for breaking the law, or they could go and join the guild, as such could be included and written onto the contract and everything would be fine. So they decided to go that route. They inquired with the Huntmaster, and she basically told the party that they could join after they went through a trial where they had to complete a contract. However, she hand-chose and divided the party into two separate, smaller groups. The first group being the one that began playing with us last week, in which we had the illustrious Scanlan, Percy, Vex, and Grog paired up with two new adventurers, one of which was Zahra the tiefling warlock, who also is a prospective interested person to join the guild, the Slayer's Take, and Felicia's character, Lyra, the human wizard, who somehow became a member of the guild and is assigned on her first-ever excursion to lead this group towards the end of their contract. Now, you the audience chose the creature which they were going to hunt, and you voted on an adult white dragon. So they've been hunting that.
Laura: I didn't realize the audience chose that.
Felicia: Thanks, guys. (laughter)
Matt: So after stalking your way up the Glasswalk Road to the north of the city of Vasselheim, through the Vesper Timberlands, through the cold weather as you continue to travel northward on the word of a crazed gentleman in a tavern somewhere who supposedly saw a dragon, you managed to knock over your flask. You managed to see such a dragon skulking through the skies and actually attacking near where you were staying. While you were sleeping, a group of orcs and some ogrish creature and a dire wolf, attacked your group, you managed to slaughter the encroaching evils, rather rapidly in a daring display of butt-flap long-john Percy. (laughter)
Matt: Some majestic combat prowess you guys managed to completely eliminate. You interrogated one of the orcs before Grog decided to take his head off. It pushed you north, north-west direction within the forest itself. You managed to come upon what looked to be a perpetual blizzard that was blowing around this mountain range, and the dragon was sighted again taking its rest to the north part of this mountain. You pushed through the forest, managed to avoid a few possible dangerous situations, thanks to your ranger guiding you through her favored terrain, eventually coming upon the base of this mountain range. Now, you looked above and you saw what looked like the entrance to a cavern where at least the dragon seems to fly in and out of. It's a ways up the mountain, and there was a smaller cavern towards the base of the mountain. You went to inquire what was in there, at which point out of nowhere, a giant rock made of solid ice and stone was flung out of the forest, slamming into Vex, knocking her onto her ass and doing a decent amount of physical damage.
Laura: 30. 30 points.
Matt: 30 points physical damage to the ranger, at which point two frost giants seemed to, one coming out of that cavern, another seemed to be stalking through the woods, approached the party and that is where we left off. So to begin this, I would like everyone to roll initiative.
Felicia: But they're friendly. They look friendly.
Sam: Let's try reasoning with them. Whoa! That's not bad
Felicia: I'm not going to go last this time! (gasps)
Sam: There's a lot of gasping going on.
Felicia: It's not horrible but it's not (sharp gasp).
Matt: All right, so.
Sam: Wait, does Travis not--
Matt: Roll for Grog.
Laura: Roll for Grog.
Matt: Roll for Grog's initiative.
Laura: I rolled 18 for me. Oh, that's good. 19 for Grog.
Matt: All right, so we have 25 to 20, anyone?
Taliesin: 28.
Laura: What?!
Sam: He rolled a natural 20.
Taliesin: I rolled another natural 20.
Laura: Those dice are magic.
Taliesin: I sacrificed a small child to these dice.
Matt: So Percy's up first. Anybody else above 20?
Felicia: I rolled a 20, but I have a negative two initiative.
Matt: Okay. 19 or 18?
Laura: 19 for Grog. 18 for Vex.
Matt: And also for Lyra.
Felicia: 18 buddies.
Matt: (chuckling) That's sweet. So 15 to ten?
Sam: 15.
Laura: These are pretty good initiatives.
Mary: 13.
Sam: Hey, then we're all above 13, it's pretty good! This bodes well.
Mary: I have no initiative whatsoever. (laughter)
Matt: All right, that'll do. So at the top of the round as one giant has pulled itself out of the cavern and begins shouting over in Giant about the intruders. The secondary one that comes stalking out of the forest, both of them with these giant axes that are currently held on the side of leather belts (roars) give a bellowing scream and go charging into the fray. At the top of the round, though, Percy is ready. What have you got?
Taliesin: What is that strange orange thing, right here?
Matt: This is actually a tree.
Taliesin: That's a tree. Okay, good. So that's cover?
Matt: Yeah. This rock and these boulders here have some cover, but from a giant who has a very large perspective maybe not as much as you'd think.
Taliesin: Okay, so is there any way I can maybe get some partial cover right over here?
Matt: You could move over this way, yes.
Taliesin: Yeah. So I've got cover from the tree from this one until he moves, but I can see this guy?
Matt: Correct.
Taliesin: It is Bad News time! I'm going to bust out Bad News and take a shot.
Matt: All right, so. Rip out Bad News, uses one of your attacks, second attack prepares it. You're ready to fire, go ahead and shoot.
Taliesin: All right. They're pretty big, so I'm going to take the negative five to my attack bonus and see what that does. That's a 21.
Matt: 21 will hit.
Taliesin: That's a good shot. Oh yeah! That's 17, 27, plus-- 33 points of damage.
Matt: 33 points of damage? Nice. So you hear this loud, ringing explosion that echoes through this small valley at the base of the mountain, and from out the corner of your eye, it's the first time you've seen this weapon do its wonders. You see a flash of light, a plume of smoke goes up and you see this impossibly fast blast of some projectile go slamming into the shoulder of the giant over here that's currently reaching for a rock. It pushes him back against the wall, which prevents him from falling over and he catches himself. Looks back, and you can see there's a small crater in the armor where a little bit of blood begins to pour out, and a little bit of smoke seems to be pouring out of the impact. (snarls and yells) Gives out a really angry yell. You can see like spittle that begins to shake loose and spray from his mouth out of frustration. That the end of your turn?
Taliesin: That is the end of my turn. Yeah. I am now going, maybe I shouldn't have done that. (laughter)
Felicia: It was very impressive. It was very impressive.
Matt: All right, Grog's up first.
Laura: (Grog voice) Grog--
Sam: (Grog voice) Would like--
Laura: (Grog voice) No, Grog doesn't want to Rage! Grog shouts out in Giant, wait! My giant masters were killed by a white dragon, which we think is here. Will you help us fight him?
Matt: Okay. So as Grog stands there, shouting this out to both sides to the two giants, I want to have Grog go ahead and roll a persuasion check.
Laura: Okay. I am going to use Grog's dice.
Matt: Yes. Let's do this proper. This is customary.
Laura: It is proper. Wait. Okay. That's not his, that is mine.
Taliesin: (Grog voice) I would like to negotiate.
Laura: Okay. Well that is good. He is really happy that I am playing him, because I rolled a one for Grog.
Sam: It might work. (laughter)
Laura: I think I should not-- okay. Wait!
Mary: Doesn't Grog get two actions or no?
Laura: That's his action.
Matt: He is not putting up any aggressive action.
Laura: Does he get advantage, however, because he is speaking Giant and he's in the cold?
Matt: No. (laughter)
Matt: Because you have an entire band of seemingly advancing and armed individuals that are currently stalking towards what appears to be the home of these individuals. So unfortunately no. They seem unfazed, and the one at the back seems almost partially amused at this plea and you can see as he takes his axe and puts it up against his shoulder and runs it across the leather in a very aggressive, intimidating fashion as he stalks forward out of the forest.
Laura: (Grog voice) Can Grog move at all?
Matt: Yeah, would you like Grog to move? It would be easier.
Laura: (Grog voice) Where is he?
Matt: He is right here. He is hard to miss. Where would you like Grog to move? There is a giant rock there.
Laura: He is going to stay there.
Matt: Okay. Grog is going to stay up against the rock. His axe across the front. Right, that ends Grog's turn. Vex, you're up. (laughter)
Laura: A moment of silence for that horrible thing I just witnessed.
Matt: You are over here. You just got up off the ground after being slammed with a boulder, and you have Trinket there.
Laura: I am very hurt. Can I get up? Am I prone?
Matt: In the process you've gotten to your feet as they lurched forward and began shouting at each other about the intruders. So you are on your feet.
Laura: Okay. I am going to cast Hunter's Mark.
Matt: Hunter's Mark. On?
Laura: On the one that took a little damage already. And then I am going to shoot him. All these are for like really large groups of people. I am going to shoot him three times. Can I shoot him three times?
Matt: You have two attacks.
Laura: I'm going to shoot him two times. This was good times. This was fun, you guys. 14 for that. That probably doesn't hit. 14 also doesn't hit the second time. Oh my god! What is happening?! (laughter)
Sam: She just disappeared!
Mary: Vex! Vex, stay with us! Vex!
Matt: So as you get to your feet, you look over your shoulder, you point your finger out and as you squint down, you use your ranger focus to make sure this guy is your quarry, and you take a quick scope of his body parts. You're like, those are the areas that will make him weakest. As you go to pull your arrow, you can feel a kink in your shoulder. The impact of the rock seems to have affected you. You release the first arrow and it's just slightly off mark. The second one you pull back and as you release it, it actually splinters off his shield as he knocks it out of the air.
Laura: I am going to run over to cover. What is that other side?
Matt: That is one of the mountain outcroppings.
Laura: Yeah, I am going to hide in that little thing and go, Trinket hide with me.
Matt: Okay, Trinket moves up. (bear moan) All right, and that's your turn.
Laura: That's all of it.
Matt: (laughs) All right, Lyra, you're up.
Felicia: Okay, I am freaked out right now. These are very large individuals. I have only read about them, and they smell slightly like feet. So I am going to-- that is a stench. That is like an athlete's foot commercial waiting to happen. So I am going to take 10d6 and do Disintegrate.
Matt: Go for it.
Felicia: I mean, it seems excessive, but they're very large men! One, two, three, four, five-- That one, he looks like a bull. In the nether-regions.
Matt: So which one, this one or this one?
Felicia: I don't think I can reach that guy.
Matt: What's the distance on it?
Felicia: Oh boy.
Matt: At your spell sheet.
Felicia: I should've written that down. Disintegrate. Oh, there it is! 60 feet.
Matt: 60 feet? Yeah, they're both within range.
Felicia: Oh gosh, well I should probably hit the wounded one. That always makes RPG sense, right?
Matt: So for that one, do you have to make an actual spell attack roll?
Felicia: No, I don't. I think it's force damage.
Matt: That's right. You just point at it and he has to roll a saving throw.
Felicia: Oh yay! Look at that! Six! Six! Six!
Sam: Well, don't say that. (laughter)
Matt: All this time trying to fight the stigma of DND, and there we go.
Mary: Talking to my people here!
Felicia: All right. That's 20 plus-- now you're all staring at me! 30, 40 points of damage!
Sam: Whoa!
Matt: That's a total of 40? Plus 40?
Felicia: 40 plus 40.
Matt: Yeah, Disintegrate. And he failed his saving throw.
Taliesin: Yeah!
Felicia: In your anus! That's what she yells, she's like, in your anus!
Matt: So as she shouts, she points her finger out, there's a little poof of arcane energy on her finger, and a tiny, sickly green ray of energy just streaks forth from her finger. The giant looks at it awkwardly, and in the split second it hits him in the front of his chest and suddenly the armor in front of him turns to dust and you can see his flesh beginning to just disappear in front of him (gasps) and suddenly tries to gasp for air, as you see part of its jaw beginning to just turn to sand, and it's actually struggling in a series of pain, and it's still standing, but you can see a large part of its body now is just missing. It looks like it got-- it's almost like a portion of it rotted right before you, but there's no actual necrosis. It's just gone. Flesh is missing from a large part of its body. It looks like it's doing really poorly. It lurches forward, and one of its arms is not working as well and it looks at you with a look of confusion, frustration and "how could you?." It's incredulous in its torturous pain.
Felicia: And I go, (gibberish) in Giant and it's the only thing I know in Giant, and I think it says, you are my foe, and I actually say, my cat is your friend.
Matt: Its head turns even further to the side as the tongue lolls out of where the cheek once was.
Felicia: Take that!
Matt: (chuckles) Its angry white eyes glaring aggressively at you. Do you wish to move, or would you like to stay where you are?
Felicia: Oh, I think I'm going to duck behind that little outcropping I have.
Matt: Over here?
Felicia: Yeah, no, behind that little rock-- oh, where am I? Oh, I'm over there. Yeah, I'm going to get-- oh boy. Just stand there, I'm just too flushed right now. I can't go anywhere. This is too situational for me
Matt: All right. Well, (chuckles) this very unhappy giant is going to reach over with his one good arm, the other one's clutching the axe, it reaches over and grabs another rock off the ground that it can find nearby and (whoosh) flings it at you.
Felicia: I should have moved! (laughter)
Matt: That is a 16. What's your armor class?
Felicia: 13.
Matt: Yeah. You, unable to really move out of the way, you look over and just watch it come toward you as it slowly spins in the air. Time seems to slow as you make no intent to shift out of the way. (whack) It slams into you, physical pain not hitting in as the immediate look of-- the sight of white, your vision is knocked to nothingness briefly. You end up taking--
Mary: No, Lyra, no.
Matt: Okay, you take 32 points of bludgeoning damage.
Felicia: Whoa! That is a very intense amount of damage for a tiny woman. Okay.
Laura: You should avoid those boulders in the future.
Matt: And as soon as you recover from it, your vision clarifies and you're able to see everything before you, and you see that same giant is stalking up, right into your face, with its axe in its bad hand. It switches it into its good hand and rears it up preparing itself for another round. That ends that giant's turn. It's going to go five, six and move in between the two of you. You guys, Zahra and Scanlan, as you see this happening you hear the (heavy steps) heavy footfalls behind you, and you look over your shoulder as the second giant comes up with the shield in one arm. Axe is going to go ahead and giant swing towards the two of you. That is going to be a 19 to hit on you, Scanlan.
Sam: Oh yeah.
Matt: And Zahra, that is going to be a-- that's a 25. All right. (laughter)
Matt: 27 points of slashing damage to you, Scanlan. Ooh. All right. And that is 31 points of slashing damage to you, Zahra. As it just (whack), cleaves through the both of you. You are almost knocked off your feet from the sheer blow. Most of the armor takes the damage but you can feel a heavy bruise, and underneath your armor you can feel a little bit of the blood beginning to soak through from the severe impact. Part of the armor plating might have cut into part of your torso (grunts) but you right yourself there. That ends their turn. That brings us to Scanlan.
Sam: Okay. Hey, question. If I hold a turn, do I hold the whole turn? Can I hold my action but do the bonus action? How does it work?
Matt: You got to take all your turn at once. You can hold your initiative. Meaning you can wait to activate your turn later in the tier, but you can't piecemeal your actions.
Sam: Okay, then I am going to just move. I am going to act. I am going to do things. So I turn to the guy who just hit me, and I am going to cast Dominate Person on him. I will sing some sort of song to dominate him with.
Matt: I will say, Dominate Person is effective against humanoids.
Sam: (gasps) Really?!
Matt: Dominate Monster would be--
Sam: They're not humanoid?
Matt: They are not. They are considered giants. They are a different species. You would know that.
Sam: I would know that. Well, then, I guess I won't do that.
Matt: You turn, and your instinct is there, and you're like, these are a little out of your reach as far as that spell is concerned.
Sam: Okay. (laughter)
Mary: It is a very short show tonight.
Sam: Yeah. Okay, well, then we just die. (laughter)
Matt: You've got options!
Sam: Yeah, no, I have options. I'll be fine. Should I go for the guy who-- I'll do (blows raspberry). I'll cast Lightning Bolt on him. That's always a good go-to.
Matt: So as you fumble with the idea of what spell would work, you release a bolt of lightning up towards it. It streaks into the front of its chest and shoulder area. You can see its muscles tense and shake from the sheer amount of electricity that courses into it. It does not make that saving throw, not with a five. So go ahead and roll your damage.
Sam: Is it six or eight?
Matt: It's 8d6.
Sam: Thank you! Okay. Six, six, four. What is that?
Felicia: Six.
Sam: Oh, really? Oh, that's awesome! Now I lost track. 32.
Matt: 32 points of damage. Nice! So as you release the torrent of electrical energy, it courses through the body and ends up streaking off into the snowy, blizzardy sky behind the giant from the upward angle. It (grunts) shakes from the impact, and then rights itself and looks down at you with a really angry face. You can see as it opens its mouth, this light blue and dark teeth on the bottom of its beard-covered jaw. Mist and steam tend to pour out of its mouth. But not like heated steam, this is like a cold air itself that it seems to emanate from it. Its pale whitish-blue hair, slightly framing its form. Up close, at its sheer size, this is a very intimidating creature, as it just stares down looming over you, now with smoke pouring off its shoulder where you impacted it with the Lightning Bolt. Do you want to do any--
Sam: I would like to inspire our new fellow, Zahra, with a quick little ditty. (singing) Ooh, you so scary, ooh, you so scary, ooh, you so scary. You fighty long time. (laughter)
Matt: All right. So you go ahead and take a d10 inspiration dice. Which means, whenever you have to roll an attack roll or saving throw, you can add a d10 to the result you get if you don't think it's going to make it. You don't roll it now, but you just have it on reserve whenever you want to use it.
Mary: Love it.
Sam: And if I move away from him he'll hit me?
Matt: He'll get an attack of opportunity, yes.
Sam: Can I snuggle between his legs and maybe he'll forget I'm there?
Felicia: He's hung like a horse.
Taliesin: You're going to hit yourself in the head
Mary: Swing on it, man. Swing on it. (laughter)
Mary: Yes! Yes, Scanlan!
Matt: Do you want to try and do that?
Sam: It might anger him? Or it might entice him. (laughter)
Sam: I'll just stay put.
Matt: All right. Zahra, you're up.
Mary: All right, I have a question. Do they understand English?
Matt: You are not aware, actually.
Laura: But he said intruder when we came in.
Matt: You heard him say it in Giant. It was understood by Grog that it was intruder.
Mary: All right. They're both within about 30 feet of me, yes?
Matt: Yes. They're both within 30 feet of you
Mary: All right! I'm going to use one of my skills that I have which it doesn't expel a spell slot and use Awakened Mind and touch them both with telekinesis, and in doing so I shall cast Mass Suggestion, and I shall say to them, you will take us to your enemy, the white dragon, and there we shall slay it together. Then you shall return us here safely, where we shall part as friends bonded forever in the slaying of a common enemy.
Matt: All right. As you're looking out at the two of them, you release this energy, speaking through your mind, reaching out to theirs. What is the DC of your spell? It should be at the top of your spell list, the difficulty class.
Sam: Spell save DC. Top right.
Laura: Spell save DC is a 17.
Matt: 17, all right. So both of them seem to--
Laura: Can you add your inspiration? Add your inspiration!
Matt: Inspiration has to be added to a roll.
Mary: My charisma is added to any spell that I cast.
Matt: Well, that's included with the DC there. So both of them reach up and grab their faces, one with its messed up, partially disintegrated hand and falls back on its back foot and both of them look at the group in confusion. There definitely seems to be some sort of interference with their current actions based on this spell; there is a conflict within them. That's as much as I can tell you right now at the moment. That's your action. Do you want to do anything else? You can still move. You still have a bonus action, if you want
Mary: What do you mean bonus action?
Matt: Your Hex is a bonus action, but that is a spell, as well.
Mary: If I move away from them though...
Laura: He can hit you.
Taliesin: If he's going to hit you. He might not.
Laura: That's true! Your spell might have worked.
Mary: I shall go and protect Scanlan, underneath the legs of that giant.
Matt: So you move in to help defend Scanlan.
Mary: He's so tiny, I love little guys. I always have.
Sam: She's a mother figure.
Matt: All right, so both of them seem to be looking around themselves, slightly confused and taking in some sort of strange circumstance. Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: I'm going to hold my turn.
Matt: Okay, Percy's holding initiative. Grog.
Laura: Should I say, in Giant, (in Grog voice) What say you? Let's fight this bastard. Together.
Matt: All right, they look at Grog, confused. Look at each other again. That's Grog's turn, Vex?
Laura: Seriously? While everybody's having a conversation, I would like to take a healing potion.
Matt: All right. Go ahead and take one of those
Laura: Okay. How much do I take for a superior?
Matt: Superior? Superior is 8d4 plus eight. It's quite a bit.
Laura: It is, so just regular healing potion for now. Which is what, 2d8?
Matt: A regular is 2d4 plus two.
Laura: Yay! That's good.
Matt: Lyra.
Felicia: I'm confused. But I do not feel good; I might throw up. So I'm going to hold my turn to see what happens.
Matt: Go ahead and make a constitution saving throw.
Felicia: Oh, good.
Sam: Oh, for the barf.
Felicia: Oh, it's a five! Constitution five. It's a ten.
Matt: You covertly do your best to not reveal to the entire group that you make a little greenish-brown snow. (laughter)
Matt: It is the most adorable barfing sound you guys have ever heard, though. The combination of the stress and the smell, it's been a harrowing experience for Lyra in these past few minutes. At this point in time, as it comes to the giants' turn. The one who is messed up looks over to the other and (sighs) puts the axe into his belt loop, and the other also one puts its axe in the belt loop, and they glare at the rest of the group, and say in Giant, (gibberish). And any of you speak Giant? Or just Grog.
Laura: Grog.
Matt: Grog translates. Essentially, they say, "We will take you but it is at your own folly."
Laura: (in Grog voice) They'll take us, but it is at our own folly.
Sam: Take us as in-- Grog, can you ask them, take us as in lead us or on their back?
Laura: (strangled gibberish) Which translates to, take us as in lead us or carry us on your back?
Matt: They both chuckle to themselves, and they start walking in towards the cavern.
Laura: Wait! Can we rest a little before we go fight this thing so we can get spell slots back and heal?
Matt: That's up to you guys.
Laura: Can we? Yes! Yes!
Felicia: Up to 24 hours. This one lasts the whole day. Yeah, can we?
Matt: It lasts for 24 hours.
Mary: Mass Suggestion lasts for 24 hours.
Sam: Oh, that is good information.
Mary: Oh and very important  none of us can damage these two giants. Anything else can, we're fine, but should any of us damage it, the spell is poof.
Laura: Are they going to fight with us? Grog? Will you ask them if they're going to fight with us? (gibberish)
Matt: How does it go, again?
Laura: (repeats previous gibberish)
Matt: Right. One of them looks over the shoulder as it's walking into the cavern and puts its hand on the top and leans over and its voice, and I will say from this point forth it is translated to make it easier.
Sam: Just like in Hunt for Red October?
Matt: Yeah basically. "We take you but that is as much as you get. The rest is your own choice. Perhaps the dragon will eat you. That'll keep it satiated for a while." It steps inside the cavern.
Laura: (Grog voice) I think that's a no.
Felicia: Yeah. And I say (speaks gibberish). My cat is your friend!
Taliesin: Bless you!
Matt: (laughs) As you say that, one walks inside. The one that you partially disintegrated earlier steps out and goes, (spitting noise) and spits a-- what in midair looks like liquid and then (shattering) shatters into almost like crystalline ice as it hits the ground on a rock.
Felicia: It is just rude. He smells so much like feet.
Sam: We'll Mass Suggest that they take a bath later.
Taliesin: Let's take a breather. For a moment, collect ourselves.
Laura: I wish I wouldn't have wasted a healing potion just then because we can take some--
Felicia: We can heal our 1d6 plus three.
Matt: So as you guys step inside the cavern. You guys are taking a short rest, currently?
Sam: Short rest.
Matt: All right, so the giants are just sitting there waiting, arms crossed against the wall, talking quietly to each other as the rest of you sit down and bandage your wounds. You tend to your adrenaline as it slowly wears off and suddenly the pain starts to set in from some of the wounds you've taken. So you guys can use as many hit dice as you want to heal yourselves.
Mary: So what do I do?
Laura: You roll a d8. You can roll up to 11d8, plus two for each time.
Sam: Hey, DM.
Matt: Yes?
Sam: How many hit points do I have?
Matt: You haven't taken damage at this point.
Sam: Have they increased at all?
Matt: That is true. You leveled up after the last one. So with this short rest I will say go ahead and roll an additional-- for a bard I think it is a d8, correct?
Sam: I don't know.
Matt: What's your hit dice number?
Sam: d8.
Matt: And what's your constitution?
Sam: 15. Plus two.
Matt: All right, so go ahead and roll a d8 plus two to it
Sam: Four.
Matt: All right, so you add four hit points to your total hit point maximum. Welcome to level 11, Scanlan. (cheering and singing Super Mario victory ditty)
Matt: You also get access to your first 6th-level spell.
Mary: What!?
Laura: What? Get some stuff before we fight a dragon, yo.
Sam: I got it already. I am ready to rock.
Matt: Good. Good choice. You take the next half an hour or so to rest up. You still used your Disintegrate. You need to do a whole night's rest to get that back.
Felicia: Oh! I don't get it? It's six spell levels.
Matt: It is six spell levels you can get back on a short rest?
Felicia: Short rest. Recover six spell levels because I have arcane recovery. So I can actually get that back
Matt: (singing) Wizards are awesome!
Laura: (Grog voice) Grog would like to take his Chain of Returning off of one of the axes he had it on and put onto the Firebrand Warhammer that he took off of that dwarf in Kraghammer.
Matt: All righty, I like it.
Laura: The mean guy he took it off.
Matt: Off of, that was King Murghol, I think, wasn't it? The duergar king you fought in the Underdark.
Mary: I have a question. So I rolled to get my health back and I got more hit points than I had before--
Matt: You can't go more than your maximum. You're at full hit points now.
Taliesin: I want to borrow Grog for just a second and ask these two if they've encountered the dragon before, and what its disposition is. Anything we should know.
Matt: I want you to go ahead, and I will say through Grog-- this is going to be interesting. Since Grog is translating, I'm going to go ahead and have you roll a persuasion check.
Felicia: Wrong dice! Why did you use that dice?
Taliesin: I was feeling weak. Ten.
Matt: Ten. And I want you to roll a persuasion check for Grog with disadvantage.
Laura: Great. Oh, that was a good roll, come on also good roll.
Felicia: It wasn't a good roll. I see a face there.
Taliesin: It was a one, wasn't it?
Laura: It was a one.
Matt: All the crits were last week.
Taliesin: This is my fault. This is all my fault.
Felicia: You are a plague. Your good fortune is a plague upon your friends.
Laura: Travis is going to be so pissed when he gets here.
Matt: I know.
Sam: He'll be dead by the time he gets here
Laura: His flight landed. I got a text. His flight has landed. He's on his way.
Matt: Great, awesome. As Grog finishes translating (gibberish) to the giants, the giants chuckle to themselves and the other one says down to him, what he translates for you, the equivalent of, "There's no help here. They killed our people, but we're alive because we serve it. We'll bring you, like we promised, like we brought all the others."
Laura: They serve the dragon?
Felicia: Can we look around? Are there any dragon tips around?
Matt: You took a rest inside the cavern as you just entered the mountain and at this point as you guys step up the giants are leading you further into the cavern.
Mary: May I talk to him, as well?
Matt: You know Giant?
Mary: No, through Grog. I have telekinesis, so can I speak to one of them?
Matt: Well, telekinesis and telepathy are different things.
Mary: Oh, I mean, I have Awakened Mind.
Matt: Oh right. So you can speak directly to their minds
Mary: Yes. Your people have been persecuted for so long, and you have lost so many of the female version of you, and your children, and you serve them now. Do you want to live as slaves?
Matt: "We want to live."
Mary: So to live as a slave is better than--
Matt: "To not live at all?"
Mary: We are offering you the opportunity to stop your servitude. To end it forever.
Matt: (grunts) They keep walking
Laura: What?
Matt: We'll see how this plays out. This is a process here. You guys heavily failed some early persuasion rolls here, they're in a very negative position with you right now.
Laura: Sorry about that.
Felicia: Let's not bring it up again. I love your hair.
Sam: It's really cool.
Matt: So about 200 feet further into this cavern, the tunnel opens up into a gargantuan natural rock chamber, coated in ice crystals across the entirety of the rounded crag in the ceiling. You can see now as the light you're bringing into-- by the way, is anyone bringing a source of light other than the torchlight?
Laura: Yes, Grog lights his blazing axe.
Mary: And I cast Light on my dark dragon staff.
Matt: All right, so between the (whoosh) now the fire that is now burning off of the warhammer and your Light spell, you can see as you enter following these giants, there are definitely the remnants of a village here, a village that was designed on the scale of these giants and while many of these structures still stand, it is eerily quiet as you step inside. As you begin to step further into the center of this cavern, you see many of these structures have been smashed and destroyed and there is a layer of ice and snow that has been carried in from various blizzard winds or just the internal temperature in this room. And the room is extremely cold. With the little bit of light you have, everyone's breath is very clearly visible with each puff into the air around, and you swear that in a few pockets here it is so cold that you can hear the moisture from your breath coalesce and then shatter on the ground. You all bundle up even tighter with your various furs.
Laura: I snuggle very close to Trinket.
Matt: Trinket snuggles very close to you because Trinket, while made for this type of temperature, is still uncomfortably cold, even at this point.
Sam: Did Lyra give me--
Felicia: I did! I gave you my stone. My Transmutation Stone, which helps you resist cold.
Sam: Wow, I feel so warm and cuddly.
Felicia: Well, don't brag about it. Oh my gosh, my mom told me never bring-- well, she's dead, but before she died, she told me if you can't bring one for everybody, don't bring any. So just be quiet about it.
Sam: Okay. I'm sorry. I was just distracted because we're in a dire situation and I miss the love of my life, Pike. I'm sure you can't identify with that.
Felicia: Oh no! I was just thinking the other day, just outside the cavern, if Aldor was here--
Sam: Aldor?
Felicia: Yes! Did I tell you about him?
Sam: A little.
Felicia: He smells like sandalwood and dismissiveness, but that's okay. We'll get over that.
Sam: Well, we have something in common then and thank you for your stone of warmth or whatever it was.
Felicia: It's a cold resistance.
Sam: I'll just call it a stone of warmth.
Matt: There is no character class more dangerous in DND than mother. (laughter)
Matt: Do not have children if you are ever in a fantasy genre or anything. You ain't getting past 30.
Mary: May I again, sorry, use Awakened Mind to ask the giant what happened here?
Matt: As they begin walking through and looking about, one of them starts giving you these images, and it's less of a language and it's more of a series of memories. And you see visions of a time not long ago. Months, even years. This relatively thriving village of frost giants that had essentially claimed this mountain as their own for generations. Hunting in the nearby Vesper Timberland, occasionally harrowing the traveling merchant band heading up the Glasswalk Path or various other entities that live in this forest. They're not by any means a good people. They exist and they take what they want, but it appears that not long ago this dragon decided that it wanted to live here instead. And you see visions of it stalking through the tunnels, carving its way through the ice and ambushing this frost giant village. You see visions of it tearing into families of them and freezing them on the spot, which is interesting because you see, these giants seem pretty well-adapted to ice and cold weather. It seems it is less of a freezing them physically and more of locking them into place. And as you see these visions, you begin to step further into this village and you can see there are spires, large spires of crystallized ice, and loosely within the shadows of the ice you can see what looks like the suffocated forms of frost giants that are locked in that position under many feet of ice. You see most of this village brought to its knees and destroyed, murdered, eaten, or imprisoned and these two, essentially chosen to survive and given the order to bring what this creature wants.
Mary: There's only two of you left?
Matt: You get this sense of sadness and fear, but also a sense of a lack of any other option.
Mary: Oh, how I wish we could release you from these bonds.
Laura: Is there a way to, like, melt the spires? (whispers) I interrupted you.
Mary: To release them.
Felicia: They are dead in there though, right?
Mary: No, I know but at least maybe they could-- Do you have some burial ritual or anything that you would like to or do these stand as a painful remembrance for you?
Matt: There is a moment where it seems almost like it's going to answer, and then the mind closes off suddenly. There is a defensiveness and these entities, you get the sense that even this tenuous relationship you have built with them is based purely on arcane persuasion, and the more you pry, the more you begin to test the boundaries of what you have done. Pick and choose your words very carefully.
Mary: Zahra sheds a tear, which freezes instantly on her face, and her internal flame melts it off.
Laura: That's pretty badass.
Matt: As you continue to walk, you can see the center of this village is completely in tatters. A lot of the wood and the dried brush and the furs and thick leathers that these giants had gathered and constructed their civilization out of is all just shattered and rended to the floor and then frozen over, left in this weird picturesque, almost a tapestry. A frozen moment in time of utter desolation. Actually, I want you to all to roll a perception check, if you could.
Taliesin: 17.
Felicia: 14.
Sam: 20.
Laura: Oh! No we're not in-- 14.
Mary: Uno.
Matt: Wow, getting the ones out. So as you guys are walking forward, Scanlan, you notice that there is, just outside the light perception stepping forward, a lot of the rubble has been pushed and coalesced into a central monolith. Almost like a 25, 30 foot sculpture of chaos. All of these things have been matted together with what looks like mud and refuse, and as you guys begin to notice this, too, you catch the framing of the light on it and it seems to be built into almost an altar or a large sculpture of worship of a winged dragon creature that is currently in the process of swooping down. You get the sensation that this was built as, essentially, a place of offering to this white dragon, and hopefully a symbol to keep themselves alive and to prove their fealty to this entity.
Felicia: I have a spell called Legend Lore. Can I cast that on white dragon?
Matt: Let's see what Legend Lore does.
Felicia: The spell brings to your mind a brief summary of the significant lore about the thing you named: current tales, forgotten stories, secret lore that has never been widely known. If it is not of legendary importance, you gain no information. Would I think that this is a legendary dragon?
Matt: Okay. As you take a moment and everyone stops to look around, you notice that Lyra is sitting there currently muttering to herself and putting her fingers through the air, and you can see these small arcane sigils begin to flash in the air where she places her hands, at which point her eyes glaze over with this shimmering gold energy and she seems to go into a trance. Now, what you first are hit with is the image of darkness, black and struggle, a struggle to push, a struggle to exist, a struggle to survive, and then suddenly light. You see the cracking of something releasing, and from there pulling forth from this singular egg, the only one left of its clutch, a white dragon wyrmling pulling itself out of the egg. This, you immediately sense, is the dragon that now resides within this mountain. You begin to see flashes in time of it struggling to survive in the frozen tundra to the north, desperately trying to escape poachers and individuals trying to hunt it, whether to protect their own villages or to use its physical body parts in some sort of sale. You get the sense that at one point it was already the target of some contract that failed. For a brief second, you see a flash of a frozen cavern recently, and a few individuals locked in an icy prison bitten down on and shattered before it cuts to black again. You begin to see moments of this dragon growing, and with each stage in its physical transformation towards becoming a full-fledged adult dragon there is just spite, there is anger, there is ego, there is a severe sense of self-importance, a lust for others to bow before, serve, or feed it. And you have heard and you have read many things about dragons and you have heard things of great intelligence and articulate entities that even, good or evil themselves, have this extremely intelligent presence. This dragon is far more feral and bestial than anything you've read about. It has an intelligence, but it seems to not be concerned with the intricacies of conversation as much as it is to bend everything to its will and to give (voices deepens) to me. (normally) And the one thing that catches your mind before the spell ends is the name that it finally came upon itself, the name that it heard whispered as one of its would-be hunters was suddenly--
Sam: Jeff. (laughter)
Matt: Jeff the dragon. The name Rimefang rings through your mind.
Felicia: His name is Rimefang.
Matt: The two frost giants stop their walking and turn. "Rimefang." They nod and look up to the giant structure they constructed.
Felicia: Oh wow! Can I make a history to sww if I know anyone in the guild who has been named Rimefang?
Matt: Make a history check on this.
Felicia: It's a 21.
Matt: Okay, Rimefang, you gather, is the name of the dragon proper. And there's another drink for you guys out there. They made fun of me for using the word proper.
Sam: Drink!
Matt: This dragon took the name Rimefang. Because in a lot of dragons as they evolve and begin to really create a lair, they really make themselves known publicly and really draw the fear out once they feel they're in a comfortable position. You feel this dragon is just starting to get to that point where it's eager to drive fear into the local populace. From your history check, you do know that there is, somewhere in the books you've gone through, a similar contract, nothing Rimefang related, but there was a white dragon that was supposedly hunted about eight, nine months back, and the team never returned. And you begin to think, "Wait, so if a team of really practiced people never returned from this contract, and we were sent on this as an entry level..."
Felicia: Hey, guys? I have a suspicion that maybe the guild didn't want us to succeed. And I don't want to panic anybody. I just don't think Vanessa--
Mary: Lyra, do you have any enemies in the guild?
Felicia: Well. Everyone seems to be very-- I make a very good soup and I help people with their laundry sometimes and--
Laura: Oh, are you like an assistant?
Felicia: No, I'm a guild member, I just like to be helpful. Like you guys.
Laura: I was just wondering.
Felicia: Well, they just don't send me anywhere. It's a paperwork thing.
Mary: If you don't mind my asking because I do respect you so much, how did your captainship of our crew come about?
Felicia: Well, I got a missive, I got a scroll in my room and the first assignment. I mean, it was very exciting to me and they haven't really paid attention to me. Mertin is very nice to me but Vanessa-- she just has her days, and I've been asking her for so long, and finally I got my assignment. I was hoping Aldor would be here, but he isn't, and that's fine. It'll be the next one. But there may not be a next one, guys. That's what I'm saying.
Mary: Oh, were you Vanessa's assistant? I mean, before you were a member?
Felicia: No. Aldor. I'm here with Aldor, remember?
Sam: If you think we've been sent on some sort of suicide mission--
Felicia: Oh, that's good, the way you put it there!
Sam: Well, I'm a master of words. Should we abandon all hope and just flee? Is that what you're suggesting as our leader? Or should we carry it through and prove everyone wrong?
Felicia: If we abandon this quest, then we never-- I could get kicked out of the guild, for one.
Laura: What happens if the contract that we magically signed doesn't ever come to fruition?
Felicia: It's not good.Let me think.
Sam: You know what? Retrace your steps.
Matt: There you go. In Memento fashion, all these things flash through. If a contract is broken, one: if you're a member of the guild, you're kicked out of the guild. Two: you guys are on this essentially as a trial basis to prevent being arrested and put on trial for breaking the laws of the city of Vasselheim and essentially hunting creatures that aren't sanctified. Or you yourself have not been sanctified to kill, which goes against guild rules and the city itself. Which means if you were to not succeed at the contract, you would probably be put on trial at the seat of judgment.
Laura: Percy is very good at lawyering.
Taliesin: I am. I lawyer quite well, but the hope is that we wouldn't actually break the contract in the first place, because that's complicated.
Mary: I wasn't part of this band of breaking the law. I'm here to gain entry into this guild.
Felicia: Well, you certainly won't get into the guild if you break the contract.
Mary: No, I completely understand, but I won't be brought to trial. Not that I'm all, "well it's all about me," but I'm serious. That's why I'm here! My motivations are not to save my ass, my motivations are to get into this bloody guild!
Taliesin: We're not here based on other people's expectations. We're here because we thought we could handle this and nothing has changed. This changes nothing!
Laura: We are very capable fighters!
Mary: I've seen this. You have proven yourselves already. Those orcs didn't stand a bloody chance.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Felicia: So we go?
Sam: We go. Well actually, Grog-- could someone ask Ace and Gary if we're there or if we have further to travel?
Felicia: We'll just keep going.
Matt: As Grog mentions this, you guys have moved past most of the village, and you've gone towards the back of this large chamber, and you do see what appears to be a tunnel that ascends upwards, deeper into the mountain proper. See, did it again. It's made me all self-conscious. But the entrance is entirely frozen. There is a wall of solid ice between yourselves and the continuation of this tunnel.
Laura: (Grog voice) How thick is it?
Matt: It's hard to see how thick it is from this side.
Laura: (Grog voice) Can Grog run at it and try to bash it really fast?
Matt: So as you guys step up, Grog runs ahead of the rest of the giants and goes as hard as he can towards this. (laughs) So swinging with the axe towards the ice. Go ahead and make an attack roll.
Laura: It's a hammer, which I feel would be better against ice.
Matt: This giant flaming warhammer from King Murghol.
Laura: I feel like every dice is betraying me.
Taliesin: Would you like to use mine?
Laura: No, I'm going to curse yours.
Matt: No, turn it around. Shake the Wil Wheaton curse.
Laura: I'll just leave it at that. It slipped out of my hands, but I'm going to keep it. 15 plus what, eight? Plus nine?
Matt: Plus nine. That'll definitely hit. Go ahead and roll damage for that.
Laura: Okay. Here we go.
Sam: I hope he can hit a wall.
Laura: I don't know, with my ones as of late. Oh, that's just ten.
Matt: Ten damage? Including the fire damage?
Laura: Oh, yes, right. 13.
Matt: 13 damage. (whack) The warhammer streaks through, the light causing this interesting shifting of the radius around it. As it smacks into the ice with this resounding (thwack) sound, the ice shakes and shimmers. A giant crack forms up the front of it, and you can see as he (grunts) pulls it out, the wall itself seems to have largely crumbled in the small space there and looks very fragile. But it's definitely left an impact on the wall.
Taliesin: I can make an attempt at this. I'm going to walk over and study the shattering position and see if I can find the weak point in the wall.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and make an investigation check.
Taliesin: Seven. Getting it all out of my system now.
Matt: The ice wall itself is not a specific architectural structure. It is made of some sort of blasting of ice that froze the air in that way, so it doesn't have any real geometric positioning, but the ice structure itself, you're unable to make out what would be a weak point or not, other than the place of impact where Grog placed the hammer.
Taliesin: I'm going to take a musket ball, go over to the very center of the crack.
Laura: Should we keep a little more quiet than that?
Felicia: Can I use a Fire Bolt? That would be good, a Fire Bolt.
Taliesin: Let's save the Fire Bolt.
Felicia: No, it's a cantrip. Is that okay?
Taliesin: I'm backing up.
Felicia: I'm the leader. I'm going to say I'm going to.
Taliesin: She said, Fire Bolt. I backed away.
Felicia: And that is 1d8 fire damage, which is seven. Seven fire damage.
Matt: All right. Go ahead and roll to see if you hit with it. So roll and add your spell attack modifier.
Felicia: What is that? Oh, it's 12... plus 11. So that is 23.
Matt: All right, that definitely hits. How much damage? That was seven fire damage, you said?
Felicia: Oh, it's 3d10 fire. Sorry. Because of my level. Which is seven and five and seven is 19.
Matt: Clutching your staff at one side, the book's under your shoulder, you bring your hand out and withdraw your hand with the force of the blast of the Fire Bolt going forward. As it smacks into the section where Grog had slammed the hammer, (boof) it bursts as a flash of arcane reddish fiery energy, and the wall itself shatters inward and starts falling and crumbling nearby. Now, this tall wall, which was about 25 feet tall, begins to fall in giant chunks.
Felicia: (yelps) Sorry!
Matt: I'm going to go ahead and have Lyra and Percy and Grog all make dexterity saving throws.
Felicia: Oh, I'm so good at that, with the negatives. Oh!
Laura: 19!
Taliesin: I can't use acrobatics?
Matt: No, not for this.
Laura: 21 for Grog.
Felicia: I rolled a zero, because I've got a negative two. It's not even on the dice!
Matt: Percy?
Taliesin: Nine.
Matt: All right, so.
Felicia: Is that worse than a critical fail?
Matt: As the whole wall just (shattering noise) breaking and falling down around you, you all go rushing backward. Grog, strangely and unexpectedly, shoulder-rolls out of the way, epic Geordi La Forge style. Escapes the crumbling wall. Unfortunately, though, Lyra and Percy stumble backward, slipping on the ice that's actually coated the floor of this cavern, and get impacted with part of the fall. It's not too bad, but both of you suffer 14 points of cold damage and bludgeoning. Cold and bludgeoning, as the wall comes tumbling down on you. However, the rest of the cavern now lies open with pieces of jagged ice almost like a broken glass window itself framing the exterior of this tunnel.
Felicia: I'm not going to go to the front anymore, guys.
Sam: Well, you're the leader, shouldn't you be--
Laura: We should protect her. She should be towards the back.
Taliesin: I'm going to heal really quickly.
Matt: Take another short rest?
Laura: We should take a short rest so that we're going in, you know.
Felicia: Yeah. I had scoliosis as a child. I'm not nimble. It's funny.
Mary: Before we take a short rest may I, again, use Awakened Mind, just to see how far away we are.
Matt: You get an image of a slowly ascending and spiraling tunnel that ascends towards an upper cavern at the top of the mountain. The upper cavern you only get a few glimpses of as they themselves have only had a few glimpses of it, but it appears this is not the only obstacle in the way.
Mary: Oh, good.
Sam: Let's carry on then.
Laura: Could you see when you were looking into their mind if it is open or if it is just a big cavern?
Mary: I could not see.
Matt: From the best vantage point you could see, it was a chamber about, I'd say 80 to 85 feet to the ceiling, lined with jagged ice crystals that are coalesced in a temperature so cold that it's almost like the inside of a geode, but it's all made of ice. But you see multiple platforms that are risen in the walls of this, and in the center, there is a singular platform, and there sitting on the top of it is apparently the dragon quarry you seek. And then the image shuts itself out, as one of them glances over the shoulder. It's growing uncomfortable with sharing information.
Mary: Got it. I thank him in my mind.
Matt: All right. Pressing forward, you can see one giant still dragging itself forward with a portion of its physical body essentially gutted.
Mary: What if we gave him a half healing potion?
Sam: Don't mess with the magic.
Laura: Because, here's the thing. If they fight with us, it's great, but if they turn on us then we are going to have to fight them at full power again.
Mary: Yeah, but we have 24 hours.
Sam: Yes, but the healing potion might do something. Let's just keep going. You are a very kind soul.
Matt: So are you guys taking a short rest to heal up? Okay. If you haven't already rolled your dice-- You healed up now? Perfect. All right, so as you guys continue to trudge up this extremely cold-- let me see. I think it'll be a fun one to-- There we go. You guys continue to ascend up this pitch-black cavern here. It appears that both the giants and the dragon do not need light to make their way through this cavern structure. So you are the small beads of visual lightness in the entire structure. The floor itself is slick, and there are bits of rough rock that you can find foot purchase but there are a few moments where some of you slip and you lose about ten feet and then catch yourself and have to move upward with this slight 35-degree incline, slowly spiraling upward. You push forward for about 30 minutes or so in this long, seemingly-- for lack of a better term, there isn't a lot of changed variation to it; it's just a gradual spiral in itself.
Laura: I want to keep perception out to make sure that nothing is ahead of us.
Matt: Go ahead and roll a perception check.
Laura: Okay, but this is pertaining to dragons. He is one of my favored enemies, so I have additional bonuses to tracking him and insight against him. Favored enemies!
Matt: All right. So you're perceiving anything dragon-related and things that would be a forewarning of a dragon, okay.
Laura: Things he would have laid down for us. Stuff like that.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and roll again. You have an advantage.
Laura: You know, just to see. Okay. 18?
Matt: Okay. Glancing about, you do see there are claw marks along the walls, you can see where portions of this cavern were carved out by the claws of Rimefang. You can see that occasionally there are pieces of frozen rock that are solid ice, some that appear to be an unthawed chunk of flesh of some kind. As you push further up this cavern, you spot what looks like the lower half of a statue.
Felicia: Ugh. That's a-- oh my god.
Taliesin: That's unpleasant.
Laura: Half of a giant, right?
Matt: This appears to be a frost giant that met its end. The actual lower half of the torso itself is giving off a stench of slowly rotting flesh. There is ice encasing the lower half of it. It's interesting because the physical form of the frost giants resist cold naturally, and this temperature would normally freeze any other flesh completely solid. Here, it naturally decays. But there is a distinct place where the torso was removed forcibly by what looks like a series of daggers and/or dragon's teeth.
Felicia: I have little ginger chews, if anybody wants one.
Taliesin: I'll take one.
Felicia: Here you go. Thank you. Just in my little pack here.
Matt: About ten more minutes of walking, you come upon another frozen wall barrier.
Sam: I will check it for traps!
Matt: Go ahead and roll perception.
Laura: (laughs) Thanks, brother.
Sam: Five.
Matt: As far as you can tell, it is a frost/snow-covered ground with walls and a ceiling.
Sam: Everyone. There are definitely no traps here.
Laura: Oh, good. Maybe we should stay back?
Felicia: Maybe I could do the Fire Bolt from afar. That's a good idea, and a leader idea that I had that you just reminded me of.
Laura: Good thinking, Lyra.
Felicia: Thank you. Oh, that definitely hits. That's 28.
Matt: 28. Go ahead and roll damage.
Felicia: It's a nine and a ten and five. 24.
Matt: 24. So as you focus, close one eye, and aim, you release a secondary Fire Bolt. (boosh) It slams into the front of the wall of ice, which immediately bursts inside. Shattered shards of glass-like ice go flying further up the cavern. The rest of it falls and collapses at a distance, (crashing) around you. Thankfully, you're all far enough away where there isn't an issue, and the wall seems to have shattered.
Felicia: That's the way you do it! Thank you. Oh my gosh, you guys.
Laura: Before we move forward, I've studied dragons a lot. I just want to say. So obviously we all know they're susceptible to fire damage, yes? This is an ice-breathing bastard. Do as much fire attacks as we can.
Mary: Yes. Don't dragons love, especially white ones, shiny, sparkly things? Especially gems, from what I've gleaned over the years.
Laura: If he could be distracted during combat, maybe.
Felicia: A very aggressive person. I got a glimpse of his attitude, and it is not pleasant.
Laura: Not happy.
Felicia: No. He is full of bile and vitriol, and he likes to be worshiped. We could pretend to be worshiping him.
Laura: But he'll still want to eat us. But yes, we could do that.
Felicia: I mean, he didn't eat these two guys!
Laura: It might be something to think about.
Felicia: At least to get close to him.
Laura: Before we spring an attack, yes.
Matt: Go ahead and make an intelligence check.
Laura: With advantage because it's pertaining to dragons?
Sam: (laughs) She's a stickler.
Laura: Is that an insight check?
Matt: That's just adding your intelligence modifier.
Laura: Okay, let me see what that-- oh, that's Grog's. What am I doing? Okay, so 20 was the first roll. 20 is the high roll. Oh, wait! No! 22.
Matt: 22. Okay. A few things you do know about dragons, specifically a white dragon, from your studying. You lost someone very important to you, supposedly to a dragon, and so you've spent a lot of your life focused on their techniques, their abilities, how they work. White dragons, you know, have complete immunity to cold. Cold damage of all sorts has no effect on them whatsoever. You know that they have capability of flight. They surround themselves with ice but are not hindered by it whatsoever. You do know that their claws and teeth are extremely dangerous. They themselves also, using their wings and tail, become a fierce entity from all sides. Its cold breath is extremely dangerous. It can affect a large area, and even its presence is frightful enough to where some of the most seasoned adventurers go running, fleeing, or cowering in a corner. Let alone encountering one in its lair, itself, it already has an advantage, as it sets an environment to put it at its advantage. So anything and everything you can do to prepare and be ready for such an encounter would be highly recommended. You do get the sensation that even though they are cold-based, fire doesn't necessarily do any additional damage, but it is not reduced or able to resist it.
Laura: It can't resist fire. What about lightning damage? Do I know anything about that?
Matt: Best that you know, most magics and other types of damage other than cold have an effect on it, though it does have unnatural resilience to spells and things for a large part of the combat.
Felicia: I can cast Stoneskin on one person. Or up to, actually-- I could cast Stoneskin up to three times.
Matt: But it's a concentration spell, so you can only have it up on one person.
Felicia: I can only have it on one person at a time. So who would be most likely to resist slashing and bludgeoning and piercing?
Laura: Probably Grog. He's going to be the one that's going to be up close, out of all of us.
Matt: As Grog says, "That's all right. If I'm raging, I already have the ability to resist."
Laura: That's true. He takes half to piercing and slashing.
Felicia: Oh, okay. So then we need the other person who might be within range.
Taliesin: Trinket.
Laura: Trinket.
Mary: Trinket.
Sam: Trinket's here? (laughter)
Matt: As you look over. (sad bear moan)
Laura: Trinket's right there, Scanlan.
Felicia: I don't want to demean him, but his performance is--
Laura: Lyra!
Felicia: I love him. Of course he gets the spell.
Laura: He is really, really cool!
Sam: He does things!
Felicia: Yes, of course, I don't know what I was thinking.
Laura: Here's the thing. If he doesn't have Stoneskin, I probably won't let him charge.
Taliesin: But if he does have Stoneskin, will you let him charge?
Laura: Probably.
Felicia: All right, well, that could be another-- Does that seem like a good idea for a bear?
Mary: Scanlan, are most of your attacks up close or are they far?
Sam: I've got a wide range. I like to keep people guessing. It's my thing.
Felicia: But we wouldn't really want you within claw damage.
Sam: I wouldn't want that, either.
Felicia: It does make more-- I don't mean to demean Trinket, he is a lovely bear.
Sam: Of all the bears I've known, he's top five. Top five.
Matt: As you're saying this, Trinket senses the conversation and plants both feet in the ground (growls).
Laura: See how tough he is?
Matt: He seems to be showing off. And for a moment, even though it's a conversation, that's a dangerous-looking bear.
Mary: I use Beast Speak on Trinket. And say, Trinket, what are you feeling right now? What's going on? You seem very excited.
Matt: Okay, you notice Zahra leans forward and starts giving this series of low, guttural sounds. It's weird. There's this weird arcane interference and this strange, almost like the sound itself is being muffled and stretched. And Trinket turns to her and starts giving the same noises back. Trinket says to you, essentially, "I'll do whatever it takes to protect my Vex. If this creature tries anything, I will tear its throat from its head."
Felicia: He's a sexier bear than I thought he was.
Laura: And he gives good massages, Lyra.
Felicia: Okay. So I will cast Stoneskin. It lasts an hour, so I'll cast it within the perimeter that we think we're going to get hit.
Laura: Tell him that I love him very much!
Mary: I also want to tell you, Trinket. First of all, boy or girl? Just have to check.
Laura: He's a boy! Look at his giant dick.
Matt: He leans back in a sitting bear position.
Mary: Thank you, I needed some inspiration for this fight we're about to do. All right. I also want you to know that Vex loves you very much and will do whatever she can to protect you.
Matt: As this guttural conversation comes forth, Trinket comes up to you and nuzzles his nose up against your side.
Laura: Oh, little buddy!
Felicia: I wish Aldor would do that to me.
Sam: Show his giant cock to you? (laughter)
Mary: Show his giant cock to you? (laughter)
Felicia: I saw it once. It was glorious.
Mary: Very inspiring.
Matt: As Lyra's in this memory trance, finishes casting Stoneskin and reaches out and touches Trinket. You can see Trinket's physical form, all the fur seems to coalesce into a thick rock-type exterior shell of magical protection.
Laura: What does his armor class raise by?
Matt: Armor class doesn't change, but all damage that Trinket takes from bludgeoning, piercing, or slashing is reduced by half.
Laura: Nice.
Mary: Thank you, Trinket, lovely to talk to you.
Sam: What else can we do to prepare?
Laura: I promise, Lyra, I will let him attack this battle.
Felicia: Oh good, no, it's fantastic. That invited so many good thoughts in my mind. I don't mind anything at this point. I mean, what?
Matt: The giants begin to move forward into the cavern.
Laura: It's happening.
Mary: Yep. Screw your courage to the sticking-place.
Taliesin: Ew. Oh. All right.
Matt: All right. Scanlan, I want you to go ahead and roll a dexterity saving throw.
Sam: Oh boy, already? Dex. 17. Oh. Plus four. 21.
Matt: 21. As you begin stepping forward up the cavern where the wall itself has collapsed, you step forward onto a part of the ice that is far more brittle than you expected, and suddenly it (cracks) breaks beneath your foot.
Sam: My Scanlan-sense is tingling!
Matt: You push off and fall onto your back, and as you guys look over, you hear the cracking and the falling of some sort of stone or ice-like structure. You see where Scanlan was stepping a ten-foot-diameter pit crumbles and falls beneath. And peering over the inside and using your light, you can see there appears to be an arrangement of razor-sharp ice spikes gathered at the bottom of a 15-foot pit.
Laura: What? Why isn't my brother here? I need to check for traps from now on. Snoop ahead.
Taliesin: I think we've found one. There's a trap right there.
Sam: Does that take up our whole path now?
Matt: The tunnel itself is about 20 feet wide at this point, so you guys can move around it. The giants were ahead of you at this point.
Sam: Did they laugh?
Matt: One of them shakes his head and the other one just keeps walking.
Felicia: Gee, I had a spell that would be useful, but it's not ready.
Sam: Thanks for that update.
Felicia: I'm just being honest. I could've lied, said that I totally prepared that spell, but I could've been knowing Giant the whole time, so I just.
Laura: (laughs) Oops.
Felicia: If anybody falls, I can make them fall gently. That's on the list.
Laura: Oh, that's good. Is that Feather Fall? Nice. Okay, I perceive some more and see if I see any traps ahead of us the whole time.
Matt: All right. You go ahead and make a perception check as you move forward.
Laura: That would be a seven. 15.
Matt: 15, okay. You guys continue to push upwards this long spiraling corridor. You reach another ice wall that has already been partially broken from some sort of encounter long ago. You immediately see that the part of the wall that is broken. There's about a ten-foot-wide blocked passage, the entirety of that walkway appears to be another trap, and the giants are waiting back.
Laura: Good for you. There's a thing here. We should not step on it. I have one job on this ship!
Mary: I know it's stupid, but goddamn it, I'm going to do it.
Sam: How do we get around? What do we do?
Laura: We should maybe break down this ice wall and then not walk on this area. How about that?
Sam: Oh. Okay. Let's, yes.
Felicia: Oh, good. Should I Firebolt? I mean, I'm going to Firebolt. From a distance.
Laura: (singing) From a distance, the world is...
Felicia: (singing) From a distance, the world is...
Mary: (singing) From a distance, the world is...
Sam: (singing) From a distance, the world is...
Sam: Beaches.
Felicia: That's a 30.
Matt: 30. Go ahead and roll some damage.
Felicia: Yeah! Nine and eight and a ten, these are good rolls. That's a 27.
Matt: 27. This bolt arcs around from the side. You hit it right at the point where half of the wall had collapsed, causing the other half of the wall to immediately shatter and collapse inward, spraying bits of ice and rock against the wall on that side. The ground becomes rough terrain in that general vicinity, but it's easy enough to traverse over without any serious issue. As you guys step over, and the giants make their way across, stepping over it entirely with their long gait. You move carefully over the shattered wall bits, but the ground itself seems solid. You get past without issue.
Laura: Before we go into the actual lair of the dragon-- once we get to it; I don't know much more of these thingies there are. Do we want to go in as if we're offering it something and saying, hey, we love you, we want to bring you people, and stuff like that?
Mary: We are here to serve you?
Laura: Or do we want to send somebody in first and act like they're here to serve it, and then we all spring in and surprise it? What do you want to do?
Sam: They like to eat giants.
Laura: It wants to eat anything frozen, basically. It freezes things, and then it eats them.
Felicia: Well, there was another party that the guild-- the guild did send another party.
Laura: I don't know if they had a method or if they just walked right in.
Taliesin: Perhaps if we're quiet and stealthy. Can we be quiet and stealthy?
Felicia: I can't!
Mary: I can cast Invisibility.
Felicia: Ooh, I can cast Invisibility on myself.
Sam: That would help.
Mary: So learning of the dragon, will it be able to detect us if we cast Invisibility?
Felicia: That's nature? That would be a nature check or animal handling?
Matt: This would be an intelligence check.
Felicia: Oh. Well, I can do that. That's a 30-- that's a 23.
Matt: Okay, so what you've read of dragons, their ability to sense their surroundings is adapted to all environments, whether they can see or not. They actually have the ability to see with no sight necessary to a certain extent, so invisibility would help at a distance, quite a bit of distance, but within a certain point it is able to sense your presence whether or not it can see you. Also note, if you cast Invisibility you lose your concentration spell on Trinket.
Felicia: Oh, so let's not do that. Now, his vanity, he does like being worshipped. So that is the key.
Sam: So we could go in with an offering.
Laura: An offering. What if we laid a trap in the offering? What if we used your frag grenade that you did. Is it a bomb? Does it set off on a timer? Is it very fragile?
Taliesin: I have to set it off personally. I actually have to shoot it to set it off.
Mary: So smile, you son of a bitch, basically, if we put it in his mouth?
Laura: Do we have any bombs or anything like that? Because I have a very big beautiful diamond of awesomeness that we uncovered before that I keep about. We could present him with this big, huge-ass diamond and then have it trapped with some sort of exploding device.
Sam: We could.
Felicia: If he picks the diamond up off of the--
Laura: We could put it in a bag and then put the diamond on top of a bomb or something, and then when he picks it up and like, (explosion) in his face.
Taliesin: That's hoping for an awful lot of things to go our way. More things than normally go our way, to be fair.
Felicia: Well, it seems worthy of trying to get close to him, because his attacks-- Would he as a dragon have a very good length attack?
Matt: Yeah, as a dragon has some decent reach with some of its attacks. Its bite, and its length of neck and ability to bite actually has quite a bit of reach. Also, its tail has quite some reach, as well. It can cover some decent ground just with its physical form.
Felicia: The thing is, obviously the trolls don't come up here a lot or there wouldn't be so much ice in here. Walls. So I think that's a problem, so it's not as if they come up here all the time to give it treats. Right?
Sam: We could just walk in there. I could be holding Lyra as my captive and say, I've brought you this captive to eat.
Felicia: I don't like that one.
Sam: Well, you know, you're very appealing.
Mary: We still don't know that the giants aren't going to help us.
Matt: As you guys are stepping forward up the pathway, you turn a corner and you can see the giants have stopped, and they have a physical trepidation to the way that they're leaning backward in their stance. As you turn the corner, the little bit of light that reaches out, you can see there appears to be one final ice wall that has a ten-foot opening where it's left as a pathway, and it opens into a darkened chamber.
Mary: Well, I have darkvision for 60 feet, so I could approach around the side and peer in and just see what's there, 60 feet ahead.
Matt: Okay, so you walk up past the giants to this entrance? All right. As you walk forward, you see your vision spill out in the darkness, with a little bit of dim light and the darkness before you reveals itself. You can see a smattering of broken bits along the ground, looks like rocks and ice, a frozen leg of some humanoid, an arm, some scattered, broken armor and weapons. There are pieces of what appears to be a frozen-over graveyard of previous attempts towards inhabiting this room. And as you continue to push forward towards the edge, just towards the perimeter as far as your vision can see at this doorway, you see a central platform in the middle of this giant chamber that rises up about 15 feet. Ten, 15 feet, and just cresting over the top of this platform is the edge of an alabaster snout, with teeth overlapping. You hear this (snarls) growling snarl. And this little voice spills out from underneath and says, "Why don't you enter? If you're going to arrive and present yourselves, do not cower yet."
Felicia: Get that diamond out!
Matt: And with that, we're going to go ahead and take a break. (shouting)
Matt: We're going to take a quick ten-minute break to go ahead and use the bathroom, get a little snack. Yes?
Zac: We're eight subscribers away from another giveaway. (cheering)
Zac: The giveaway includes a signed player's handbook by all your wonderful hosts, as well as the hosts that will be here next week, and a signed copy of Felicia Day's new book.
Felicia: My new book! It's right there! I signed it.
Sam: What's it called? What's the title?
Felicia: It's called You're Never Weird on the Internet (Almost).
Sam: Aw. That's cool.
Felicia: It's amusing.
Zac: Are you weird in real life all the time?
Felicia: No, I mean, look at me.
Zac: No. Definitely not.
Felicia: I don't believe your face.
Sam: Did you consider the title Day Dreaming?
Felicia: You're pretty.
Sam: I just thought, because it's like a pun.
Felicia: No, that's awful.
Sam: Consider it.
Matt: Somewhere, someone's holding their manuscript entitled Day Dreaming and going (fake crying). (laughter)
Matt: All right, guys, we'll take a quick break, we'll see you back in ten minutes or so to see how this goes. [break]
Matt: Welcome back from the break! Our fantastic Travis finally made it. (cheering)
Travis: I heard I rolled really well in the beginning of this.
Matt: Yeah, it went wonderfully.
Laura: Sorry. But your Chain of Returning is attached to your blazing warhammer now.
Matt: There you go. So as it ends up, we have a new winner. KadenPhilly is the winner, congratulations, of our next giveaway. So we'll be giving away the player's handbook, the signed photo, a copy of Felicia's book-- yay!-- and a bunch of other goodies coming your way soon, so make sure you get your information to the Overlord. We'll have another giveaway at 5,800, if we can get to there by the end of the show tonight, so let's see if we can hit that. In the meantime, guys--
Travis: Shit.
Mary: Yeah. Welcome to the shit.
Travis: I've been watching in the car.
Matt: You guys have all been making your way through the cavern back here. Zahra has stepped forward and in the darkness, you can see right here at the edge a form.
Felicia: He's up above us, though.
Matt: Yep. About ten, 15 feet up on this platform, leaning over the edge is Rimefang, staring at you through the darkness. A claw comes forward and beckons.
Laura: Can I, from here, before we go in there-- I'm going to cast Hunter's Mark on him.
Matt: You can't see him right now.
Mary: I can.
Matt: Zahra can.
Travis: I can, too. I've got my belt of dwarven darkvision.
Felicia: Is he speaking dragon?
Matt: Speaking Common.
Felicia: He's speaking Common. Okay.
Mary: Would he detect if I would cast anything on him at the moment? I don't know! Then I'm going to sit here and drink my drink.
Travis: Are you offering him that jewel, or did we ditch that idea?
Laura: No, are we doing that?
Sam: We might. Depends what he asks. Yeah, let's do it.
Travis: Yeah, roll it out like a tennis ball for a dog.
Taliesin: Do we have a little bag we can put the jewels in?
Laura: Yeah.
Sam: We don't have time to do any of this stuff.
Laura: Yeah, we do.
Taliesin: We have a second. I'm going to hand you my Holy Hand Grenade of Antioch. Why not?
Travis: You can Hold Monster?
Mary: I can Hold Monster. Yeah, we both can.
Travis: Does he qualify as a monster?
Matt: As far as you know, dragon's pretty much a monster.
Laura: I am putting Percy's hand grenade inside this bag along with a diamond. Oh, it's a really pretty diamond.
Taliesin: We'll get it back, it's okay.
Laura: As long as it doesn't explode.
Taliesin: You can't explode a diamond.
Laura: That's true, diamonds are really strong.
Taliesin: Diamonds are forever.
Laura: I put that in the bag. Are we tossing this at him? What are we doing?
Sam: No! We walk in. He's beckoning us. Let's walk in. I'm walking in.
Matt: All right, so you guys all walk in?
Sam: I'm going ahead.
Laura: Here, hold the bag.
Sam: I'll take the bag.
Matt: Zahra, are you staying ahead with Scanlan?
Felicia: I believe that you squishy people should be back here!
Travis: I'm not squishy, I go with them.
Matt: As a note, as you guys are walking through and the light hits the walls, you begin to see the ice itself, which you've become accustomed to, is now being broken up into what looks like little glittering stars. It's almost like you're walking through a frozen area of the night sky. You realize that there are gold pieces frozen in sporadically all throughout the wall, the floor, the ceiling here. The actual, whatever wealth this dragon has acquired is in some way shape or form embedded in its own lair. Anyway. So we have the three of you up front. Who's up next? I imagine we've got Trinket.
Laura: Yeah. Me.
Matt: All right, so you guys all continue to move forward?
Mary: Not too close!
Laura: Scanlan!
Matt: There? Where do you want to stop? You guys have laser pointers to use, by the way, if you want to point out wherever you want to be.
Laura: Scanlan should definitely talk to him.
Taliesin: I would like to go around here.
Felicia: Oh glorious Rimefang, we have an offering for you!
Taliesin: That's not me.
Sam: Is that you? Hello.
Matt: No, that was you, sorry. So Percy goes here.
Laura: Over by Percy. But further.
Felicia: Is that 90 feet?
Sam: It's less than that. We're 30 feet away now.
Laura: Oh, come on, giants. Help us out.
Matt: So as you guys enter the chamber, the actual air here is more still and cold than at any point of the interior of the cavern has been. Even breathing inward hurts in itself as the freezing air hits your lungs. Rimefang sits there, perched on top of this central platform, grinning down towards the rest of the group. You, who have shouted this out, Lyra, about having an offering. Rimefang immediately leans forward. "An offering, you say?"
Laura: I want to make my way further up. While he's talking, I want to make my way along the wall a little.
Matt: Make a stealth check.
Laura: Oh no. 20! Natural 20! And all I needed was fried chicken! (laughter)
Travis: It's true.
Matt: All right, so. You, somehow, manage to dart out of the visual reference of a very focused adult white dragon. Rimefang does not seem to gather any movement, and you vanish into the side. Where do you want to go?
Laura: A little bit further. There. That sounds good.
Matt: Okay. Percy, as you're stepping over you realize you're stepping onto what looks like the broken lower half of another giant that has fallen over, a booted leg and part of an eaten armored torso to your back. As you begin to look through, you also see there currently frozen in place three other individuals that are in mid-battle and are frozen solid.
Laura: If we unfreeze them, they could help us.
Felicia: They're probably dead in there.
Travis: We're standing in front of a dragon!
Sam: Rimefang?
Mary: Oh great Rimefang! What a glorious moon you are amidst the stars of your treasure.
Travis: Oh, pour it on, why don't you? (laughter)
Mary: We do have an offering for you.
Sam: Yes. And I use Mage Hand to lift the diamond out of the bag and dangle it in front of the dragon. We've brought you this diamond. We've come from the Slayer's Take. We represent the guild and we are here to formally apologize for sending a few of our members here in the past and promise that we never shall again, and as a gift of apology and hopefully brotherhood, we offer you this diamond. There are many more to come.
Taliesin: And everything else in the bag, as well.
Laura: And then you put it back in the bag. And then you give it to him.
Matt: There's this low, guttural snarl (snarls). It leans forward, sneaking down off the perch a little bit. Its head moves forward and stretches outward, no more than maybe ten feet from your face. You can see it inspecting the diamond as you're holding it by the Mage Hand, floating above the rest of the bag. Chuckles to itself. (chuckles) "This is your measly offering?"
Sam: There is a diamond of much greater size and value in this pouch. But first, we want to hear that you are going to allow us safe passage out of here before we turn it over to you.
Matt: Persuasion check.
Zac: Guys, just so you know, the stream's buffering, so hold. Twitch problems.
Felicia: Oh no.
Zac: Hold for buffer.
Matt: Do we know at what point it started buffering?
Zac: You're back up. Missing the last two sentences. Buffer over.
Sam: Please allow us safe passage. And then you said roll for persuasion, and I rolled a 19.
Matt: Rimefang's head withdraws back and its claws pull back on top of the platform. It lifts its head up, looking down at you with this very disinterested, snooty look (huffs). As it snorts out of its nose, this puff of frost shoots out and crystals of ice fall and clatter to the ground around it.
Sam: That was so cool.
Matt: "You. You trespass into my domain, your voices bickering and bouncing off the walls, annoying me, waking me from my slumber. My freshly eaten slumber. I am curious, before you so walk into my dinner table, why you seem to have gotten past my guardians?" At which point the two giants who are standing behind you look over at each other nervously.
Sam: Your guardians are well aware of our power and position and did not want to offend you by turning us away.
Matt: "Are you to tell me I spared your insignificant lives so you could let this insulting, insufferable insect into the heart of my domain?"
Sam: I'm called Burt Reynolds, and I take great offense at that.
Matt: The dragon's head turns to the side for a moment as a glance of confusion and almost amusement that you speak up to it with such a disrespectful manner. (evil laughter)
Sam: You can call me Mr. Reynolds or simply Burt.
Matt: (heavy impacts) Its claws dig in and tighten on the edges of this platform. You can see the stonework and the ice crack and shatter under its grip as pieces of stone tumble down the edges of the platform, scattering across the ground with a slight clattering. The wings (whoosh) unfurl outward. Its head looks down upon you directly. "Burt." (laughter)
Matt: "You say you're from the Slayer's Take. I have not lived these hundred years or so to become the hunted. I am the hunter! I am the scourge of the Thorain Tundra! I am the stalker of this timberland. Well. Parts of you shall adorn my walls, glittering in pieces for times to come. Giants. To my side! Tonight, you choose whether I dine on you or just them."
Mary: I use-- fuck me. (laughter)
Taliesin: I don't know if you have that spell.
Felicia: Really, what's the DC on that?
Mary: It's very high! I use Awakened Mind to once more say, now we have seen what you have been through. We see the terror that you face every day from this awful beast. This is your chance. You may not have another. Fight him with us and destroy this beast forever.
Matt: Make a persuasion check versus the dragon's intimidation check.
Sam: Oh, versus a dragon!
Laura: Natural 20 all the way. Natural 20. I've had my bow notched, and I cast Hunter's Mark while all this is going on.
Mary: 18. 18 plus what?
Sam: What is it, persuasion?
Matt: Persuasion.
Mary: Plus nine. 27.
Matt: The giants look at each other, and they look down at the rest of you. They pull their axes out, shields at the ready, and look back up at Rimefang, and in Giant you hear, muttered under their breath, "It's now or never." (cheering)
Matt: Roll initiative.
Mary: Yes!
Laura: Oh my god.
Felicia: Oh my god.
Taliesin: Oh my god.
Felicia: Oh, I rolled lower!
Laura: I rolled a 20.
Taliesin: I rolled another 20.
Laura: Me too!
Travis: What is it with you and your 20s?
Taliesin: I don't know! I don't know what happened.
Matt: Okay, all right. 25 to 20, anyone?
Laura: 25.
Taliesin: 28.
Mary: What?!
Matt: All right. We have Percy, we have Vex, leaving that up there. All right, we have 20 to 15?
Travis: 19.
Matt: 19, nice. 15 to ten?
Mary: 12.
Matt: 12. Zahra, 12. Ten to five?
Sam: Seven.
Matt: Seven for Scanlan. (laughing) what did you roll?
Felicia: Negative one! (laughter)
Mary: That's our leader!
Matt: Did you roll a natural one?
Felicia: I rolled a one, and I have a negative two.
Travis: On your initiative?!
Felicia: Yes! I'm never going. I'm going to just have a snack.
Travis: You break out the trail mix.
Taliesin: The little gingers come back out.
Felicia: Is that a record?
Travis: That is a record. I don't think we've ever had a negative initiative.
Matt: All right, so as the wings unfurl on top of this platform, the combat round begins with Percy.
Taliesin: If I take one shot, can I hold my second shot until an event? Can I time my second shot?
Matt: No, you'd have to hold your initiative, or you do all your actions in one round, unfortunately.
Taliesin: Darn it. What initiative did you roll, again?
Sam: Low. Second to last.
Taliesin: In that case, I'm going to take a few steps behind that frozen creature right there. I'm going to pull out Bad News.
Mary: (singing) Bad News!
Sam: (singing) Bad News!
Taliesin: (singing) Bad News!
Taliesin: I'm going to aim for the face. I'm going to take a head shot on him.
Matt: Okay, the frozen warrior is in front of you.
Taliesin: I'm just using him as partial cover.
Matt: Okay, so you're behind the creature. Are you just putting it on it to aim?
Taliesin: More or less. I'm using him as a steady and as partial cover as I take a head shot on the dragon. I'm not taking a bonus for damage, no. Oh. 15?
Matt: 15 unfortunately does not hit. As you shoot, (gunshot), it actually hits the body but the hardness of the dragon's scales ricochets the shot off, (ricochet sound), you see it impact on some part of the far side of the cavern.
Taliesin: I'm going to burn a bonus action and spend another grit point and do another shot.
Matt: So you're doing your action surge?
Taliesin: I'm taking my action surge.
Matt: Okay, so you use your action surge, and that's it for this round. You use your first round to reload Bad News and place it back up on top.
Taliesin: Come on.
Matt: Another head shot, you said?
Taliesin: Yeah. Oh! 19! That's much better. Plus 12, that's 32 to hit. And that's 15 points of damage, and head shot means he's got disadvantage on all attacks for the next round.
Matt: Okay, good to know. So I'm going to go ahead and roll. All right, so. (gunshot) From the impact of the blast, you see the shot ricochet off of Rimefang's face. The impact sends a couple pieces of white dragon scale shooting off into the darkness, and the head (grunts) rears from the impact, shakes, seemingly loosely shaken by the impact of the blast. The blowback from the gun actually sends a large crack through the physical body of the ice warrior ahead of you, and it collapses into a pile of ice on the ground in front of you.
Taliesin: I feel a little guilty about that. I feel very guilty about that.
Matt: You get the feeling that whatever was there probably has not been alive for quite a while.
Taliesin: Okay, I feel a little better.
Matt: Frozen solid. It breaks like the T-1000.
Taliesin: And he was the most useful he's ever been.
Matt: That ends Percy's turn. We're up at Vex.
Laura: Okay, I'm going to cast Lightning Arrow, and I'm going to attack through my Blazing Bow.
Matt: All righty.
Laura: Okay. Oh, that's good! That is a 25?
Matt: 25? 25 does hit, yes.
Laura: Okay, so that is 4d8 of lightning damage.
Matt: All right. Saving throw for half? Or just take it?
Laura: Saving throw for half, yes.
Matt: That's a natural 20 on its saving throw, so it takes half damage.
Felicia: That's some stink-eye.
Matt: Hey, better on a saving throw than on an attack.
Laura: 13 plus six is 19, 20, so ten. Plus regular damage, right? For my regular. 19. I know. 11 plus ten is 21, plus Hunter's Mark is four. And then plus my Blazing Bow, which adds another ten. Where did that land? Shit, balls! I'm so aggressive right now! I'm going to roll a different one! Oh my god. That looks like a one. Oh wow. Two ones. That's great.
Matt: So as you pull back your arrow, the actual shaft begins to spark with bluish energy as you release it. The arrow transforms (energy noises) into an arcing bolt of electrical energy. It impacts and courses through the upper torso of the dragon, as it's (grunts) still trying to shake off the damage it took from Percy's attack. It manages to push off most of the impact, but still takes damage from it. There's also a burst of fire from the impact, as well, you can see a bit of flame trickle up the side of his body and it eventually goes out from the cold in the air.
Laura: That was one attack.
Matt: Yes.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: But was the spell an action?
Laura: The Lightning Arrow is a bonus.
Matt: Oh, okay. So it makes your next attack do that. Right. Gotcha. So you have one more attack.
Laura: So I am going to send Trinket. Where is he?
Matt: Trinket's over here with the giants guarding him.
Laura: Dear lord. Can Trinket run around and attack his butt?
Matt: It's actually up on top of a 15-foot platform.
Laura: Oh, so Trinket can't do shit right now.
Matt: Not right now, but Trinket can move if you like.
Laura: Trinket's going to move, and I'm going to attack again, can I do that?
Matt: Yeah, you can do that.
Laura: We want to spread out.
Matt: That's as far as Trinket get can get, there.
Laura: Can I attack again?
Matt: You can, yeah.
Laura: All right, I'll hit him again. Okay, just a regular attack through the bow.
Matt: Yep. This is your second use of it, though; you're done with it.
Laura: Yes. 17.
Matt: 17. As you fire the arrow, it takes its wing and (whoosh) batters it out of the way, and the arrow shatters in mid air. You see a burst of fire as it does nothing.
Laura: It was a 25 that hit before. What was the first attack that hit?
Taliesin: I was in the 30s.
Matt: So that ends your turn, Vex. Do you want to move, or do you want to stay right there?
Laura: Can I stealth?
Matt: (laughs) No, that's a hide action, I think.
Laura: Then I'm going to move along the wall further. Yeah, like that.
Matt: That ends your turn. Rimefang, now, shaking off the frustration, looks around the room, lifts up on its back hind legs, spreads its wings, and just gives this large roar. (roars) The entire room shakes, and you see pieces of ice and rock begin to start falling from the ceiling. Everybody, go ahead and make a wisdom saving throw. Everybody. One giant is fine. All right, starting with Percy.
Taliesin: 12.
Matt: 12.
Felicia: 15.
Sam: Natural 20, but it becomes 18.
Matt: Okay.
Felicia: Because you're not wise.
Mary: 21.
Matt: All right.
Laura: Ten.
Matt: Grog?
Travis: Nine?
Matt: That's rough.
Travis: Very wise.
Sam: Oh, lots of red circles.
Matt: All right, so. The sheer amount of presence that this dragon permeates sends a shiver of fear down your spine. Vex, Percy, Grog, and one of the giants are currently frightened of the dragon. While you are frightened, you have disadvantage on ability checks and attack rolls, and you cannot willingly move closer to the dragon.
Laura: Is Trinket frightened?
Matt: Roll for Trinket.
Laura: Okay. Come on, Trinket. No! He's probably pretty frightened. Oh, does that count as intimidation?
Matt: No, it's a wisdom saving throw. So it's whatever his wisdom bonus is.
Laura: He rolled an eight, so I'm guessing he's pretty scared.
Matt: Probably scared. Trinket, all of a sudden also (scared bear noises) backs up a little bit and is looking equally frightened, especially seeing you scared. Trinket feels a moment of fear there.
Laura: You've still got a really big dick!
Felicia: What?
Laura: I'm just telling him to encourage him.
Travis: I missed something.
Sam: Not the dragon. Although, probably the dragon too.
Matt: Rimefang then (whoosh) flies up into the air for a minute. And then swoops over and lands over on this side, and that's going to end its turn. That brings us to Grog.
Travis: I got to break it, right?
Matt: Yeah, you're scared.
Travis: Rage? I look over my shoulder, terrified, at the other one that's scared, and I say, repeat after me, lads. I would like to rage.
Matt: You reach into your inner self, and suddenly you realize this is it. You know dragons, you've fought dragons in the past, you've killed dragons in the past, and you know dragons have been responsible for hurting some of your friends and their families, and through that, that anger just billows up from inside, and that fear shakes from your body.
Travis: I want to kill a dragon like my friend Pike did.
Matt: You're now in a rage. You shake the fear effect, and you can take the rest of your turn as you see fit.
Travis: (battle cry) I would like to run over that direction.
Sam: Oh, you're running away from it?
Matt: You rage-ran.
Travis: I rage-ran. Can I attack?
Matt: You're currently hiding behind a 15-foot platform.
Travis: So I can't see beyond it?
Matt: You're literally hiding from the dragon right now. Cool. All right, that ends your turn? Zahra, you're up.
Mary: All right, how far away is it from me?
Matt: It is currently 30 feet from you.
Mary: All right.
Matt: Real fast. Grog, make a dexterity saving throw.
Travis: 13?
Matt: 13?
Laura: What was that for?
Matt: As you're running through, all of a sudden the floor gives out from underneath you, and you roll off to the side. You almost fall in, catching yourself, you slide down into a pit, but manage to get your handhold on a piece of stone that's jutting out of the rock. Pull yourself up. Underneath where you were in the ground is a cracked piece of ice: a pit in the ground.
Laura: Seriously?
Matt: But you're fine. You get back up to your feet. That could've been really bad. It's about 15 feet down into these jagged shards of ice.
Laura: My passive perception is 21. Just for future reference.
Matt: Good to know. You also have no light source. You're at the far back in the darkness. Actually, you have Grog around you right now.
Mary: And I still have Light cast.
Matt: Yeah, so you're fine. All right. That brings us to Zahra, once again.
Mary: I cast my bonus Hex on this beautiful beast.
Matt: It is now Hexed, as well.
Sam: What's that do? What's that?
Mary: I get extra damage.
Travis: You sexy tailed bastard.
Mary: I take my dark dragon staff, and as this moon orb begins to glow, I cast Witch Bolt-- is that it?-- yes! Witch Bolt upon it! Infused with my own internal moon fire.
Matt: All right. Do you have to roll to hit on that one?
Mary: Witch Bolt? Yeah, what do I do? It's plus 11. 5d12 plus two.
Laura: Yeah, so roll and then add 11.
Mary: 13.
Laura: Oh, that's good.
Mary: 24, plus two damage to all spells cast, so 26?
Laura: No, that's damage.
Mary: Oh, sorry, 24.
Matt: All right, so Witch Bolt does hit. Go ahead and roll damage for that.
Mary: So 5d12. Five times. All right. Do math for me, somebody. What is that? That's a three.
Travis: Three plus the two, so that's five.
Laura: You do it all and then add the two.
Travis: Oh, gotcha. Seven.
Mary: That's four.
Travis: Yeah. Plus four. 19. 26. 38.
Mary: One more?
Laura: No, that's all five.
Matt: Five, and you add 1d6 to that because of your Hex.
Laura: Plus two, so 38 is 40.
Mary: One.
Matt: Okay. So 41 points.
Mary: Yeah.
Laura: Plus anything else? Wait, plus two damage to all-- oh, but that's already--
Travis: That's already there.
Matt: Okay, so. After you Hex it, you can see the shadows around the dragon begin to form and coalesce around its torso, and as it looks around, these small demonic faces that cackle as bits of moonlight begin to pierce through these grins chokehold around its neck, and as it tries to shake it off, you bring your staff forward, and this bolt of bluish-green electrical energy shakes out in what looks like a piercing arc of jagged moonlight that strikes right into the center of the dragon's chest. As it does, the dragon's nearly pushed off its feet for a second, gathers itself, and you can see that energy surrounds it like magical shackles, it continues to keep its hold on the creature, as Witch Bolt does. All right. Do you wish to move, or are you going to stay where you are? You can move 30 feet, six squares.
Mary: I'd like to go stand by the giants.
Travis: You're already there.
Matt: Yeah, you're right here. It's hard for you to see because that guy's in the way, but you're right there.
Mary: All right. No, the other way. Blinding players as we go. Where am I? I'm there? I'd like to move to the slight cover of the pedestal.
Matt: You can get that far. All right, so there you are. That ends your turn, Zahra. Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: My eyes begin to change to a dark shade as I turn my gaze to the dragon and cast Eyebite on him.
Travis: What? Cast what?
Sam: Eyebite.
Matt: All right. And how are you having that affect him?
Sam: I would like to sicken him. Give him a little tummy-ache.
Travis: Is he going to do the twirls?
Matt: Okay, we're going to do Eyebite here.
Sam: Through my Hand Cone of Clarity!
Matt: All right. So wisdom saving throw for the dragon. Use my meteor dice one of the fans out there sent. All right, what's the DC on that now total?
Sam: It's 19.
Matt: 19. That would fail. It's going to use its legendary resistance to choose to succeed instead.
Sam: It can just choose to succeed?!
Travis: How many times can it choose to do that?!
Matt: Three times per day. Welcome to fighting a dragon!
Sam: What? But that was a cool spell!
Matt: So as your eyes darken, the dragon's currently surrounded by the Witch Bolt and the Hex on the creature. You darken your eyes, and you look over and see the arcane energy taking your vision, its vision, combine it in midair. As you do, it shakes its head and (roars) shouts. You instinctively pull back, and as you do, the spell drifts away from you and you realize the incantation's lost.
Travis: Percy, use your badass motherfucker feat to have it work.
Sam: Okay, can I throw with a bonus action?
Matt: What are you going to throw?
Sam: A bag.
Matt: No, that's probably more of an action, but you can drop it as a bonus action.
Sam: Got it. Then I will move a few steps away. I can still move and stuff, right? I would like to move away from this group of soon-to-be-blasted-with-dragon-fire people. Just a few yards away to my left.
Matt: All right.
Sam: That's fine, sure, that's great. And give some inspiration to Lyra. I'll say, (singing) When the moon hits your eye like a big pizza pie, that's Aldor-e. (cheering)
Travis: Yeah, going deep.
Matt: And suddenly, the fear that's getting close to clutching your heart and giving you every instinct to run from this, you hear the name Aldor, and you feel that surge of warmth fill your body, and the need to push on forward. Go ahead and take a d10 inspiration dice to use in any roll you want.
Felicia: Oh my gosh, thank you so much. That's beautiful.
Sam: Well, I wrote it for you.
Matt: All right. That ends your turn, Scanlan. Now the giants go. This one is going to move to the side. It's deathly afraid of the dragon, it's like, this is a bad idea, it's really regretting its decision. It's going to attempt to shake the effect. And does so. (cheering)
Matt: Shakes its fright. The other one is going to step over you. As you're like, all of a sudden this foot goes (wham) in front of you, you're like, (nervous sound).
Felicia: Oh my god, I got hit with his dick. (laughter)
Travis: What were their names? Ace and Base?
Sam: Ace and Gary.
Mary: Ace and Gary.
Matt: The giant's going to move forward. It's going to attempt to make two strikes with its greataxe. That's going to be a 17, that misses. And a 16, that misses. (whooshing) Makes two strikes to the dragon, and it just dodges out of the way. The second one, it reaches up with its claw and slaps, just parries its axe out of the way and just glares at it, and you can see at that moment, the giant also itself is like (growls). Ending their turn. Lyra, you're up.
Felicia: Oh, what? Finally me? All right. I am going to get my big spell out. Now, can I target its wing and try to Disintegrate-- can I try to cut its wing off?
Matt: You know what, yeah, if you want to go ahead and try that. It's going to be a disadvantage on the attack roll.
Felicia: What is that?
Travis: Roll it twice and you get the lower number.
Matt: But does Disintegrate have--
Felicia: It doesn't have a DC.
Matt: Then it would have an advantage on the saving throw.
Felicia: Oh, okay. No, I'm going to try to hit it. It's my big gun, I don't want to be like, sorry. I'm like, I just did this and it looked amazing.
Sam: Which one are you doing?
Felicia: I'm doing Disintegrate. And it's 10d6 plus a d10, plus 40. Right? It's not the best roll, guys. There's a lot of small numbers here.
Travis: Yeah, it's only got plus 40. It's a pretty shrimpy hit.
Laura: Wait, plus 40?
Matt: Yeah, it's 10d6 plus 40 force damage.
Travis: I need to get a wand.
Matt: Disintegrate's nasty.
Felicia: 39.
Matt: 39 plus 40? All right, that's 79 points of damage. What's the DC? It's 17 on that for your spells?
Felicia: Yes.
Matt: It does make its saving throw, so half damage. But rounding up, that's 40 damage still. 40 force damage to the dragon. As you, with the swelling of energy that Scanlan gave you reminding you of Aldor, you release and once again that sickeningly green beam of arcane energy just streaks out, hits the dragon, and with a burst of arcane energy you can see part of its scales have withered, part of its wing is now tattered and missing, and immediately the physical form of the dragon, it's reeling in pain.
Laura: So if we aim at that area that doesn't have scales...
Matt: You'll find out.
Mary: But you've still got the Witch Bolt wrapping around him, yeah?
Matt: That is focused.
Felicia: I definitely want to move. I want to move over there behind that-- over here. Yeah. So I'm a little less conspicuous.
Matt: All righty. Cool. That will be the top of the round. Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: Still no hand-grenade.
Matt: No. The fear has shaken you, so you cannot move closer to it, and you have disadvantage on attacks.
Taliesin: What do I do to shake the fear?
Matt: At the end of your turn, you make a saving throw to try and shake it. You can't move closer to it, but you can still attack it. You cannot move closer to it, and your attacks have disadvantage.
Taliesin: Okay, I'm going to try and take a shot at it with a standard shot for right now.
Matt: Okay. So because you've shot, reloaded, shot, reloaded. Go for it.
Taliesin: 17. Wait, and with disadvantage.
Felicia: Oh no. That's a great 20 you can't use.
Matt: Yeah. So a total of 17? As you fire, it would've hit, unfortunately it streaks through the portion of the wing that currently is left a gaping hole thanks to the Disintegrate spell, the impact of the bullet itself blasting against the back wall, sending chunks and shards of ice spilling off in the distance.
Taliesin: I would like to really quickly then go into that little corner there for some cover.
Matt: Okay. All right. Cool, so that ends your turn. Vex, you're up next.
Taliesin: Oh, I didn't roll to shake off the fear.
Matt: Go ahead and make the save.
Travis: (singing) Shake it off.
All: (singing) Shake it off!
Matt: What'd you roll?
Taliesin: Five.
Matt: Five, yeah. The fear is still clutching you internally, like, "Shit, dragon, bad, dragon!" Vex.
Laura: Can I see him at all?
Matt: Right now? No. You can see parts of the wings fluttering over, but you don't have a very good visual on it.
Laura: And he's pretty far away?
Matt: He's decent distance, yeah.
Laura: If I just try to (bowstring noise) up?
Matt: You can try to. It has three-quarters cover, so it gets a plus five to its armor class.
Laura: And I'm at disadvantage. Does it seem like if I cast something that would do mass damage, would the giant then not want to attack with us anymore?
Matt: That's a risk you'd have to take.
Travis: Drop some stank on that dragon.
Laura: I'm scared to hit the giant with it. Because I want to do Conjure Barrage, but I'm afraid of the giant.
Felicia: Well, if you do damage to him, the spell breaks.
Laura: Exactly. So that would be bad.
Sam: But he's not fighting for us because of a spell right now. We convinced him.
Felicia: Well.
Taliesin: Well.
Laura: Potentially.
Travis: Look at the poker face on that DM. Giving up nothing. Giving up nothing!
Felicia: Stone-faced.
Laura: Should I try it?
Taliesin: I don't know. What do I know?
Mary: If we damage it, this spell that I've been talking to him with goes (poof).
Laura: All right, then I'm going to try to hit the dragon with a regular attack. I'm not going to do Conjure Barrage.
Matt: All right, so what's the first range increment on your longbow?
Laura: It's 120.
Matt: That's the first range increment? Yeah, it's a longbow, yeah. So you're not at disadvantage from that shot. However, it does have three-quarters cover. And given that circumstance--
Taliesin: Does she not have sharpshooter?
Laura: I don't. That's not the feat that I took. I took read lips. I'm really good in populated areas.
Matt: So go for it and roll for the attacks.
Laura: Okay, cool. Here we go! Yeah, no. Doesn't hit. (laughter)
Felicia: We're going to die!
Matt: You pull back and release the first arrow. It actually just barely scrapes the top of the platform and shatters across the ice.
Mary: Come on!
Laura: That's better! 27!
Matt: 27, even with the three-quarters cover, does hit! Go ahead and roll damage. (cheering)
Laura: Okay. What is that? 12, 13, 14! Plus a d6, because I'm badass! Plus six! That's 19. That's not even close to 40, but it does something.
Matt: It's still damage! So as you release the arrow, it just misses the top of the platform, and you get just enough of an angle that it hits one of the wings as it pulls it up, sticks into the part of its hand that crests the top of the wing. It (growls)--
Laura: And I say, fuck you!
Matt: Okay. And it echoes, "Fuck you, fuck you..." Do you or Trinket wish to move?
Laura: We're as far away as we can be, and I can't move any closer.
Matt: That's true. So now you and Trinket both make wisdom saving throws to try and shake the fear. Oh, and you're frightened, so actually, roll again on the attack. Disadvantage on the attacks. Just roll again. You're frightened.
Laura: No, both of those sucked. The first one was 20. 20 was the first!
Matt: So a total of 20 for the second roll? Well, that would hit. Well no, it has three-quarters cover so it wouldn't, unfortunately.
Laura: Matthew Mercer.
Matt: You were frightened! It's part of the effect. I had to remind myself that. So the arrow splinters off the top of the wing as it reaches upward, and you still feel the fear clutching your physical self.
Laura: Now we try to shake it off.
Matt: Now you try and shake it off.
Laura: (sings) I shake it off.
Mary: (sings) Shake it off!
Matt: First roll is for you.
Laura: I do not succeed. It's a three.
Matt: That would be a no, sorry. For Trinket?
Laura: 20! Why did you say the first one was for me? Why couldn't the second one be for me?
Matt: Because that's how it works. So while you're still scared, you look over and you see Trinket shakes it off. Trinket looks over his shoulder at you and gives you a nod of like, I got this. Turns back to the dragon and gives a (roars) giant grizzly-bear growl and shout at the dragon. Do you wish to move at all?
Laura: Where is he?
Matt: Trinket's right here.
Laura: He's going to run up for the time being and hide. Give me this.
Felicia: Hide? Why is everyone hiding?!
Laura: He's not hiding! He's going to run up to this area so that he's got a better vantage point to run up for the next turn.
Matt: That's about as far as Trinket can get right there.
Laura: He can't get any further into this little crevice?
Matt: Unfortunately, no.
Laura: Can he run right here?
Matt: Trinket could move here instead. That's as far as Trinket could move on his movement.
Laura: That's not really protecting him, is it?
Matt: No, but it's not over in a cluster of other people.
Laura: All right.
Matt: All right. Does that end your turn? Rimefang, who currently has this giant in its face, angrily decides to instead, as a legendary action at the end of your turn, actually, before it takes its turn as you've misfired and Trinket's running along, it's going to go ahead and use one of its legendary actions to do a wing attack against the giant in front of it.
Mary: No, Derek!
Travis: (laughs) Derek. It's Gary.
Mary: Gary. He told me telepathically that his name is actually Derek.
Matt: This is an interesting point. Remember, this is a dragon. It's your favored enemy. So keep that in mind, you have an advantage on attacks against it.
Laura: Do I? No, I don't. I looked it up today, yo. I don't get shit on attacks for him because we transferred over from Pathfinder. All I can do is talk to him.
Matt: The chat keeps yelling that the favored enemy--
Laura: Well, chat, I looked it up, and I don't think I have advantage.
Matt: That's true, chat. You're wrong. (shouting)
Laura: I literally texted Matt today and I was super upset.
Zac: Did chat try to challenge the DM?
Matt: Apparently.
Laura: Seriously, I thought I had it, too, and then I looked it up. In fifth edition, I don't get that.
Matt: As a favored enemy, she gets benefits, but not specifically in battle. It's more about knowing--
Sam: I appreciate the chat. Please, keep it coming.
Mary: Couldn't that inspire Vex in some way? Don't you get an inspiration roll from the chat?
Matt: Sorry.
Felicia: You know what's good is that it's a different team next week, because we're all going to die.
Mary: No! Lyra, you're our leader, come on!
Matt: Sorry, chat. You're wrong. Tried to go with you there, but you're wrong.
Laura: I shouldn't have even said anything, I should've just gone with you. I'm an idiot.
Matt: That's okay. No worries, but thank you for being honest and wrong, chat. All right, nevertheless. It's going to do a wing attack against the giant in front of it. The giant is trying to make a dexterity saving throw. Does not. The giant is knocked prone from the wings (whoosh) buffeting it with wind as it begins to take off, knocking the giant back and dealing 13 points of bludgeoning damage. The dragon then picks up and lands right there. And rears back its head (snarling roar) and unleashes a torrent of freezing cold dragon's breath. A 60-foot cone. It's going to hit the giant, it's going to hit Lyra, and it's going to hit Percy.
Taliesin: Do I not have some cover?
Matt: Not against dragon's breath, unfortunately. So I need both of you guys to go ahead and make a constitution saving throw from the sheer freezing cold.
Felicia: Oh no. That didn't go well for me.
Sam: Plus three.
Felicia: Oh, that's true. No, that's damage.
Taliesin: 20.
Sam: Wait. She gets my inspiration on this throw.
Matt: If she chooses to use it, yes.
Felicia: Yes, I definitely want to use it.
Matt: So add a d10 to what you rolled.
Felicia: Ten! Thank god, because that's a 21.
Matt: 21, okay. All right, so both of you take half of the 54 damage it would've dealt.
Laura: 54 damage?
Matt: You both take 27 points of cold damage. The giant that had been partially disintegrated before by Lyra now takes the brunt of the frozen damage, and you can now see the ice begins to build up around it as it (gurgling) gurgles as its life's blood is now stilled. While frozen in place, the ice around its physical form holding it there as a statue of death. The giant is no more.
Travis: No!
Mary: No!
Laura: What? No!
Sam: Grog, go get his axe! It's really big!
Laura: Is it too big to carry? He's got a flaming axe right now.
Matt: All right, and that ends Rimefang's turn. Grog, you're up.
Travis: I would like to race back from whence I came to attack his right flank, if I could.
Matt: You could get there. You will have to make-- actually, no, you can move through there without an issue.
Travis: Also, I have darkvision up to 60 feet.
Matt: You rush up towards the dragon.
Travis: I'd like to take my Firebrand Warhammer and activate it. Ignite it.
Matt: As a bonus action. Well, it's already been ignited, you've had it flaming this whole time.
Travis: Oh, beautiful, yeah. It's like a torch, which means I can see even better. I'd like to go into a frenzied rage and start swinging away.
Matt: All right, so three attacks on the big old dragon.
Travis: 19.
Matt: 19 does hit.
Travis: Beautiful. 25.
Matt: Does hit.
Travis: And 23.
Matt: All three hit. Go ahead and roll damage.
Laura: Okay, so this is the new thing. d10 plus five plus eight. Plus another--
Travis: d10?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: You're hitting with a weapon that's not as big as your greataxe, but you do an additional 1d6 fire damage when you hit.
Travis: Holy shit. Ah!
Matt: d10 and a d6 together three times. Plus eight to each.
Travis: Three d10s?
Laura: Yes. Plus 3d6.
Matt: Plus eight to what you roll on both of those.
Travis: You threw a bunch of numbers at me.
Matt: All right, so a d10 and a d6 plus eight.
Travis: 19.
Matt: 19 damage.
Travis: Do I do that three times? Oh, wow. 19, and that's 12.
Matt: 12, all right.
Travis: 12 and then, help me numbers, that's--
Laura: Oh, that's good, 16. Plus? Ooh. 21.
Matt: Nice. (whack) As you bring the warhammer down, it smacks the side of the dragon, the flames all of a sudden burst off of it from the impact, you can see as you pull back, the white scales are burned and charred and blackened behind from the first attack. You bring it back, slam again on the second part. As you do, the dragon roars out in pain, the actual force of the impact almost sending it to catch itself on the other side of its body. Its head swings around to look at whoever's slamming it in the side as you bring the hammer back, swing underneath and then hit it from underneath the bottom of its torso, right where its ribs would be, with a (crunch) crack sound. You hit it a third time, leaving a second giant charred mark where you made impact.
Travis: Yes!
Matt: That'll end your turn. Zahra, you're up.
Mary: All right, I've still got Witch Bolt.
Matt: You do.
Mary: And it's still going, yes?
Matt: You don't have to roll to attack again. You just use your action.
Mary: I just fucking keep going with the fucking Witch Bolt. Can I use a cantrip, or will that dispel the Witch Bolt?
Matt: No, because most cantrips take an action. So you would not be able to. The Witch Bolt is your action. Almost all cantrips are actions to use them, so you'd be either able to use your action and the Witch Bolt, or use the cantrip. Your choice.
Mary: No, no, I'm going to stick with Witch Bolt. I'm very happy with this.
Matt: So you focus yet again, your eyes still glowing in that strange, midnight moon color with this black smoke that's framing the side of it. You take your staff and force your will through it once again. That connection between you and the dragon and that weird swirling greenish-blue energy that surrounds the dragon connects with your staff. And as it does, it sends another bolt of otherworldly energy careening into the side of the dragon. Go ahead and roll damage.
Laura: I watch her with my mouth agape.
Travis: d12.
Laura: Five times.
Travis: We got you.
Mary: 12. 17.
Travis: 19.
Laura: Ooh, 30.
Travis: Ooh, 30.
Laura: 37.
Mary: 37.
Laura: And one more.
Travis: No, that's five.
Matt: That was five. Then you roll a 1d6 on top of that.
Mary: Plus two on that.
Matt: All right, so 38, then a d6 from your Hex.
Mary: Six.
Matt: So 44 points of damage.
Laura: Nice!
Matt: As it once again, a giant piece of the dragon's scales shatter off the side, like you're cracking into the center of an icy, mountainous cragside. It's starting to show a little bit of damage. You guys are definitely taking this battle head-on pretty well so far.
Travis: I don't like the way he said that.
Matt: You're going to stay where you are, or are you going to move?
Mary: How close am I to it?
Matt: You're currently 20 feet away from the dragon. 15 is between the two of you.
Mary: All right. I stay within 30 feet of it.
Matt: All right, so you want to move this way?
Mary: I want to get up to the heavens. Oh, sorry. I'm going to actually, you know what? I'm going to move three feet backwards, that's it.
Matt: Okay, so you just step back? Okay. There you go. All right. That ends Zahra's turn. Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: How close am I?
Matt: You are currently about 20 feet away from the dragon.
Sam: All right. Yes. Hi. Scanlan here. I'll do, (singing) It's Bigby's Hand! Bigby's Hand. Shamone. I'll just punch him in his dragon face.
Matt: (laughs) Okay. You do a quick little hand gesture, hum to yourself the arcane ritual, and a very large, mystical see-through replica of your fist appears in the air above you and goes spinning off in the air in an arc. Straight up Popeye-punching towards the dragon. (laughs) Let's go ahead, and Bigby-- what do you have to roll for that?
Sam: Oh, I have to roll for that?
Matt: Let me see what the effect is on that, remind myself real fast. Bigby's Hand. All right, so it's an AC of 20. Or no, that's the hand, all right. Clenched fist, cool. So make a melee spell attack. So roll a d20 and then add your spell attack modifier.
Sam: That's the spell attack bonus thing? Okay. 19.
Matt: 19. (wham) Just barely hits as the fist goes slamming into the side of the dragon's face, big old Popeye punch to the side of the jaw. So go ahead and roll 4d8 points of force damage.
Sam: 4d8. I'm taking yours, and I hope that's okay. Ten, 13, 18, 21. Plus something?
Matt: That's 21 points of damage, nice. (whack) It gets socked in the jaw. The hand whips around again, preparing for the next round. Do you want to use anything, move, use your bonus action?
Sam: I'm 20 feet away. I will go 18 feet away from it and drop the grenade.
Matt: Okay. So you move forward right here?
Sam: Yeah, closer to it.
Matt: Okay. The grenade is right there on the ground that Percy made. All right. Going to stay where you are?
Sam: Can I keep moving?
Matt: You can keep moving. You moved 18 feet backward, you mean?
Sam: No, I had to move closer to it.
Matt: Right, so you moved three feet of your 25 feet, dropped it, and you still have 22 feet you can move.
Sam: But if I leave, he's going to whack me.
Matt: No, he's this far away. You have to be within a certain range for him to hit you.
Sam: Wait, how close did I put the grenade to him?
Matt: It's currently 18 feet away from him.
Sam: No, I wanted to put it two feet away from him.
Matt: Oh, I see! There, that makes more sense. So now there is a grenade on the ground, right there. You are there, right next to Grog. So yeah, you cannot move away without it taking a swipe.
Travis: Oh, look at that.
Sam: Hello, I'm a little gnome.
Travis: It's adorable.
Matt: All right. That ends your turn. The giant that's here gets up. That's half of its movement. It's enough to get there, moves up behind and is going to make two of its axe-swipes.
Mary: Hit him in the arse!
Felicia: Butthole.
Sam: That was crass.
Matt: 15 doesn't hit. Second attack is going to be a 13. It's rolling shit. It swings twice and manages to catch air.
Felicia: The most useless giant.
Matt: Apparently. But you know what, they didn't smash you yet. That's a good thing. That brings us to Lyra's turn.
Felicia: Question. Can I Fireball without hitting anybody who's friendly?
Matt: From this point of view, it's going to be very difficult to pull that off. It's a 20-foot radius, so it's going to hit everything within that sphere.
Travis: Oh, you actually care about us that much?
Mary: Can I use-- everybody is really close. All right.
Felicia: Okay, so I can't do that. I think I'm going to cast Hold Monster.
Matt: Hold Monster! You take your arcane thoughts and you put them around, imagining this arcane cage that begins to form out of the ether around the dragon. These bars (crash) and tighten around it. The dragon rolls a two for its saving throw. (cheering)
Matt: But it's going to use its Legendary Resistance to automatically succeed.
Felicia: How many of those does he have?!
Travis: He has one more.
Felicia: I need to move.
Matt: (laughs) The cage tightens around it, and the dragon takes its wings and (shattering) buffs it off, the arcane cage shatters and disappears into the air.
Felicia: I was going to be impressive. Okay. I'm going to get the H out. I'm going to get as far as I can in that corner. Yeah, thank you. Bye-bye.
Matt: All righty. Good to know. All right, that ends your turn. That brings us back to the top. Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: Okay, I'm going to-- That grenade is sitting on top of people right now, isn't it?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: You mean that hamster, right?
Matt: Your call, man.
Travis: Come on, live a little.
Taliesin: It's going to hit you.
Travis: Well, that's all right.
Laura: Yeah, but it's also going to hit Scanlan.
Matt: You still have disadvantage on your attacks, by the way.
Taliesin: Even if my attack is not against the dragon?
Matt: As long as it's within eyesight of you, you're scared.
Taliesin: Okay, in that case, I'm going to take a shot at the dragon for the moment.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: Forget about that.
Matt: Disadvantage on the shot.
Taliesin: 19.
Matt: 19. That's with disadvantage? Does hit. (cheering)
Taliesin: Oh, that's nice. 26 points of damage.
Matt: 26 points of damage, nice.
Sam: Hey! Percy.
Taliesin: I have moments.
Matt: All right, and you reload with the other one. You can't move closer to it. Do you wish to move at all?
Taliesin: No, I'm going to hold my position.
Matt: Okay. Before the end of your turn--
Taliesin: I was about to say, before I do that, I'm going to use a bonus action to do a quick heal. I'm going to use second wind.
Matt: Oh, a second wind, go for it. So you go ahead and heal yourself 1d10 plus your level.
Taliesin: That's 11 points of damage.
Matt: There you go. So you heal 11 points of damage. Before your turn is over, it's going to use its last legendary action to take its tail and swing around and whack it at the gnome that it heard sneak up behind it and drop something on the ground. That's going to be a natural 20. (shouting)
Laura: He said it so happily, too. Evil.
Taliesin: You're in trouble.
Sam: Wait, what did he do?
Matt: As you drop it, you look up and see its tail go (whoosh, whack).
Sam: Whoa, but can I sing real quick?
Matt: It's a natural 20. There's no way you can avoid this hit.
Sam: Maybe it'll fling me away from the grenade.
Felicia: (singing) Bye bye bye.
Travis: No, not cool!
Matt: 36 points of bludgeoning damage as the tail slams down onto you.
Laura: And also onto the grenade.
Sam: But it's not a concussion grenade.
Travis: Oh, I'm right fucking there! I was going to move!
Laura: I'm sorry!
Matt: And down onto the grenade you set on the ground. (boom)
Sam: Is it a concussion grenade? It's already armed, isn't it?
Matt: It is filled with black powder, and is a triggerable mechanism.
Laura: I'm sorry. I don't know why I said that.
Matt: I appreciate the reminder, because I totally forgot for a second. As it slams into you and the ground, it slams into the grenade and there's an explosion muffled sound from underneath its tail. I want Grog and Scanlan to go ahead and make dexterity saving throws.
Travis: Yes! 21.
Laura: Come on, Scanlan.
Sam: 20.
Matt: All right. Both of you guys manage to keep low to the ground, avoiding most of the blast.
Sam: I'm already low to the ground.
Matt: All right. Both of you guys take half damage from the strike. You both take 12 points of fire and bludgeoning damage.
Laura: Did the dragon take damage?
Matt: The dragon does not make its saving throw against it, though, and takes the full-- what'd I tell you guys? 12?
Sam: All right! The grenade worked! (cheering)
Matt: Pulls its tail up, and there's like a big arc of smoke off of its tail as it pulls it up and shakes out the pain that it just suffered.
Taliesin: Can I take this moment of engineering success to try and pull a wisdom saving throw against my fear that I missed on my turn?
Matt: That's right, forgot that. So go ahead and make your wisdom saving throw. The explosion was the inspiration you required.
Taliesin: Natural 20! (cheering)
Taliesin: It worked! (cackles)
Matt: With the explosion the grenade set off, you realize, wait, you might actually have this, and it worked! You could do this!
Taliesin: I built a thing! And it blew up! Kind of on purpose!
Matt: There you go. At the end of your turn, that's its final legendary action. Vex, you're up.
Laura: Can I try to shake off the attack?
Matt: At the end of your turn, you do.
Laura: Oh, at the end. But I was inspired by that explosion!
Matt: It was inspiring. It may help you shake it off at the end of the round.
Laura: Okay. I'm going to attack it. Oh, that's such a good roll.
Mary: That is. Oh, that's even better!
Laura: That's okay. It was a disadvantage. That's 27 with a disadvantage with the exploding arrow.
Matt: With the Exploding Arrow? That does hit.
Travis: More Percy goodness.
Laura: So what do I do? Do I just roll regular?
Matt: So go ahead and roll regular arrow damage. With an additional 2d6. Sorry, 3d6. Well, with the arrow, it's 2d6. The grenade was 3d6. You're 2d6.
Laura: Oh shit. 16 and then 3d6?
Matt: 3d8, sorry.
Laura: 3d8?!
Matt: Sorry. 3d8 was the grenade. 2d8 for the exploding arrow. 2d8.
Laura: 2d8.
Matt: Sorry. It's a lot of numbers.
Laura: That's okay, I'm going to roll them both. Okay. Six additional. Did I say what my other damage was. Was I speaking out loud?
Matt: Yeah, no. I marked it down. I also need Scanlan and Grog to make dexterity saving throws.
Laura: Oh no, I'm sorry, I'm stupid!
Sam: Wait, what did you just shoot at us?
Laura: An exploding arrow!
Sam: Nice.
Travis: 18.
Sam: 11.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: I also meant to say I was shooting from my Blood-Seeker Bow. I pulled it out and said I was going to do it.
Matt: You pull out your Blood-Seeker Bow?
Laura: I was going to shoot from my Blood-Seeker Bow for that.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Can I do that?
Matt: I'll let it. So it is now taking an ongoing ten points of bleeding damage? Now, you take three points of fire damage. Scanlan, you take six points of fire damage. You guys avoid the grenade, and then (arrow noises) a second explosion again.
Taliesin: I'm sorry. I'm a genius! I'm sorry! Sorry! Oh god, I'm clever.
Laura: So for my second attack, I want to throw Trinket in and I want Trinket to go up and attack him.
Matt: Trinket rushes in and is going to make two attacks at it.
Laura: He's going to do two claw attacks, so that's 2d4 each time.
Matt: Go for it. So go ahead and roll for the first strike. He's no longer scared, so Trinket does not have the disadvantage.
Laura: Okay, he doesn't hit on the first one. But the second one, he gets a 21!
Matt: 21 hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
Laura: Yes! Okay. Was I wrong?
Mary: That's 23.
Laura: Oh, okay. Either way.
Matt: It hits even harder!
Mary: It hits harder?
Matt: (Irish accent) Exactly. What's that about? Rightly so.
Laura: That's 13 extra damage for Trinket.
Matt: 13 extra damage as Trinket runs up, first strike hits the armor and just streaks across without damage, but as soon as the dragon turns around to see the giant brown bear that has gotten brave enough to strike it, its other claw goes and sinks into the side of one of its calves and tears a portion of the dragon's flesh. It (snarls) roars and Trinket, bringing its claw down, roars back at it. Dragon roar versus bear roar. All right. That ends your turn. It is now Rimefang's turn. Rimefang--
Mary: He has no more of these legendary saves, yes?
Sam: No, he has one.
Matt: Well, one more legendary resistance.
Felicia: He used a wing-buffet and then two saves.
Sam: He's got one more.
Felicia: Oh, one more save. Ugh.
Sam: If he chooses to use it. He might save it for later in the fight.
Matt: Great. So the dragon is now going to (flapping) fly--
Sam: No, he won't. I cast a spell on it as it retreats from me because I am a war caster.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: And I will cast Bigby's Hand to grapple that shit and pull him back down. (cheering)
Matt: That's right, you took the war caster feat. Okay.
Sam: Don't you fly away from me, motherfucker!
Travis: So hot for you right now.
Matt: All right, so you use your action to do Bigby's Clenched, no, Grasping Hand. No, it's--
Sam: It's the grapple one to pull its wings together so it can't fly away?
Matt: Yes. All right, so. So you use the hand's strength score, so go ahead and roll a d20 and then add plus eight to it.
Sam: 18 plus eight. 26.
Matt: As the dragon brings its wings up, the hand grabs its wings together and forces it back down to the ground. It shakes off the effect, but it's unable to fly away.
Sam: You will leave when Burt Reynolds tells you to leave! (laughter)
Matt: Okay. You also deal 2d6 plus five damage to it.
Sam: 2d6. That's another 18.
Matt: 18 points of damage as the hand crushes on it, holding it in place, it does not get a chance to move. All right. Angrily, in reaction to that, the dragon-- well, first off let me see. Does not get its breath weapon back yet, unfortunately. It is going to use multiattack, so it gets three attacks: one bite and two claw attacks. It's going to make all of them against you.
Sam: Of course it does. And thus ends Scanlan.
Travis: No!
Mary: No!
Matt: We'll make each attack as it goes. So the first attack against you is going to be the bite attack. That is a 23 to hit?
Sam: That hits.
Matt: All right.
Laura: Are you unconscious?
Sam: I will be very soon.
Matt: That's going to be 18 points of piercing damage.
Laura: Oh no, Scanlan's unconscious!
Matt: Are you unconscious? Okay. It would be an additional d8 points of cold damage. Scanlan falls unconscious on the ground. It's going to take a claw attack down. It's already all-in. Its second claw attack hits. You immediately fail a death saving throw from the second strike. The second claw attack hits you, as well, as it's focused on you. You've failed two death saving throws.
Laura: Oh my god!
Sam: It's a dragon.
Matt: That's the end of his turn. Grog, you're up.
Travis: I race over to Scanlan and I pour a level-3 healing potion into Scanlan's mouth.
Matt: Okay, so Grog, you use your action to pull out, grab Scanlan, and pour it into his mouth. This is the superior one?
Travis: Yes.
Matt: You heal 8d4 plus eight hit points.
Sam: Do I roll? Does he roll?
Matt: I'll let you roll for it; it's fine.
Sam: 8d4? Can I roll 4d8s?
Matt: (laughs) 8d4.
Sam: 8d4.
Matt: You have a better chance, actually.
Travis: This is my friend of the lady favors. I need him!
Matt: As you see the dragon bites down on him, he falls unconscious on the ground, the ice around his wounds, and his eyes just roll back into his head, unconscious. One claw slams down into his body, the gnome shakes from the impact. The second claw comes down into his torso and pulls back, you can see bits of flesh and muscle pull back from its claw as it pulls away, and Scanlan's on death's door. You rush over and grab and lift him up, take the healing potion, pop off the cork with your teeth, and you rage-feed him the potion. "Drink it!"
Sam: I'm at 19 now.
Matt: So you're at 19 hit points and you're conscious now, the wounds seal up. You've still failed two death saving throws. They're gone until the end of the battle.
Travis: Can I do anything else after I've poured it into his-- can I do anything else?
Matt: You have a bonus action.
Travis: Can I throw him the fuck away from the dragon? Pick him up and chuck him towards Lyra?
Matt: I'll say because you're frenzied raged, normally you would get an additional attack. I will say you can use that.
Travis: And I won't throw. I'll slide him on the icy floor towards Lyra.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and make an athletics check.
Travis: Okay. Natural 20. (cheering)
Matt: As he wakes up, Grog goes (grunts, whoosh) and slip-n-slides you across the icy floor. You come to a stop about 15 feet away-- actually, be about there. You're still prone; you're on the ground.
Laura: But you can take a potion on your turn, at least?
Travis: And I just turn around and give it the eyebrow of you're-fucking-dead.
Matt: (laughs) All right. That ends Grog's turn. Zahra, you're up.
Mary: Witch Bolt. Fucking Witch Bolt.
Matt: By the way, your Bigby's Hand has faded, because when you fell unconscious you lost concentration. Witch Bolt?
Mary: If you're still within range. I push even harder for Scanlan's sake.
Matt: All right. Go ahead and roll 5d12, I believe it is?
Mary: The fire turns from white to yellow. I'm raging. What is it?
Matt: Whatever the spell is. Is it 5d10 or 5d12?
Mary: It is 5d12.
Matt: There you go. 5d12 plus 1d6.
Mary: Eight. Give me some math here, guys.
Travis: Okay. 14. 29. 45.
Mary: 45 plus two.
Laura: 47.
Mary: Plus 11 attack.
Laura: No, 47, and 1d6.
Mary: 1d6. Six.
Matt: All right, so what's the total damage on that, then?
Laura: 53.
Mary: 51.
Matt: 51 points of damage.
Travis: Did I best you on math? It's a dark day when Grog beats Vex on math.
Mary: She's very upset about the whole Scanlan thing.
Laura: I'm still very scared!
Matt: That is nasty. All right, so. As you blast again, the fury of seeing Scanlan torn down to the ground and nearly devoured by this dragon, you blast again. This time the greenish-blue energy flaring up into a vibrant, angry yellow, and now you can see what once was almost like a bolt of arcane moon energy becomes an actual burning fire in its visual. Do you wish to move, or are you going to stay where you are?
Mary: I'm still how many feet away from him?
Matt: You are currently 20 feet away from him.
Mary: I will stay where I am.
Matt: All right.
Mary: Can I give-- no I can't, I'd have to go and give it to him, wouldn't I?
Matt: At the end of your turn, because it's regained its legendary actions, it's going to use a wing attack against Grog and every creature around it, including Trinket and the one giant. So as it takes the hit from the Witch Bolt, (heavy breathing) the arcane hand no longer grasping its wings, its wings flare out, (whoosh) and swings around with its wings, hitting everything around you. Dexterity saving throw for Grog, for the giant, and for Trinket. Giant does not make it.
Travis: 18.
Matt: 18, it's a DC 19. Make it for Trinket.
Laura: Ten.
Matt: All right, so Trinket and Grog both take 13 points of bludgeoning damage and are both knocked prone.
Travis: Halved, because I'm raging.
Laura: Halved, because he's got Stoneskin.
Matt: Yeah. Trinket takes half damage, as well. So you both take seven points of bludgeoning damage, but you're still knocked prone. You both fall onto your back. The giant also is knocked prone there. All right. That ends Zahra's turn. That brings us to Scanlan. You're conscious. You're on the ground.
Sam: I will stand.
Matt: All right. So you still have half your movement. You can still move roughly ten feet. Any direction.
Sam: Taking a potion is an action or a bonus?
Matt: I consider it a bonus action to keep things moving. Action to administer it to somebody else.
Travis: Do that thing.
Sam: I will Dimension Door way over there.
Matt: (laughs) Okay. Scanlan stands up, waves his hand, and this blackened archway just (whoosh) appears next to him with this crackling sound of energy. He leaps through it and vanishes out of sight. You are now in darkness, you cannot see anything except for a little bit of light bouncing off of the top of the cavern, glittering across all the ice crystals, but you are in complete shadow. (breathing heavily)
Sam: And I'll take one of those four healing potions that someone gave us. Were they moderate?
Matt: They were superior. I think Grog used one.
Felicia: Yeah, we handed them out.
Sam: Okay, I definitely have one, so I'll take it.
Matt: 8d4 plus eight.
Laura: Who all took them?
Mary: I didn't, because I have two.
Felicia: I don't think she and I took them.
Laura: Oh, the four of us, because we're assholes?
Matt: I think you each took one.
Felicia: I sacrificed myself.
Matt: So we'll consider that. It's fine. All right, so that ends Scanlan's turn. The giant is going to get up.
Travis: Get up, Gary, you piece of shit!
Matt: That would be a 21. That hits. And that'll be a 17. That misses. But it does manage to hit with an attack, finally. This whole time. That's 24 points of slashing damage to the dragon. As its first strike whiffs, and as it brings it back with a backhand, it brings its shield up to protect itself. The axe (smack) lands a good seven to eight inches into the dragon's hide. (roars) The head turns around. "You traitor! I will eat every one of you!" That ends the giant's turn. It's going to stay right there, trying to finish him off. That ends the giant's turn. Lyra, you're up.
Felicia: I still can't Fireball, right?
Matt: You could? Depending on where you want to place it, you may hit other things.
Laura: You can place it-- hit the giant and the dragon.
Felicia: Then the giant will wake up. If we hit the giants-- does he look almost dead?
Matt: You can tell he's taken a few hits from the dragon, but the other one is the one that was completely wrecked.
Laura: Is the other giant dead?
Matt: It is frozen in place and dead. It was partially disintegrated by Lyra earlier, and the frost breath finished it off.
Felicia: I could maybe hit Trinket or Grog?
Sam: Trinket's protected.
Felicia: I don't think he's protected from fire damage. It's a lot of damage. I don't want to kill Trinket.
Travis: Is it fire, and it's a frost dragon?
Felicia: It's a very big spell. It's 8d6. Can't really use it. I'll try to Hold Monster again.
Laura: How much radius does the dragon take up?
Matt: The dragon itself is 15 feet across on each side, so if you were to hit the dragon, it would still hit everything directly around it.
Felicia: Yeah, let me try to Hold Monster again. At least force him to use his thing.
Matt: All right. Actually, he fails his saving throw, but uses his third and final legendary resistance to resist the Hold Monster spell.
Taliesin: Good, you drained it. That's over with.
Matt: He's out of legendary resistance. He turns around and looks at you now. It was currently glaring at the giant, growling at everyone around it, and as soon as that spell hits it with the cage once again, (heavy impacts) it breaks it with its wings and turns around, (whoosh) and opens its mouth right towards you.
Felicia: I'm going to move away as far as I can.
Matt: Okay. So you are here.
Felicia: Yes. That's very far. Yes. Thank you.
Matt: Okay. All right, that ends your turn. Back up to Percy.
Taliesin: All right, I'm going to take one last really good shot. I'm going to shoot him right in the face again. I'm going to spend my grit point and hit him in the face. Let's make this work. Yay! That hits. That's 31 to hit.
Matt: 31 will hit, yeah. Go ahead and roll damage.
Taliesin: I'm going to roll damage. That's 15 points of damage, but he's got disadvantage on all attacks until my turn.
Matt: He did take ten points of bleeding damage from your-- Laura. It did take ten points of bleeding damage from your bow, and it does save against the bleed effect, so that's gone, unfortunately. But you did ten additional damage to him.
Taliesin: I'm going to move in this direction. Hug the wall.
Matt: Right there?
Taliesin: Yeah, I think right there.
Matt: Okay. So as you take your shot, (gunshot) it ricochets off the armor. The dragon's starting to look a little rough. You can see bits of the blood beginning to seep from the inside of its scales. It's starting to look a little harsher and harsher. It's still standing up pretty well, but you can see, it's starting to get a little more battle-worn. That ends Percy's turn. Vex, you're up.
Laura: Me?
Matt: Yes.
Laura: Okay, I'm going to move Trinket away.
Matt: Trinket stands up, and Trinket's going to move back this way.
Laura: Yeah, and then hide behind that outcropping thing. Yeah.
Matt: Okay. As he moves away, the dragon uses his reaction. It's going to be a bite attack on him, actually.
Taliesin: With disadvantage.
Matt: With disadvantage?
Taliesin: With disadvantage.
Matt: Oh, because of the head shot. Yeah. Well, it rolled a two and a 15. (cheering)
Matt: So thank god you put that on there. So as it (whoosh) lashes out, Trinket's armor actually takes the impact, and some of the teeth crack a little bit against the armor, and the jaw pulls back as Trinket just (bear moan) runs off behind the ice wall. What are you doing?
Laura: I'm going to cast Hail of Thorns.
Matt: Did you make a wisdom save last turn to try to resist the fear effect?
Laura: I did, and I failed it.
Matt: That's right. Okay.
Laura: Yeah. So I'm going to cast Hail of Thorns on the dragon.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and roll for attack.
Laura: 26.
Matt: 26 hits, yes. Hail of Thorns. What's the radius on that?
Laura: That's a good question. Hail of Thorns.
Matt: (laughs) How's that go?
Laura: Okay, wait. Next time you hit a creature with a ranged weapon-- spell-- range. It just hits it, but then everything within five feet makes a dexterity saving throw. Sorry, guys.
Matt: So Grog, make a dexterity saving throw. Because you're prone, I'd say with disadvantage.
Laura: Oh. Sorry, Grog.
Travis: Nine?
Matt: Actually, you're fine. Just straight roll.
Travis: Oh, great. 18.
Matt: 18? All right. You take half of the 1d10 piercing damage. So roll for the actual arrow damage, and then 1d10. The giant does not make it, and the dragon does not make it. They both fail.
Laura: 13 for the actual arrow, plus another five for Hunter's Mark.
Matt: All right. What's the 1d10 for the Hail of Thorns?
Laura: 3d10 because I'm casting it at 3rd level. 18 for the Hail of Thorns.
Matt: 18. So that's nine points of damage to you, Grog. Nine points to the giant, and nine points to the dragon. All right.
Laura: Oh. And then I get another attack.
Matt: You do. You have two attacks.
Laura: (giggles) This is crazy! Okay, so I'm going to-- should I do Conjure Barrage? Conjure Barrage at them, as well.
Matt: All right. Conjure Barrage is an action to cast, right?
Laura: Oh, you're right. So a regular. I can only do a regular attack. Okay, so regular attack. Oh, that doesn't hit. That's a 16.
Matt: That unfortunately does not hit. Well, it hits, but the arrow shatters across the dragon's armor. All right, that ends your turn. As the giant takes a blasting impact of thorns across its torso, it looks to the dragon, Rimefang. Looks at the rest of you, which some of you have fallen, some of you are on the ground. It decides that perhaps it chose its alliances poorly. And you can see, it takes its axe and shield ready, and almost in a phalanx format is now alongside the dragon. All right, that brings us to Rimefang's turn. Rimefang is going to (flapping) fly up in the air.
Travis: Oh, he's reaching for shit. He duplicates himself into another dragon. Now you're all dead.
Matt: Now he's going to--
Travis: Oh no, the ale's gone!
Matt: This way, up at the top, and is currently up in the air (flapping). Let's see. He gets his cold breath back. Oh, did you roll to try and shake the frightened effect, by the way?
Laura: I didn't.
Matt: Go ahead and do that now.
Mary: Come on, darling. Come on!
Laura: Natural 20!
Travis: Natural 20!
Matt: That will do it. As you shake the frightened effect, you're like, "Ah! All right." You're steeled. "No, I know these guys. I'm trying to kill these guys." As you see it fly overhead. Rears back its head and then (whoosh) arc across the ground with its breath weapon, hitting Percy, Vex, and Lyra. You guys all need to make constitution saving throws.
Taliesin: Oh, so there's no disadvantage roll for him to make here, is there?
Matt: No.
Felicia: 23.
Matt: 23 on the constitution saving throw?
Felicia: Yeah, I actually. I get five constitution, and I rolled an 18.
Taliesin: 15.
Matt: 15? What did you roll, Vex?
Laura: 18.
Matt: 18. All right. (chuckles) So as the ice breath (whoosh) passes across, it's like every center point of the worst ice storm or blizzard impacting you with a series of punches every single second as this breath caresses and beats your body left and right. Both of you guys take 54 points of cold damage.
Taliesin: 54?
Matt: 54. Lyra, you take 27 points of cold damage.
Travis: And the room gets quiet.
Mary: Really fast.
Matt: It continues its flight pattern (flapping, impacts) and lands on top of this upper platform.
Laura: Oh, he's got another fucking platform?
Sam: How high up?
Matt: That's ten feet up. There are two platforms on opposite sides of this room now. That ends its turn. It is now Grog's turn.
Travis: That giant is definitely against us?
Matt: It looks to be questioning its loyalty at the moment, yeah.
Travis: You questioned at the wrong time. I charge Gary and hack away.
Matt: All right. You get up, and you have enough movement, definitely, to move up into battle with him. Go ahead and attack.
Travis: (laughs) What do I do, again? What is this shit? This thing plus five. 16. No, attack bonus.
Matt: You have to hit first. You have to roll to hit.
Travis: I know. Jesus! It's like I've never done this before. 24.
Laura: No, that was higher than 24.
Travis: 16 plus nine? Oh, it's 25.
Matt: Hits. Roll a second attack.
Travis: 28.
Matt: Hits.
Travis: And 20.
Matt: 20 hits. Roll damage against the giant.
Travis: (quietly) What is this, 1d10 plus five? Oh, that's ten. 18. 18?
Laura: Plus six fire damage.
Travis: Oh.
Laura: Six!
Travis: 24 on the first one.
Matt: Nice.
Travis: Sorry, new math. 13 plus-- 17 on the second one.
Matt: All right, and the third one?
Travis: 12, plus-- 15 on the third one.
Matt: As you rush forward, (whack, whack) the first two hits, one hits in the side, and you can see it (grunts) reacts. The second one, it brings its shield up, and you splinter the buckler shield on its arm, and as it shatters, you can see the bones in its arm (crunch) crack from the impact, and it drops its arm to one side, with the flames itself beginning to set fire to the furs it has on its arm. (grunts) He tries to shake off the fire that's on its arm. As you see it bring its arm up, it reveals the underside of its torso. You use that to reach down, leap in the air with an overhead swipe, slam this warhammer with all your strength into the side of its ribcage. As you do, (crack) you can see its torso cave in, and you're probably sure that the splintered bones seem to have impacted something serious as the giant all of a sudden, (death rattle). (cheering)
Mary: Dead? Dead!
Matt: From the damage left over from the battle you had earlier, the damage it already took from the dragon, and that was just enough to finish it off by two hit points. That ends your turn, Grog. Zahra, you're up.
Mary: How far away from the dragon am I?
Matt: You are 30 feet away.
Mary: That's exactly right, which means Witch Bolt is still in effect, and I'm going to fucking unleash on this white wyrm of death.
Matt: All right! (boof) A third time, now, you release Witch Bolt. It slams into it. The dragon actually tries to shift out of the way--
Mary: He can't.
Matt: He can't, because you're locked in.
Mary: You can't get away from me.
Matt: Go ahead and roll damage.
Laura: Creepy Zahra!
Mary: Creepy Zahra. Well, I am a demon. All right. 11.
Travis: 27. 39. 48. 1d6. 53.
Mary: 53.
Felicia: Damn!
Travis: You bad bitch!
Matt: All right, so. It tries to dodge out of the way. This time, as you focus again, the yellowish energy has now transitioned to a deep, hot, searing red flame from your eyes.
Mary: Oh, you can't run!
Matt: (boof) You focus again. The beam now, transitioning into a similar red-hot color, streaks across and slams into the side of the dragon. You can see the impact. The scales are left with this glowing red heat from the blast, and part of its armor is torn open. You can see the burn-charred muscle beneath. The dragon's looking pretty rough. Do you wish to move, or are you staying right there?
Mary: I'm going to approach it by five feet.
Matt: There you go. That brings us to Scanlan's turn. You are way over here.
Sam: I will first use my bonus action on myself. Can I cast Healing Word on myself?
Matt: Yeah. Sure.
Sam: Okay, d4 plus five. That's nothing. Actually, wait. Can I just take a potion as a bonus action?
Matt: If you want to, yeah.
Sam: Okay, I'll just do that. I'll take a greater heal. 4d4 plus four.
Matt: All righty.
Sam: Anyway, I'll roll it later. Sorry. (counts quietly) Plus four is 11. Okay, I'm pretty much back up to--
Matt: There you go. Are you going to stay where you are?
Sam: I'm how far?
Matt: You are over here.
Sam: But how far?
Matt: Oh. It's 90 feet away from you.
Sam: (whispering) Sniper shot. (louder) From the shadows, I cast Lightning Bolt, which has a hundred-foot range.
Matt: It does, and because it's high enough--
Sam: If the angle is nice and clean.
Matt: Yes, that's true. So out of the darkness, release a bolt of energy. It's going to attempt to make a saving throw. What's the DC on it?
Sam: It's my spell? What is it?
Matt: Yeah, it's whatever your spell DC is.
Sam: 17?
Matt: 17, okay. It does make its saving throw, so it is half damage. Go ahead and roll. Rolled a 16 plus five.
Sam: It was 8d6, but now it's 4d6, right?
Matt: No, it's 8d6 still. You roll the total, and it's halved.
Sam: All right, what is that? (counts quietly) 26. 13.
Matt: All right.
Travis: Yes, dude. Way not to be dead.
Felicia: Way to not die.
Travis: I need my whoring partner.
Matt: All right, at the end of your turn, it's going to use one of its legendary actions to make a tail attack and reach over the side here at Percy, who's trying to stay hidden there. Brings around his tail. (whoosh) Comes swinging down over the side. Another natural 20. (groaning)
Felicia: He looks disappointed.
Laura: He doesn't want us to die.
Felicia: It's going to happen.
Mary: No! Would you stop it, Lyra? Come on!
Felicia: I'm sorry. I have self-esteem issues.
Mary: Not today, you don't.
Matt: 32 points of bludgeoning damage to you, Percy. (whack) From over the top.
Taliesin: I'm out.
Matt: Percy is down as the tail (whack) slams him down. You can see now, as the tail pulls back, the ice on the ground is slightly concave. There's pieces of ice that have shattered and jutted up from the impact. As the tail pulls away, dropping chunks of stone and ice, you can see a currently unconscious Percy is now face-down and pushed probably a good half-foot into the ground itself. Your face is a mess, if they ever pull you up from that right now.
Taliesin: I like my face.
Matt: That ends Scanlan's turn. The giant is dead. There are no giants; they're gone. Lyra, you're up.
Felicia: Okay, I can Fireball him now. (cheering)
Felicia: Fireball. Ooh, that looks pretty good! Six and six and six.
Laura: Come on, Lyra. Killing blow.
Travis: Nuke him. Nuke the bastard.
Felicia: So that's 18, 28, 38, 52. 52 points of damage.
Matt: 52 points? And what's the DC on your spell?
Felicia: It's no DC. It just hits.
Matt: Right, but it has a save.
Felicia: 17.
Matt: 17. Okay, it rolled a 15 plus five, so it is half damage, but that's still 26 points of damage to it.
Felicia: It's not bad.
Matt: (explosion noise) As you reach out, this arcing bead of red streaks through the darkness, impacts right at the side of the dragon's wing, and then (boof) bursts into a giant ball of flame. The whole cavern rocks from the sound of the impact. As the dragon pulls back, you can see this giant char mark on the outside of its wing. It's looking pretty rough. It's still standing, but it's looking pretty rough. Unfortunately, the radius of the blast, as it is a 20-foot radius, is large enough. Percy, his body is hit in the impact and blasted onto its back now. He rolls partly out of the impact--
Taliesin: Do I actually roll?
Matt: You actually (boof) over there. You're still technically in the same spot, but you're on your back now. You do automatically fail a death saving throw from that.
Felicia: Oh my god, I'm so sorry.
Matt: All right, that ends Lyra's turn. That brings us to the top. Percy. Make a saving throw. Just roll a ten or higher.
Taliesin: I did not roll a ten or higher.
Matt: You fail a second death saving throw.
Sam: Oh god!
Matt: Vex, you're up.
Laura: (screams) Okay, here's the thing. Did he roll far enough away that he is not within ten feet of the dragon?
Matt: The dragon is ten feet up.
Laura: So he's far enough away.
Matt: In theory, he'd be just out of the way of a ten-foot radius. A 20-foot radius, no.
Laura: Okay, then I'm going to Lightning Arrow the dragon.
Matt: Okay.
Felicia: Do you have a potion?
Travis: I do.
Taliesin: Grog's got it.
Laura: Do I have to attack? I do have to attack regular.
Matt: You do have to roll the attack, yes.
Laura: That's good. That's a 29.
Matt: 29 hits.
Laura: Okay, so that is 4d8 against the dragon.
Matt: Yeah, 4d8 lightning damage. What's the DC on it?
Laura: 14.
Matt: 14? It does not make the save. Rolled a three.
Sam: Come on, Vex. Come on. Do it for Trinket.
Travis: Do it for Percy. Do it for Pike.
Taliesin: Let's not have another Pike, please.
Laura: 17.
Matt: Plus your Hunter's Mark.
Laura: That's good. That's another six for Hunter's Mark. Plus another 11.
Matt: Plus another 11. Okay. As the arrow releases, once again, (arrow flying) it turns into a bolt of pure arcane energy, smacking into the side of it. You can see the explosion hit and the energy crackle through the rest of its body. Its muscles shudder and it has to grasp the side of the top of this platform to keep itself steady. You can see now, the dragon's (heavy breathing). One eye is partially closed, and with each breath you can see this frost mist emanating from its breath. It looks like it's on its last legs.
Laura: For my second attack-- (cheering)
Laura: For my second attack, I'm going to regular attack him. Oh my god. Just going to regular attack him.
Matt: Roll for attack.
Laura: Jesus. Please. Oh! It's 30.
Matt: 30 hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
Laura: 13, 14, 15.
Matt: Including the Hunter's Mark?
Laura: No! Four.
Matt: Okay, so 19 total? Okay. As the arrow (arrow flying, impacts) embeds itself in the side of the neck, the dragon reaches up and it's scratching at the pain. As it pulls the arrow out, blood begins to pour down its side.
Laura: Ugh, he's still alive!
Matt: It's rough. That ends your turn.
Laura: Fuck! Is it his turn?
Matt: It is now Rimefang's turn. Rimefang turns. (heavy breaths, roars) and lets out a spray of icy damage out in this direction at an arc this way. I need to get a dexterity saving throw from Lyra, from Vex, and from Zahra.
Mary: Do I have a reaction?
Matt: After this, you will.
Mary: Okay, got it.
Felicia: Eight.
Matt: Eight?
Laura: 28.
Matt: 28. Okay. Zahra?
Mary: 11.
Matt: 11. Okay, so that is 54 points of damage to you.
Felicia: I'm down.
Matt: Lyra is currently (crackles) frozen in place right now from the blast. She's unconscious, and there is a coat of ice around her body holding her in place. How are you doing on hit points?
Laura: I'm at 28 hit points.
Matt: Okay, you kick the frost off, and you're on one knee. And you take 54 points of ice damage.
Laura: Are you unconscious, too?
Mary: Nope. I'm not. Do I have a reaction?
Matt: You have a reaction?
Mary: I do, I use Hellish Rebuke.
Sam: Oh! What is that? It sounds hellish.
Mary: I know. I get one per day.
Matt: All right, so the creature must make a dexterity saving throw.
Laura: So it does it back to him?
Mary: Yes.
Matt: That is 15. What's the DC?
Mary: I don't know.
Laura: 17.
Mary: 17.
Matt: Okay, so it takes 2d10 fire damage. Go ahead and roll that.
Laura: Yes! Oh my god, you can kill it just because it attacked you?!
Taliesin: Kill it out of spite.
Felicia: Tell him he's very ugly.
Mary: Nine.
Matt: Nine points of fire damage? How do you want to do this? (cheering)
Mary: I don't know what that means!
Matt: How do you finish this dragon with your Hellish Rebuke?
Taliesin: Make it good!
Matt: After it finishes blasting you with ice damage, you watch the wizard frozen in place. You see Percy unconscious and bleeding on the ground. You see Vex on the ground, about to fall unconscious. Your friends are lost in the darkness around you, and suddenly you feel that tiefling surge of anger within you, and you?
Mary: Almost completely turn into flame as I walk towards it. Can I use anything?
Matt: How do you want the Hellish Rebuke to be?
Mary: I want this Hellish Rebuke to be me levitating in the air and using my dark dragon staff to blast it from here down, just eviscerating everything from the bowels down with hellish fire.
Matt: So after the frost takes on the front of you, and there is ice caked against the front of your armor, you suddenly look up at it and as your eyes flare with flame, the ice (shatters) evaporates from the sheer heat your body's emanating. You take a step forward, but the step itself is about an inch off the ground. A second step, you're two inches off the ground. And with each progressive step, you're slowly floating in the air, the warlock energy now swirling around you. The shadows are spinning around you and coalescing around your feet. As you look forward towards it, you see the portion of its armor that was blasted open earlier, with its flesh and sinew exposed. You take the staff forward, and with an angry snarl, the one last blast of infernal energy, the Hellish Rebuke then (shooting sound) sinking into the side of its chest. As the inside of its flesh begins to spark and smoke, the dragon (grunts) reaches out and grabs the side. It's beginning to try to bring its wings up to fly away, and as it does, (explosion noise) a blast of infernal flame comes cascading out of its chest. You can see now, all of its armor begins to peel back as its chest is blown open. Its eyes suddenly go from this piercing blue-white to a dull gray color, and it reaches out, and (heavy breathing) "No." It tumbles forward onto the ground next to Percy, almost crushing his unconscious form. It gets up, (impacts) takes two more steps forward. "No. You can't."
Mary: Yes, I fucking can! (cheering)
Matt: And with that, Rimefang falls dead to the ground. (cheering)
Sam: I run over to Lyra, cast Seeming on myself to give myself the appearance of Aldor, and I pour a potion into her mouth, and I wake her up.
Felicia: What happened?
Sam: You did good, baby.
Felicia: (gasps) And I'm just in him. (laughter)
Travis: I run over to Percy and pour a healing potion in his mouth, and I don't "in him." (laughter)
Matt: You can just barely get there with your movement. Thank god you're a barbarian.
Taliesin: Oh! What happened? Oh, look. It's dead!
Mary: Hello, Percy.
Laura: Oh my god. I stand up and I give Zahra a giant hug.
Taliesin: Can we cut that bastard up for scrap now? Ugh.
Laura: You were amazing.
Mary: Forever besties?
Felicia: Wait, then I notice. Aldor, why are you so short?
Sam: Baby. I can't change height, so I release Seeming and I'm back to normal.
Felicia: That was not as good a kiss as usual. I was worried, but it was special.
Travis: Oh! (laughter)
Mary: Is it time to take what we need from this thing?
Laura: Gather up all of the shit we have to take and put it in the bag of stuff.
Taliesin: That would be  two white dragon eyes, one white dragon tongue, one white dragon heart, six white dragon claws, and 20 white dragon teeth.
Matt: Who's harvesting this?
Mary: You have the bag.
Felicia: It's nature. Who has good animal handling?
Laura: Wait, we have to harvest it special?
Matt: Part of harvesting the organs from the creature is a delicate process.
Laura: Is it nature? What is it a check for?
Matt: It's a nature-based check, yes.
Laura: I have a low nature. What do you have?
Taliesin: Very low nature.
Mary: I have a six nature. Can I harvest him?
Matt: You can.
Travis: Can I go and loot the giant that's not frozen?
Matt: You can. You can also help with this roll.
Sam: Inspiration? Okay. I inspire them.
Matt: How do you inspire Zahra as she goes to start carving into this dragon?
Sam: I will sing something. I don't know what. I'm so out of it. We just killed a dragon! (laughter)
Sam: I go over to her and I'm like, (incoherent, impressed stammering). And that's all I got.
Matt: And with that, you killed a dragon.
Mary: It was a group effort.
Laura: Can I help at all? Can I assist? Can I hold her utensils for her?
Matt: Between the two of you working together, that would give you advantage on the checks. Which one are you going for first? Are you going for the eyes? Choose which portion you're harvesting first.
Laura: Everything. We need all of it, don't we?
Matt: Yeah, but which part are you harvesting first? You choose with each roll. You have eyes, heart--
Felicia: Can I assist? Can I help?
Matt: We already have an assist over there.
Felicia: I want to be helpful.
Laura: We'll all stand and watch.
Taliesin: Start with the eyes.
Laura: Pop them out. Pop those bitches out. But you get an advantage.
Matt: You will get advantage on it because she's assisting you.
Mary: That's nine plus--
Laura: Yeah, that's 15 plus six is 21.
Matt: 21. Okay. As you come over, using a dagger that you have. Pop very delicately each dragon eye out and place it into the satchel.
Laura: Into the cooler bag.
Matt: As you pull each eye out, it's like holding the coldest orb you've ever held. It actually burns your fingers as you clutch it. (gasp) Throw it inside and have to shake your hand off.
Laura: I jiggle them around in the bag. Just because.
Felicia: We have a special crate?
Laura: Yeah, I'm holding it.
Taliesin: The tongue would be next.
Matt: All right, go ahead and roll for that.
Laura: Plus another roll for advantage. Ooh, that's way better. Plus six. 23.
Matt: 23, all right. So you manage to, with the help of Vex pulling the jaw open, Grog holding onto the side, Lyra's supervising. You manage to get to the base of the tongue, carve off-- And you (slurp-pop) pull out the rather massive, very heavy tongue-- which, once again, this in itself, is like (yelps). Put it in real fast. And in the process of doing so, you suffer two points of cold damage, but the tongue has been harvested.
Taliesin: A heart.
Matt: This one's going to be difficult. Part of the chest is blown open, exposing the interior, but there has been damage done to the inside, so go ahead and attempt this.
Travis: Two rolls.
Mary: 12. 14. Plus six is 20.
Matt: Oh, 20! 20 is just what you needed. You pry in and crack open a portion of its body, and you begin to slowly carve out the portion, the heart, and the dragon heart itself is massive. It's huge, and it takes three of you to pull it out.
Laura: How do we fit it in this bag? Is it magic?
Matt: You don't know, but it's not going to fit in that satchel.
Mary: How heavy is it?
Matt: I'd say it probably weighs a good 200 pounds.
Felicia: I should know what people would do in the guild situation if they had an organ that wouldn't fit in the bag, right? We have to preserve it.
Matt: Travel back quickly or have preservation magic. Whether it would be a necromancy-based magic.
Felicia: Nope.
Travis: We're not shoving it in there? Are we cutting it in half?
Laura: We could roll it up in one of our fancy robes, though, and hold on to it. And pack it in-- oh, we, yeah! Let's chisel out some of the ice.
Matt: As you begin to wrap it up, you notice that the cold air begins to (cracking) crack around it, and the heart itself is freezing, as per the nature of a freshly dead white dragon. So it might be a good thing.
Laura: What about all this gold in the cavern?
Taliesin: Claws and teeth.
Mary: Teeth. Yes, roll to carve. Seven. 13.
Matt: 13. Going through the jaw, you begin plucking teeth out, piece by piece (cling, cling) and most of them, you notice, as part of the nature of the body, are beginning to decay faster than you expected. A lot of the teeth are becoming brittle and breaking, and as you start pulling them out, you're frustrated because with each one it seems to almost shatter as soon as you claw it from the jaw. By the end of it, you manage to gather about three dragon's teeth before the rest of them begin to break.
Travis: We have a shitload of dragon teeth left over.
Laura: But we need white dragon.
Travis: He was a white dragon!
Laura: Or wait, are you sure it wasn't the blue dragon that we harvested?
Travis: No, it was a white dragon, we have 37 left over.
Laura: Okay. We have 37 dragon teeth from the first white dragon.
Mary: Can I also get-- if there's any powder left or anything, for myself, I would like to--
Taliesin: Claws, still. We have to get claws still.
Mary: I know, but if it's on the ground, and it's in front of me, I would just like to put it in my little bag, to have it for my own spellcasting.
Matt: Okay, go ahead and make a nature roll for that. Roll two more nature checks, or one more check, with advantage.
Laura: Another one.
Mary: That sucks, too. 13.
Matt: Okay. You managed to pull out some of the more sensitive parts of the dragon, but as you begin to cut away at some of the scales-- you're going for the scales or the claws?
Mary: I was going for the powdered-- the remains of whatever teeth that we couldn't get.
Matt: Oh, that! Never mind then, sorry. So then, that you can gather without a problem. It's powdered dragon ice bone, so yeah, that's fine. All right.
Taliesin: We still need claws.
Laura: Let's go for claws.
Travis: One more.
Mary: Nine. 15.
Matt: 15? In beginning to pull out the portions of its hands and getting the base of where the claw itself begins to grow, you manage to pull out five functional dragon claws without them breaking.
Mary: How many did we need, Percy?
Taliesin: Six. Do we have an extra? We have one?
Matt: You guys, prepared with your bag.
Mary: Hello! Prepared people!
Travis: Oh, I looted the giant.
Matt: All right, you looted the giant.
Mary: Now can we get some scales?
Laura: Just her? All of us?
Matt: All of you working together to get scales.
Felicia: All of us? Free for all?
Matt: Well, this is the roll they're making for it.
Laura: 20 for scales.
Matt: 20 for scales, okay. So all of you working together, you manage to pull off what amounts to about 25 pounds of dragon scales. Mind you, the scales are heavy and they're about that big each. It would be enough if you were to bring it to a master craftsman, to possibly construct a set of armor from them.
Laura: That's why we have so many pounds of dragon scales from the previous dragons! We could make three sets of armor right now.
Felicia: I'm going to look around and just see if there's a stash or a hoard that he was gathering.
Matt: All right, there are individual gold pieces embedded all through. It would take you weeks to chisel it all from the walls.
Mary: Are there any giant gems that we can see?
Matt: Everyone make a perception check.
Laura: I want to get my diamond back, too, from earlier.
Travis: Can I loot the bloody giant?
Laura: Natural 20 for perception! Ooh! Sparklies!
Matt: All right. So Grog. You go over to the giant that's not frozen. Looking at it, most of its armor itself is made for a giant's form, much larger than anything else, and a lot of it has been shredded by the dragon, or frozen and broken from the impact and you, cutting it apart with its axe. For the most part, all you're able to find off of its body are approximately 120 gold pieces, which isn't bad. Giants don't really carry a lot of money on them, usually what they carry on them is just trophies from battles they fought previously. At least, these ones here. What did you roll for perception?
Taliesin: 16.
Felicia: 18.
Sam: 11.
Mary: 13.
Laura: Natural 20.
Matt: So as you guys are looking around, the cavern seems to be fairly barren. You, however, Vex, as you walk to the back of the cavern, you see there are other pieces of partially eaten frozen bodies. And you, using a little bit of torchlight you can pull out, and glancing underneath, you see a little bit of shining, more of a cluster of shining about seven or eight inches beneath the ice surface. And you look down and you can see, there appears to be quite a hoard of something frozen beneath the surface of this cavern.
Felicia: Oh I can help! (blasting sounds) I throw a Fire Bolt.
Matt: (laughs) You start carving, you're like, (yelps). Dodge out of the way just in time as firebolts begin blasting the ice.
Felicia: 14. 14 points of damage.
Matt: (boom boom) A large chunk of the ice is blasted out from the Fire Bolt, and you catch your breath for a second. It's not enough to get all the way down, but it does manage to blast away a large portion of the ice.
Laura: I still have like two points of health, FYI.
Felicia: Oh! I'm sorry! You do look so lovely, though.
Matt: And so between the two of you guys, you take a dagger, you take your staff and you begin jamming into the ice. You manage to break it apart, and you do find beneath there, frozen, quite a hoard. You find over the next hour or so, 4,244 gold pieces--
Travis: Whoa!
Taliesin: Whoa!
Laura: How much?
Matt: 4,244 gold pieces. A cluster of gems worth around 850 gold. A singular diamond. It's about that large. It's actually a little bit smaller than the other one you have, but it's worth anywhere in the neighborhood of 1,200 gold pieces. You also manage to find a pair of leather gloves with almost gold trim around each one of the joints. You find what looks like a small leather cap that you pull over the head, that a peasant would wear, and what looks to be one glass vial containing an indeterminate liquid.
Laura: What is the color of the liquid?
Matt: From what you can look at the color, it's like a purplish-blue.
Mary: Can anybody do a perception check on magical liquid?
Travis: I would like to perception check the leather hat.
Matt: Make a perception check.
Laura: Can anybody do an arcana check on the leather hat?
Matt: Oh. Do you have Detect Magic?
Travis: 16!
Matt: Or Identify spell?
Felicia: No. I thought about them.
Matt: Okay. Make an arcana check. Well, you guys have a brief rest here; it should be fine, actually. Okay. Looking at it, this is a very fancy leather hat.
Travis: It's a fancy leather hat. It's mine. Dibs!
Taliesin: I'm curious about the gloves, myself.
Matt: You take some time with each one of these items that you pull out from the ice, and each one emanates a magical aura from them. You take the gloves first and you look at them, and you eventually come to realize, oh, you've heard about this, you read about this in your books. These are Gloves of Missile Snaring. They're gloves that when worn, you have an opportunity to possibly snatch a missile out of the air. These gloves seem to almost meld into your hands when you don them. When a ranged weapon attack hits you while you're wearing them, you can use your reaction to reduce the damage by a certain amount, provided you have a free hand. If you reduce the damage to zero, you can catch the missile, midair, (whoosh) stop it from hitting you.
Taliesin: That might be good for you, though.
Laura: For anybody with ranged, probably.
Matt: Anybody who's hit by ranged.
Taliesin: I have a two-handed ranged weapon, though, which you do not.
Matt: Looking at the hat itself, while not a very impressive hat, the magical energy on it does give you the idea that it is used as an illusion-based magic. It is a Hat of Disguise. While wearing this hat you can use an action to cast the Disguise Self spell at will. It ends if the hat is removed.
Sam: May I have that one, please?
Taliesin: No, Scanlan.
Travis: What? He can already disappear.
Felicia: You'll abuse it. You've already abused that privilege already.
Sam: I'm sorry. By the way, your lips taste like bubblegum.
Matt: The potion is a Potion of Climbing. You can actually climb your walking speed for one hour.
Mary: Like Spider Climb?
Felicia: Spider Pig.
Mary: What's it called?
Matt: Climbing or scaling cliffs, you can go at the speed-- normally, you're very slow when you climb. You can just parkour up super fast. While this is happening, because you rolled a 20, you look over at the corpses that are frozen on the ground. You see one of the corpses is wielding a sword, and another one of the corpses appears to have a shattered bow in one hand. You go over and see the sword itself is not affected by the ice. It actually seems to be resisting the ice. You (cracking) break it out of the hand. The person who's holding the bow, currently, the upper torso is bitten off and shattered. Part of the body is ruined. The bow is broken and destroyed, but there is a quiver on its back. Within the quiver, you see most of the arrows are frozen solid within the quiver, but there is one that seems unaffected by the ice.
Laura: Can I tell what it is?
Matt: You pull out the arrow. It appears to be a deep forest green, and the actual shaft of the arrow has a texture to it, almost a rough metallic texture.
Sam: Take it!
Mary: Take it!
Travis: Take it!
Laura: I'm taking it! Are you kidding me?
Matt: If you wish to bring those over to Lyra. Lyra, make an arcana check.
Felicia: This is a very interesting arrow. I haven't seen one of these like this. Oh, wait, maybe I have. 27.
Matt: Good to know. You take the time with it. You immediately recognize, there is a similar enchantment on both of these weapons, and whoever came in here earlier had the intent of slaying this dragon and failed to do so. What you find is a Dragon-Slayer Longsword. Which is a plus-one weapon, normally, but against dragons or people of the dragon subtype, it deals an additional 3d6 damage with every hit.
Felicia: It's too bad it didn't work for them.
Matt: And an Arrow of Dragon-Slaying. It's a singular arrow, a one-use arrow, but if it hits a dragon of the dragon race, type, or group, it has to make a constitution saving throw or take an additional 6d10 piercing damage. It's a one-use, "fuck you, dragon" arrow.
Sam: 6d10?
Felicia: That's very pleasant.
Laura: Yeah, right? What is the saving throw?
Sam: You'll see. You're going to get the paper.
Matt: So at this point, you guys have taken probably a good hour and a half or so in this cavern. You start seeing water drip.
Laura: Oh, we should get out.
Matt: It's beginning to thaw in the absence of Rimefang.
Mary: Well, what's good is, I believe we're within the three days of the contract, yes?
Matt: Possibly.
Felicia: Well, we got the contract. We completed it within three days. Now, we have to get back.
Mary: Yes, we've killed it, so let's go home.
Matt: Percy, you go and you pull out the contract real fast to inspect it, and you can see that the arcane sigils that were built into it are faded, and where it looks like each piece of the dragon that you harvested correctly, has seemingly had a strange, glimmering gold shimmer from the actual text on the contract.
Laura: Lyra, they're going to love you.
Felicia: It's so exciting. I can't wait to go to the mess hall and tell everybody, many times, over and over, how this happened together. And you guys, this has been an amazing journey. Thank you.
Mary: I would like to take just one gold coin right at the base of the head of what was formerly Rimefang for myself. I'll put it in a necklace when we all go back to town.
Matt: All right. You take that one gold piece, pocket it. Take a moment to remember your final death blow against the dragon. You guys trek back through the caverns you arose, back through the ruined frost giant village, back into the Vesper Timberland, find where your horses were currently tied up, make your way back towards the city of Vasselheim. About a day and a half's worth of travel later, you notice that the blizzard that encompassed the six-mile radius of this mountain range has faded into a soft fog, and the actual weather in this area seems to have been connected to the presence of the dragon and is slowly dissipating. You eventually take yourself to the base of Vasselheim's main wall. You shout at the top of the wall, and noticing the group arriving, they let the doors open. You can see the giant, dragon-headed ballistae that line the city walls are armed and ready, and upon approval, they move them away. You enter the city, make your way through the Braving Grounds to the Quadroads to the outside of the Slayer's Take guildhall. As you enter the main room, you see Mertin is standing there. Looks like he's playing a game of solitaire with a deck of cards. He looks up. "Well, I'll be damned. Are you serious? You killed him?"
Felicia: Mertin, we did it.
Matt: "Show me your contract. Show me this contract."
Felicia: I don't know why you'd doubt us. Really, it's right here.
Matt: "Well done." And he puts his hand out to shake your hand.
Felicia: Oh my gosh. I start crying. This is the most proud moment of my life, Mertin. I've admired you for so long and the fact (cries) thank you. And then I just hug him.
Matt: Okay. He hugs you. "I appreciate it very much. You lost me 200 gold pieces, but well done. You've proven to be more than I expected. Let me get the Huntmistress. She will be very happy to see that you've arrived. Aye, my wife. Yes." And he gets up and leaves. A few moments later, the headmaster Vanessa Cyndrial comes in, her tiefling self with her horns curled behind her head. Walks in with this smooth glare. "I must say. Some of these contracts we put out as a test of your power and will, and to be perfectly honest, I was pulling for you." She puts out her hand and her husband takes a pouch of coin and puts it in her hand. She takes it and puts it on the side of her belt. "I'm impressed by all of you, and by this token, and by the completed contract. First off, you have definitely proven your worth to the Slayer's Take."
Felicia: Oh my god, that is so sweet, Vanessa.
Matt: "Keep the emotions in check. We have to put up a face here. No one wants to see a member of the guild cry. Now, for the rest of you, I would like to humbly ask if you wish to join the Slayer's Take guild."
Sam: Yeah, sure, that'll work. The bear, too?
Matt: "The bear, as well. Best not show him the back room. We have a few trophies back there that might freak him out."
Travis: Do we get to work with another leader next time?
Sam: What? Because if the answer is yes, we refuse. This is our leader from now on.
Felicia: Thank you so much.
Matt: "You are able to choose what your group is at any time. Whatever the contract requires."
Felicia: I really appreciate it, but given the kiss that we had, I realized why Aldor doesn't love me is that I don't have enough experience. Sexually. So I'm going to stay in town to spread my wings in that area. And then he'll love me. Won't he, Vanessa?
Matt: Vanessa goes, "Lyra, I would recommend this course of action to not be taken. I would think that would reflect poorly-- I mean, your personal time is your own, but nevertheless, my dear, this is a very pious house--"
Sam: I think this is a great idea.
Felicia: Oh, no. Not you. You're such a friend to me. I can't ruin that.
Sam: You're right.
Matt: Vanessa walks up and puts her hand on your shoulder and goes, "We're going to have a talk, woman to woman."
Felicia: (whispers) Oh my god, you guys, I'm in!
Mary: Be straight with her, will you? Please.
Matt: "I'm going to make sure she doesn't embarrass the rest of us. So with the contract completed, provide what you've harvested from your quarry, and payment will be delivered."
Laura: I put the bag down that's got all the stuff in it. And then we take out a couple from the white dragon, and put out the other stuff. And we've got this giant heart right here.
Matt: The heart, which Grog has been carrying on his back as you guys travel. (impact sound) It hits the table and the wood cracks a little bit beneath it from the impact. And you can see, the ice is starting to melt a bit on the exterior.
Laura: Careful, it needs to be preserved.
Matt: She gives a nod. "Very well. Mertin, please, provide these for transport to the contract client."
Mary: Can we ask who actually contracted it?
Matt: "It's written on the contract itself."
Mary: Oh, that's right. I'm so sorry.
Matt: Percy has the contract, currently.
Taliesin: I do. Ozwyn Grud?
Travis: Grundle?
Felicia: Alchemist Ozwyn Grud.
Matt: Make a history check, by the way.
Taliesin: May I, as well?
Felicia: 21.
Taliesin: 25.
Travis: Oh, a history check? Four. He's a person.
Mary: I had four, as well. We are so getting shots later. Like, now.
Laura: Nine.
Matt: All right. The two of you immediately go, "Huh," and it hits you: you've heard the name before. You've heard the name and you're trying to figure out where it is. You pick it up and say, "He's a member of the Arcana Pansophical." It's a really exclusive group of archmages across the entire globe that essentially work together to keep the peace on a global scale. Of which, you know that Arcanist Allura Vysoren is a member of the Arcana Pansophical.
Taliesin: Yes, of course.
Matt: This is another member of that team, who ordered this.
Taliesin: This is most likely going to good use, at the very least.
Sam: So do we collect our money?
Matt: "Indeed. What is the total on that contract, if you don't mind repeating?"
Taliesin: I was just working that out.
Laura: Lots of gold.
Taliesin: Lots of gold. It's 1,800 for the dragon eyes, 1,200 for the dragon tongue. 3,500 for the heart. 1,500 for the claws, and then how much for the dragon teeth?
Laura: Per dragon's tooth? Or for all six dragon teeth?
Taliesin: For all 20 dragon teeth.
Matt: Yeah. Essentially, considering the dragon teeth that you had already stored, those are used in this transaction, as well as the claws. So you no longer have dragon's teeth and dragon claws stored in your bag. However, you've fulfilled the contract and get full payment for those.
Travis: We have 12 teeth left.
Sam: So it's 9,000 total?
Taliesin: 9,000 total.
Matt: "9,000 gold pieces." She reaches beneath, pulls out a small chest. You see her do something beneath the table you don't recognize, and all of a sudden you hear a clicking sound and she pulls up three large sacks of gold (heavy impacts) on the table. "Divide as you see fit. On top of this, as you have now been accepted to this, when your other team members arrive, which should be any moment now, in the next day or so, you'll be inducted, you'll be absolved of your breach of the laws of Vasselheim, and you will also acquire a small payment in conjunction with the hydra contract. So we will discuss this as soon as your friends arrive. Until then, feel free to rest, divide the gold, and be on your way."
Laura: That's 1,500 each.
Sam: Thank you.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Felicia: Oh, I don't need any. (laughs)
Laura: What about you, Zahra?
Mary: Oh, I need. I'll take, definitely. Thank you.
Matt: "You do not need your money? Well, that will go back to the guild, thank you."
Travis: No, she misspoke.
Mary: She misspoke. I'm so sorry. She completely misspoke.
Matt: (chuckles) "Very well." Tosses the coins.
Laura: 1,800 each.
Matt: "Well done. Congratulations, and I look forward to a very fruitful and profitable future together here at the Slayer's Take."
Travis: Aye. Scanlan, should we go and make sure that your wounds are completely healed?
Laura: Can we insight check Vanessa really fast?
Matt: You may. What are you trying to gather?
Laura: Just to see what kind of person she is.
Matt: All right, go for an insight check.
Laura: 24.
Matt: Okay. You know you have a very strong sense of being able to read a person, and yet she is still an enigma to you. She seems earnest. She seems definitely a shrewd businesswoman, and there's a reason this guild has been successful for as long as she's been at the helm of it. But as far as reading her intent? She seems very guarded and hard to read. You're unable to really catch a bead on her.
Felicia: Vanessa, I want to thank you for trusting me with this very difficult task. I know that you sent some other people after this dragon, and your confidence in our abilities over theirs, who were defeated? It's just fantastic. I mean, what were you thinking?
Travis: What were you thinking?
Taliesin: What were you thinking, really?
Matt: "Well, to be perfectly honest, this dragon had been a thorn in our side, with previous contracts failed on its side, and you all seemed so confident in your skills. I figured it would be a good excuse for you to either flee from this thing and come back with your tail between your legs, or be foolish and get yourself killed, in which case, you're not a problem of ours anymore and everything's fine. Or, best case scenario, what you've shown to me today."
Laura: Which is that we're amazing.
Travis: Vox Machina does not flee.
Mary: Never. Although I'm not a part of it.
Sam: We'll make you an honorary member.
Matt: "Anyway, I have business to attend to. Enjoy your night. Celebrate. And return here when you wish to see your friends hopefully return as successful as you were."
Sam: Thank you.
Mary: Thank you.
Travis: We are sure they will.
Matt: "Mertin!" "Yes, I know, my dear. I'm taking it." And he takes the heart and (grunts) lifts it over his back and the halfling, as thick as he is, (grunts) is bringing it to the back room. She turns around, gathers the rest of the materials into a sack, and exits the room. And with that, we will conclude tonight's session. Well done!
Sam: We did it!
Mary: We survived!
Laura: Good job, Mary!
Matt: By the way, these are your magical items. You want to go ahead and take those?
Sam: I have to split.
Taliesin: Yes, you're moving.
Felicia: Tonight?
Taliesin: Tomorrow.
Felicia: Oh my goodness.
Matt: First off, guys, a big round of applause and appreciation for our guests. Mary, Felicia. You guys were fantastic.
Taliesin: Guest dragon kill.
Felicia: That was very fun. Thank you for letting me guest and be on the Twitch channel. You guys are a joy to have. I'm so proud to be part of the Geek and Sundry family.
Mary: I would like to say thank you so much to the community, to the Critters out there. I've never felt so much love overnight and through this last week. You inspired me today, and all of us, so thank you so much.
Zac: Speaking of Critters, #CriticalRole is officially trending on Twitter right now on the front page. You guys should all keep that trend going and go tell us what you think about the show and your favorite moments from tonight with #CriticalRole, @GeekandSundry. A couple of other quick announcements. Thank you, Felicia, for coming out. She's about to leave for a month, right?
Felicia: I'm going on a book tour, so please, if you haven't, preorder my book. feliciadaybook.com. I'm going to 12 cities, then DragonCon. I'm pretty excited about it. I'm going all over. I'm sorry, Midwest. It'll be fun.
Zac: Speaking of her book, guys, we are 60 subscribers away, roughly, from doing another signed book giveaway. Subs are what keep this channel alive. We wouldn't be able to bring you this content without subscribers, so let's try to get that 60 before we're done reading all our donations and prizes and everything else. But actually, I think we're going to play that video of Felicia one more time really quick to support her book tour.
Felicia: That's very sweet.
Zac: We'll be right back, really quick, with our donations and everything.
Matt: Yes. [end captions]

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello, and welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, the show where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors play Dungeons and Dragons. We're happy to be back. We all had an awesome break; some good times away from the chaos of the city for some of us. And we're happy to get this ball rolling again. So we've missed you guys. In case you can't tell right now, we have some cool upgrades to the set, actually, if you want to have a look around real fast. The hardworking folks here at Geek and Sundry were awesome enough to go ahead and build this awesome set, and we're happy enough to have a guest here this evening, as Ashley Johnson is able to hang with us tonight.
Ashley: Hello! I like you!
Marisha: Ashley! When did you get here!
Ashley: Oh man, you know, I just flew in. Oh no, we're running out of space. Grog! Hi, guys. Wow, this looks amazing!
Matt: Yeah, the set upgrades are awesome. This is a tribute to the awesome crew that put all this together over the break, so you guys did an awesome job. Give a big shout-out to the Geek and Sundry crew. Yeah, and so for those who saw earlier tweets, we're pushing off Critmas to probably next week because we're all returning from break, we're all getting back into the swing of things, and we're still getting our bearings here. So we're doing that next week. But nevertheless, let's go ahead and start off with some of our quick announcements as we wait for the illustrious Sam Riegel to find his way here. There was a clamoring from the fanbase to extend the sale of the Critmas sweaters. Orders kept coming in, so we've extended it up to this point. However, I believe tonight, is it, tonight?
Laura: Tonight is the last night.
Matt: The very last night to purchase your Critmas sweaters--
Laura: And then it's gone forever.
Matt: Forever.
Marisha: I lived in mine over the holiday.
Laura: Yes, you did. Every time I saw you were wearing it.
Liam: They're very soft on the inside.
Marisha: Very soft.
Taliesin: I have not seen a picture of my brother without his.
Marisha: They're so comfy.
Matt: I'm so glad that we've converted your brother into a dungeon master.
Taliesin: It's so adorable! Oh, he's watching right now and I just called him adorable. I feel so bad.
Marisha: And we found out your parents watch! We had no idea your parents watched.
Matt: Yeah, my parents were like, yeah, no, we'll be there, we'll watch it. I was like, really? In Hawaii? In the middle of the jungle? Like, yeah, I guess we're Critters. I'm like, my parents are Critters.
Laura: Your parents are Critters?
Matt: Sam plowed that pathway first, so Momlan, definitely the most active of the Critter parents. So. Hi, guys, if you're watching. We still have the awesome Wyrmwood Gaming thing they're providing for all you guys. They have their custom dice boxes and containment elements.
Liam: And the code for free shipping is CritRole. CritRole, and the shipping is free.
Matt: Isn't that cool?
Marisha: I think this is also technically yours, too.
Laura: Yeah, that box is hers.
Marisha: Yeah, we put expansion pack spell cards in there that we can all use.
Matt: Mostly poop, though. We kept cards in it, it gets, yeah, you've got to search for it. Collectible poop. From our foraging. From Scanlan. So yeah, Wyrmwood Gaming, CritRole for free shipping. That's awesome. Thank you, guys, again for providing that for our awesome fanbase. Also, I've just finally put up my final-- outside of, barring some horrible exploit that shows up months from now-- my final update to the Blood Hunter class as of ten minutes ago. You can go to my twitter. I think the link on the Geek and Sundry page isn't working, it still goes to the old PDF, but I had the link to the new PDF on my twitter, will be put up there shortly. A bunch of updates and with a link to the page that has all the patch notes, if you will.
Marisha: And new art.
Matt: And new art from our fantastic artist Joma who has done our poster and stuff; he did an incredible job. He named the character Elias and I think Elias the Blood Hunter is my new spirit animal. So thank you, Joma, for that, you're amazing, and go check it out and see. If you're playing a Blood Hunter, it's got some cool updates and I think some things you'll like. Also, our artist Kit Buss put up today her first peek of our new character art designs.
Liam: She put it all up.
Matt: Oh, it's all up? She put it all up.
Liam: She did a group shot and then she did this long row of each separate.
Marisha: Oh, I haven't seen that one yet.
Laura: Yeah. It's pretty remarkable.
Taliesin: Season two. Season two art.
Matt: I don't know when this became season two, but apparently, it's season two now. So. Season two. (laughs) That's cool. So go check out Kit's art and you get to see the evolution of the Vox Machina outfits and designs.
Taliesin: I have poofy arms now. I like my poofy arms. I've got little poofy arms. They're great.
Marisha: I've got body paint. Ashy body paint.
Matt: Yeah. And don't think this invalidates the previous designs, either. This is just one of their various facets.
Liam: We have more than one set of clothes.
Laura: Yeah, otherwise, we'd all smell like Grog.
Ashley: Ooh, burn.
Laura: Diss!
Travis: Or a compliment. (laughter)
Matt: I wanted to put a thank-you out there to the amazing community of Critters that came together to do that Christmas art bomb. For those who haven't seen it yet, Liam here collaborated with a lot of you guys to put together an amazing gallery of Christmas, holiday-themed Critical Role art, and it's brilliant. If you haven't seen the gallery yet, I highly recommend it. You can find it on the website. You are a rogue, sir.
Liam: Well, I love everyone in the room and I love all of you watching, so thank you. (laughter)
Liam: It came out great. I was extremely happy, so were they, so were you, so win-win.
Taliesin: So much art.
Matt: The last bit of my announcements for the evening, I wanted to put another thank-you out to the amazing Critter community. Thanks to you guys, even after Extra Life and everything that went on towards the end of the year, we were still able to donate an additional $5,000 to 826LA over the Christmas break. (cheering)
Matt: They're looking forward to continue working with us. We're looking forward to continue working with them, as well as the many other charities that we put up as part of our Guide to Critmas page. But they're very thankful and we're extremely thankful to have you guys being so active in giving back to the communities and helping these wonderful opportunities for younger kids to express their imaginations and creative writing skills. So thank you guys for being so awesome.
Travis: Reading and writing is good. It's very imp-- imp-- is good.
Taliesin: It's very impotent?
Travis: Yeah, I've been told I'm very impotent. (laughter)
Taliesin: Thank you for running with that.
Matt: We got to get Grog on a side quest for 826LA.
Travis: You're very impotent to me.
Taliesin: Don't make it too hard.
Matt: (rimshot) All righty, so. While we wait for Sam to arrive, let's go ahead and get into the game--
Laura: Oh my gosh, it's so pretty! The panels behind us. I was just admiring--
Matt: I still haven't seen how the layout looks. I'm really excited for it. Also, for the guys who didn't notice, we've updated some of the models and we have colors and a new camera setup. Hopefully we're going to be testing it out in the weeks to come for camera angles and stuff. Things might shift as it happens, but the color scheme on each of the characters' bases corresponds to their portrait color, so it should be easier to distinguish who is who on the battle mat going forward, so hopefully that'll be helpful. All right! Let's get into the thick of it. So last we left off, Vox Machina had finished an extensive, dangerous, tension-filled adventure to the city of Whitestone, the historical landscape that Percival had grown up in, to take down the Briarwoods, two husband-and-wife team who had been responsible for ruling it with an iron fist for five years, doing a series of atrocities and seemingly preparing a ziggurat, or an ancient temple, beneath the city for some unspoken deity that the party then discovered to be an individual referred to as Vecna. They defeated the Briarwoods, managed to help the rebellion of the people of Whitestone retake their town, and helped them set up, prepare, and have their first Winter's Crest festival in five years, since they were taken by the Briarwoods. There was much game-playing and eating contests and polymorphed bears and very fun adventures and exchange of gifts and some fun moments and the party, as we return now, the festival over, a few days past, begin to put their affairs in order to return back to Emon in what their next order of business is. So picking up from there, it's been a few days since the Winter's Crest festival has finished, and most of the decorations, as quickly put together as they were given the circumstances, still loosely hang around the city as a reminder of the first real beacon of positivity in this city's history in a while. The town's much more lively, as people are less afraid to walk out into the streets during the day and it's like watching it really come to life over these past few weeks.
Travis: Sam's here.
Matt: He's going to go ahead and get a Scanlan. Grog wouldn't be paying attention anyway. It's fine.
Ashley: Squirrel!
Taliesin: (Grog voice) It's true. It's very true.
Matt: You've sent off word to Allura in Emon regarding the strange black dot that stands at the top of the ziggurat and letting her know the circumstance, and heard back from her that it seems that-- (laughter)
Taliesin: Smooth. Well done.
Matt: And welcome back, Sam Riegel.
Sam: Where am I?
Ashley: I know. It's so magical.
Sam: What's going on? Oh my god, Ashley's here! Oh my god, you're here! Okay, sorry. You were recapping.
Matt: That's okay. So where was I? Yes, okay. So with the town being set where it is, you sent word to Allura Vysoren, and she's going to gather a few friends and investigate the ziggurat to see what the nature of this lingering magic is. However, there still stands the part of returning to the Council and proving your innocence, amongst other loose threads you wish to pursue. What would you like to do?
Marisha: Well, we have all that awesome proof, right?
Laura: I think we need to head back to Emon.
Sam: Do we have proof? What do we have?
Laura: We have all of the documents that you took from the Briarwoods' stuff. Plus, we have--
Sam: Physical? Do we have someone who could back up our testimony?
Laura: The new rulers, yeah.
Sam: Well, they're not going to come with us, are they?
Laura: Well, we've got Percival. He's kind of in charge.
Taliesin: I'm kind of a big deal.
Marisha: I feel like they'll see that as a conflict of interest.
Taliesin: That's fair.
Sam: Should we bring someone along to corroborate our stories?
Liam: What about-- I know someone needs to mind the store here in town, but Cassandra was in their pockets for a long time, and what about Father--
Marisha: Yennen? Yevon? Yennen?
Taliesin: We could have them write a letter, and we can seal it and then it would be official.
Laura: Let's do that.
Marisha: Make sure that they notarize it and all that good stuff.
Taliesin: Governments function on paperwork. People have to take this seriously.
Laura: That's right. They can't very well arrest Percival when he's royalty now.
Liam: Technically royalty before.
Laura: Well, now he's rich royalty.
Taliesin: We have money now.
Sam: Do we? How much money do we have?
Taliesin: It depends on what we want.
Marisha: Depends on what we want?
Taliesin: We can't bankrupt the treasury or anything, but I'm sure that we can dip.
Laura: 50,000 gold?
Taliesin: Don't put a number on family.
Laura: Flying carpet gold?
Taliesin: That's actually a very good question.
Travis: So we go get a letter and we go back to Emon and clear our name.
Sam: That's our evidence?
Laura: Plus all of the documents that you found!
Sam: All right, paper trail.
Taliesin: Actually, that's a really interesting idea. Is there anybody in town who could reenchant our carpet?
Marisha: Well, he said it would take a year, and you'd need to have Allura work on that.
Taliesin: I'm asking the Yellow Pages.
Matt: As far as you know from your experience in the town, there were two main sources of individuals that had focused on enchanting items. One of which, their abode or their shop had been collapsed and they were no longer seen, and the other one had apparently been acquired by the Briarwoods to aid them in the construction of the ziggurat and you met his daughter, and he never turned up.
Laura: Okay. Maybe we can wait until we get back to Emon and have Gilmore do it.
Taliesin: We'll talk to them and see what's possible.
Laura: Oh, we can't really ask Allura to do it. We stole the carpet from her in the first place. That would be a very bad move, I think.
Travis: Oh, we could just say somebody stole it from her. We stole it from them, we were trying to return it, it fell in acid.
Laura: But then what? We wouldn't get it back.
Travis: Well, she fixes it. Oh, here's a gift for recovering the rug. It makes perfect sense to me.
Marisha: To be fair, she was just using it as a rug.
Travis: Right.
Marisha: Right?
Sam: Yeah, that seems like a really expensive rug.
Laura: Maybe she was keeping it secret. Keeping it safe.
Sam: All right, forget it. Let's just go.
Taliesin: I'm going to craft that thing that I've been wanting to craft, so that was, that we talked about.
Matt: Okay, so over the past few days. Okay. As you guys are all preparing the circumstance over these next few days, you've gone into your original workshop, which is a little more ramshackle than the one you have back in Emon that was built for you. This was just the one that you had pieced together while you were growing up in Whitestone. I would like for you to go ahead and make a tinkering check, if you don't mind.
Laura: Plus, we had them send word to Uriel, remember? We had them send a letter to Uriel, explaining all the wonderful things we did. Yes, I talked to him.
Taliesin: Shut up!
Travis: How did the golden snitch do?
Liam: Not well. Not with that face.
Taliesin: Can I use my resolve?
Matt: That's a saving throw, unfortunately. That's not a skill check.
Taliesin: Goddamn it. 11.
Matt: 11? This is to craft the--
Taliesin: Well, I'm doing the whole kit and caboodle.
Matt: The entire thing?
Taliesin: Well, if I can break it up into chunks, then that will be-- taking it apart. I'm going to take it apart, I'm going to put it back together, and I'm going to add the fifth barrel.
Matt: Okay. (sighs) You manage to pull apart, over the period of a few days, Ripley's pistol. You take aspects of whitestone and residuum dust as well as residuum glass and begin to reconstruct it, based on its elements, in a much more refined, in a much more Percival-practiced method. You attach the fifth barrel, the one that you intend to be used to deliver short-range explosives, and it seems to fit together.
Taliesin: Okay.
Matt: It's nothing fancy, and a little part of you goes like, it's rattling a little when you shake it in your hand.
Taliesin: Can I give it a once-over?
Matt: Go ahead and make a perception check. No, this would be investigation.
Taliesin: I hate you. The difference between those rolls are really impressive.
Matt: This is where the intellect plays off, guys.
Taliesin: Whoa! Okay, I'm going to point out that I just rolled my die before the game started and rolled a natural 20 on my first roll. Five.
Travis: 2016, bitch.
Matt: Okay. It looks pretty solid. You think it would be wise to take additional materials with you as you leave, just in case you want to build something else, but this seems functional.
Taliesin: I've got all the little bits. I'm going to definitely-- I've learned my lesson.
Matt: So in theory, going forward, the gun does function, but every misfire number is increased by two.
Taliesin: So that gives me a three and a--
Matt: A misfire of three on the pistol and what is now a misfire of five with the fifth barrel.
Taliesin: That'll be funny. Oh, I also have to make some ammo for it, since it's individual ammo, so should I just roll for that?
Matt: Well, for the ammunition it has to be a little more specific. We'll get to that. With the time you have at this point, you've just managed to finish that before you guys are ready to go. Cool, all right. So what's the intent, guys?
Laura: So we're heading back to Emon. But we did send a letter ahead!
Matt: You sent a letter, notifying them of what has happened, that Whitestone has been freed.
Laura: And remember I said make sure to tell them how Vox Machina saved the day, and how wonderful we are, and you said, yes you would do that.
Matt: As far as you know, that's been sent.
Liam: So all the messages-- because I sent word out to Gilmore, as well-- we haven't heard anything back from anyone, though. It's too soon, yeah?
Matt: It's been pretty soon. That was just a few days ago in Whitestone.
Laura: I also think I probably sent a letter to Pike to let her know that we're safe and we survived everything, and that she would've been at Winter's Crest.
Matt: It was hard thinking of an address in Vasselheim that would reach her, but you did your best to conjecture, and you attempted it, so we'll see if it finds its way.
Ashley: Maybe it worked! (laughter)
Matt: All right, so how are you guys getting back to Emon?
Sam: On our horses that we own. Do we own horses?
Marisha: They were eaten by harpies.
Sam: Let's go buy some horses.
Taliesin: On the harpies that we own.
Laura: They've got to, right? They have horses here.
Matt: There are a couple liveries here that do sell, aside from keeping the horses of the actual guard.
Liam: Percival, you have the run of this place, somewhat.
Taliesin: I'm going to assume that I can use some family connections to finagle a few horses.
Matt: Okay. I'd say you're looking at probably about five to six days' travel on horseback to get back to Emon.
Sam: Is there a faster way?
Marisha: There's no teleportation circles, is there?
Laura: No. They don't have one.
Liam: Can't you walk us through an oak tree?
Marisha: I can. Yeah. Actually.
Laura: Yeah, walk us through an oak tree!
Sam: All of us?
Marisha: Long as we all jump within six seconds.
Sam: What happens if we don't?
Laura: We're left behind.
Matt: Yeah, it's not a challenge, really. It's just a very short time period. Yeah, you can do that if you want to.
Taliesin: We have an instant teleportation as a worst-case scenario.
Sam: And where does it take us?
Marisha: Home. To our keep.
Sam: Sounds crazy. Can we always use this?
Taliesin: We'll actually in theory beat the letters that we sent. That's okay; we have proof.
Marisha: But it's coming. It's on the way.
Sam: So wait, you can zap us anywhere in the world?
Marisha: I have a 6th-level spell called Teleportation via Plants, where as long as I've seen the tree before, we can walk through the tree.
Laura: We're getting another letter.
Taliesin: We're getting another letter.
Laura: Sealed, so it looks like we didn't tamper with it.
Matt: Easy enough to get it signed by Keeper Yennen, you get it signed by Cassandra.
Liam: And everything is good here for when we go, Percival? Your sister and everyone, Keeper what's-his-butt?
Taliesin: If anything goes wrong, we'll hear about it, and we can come back.
Sam: What's going on with the spinning black cube? Are we okay?
Laura: Isn't Allura on her way here? Aren't a lot of people on their way here? I'm so confused.
Marisha: That's true, wasn't Allura on her way?
Sam: What happened in 2015? The whole way through. Start from the beginning.
Liam: Well, first there were dinosaurs.
Matt: Yes. Last you were told, Allura is coming with a couple of companions to investigate the ziggurat. There was no indication that you're required for that, nor could you really aid in that--
Travis: Speak for yourself.
Matt: Well, your vast understanding of arcane elements and the history of magic should come in handy.
Laura: And Drez Vina, right? He's coming, too? He's had a notice to him?
Matt: Drez Vina?
Laura: Not Drez Vina.
Liam: That's in the Wayback Machine.
Matt: You haven't seen Drez Vina in about a year and a half.
Marisha: The emperor dude?
Laura: No.
Liam: Victor, the powder guy.
Travis: Are you looking for the notes that you don't take?
Laura: I take notes!
Liam: Ivan from the other show? Do you mean Ivan, from the show before us?
Laura: I'm going to find his name, don't you guys worry, then I'm going to bring it right up.
Liam: She's the brains of the group.
Travis: Can we go get that other fucking letter please?
Marisha: We got it.
Taliesin: We got it.
Matt: You acquired it. It didn't take much time.
Marisha: Theoretically, they were trying to keep Allura from us, anyway, so it's not like she can help us in Emon. Right? So we can go home.
Taliesin: Yeah. Let's go home.
Marisha: Yeah. Let's go home.
Travis: Yeah. Let's go home.
Laura: Let's hop in a tree.
Marisha: Let's hop in a tree. What?
Liam: I'm just going to say, here's what we don't know: if we beat the letters home, if we try to walk up with the letter, we should send someone to them with the letter because probably Uriel came to his senses once Sylas was hit with some dicks?
Travis: What, we can't go find that boy you abused in Emon and have him send the letter?
Liam: Who?
Travis: That little kid you smacked around who wanted to join--
Liam: He's long gone, man. I don't know where he is.
Travis: He's probably back, drawing pictures of you on the city walls and crying.
Liam: Get in line. But I don't think we want to walk up ourselves, just in case. We should send somebody.
Laura: We'll head home. We'll send our butler.
Taliesin: He's senile and gentle; they'll be kind.
Laura: Yes. They'll be very wonderful to him. I can't find it.
Liam: All right. Well, let's jump through.
Marisha: Well, we technically already have a letter coming, and we'll have a letter in hand. Right?
Liam: Maybe we need more letters.
Sam: It'll be fine.
Matt: You also, be reminded, you that you have a prisoner in the bottom of Greyskull Keep that was a survivor of the Briarwood--
Travis: If he's still alive.
Matt: Yeah, you haven't checked in.
Liam: We don't know.
Travis: We'll find out as soon as we get there.
Taliesin: At least he'll be going home to a very nice surprise.
Travis: I got one gold piece he's turned to kibble.
Laura: Oh no.
Marisha: Yeah, I hope our keep's still there.
Sam: Before we go, can I shit-scry?
Marisha: To see our keep to make sure it's not on fire? That's not a bad idea. Let's do it.
Matt: For people tuning in for the first time, I'm going to give you no context.
Sam: I'm going to concentrate really hard on my bowels. See if I can see anything.
Liam: Roleplay this, Sam.
Sam: Fiber. No movement yet.
Matt: As you concentrate and close your eyes, you take a moment to connect with that one moment in Greyskull Keep, above the kitchen where you had left your last present.
Sam: It's a gift to the world, really.
Matt: This being relatively early morning on this part of the countryside, you do look in and you see that there is part of a breakfast being cooked for whoever's running the guard time-portion that part of the morning. Currently, nothing else catching your attention.
Travis: Breakfast being cooked, seriously.
Marisha: You guys want some pancakes and bacon?
Travis: Deep-fried French toast, baby.
Matt: You do see Laina in there walk in and start cooking up some stuff and walk back out.
Sam: Oh, and she doesn't look like she's bleeding from the eyes?
Matt: No, she looks to be quite healthy and quite jovial, whistling a little tune, although you can't hear it so well.
Laura: Eskil Ryndarien was the one I was thinking of.
Matt: There you go, Eskil Ryndarien. That's the one, yeah. The archmage in Westruun.
Liam: Those notes are written on her Pathfinder sheet, tucked in.
Matt: That'll come in real handy. All right, great.
Sam: How do we do this, Keyleth? And more importantly, how do we do it so that the bear doesn't come with us?
Marisha: The bear will probably be able to come with us. Sorry.
Liam: Pick a fat tree.
Taliesin: Well, we have a really big fat tree right in the town.
Liam: After all that pie, Trinket's a little wide in the haunches.
Laura: He looks good.
Marisha: He can fit through the Sun Tree, right?
Matt: The Sun Tree's definitely a large enough tree to create the portal you can step through, yeah.
Marisha: Let's use the Sun Tree.
Matt: All right. So the rest of you guys gather towards the center of the town square in the middle of Whitestone. You approach the Sun Tree, and Keyleth, you step forward.
Marisha: I say, hey boo. I'll see you soon.
Matt: You hear the tree silently fist bump you through its arcane connection.
Marisha: You be good, you take care of you, man.
Matt: You hear a voice whisper in the back of your mind, "You too, girl."
Marisha: This is the best tree of all time.
Liam: Tolkien would be proud, Matt.
Matt: As you trace your fingers across the surface of the Sun Tree, its large, curled boughs now starting to sprout remnants of what looks to be fresh leaves. Where your fingers trace, the bark itself seems to glow with a bright vibrant yellowish-orange color. As you create a full oval shape that would fit most of your party, suddenly, there's a sucking sound, and it's like the bark is pulled into a distant doorway. And from what you can see, it's almost like someone carved a tunnel through the Sun Tree that traverses for about 30 or so feet.
Marisha: Are these cartoon physics?
Matt: Essentially.
Laura: Yeah! We should go soon, though. Right?
Marisha: Jump!
Matt: All of you guys come walking through it, and it is a short-term tunnel. Immediately, you can see the other side of it, and as you step through, you can already feel behind you the entrance closing. As you push through with Trinket and Grog pulling up the rear, you can feel the actual tunnel closing behind you. All of you come bursting out of the other side of one of the trees that is currently planted inside the temple to Sarenrae within Greyskull Keep, and as you all gather yourselves and hear the closing sound, the (sucking sound) of the doorway closing behind you, you glance about and you can see all the stained glass, the rosebushes that are well kept, there are a series of small wooden benches that are placed in a pattern, and behind you, you see currently wiping down the stone on the front of the temple is, in plain clothes, a sleepy-eyed, currently woken-up Pike.
Laura: Pike!
Ashley: Hi!
Sam: What are you doing here?
Marisha: Why are you sleeping outside? You have a bed upstairs!
Ashley: No, I do! I couldn't sleep!
Laura: I thought you were in Vasselheim!
Marisha: How long have you been here? So many questions!
Matt: When you had heard the party was going to Whitestone, you were already in fear of what may lie there, knowing the history of Percy's past and hearing bits here and there. You came to try and catch them before they left, but by the time you came to Emon, they had already been gone for quite some time.
Laura: So you've been scrying to us the whole time from here?
Ashley: Yes!
Laura: Why didn't you say anything?
Ashley: I didn't think to say anything.
Marisha: We literally kicked it for a weekend and went to a festival. We could've come back.
Ashley: I know, but work needed to be done.
Travis: So thoughtful, Pike! Oh, my best friend! She's so thoughtful.
Ashley: So you guys made it out.
Marisha: Yeah, thanks to you. (excited stammering) Did you feel our bag of dicks that we did? Were you aware of our bag of holy light dicks? That was an out-of-context thing.
Ashley: I don't know what that is, but it sounds pretty fascinating.
Marisha: Me and you teamed up, and we killed Lady Briarwood by--
Ashley: Oh yes, how could I forget!
Marisha: Well, I didn't know how aware you were, because your connection was fuzzy.
Ashley: Fully aware of the bag of dicks.
Marisha: That was awesome!
Ashley: I totally spaced. Oh wow.
Taliesin: Who taught you the phrase "bag of dicks?"
Marisha: I read it in a book.
Laura: Hi.
Ashley: Hi.
Travis: Bag of Richards.
Ashley: Bag of Richards?
Laura: Have you seen the prisoner here?
Ashley: There's a prisoner here?
Matt: You haven't, actually, in the time you've been here.
Ashley: No, I haven't. I've been cleaning. I've had such a need to clean.
Travis: We actually need him for something. You want to come see him? Yeah, we're protecting him. Let's go. We run down.
Matt: As you guys head out of the temple, it leads you into the main foyer area. Stepping out into the foyer, you immediately hear a loud metal clang in the hallway around to your right.
Ashley: Is it my armor just falling over? (laughter)
Matt: And you all immediately stop for a moment.
Laura: Hello? What was that?
Matt: You hear some other rustling down at the edge of the hallway.
Sam: Are we on the top floor, or down where the--
Matt: You guys are in the foyer of the main temple's base floor.
Sam: Okay. Pike, stay here. I'll take care of this.
Ashley: Are you sure?
Sam: I was born sure.
Ashley: Okay.
Sam: I go forth to investigate.
Matt: Okay. Make a stealth check.
Liam: As he walks down the stairs, I call out don't get caught, shithead.
Sam: Stealth?
Matt: Yes.
Sam: 18.
Matt: Okay. As you come around the corner into the main central hallway of the foyer you can see there is, to the right is the dining room area, and that's closed, and you can smell the breakfast being cooked in the kitchen that's far down to the right of the hallway. To the left is the arcane laboratory. The door is currently ajar, and you hear the rustling from the inside.
Marisha: Aw, someone's going through our shit.
Sam: I'm going in there to investigate. You know what? I'll go invisible first, and then I'll creep in.
Matt: Okay. All right, so. Your image dissipates and vanishes. As you tiptoe up and peek around the corner of the doorway, you can see now there's a few small metallic instruments that have fallen to the ground, and you see a familiar humanoid red dragon-scaled individual who is currently picking up. (grumbling) "Confounded thing." And puts it into a bag and starts tying it up and is currently packing up the laboratory.
Sam: I drop my invisibility and go over and give Tibsy a big hug.
Matt: Out of nowhere you, (startled grumbling) And pushes you away and grabs the staff and spins around.
Sam: It's me! It's me! Little, yellow, different! Me!
Matt: "You mustn't sneak up on a Stormwind like that."
Sam: I'm sorry, I just, it's been so long and we've been through so much without you. I was overcome, I'm sorry. Friends, it's all right! Pike, I cleared the danger!
Ashley: I go in. Hi Tibs!
Matt: As you guys walk in, you see Tiberius seems both surprised and keeping a composure element to him, his chin high. "Greetings and salutations, friends. I'd hoped I'd see you before heading out."
Laura: Heading out?
Taliesin: Heading what?
Matt: "Well, I've spent a few weeks in Draconia trying to secure aid for us in Whitestone."
Sam: Are you from Draconia?
Matt: "Indeed I am. But over these past few weeks I've been continuously balked by my father. By the time I had given up and came to join you, word found me of your victory. Thus, I instead remained here in Emon. I've had some time to think, being here on my own for the better part of a week now. I consider you all friends and fine warriors, mostly. I've enjoyed our travels together, I've learned much, and for that I thank you sincerely. However, my diplomatic mission has fallen to the wayside in these recent months, and while my personal mission to recover these artifacts has grown stagnant, as proven by my time in Draconia, I have still yet to gain the respect of my family. I feel that the path of Vox Machina and the path of Tiberius Stormwind haven't been aligned for some time. In hearing about your victory with the Stormwinds-- oh, that's me-- your victory with the Briarwoods, made me think that while I was sure that you all needed me to protect you, I may have underestimated you all. Perhaps you are quite capable without a Stormwind. And perhaps I am more capable on my own pursuits, with no distractions. I respect you all very deeply, and hope to continue to hear of your exploits across Tal'Dorei, but I think it is time--" And he takes his staff and smacks it on the ground and picks up his bag of things. "I think it is time this dragonborn carved his own path."
Liam: You must leave immediately?
Matt: "I've been packing for a few days, as you know."
Laura: I go up and hug him, and say  what would you like us to tell Uriel? I know they are wanting you in court.
Matt: "The politics of these strange human kingdoms don't really affect me. At least I figure you've got this taken care of, and you'll speak in my name, of course, right, right?"
Laura: Of course.
Matt: "Of course. So. Don't mess that up."
Laura: Of course not, darling.
Matt: "At the time they'd even come to find me, I'm sure the name would be cleared."
Liam: I come out behind my sister and I take him by the hand and I say: Tiberius, your friendship was always valued here. I don't think we'd be standing here without you.
Matt: "That's true."
Liam: I will never forget you.
Matt: "As I shall never forget all of you." And you can see for a second there's a little tear cresting in his nose, and he like, "Dust. You know that, of course." He looks around, takes a moment.
Sam: Speaking as a man who has also had a romantic interest in ladies before-- are there any romantic messages you'd like me to pass on for you to anyone in this town? Or others.
Matt: "You? No." (laughter)
Matt: He turns to Keyleth, and takes Keyleth and goes, "If you see her, tell Allura I'm sorry. But she's always welcome to visit me in Draconia."
Marisha: I will. Bye, Tibsy. I give him a hug.
Matt: He pats you on the shoulder. "I'm very terrible at goodbyes, so--" He steps back. "Goodbye." Flicks his wrist and you can see an already prepared teleportation circle in the room flash with blue runes as his image, waving towards you, scatters into nothing.
Sam: Shit.
Matt: The runes die down to a cold magicless circle.
Liam: Safe travels, Stormwind.
Sam: Well, shit.
Liam: Said the S.H.I.T.s. (laughter)
Travis: Did he leave us anything?
Sam: Grog.
Travis: What?
Sam: Come on. Maybe we should check his room just in case.
Travis: That's what I'm saying! Oh, we have a prisoner downstairs, though.
Taliesin: Oh god, that's right.
Ashley: Yes, yes, yes.
Travis: We run down to the prison cell.
Laura: I stay and walk around his room a little bit.
Matt: Okay. As the rest of you head down, you find your way to the basement where your workshop is, and there, sitting in a chair, currently eating a small steel platter of breakfast, is Jarett, who looks up immediately as you walk in and says, (laughs) "Good morning to all of you! It has been quite some time since we've spoken. I am glad to see that you're well and in one piece. Everything here has been fine." And he points back to, you can see on the bed that was dragged down into the prison cell. Oh, no, I think it was actually dragged away.
Travis: Dragged back out.
Matt: Dragged back out. See within the cell is the small boy from Whitestone who's also now eating off his own small platter as well, and his eyes light up, mouth full of eggs. (muffled talking) He seems to be fine and in good health.
Travis: Any other attacks on the castle while we were gone?
Liam: Yes, how did you fare?
Matt: "There were no other attacks as far as I know, we kept a very very close eye, and for a while we had a fine elemental protector from, with help here from Lady Keyleth."
Marisha: Yes, how did that work? Just curious, because he was kind of a test run.
Matt: "Yeah, very unsettling, to be perfectly honest. "
Marisha: Oh good, good. That's what I was going for.
Matt: "Yeah, I don't feel comfortable with haphazardly tethered creatures from other realms. It historically has gone very poorly, so it was good to know that nothing bad terribly happens."
Marisha: Sure! Awesome.
Taliesin: Well, the good news is, we can let you go. You're free and clear, the Briarwoods will not be a problem anymore, and Whitestone is rather pleasant at the moment.
Travis: He's not free and clear.
Sam: He's got to come with us to testify.
Taliesin: Oh, that's right, I suppose there is the matter of testimony.
Laura: I come down the stairs at this point.
Taliesin: But we can open the cell, at the very least.
Laura: Yeah, why is he still in that cell?
Taliesin: For his own protection, but that's hardly a matter anymore.
Marisha: Right, remember, we were going to let him stay him the guest room, but he was like, I'm going to stay--
Matt: Jarrett steps aside and starts opening the cell as the boy finishes swallowing his eggs and sits up.
Liam: Boy, what was your name again?
Matt: Waiting to see if she has it in her notes.
Marisha: Well, I mean, I'll find it.
Sam: I've got it, I've got it somewhere.
Marisha: It's in my old notebook.
Matt: Always fun to test these things.
Liam: I mean, I asked you a direct question. But that's all right.
Laura: (singing) His name was Lola--
Matt: (singing) If I recall, it begins with a 'D.'
Travis: Dante. Dmitri. Damien. Dingleberry. Darren. Dane. Dylan?
Liam: Matthew Mercer.
Matt: Technically.
Sam: Earthbreaker Groon. Arbiter Brom. Ben Klauss.
Liam: Anemone Tea.
Laura: Desmond. Desmond? Desmond!
Matt: I knew one of you wrote it down.
Laura: Desmond, I had it right here, right there. Desmond.
Matt: Desmond goes, "It's over? The Briarwoods are no more?"
Taliesin: Yes. All taken care of.
Matt: And you visually see a weight off his shoulders. He seems to shrink almost three inches from just the full exhale of his body, and a little bit of tears well up in his eyes and he says, "Whitestone? Does it still stand?"
Laura: It's beautiful. And growing.
Matt: "I can't wait to get back."
Laura: Desmond, dear?
Matt: "Yes?"
Laura: Before you do, could we ask a small favor of you?
Matt: "Of course. You kept me safe, you saved me. Most of me."
Laura: Would you mind speaking on our behalf to Emperor Uriel? Emperor? Sovereign Uriel. That'd be great. That'd just be wonderful.
Matt: "Of course, I'd be happy to, it'd be my pleasure."
Laura: Thank you. And you can, you know, come out of the cell and eat with us, now.
Matt: "Great." And he goes and off the little stone slab there he pulls his platter, which is already half-eaten, and eagerly walks up holding it with you, expectantly.
Laura: Oh, right now! Sure, let's go then.
Travis: Oh, let me carry your plate for you. And I start eating his food.
Matt: Okay. He doesn't notice, he's too excited. You guys make your way back up to the dining room area, and it's at that time that you see, coming down the hall, Laina. Turns around the corner and goes, "Pike?"
Ashley: Hi! There's more of us now!
Matt: "Oh, goodness me, look, everyone's returned! That's wonderful, it's so good to see all of you."
Laura: Good to see you too.
Liam: You've kept the house in order. Good job, thank you.
Matt: "I've done my best. I'm so excited to see that you're all well. You don't look very well fed. I can fix that. Come on, this way."
Travis: Brilliant. Brilliant.
Matt: "I've just gotta make a little bit more, but first course is coming! Please, please." And she opens the doors and leads you guys in the dining area. You all sit down, Desmond joins you, and she comes back and begins to prepare the rest of the meal for you over the next half-hour or so. While you dined on some really, really fine Whitestone food while you were enjoying the fruits of the Winter's Crest festival, it is nice to have a home-cooked meal for a while.
Liam: Traditional Emon breakfast.
Laura: Eggs, baked beans--
Liam: Yeah, fried tomato. Yeah, blood sausage.
Sam: Huevos rancheros. (laughter)
Liam: You dick.
Matt: All right. So you finished your meal, what is your next order of business?
Marisha: What's today? What day is it?
Laura: Are there days of the week? What is a weekend?
Marisha: Yeah, there's days of the week.
Sam: What is this world? How does time work here?
Matt: There are days of the week, I'm not gonna go into the specifics of it because I'm working on it. This question hasn't really arisen before and I probably should figure that out. It's the equivalent of a Thursday.
Sam: It's always Thursday.
Taliesin: So it's not hump day but we're not quite waiting for the weekend yet?
Travis: Hump day!
Taliesin: Oh, Grog. By the way.
Travis: Yeah? Shit.
Taliesin: Did you think I'd forget?
Travis: I throw him a gold coin.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Sam: What's that for?
Travis: I thought Kibble would be dead, but he's alive.
Sam: Who?
Laura: Desmond.
Liam: Desmond.
Travis: Oh, Desmond.
Ashley: You call him Kibble?
Matt: "What?"
Laura: Oh, we were just saying how well you look.
Matt: "Okay."
Travis: Yeah, keep eating, Kibble.
Matt: He just continues finishing.
Taliesin: If he dies, you don't get the gold coin back.
Travis: Fuck.
Sam: How is his hand doing?
Matt: Missing.
Sam: I mean, is it okay, there's no gangrene?
Matt: No, it was properly dressed and has been changed as time went on while you guys were gone.
Laura: Pike, no Pike didn't know he was here.
Liam: Yeah, that's unfortunate.
Marisha: She didn't go downstairs.
Ashley: I didn't, I just didn't need to go down there.
Liam: But there it is, right in front of you, all red and swollen, gross.
Laura: No, it's fine.
Ashley: How's his hand? How's your hand, Desmond?
Liam: Can you do this? Can you do this, Desmond?
Matt: Crying into his eggs.
Laura: Oh no.
Marisha: That's mean, that's mean.
Matt: You're terrible.
Travis: Him and little boys, man.
Laura: I thought Desmond was like a teenager. Is he, how young is he?
Liam: Yeah, I did too.
Matt: Oh no, he's like close to 18, 19.
Liam: Oh, there we go, a kid.
Travis: Impressionable. Formative years.
Sam: Of age.
Travis: Of age.
Ashley: Is his hand gone?
Matt: He's missing most of his fingers and a large part of the upper part of the hand is missing. Yeah, it's bandaged over, and he's still able to kind of use part of the thumb.
Taliesin: I had a really bad day. I had a really bad day.
Ashley: Can I try doing a little healing?
Taliesin: I was possessed by an evil smoke demon.
Ashley: Might as well. Get the dice rolling.
Sam: Oh, Pike! Everyone stand back, my lady's going to do something.
Taliesin: She's going to try and undo some of my poor decision-making.
Laura: Can you grow back his digits?
Travis: No, I don't think so.
Ashley: What happened?
Travis: Tell the truth.
Taliesin: That's a good question.
Liam: I think Whitestone owes this boy a little coin.
Taliesin: I would agree. Perhaps send him, I will send him--
Sam: Well, after his testimony, should it prove to be valuable.
Marisha: How much coin did we pull out of the treasury of Whitestone?
Laura: How about we don't talk about this in front of other people?
Travis: I could give him one of the expensive bottles of wine.
Taliesin: How about I send him with a letter making sure that he is well-employed.
Laura: I think that is a beautiful, beautiful gesture.
Sam: We should solve all of our problems with letters from now on.
Taliesin: If people would just learn, oh never mind.
Liam: Percival. Coin.
Laura: No.
Liam: Yes.
Sam: How about after the testimony? He hasn't fulfilled his duty.
Liam: Fine. Fine.
Taliesin: I'm not sure what the price tag on a--
Ashley: Can I try Lesser Restoration?
Liam: Somewhat higher than zero.
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: Restoration is more of a, restoration is more of a removal of impairments to, on like the whole, like curses, charms, things that affect their body and mind wholly. Current, you know, like that. What you're looking for is more of a very minor regeneration, which I would allow to a very small extent with a high-powered heal.
Liam: You just blow in his thumb and all the fingers go--
Laura: I mean, you grew one of Liam's, Vax's toes back.
Liam: That took a long time, though.
Travis: But we really care about Vax, and this guy can look down at his hand and remember the time that he worked for some shitty vampires. We leave it be.
Matt: What do you wanna do, Pike?
Sam: Has he stabilized, is he stable?
Ashley: I want to try healing him a little bit.
Matt: Okay, so what level Cure Wounds you want to do?
Ashley: Let's do two.
Matt: All right, go ahead for a level two Cure Wounds.
Sam: Can I inspire her healing?
Matt: You can, actually, 'cause I'm gonna have a wisdom check from her in a moment as part of that.
Sam: All right. I'm going to inspire her with a limerick.
All: Ooh!
Matt: 2d8 plus five.
Liam: O'Brien approves.
Sam: There once was a gnome from Emon, who sang a scandalous song, the ladies would swoon, at his rather large tune, and say "My, it's impossibly long." (laughter)
Laura: That's beautiful.
Ashley: Wow, that was so inspiring. 15.
Matt: Okay, so you heal 15 points, that's good. Go ahead and roll a d20, add your wisdom modifier which I think is plus five, and then add another d10 to that because of his inspiration.
Travis: Natural--
Laura: -- 20!
Matt: Roll a d10 just to add on to it, see how--
Marisha: You got a 20?
Sam: This guy's gonna get a brand-new hand!
Ashley: Three hands! Four.
Matt: Okay. So as part of the healing, as you take his hand, you pull the bandages off, and you can still see the wounds are scabbed over, and it's healing but it's healing over. As you concentrate for a moment, close your eyes, you can see the symbol of Sarenrae and that glows for a moment, and that healing energy transfers down your arms to your forearms, to your fingertips, and into the wound. And his hand begins to give off its own radiant energy. He freaks out and backs up for a second, but you--
Ashley: It's okay.
Matt: -- keep his hand there, calm him down. As the light fades, you can see the wound itself is now closed over entirely, and the part where he can only partially use his thumb and his finger, that section has completely healed over and both his thumb and his pinky finger are complete now. And can be used to grab.
Ashley: Like a claw, like a crab.
Matt: But it's functional! There you go.
Ashley: Hang loose, buddy!
Sam: He's got shaka hand.
Laura: That's awesome!
Matt: Much more useful.
Laura: And it doesn't hurt anymore.
Matt: Nope. No longer needs any dressing whatsoever.
Sam: Nicely done, Pike! Wow.
Liam: Coin, Percival, coin.
Laura: Stop telling him what to give him.
Liam: You shut up.
Taliesin: I'm going to make my sister pay.
Laura: Yes, see. And that way, dear brother, he won't be on the road with lots of gold in his pocket to get stolen.
Sam: Oh yes, we're looking out for his better interests.
Liam: You are so caring.
Taliesin: And I should also mention I don't have any money at the moment, so this is also--
Laura: That's why we have that fabulous crystal.
Taliesin: I gave your sister all my money. I did!
Laura: Long time ago.
Taliesin: Well, it was a long time ago, but it was all my money.
Travis: About what time is it?
Liam: This conversation is now making me uncomfortable.
Matt: 10 00 or 11 00 in the morning?
Sam: Should we go in to meet our jury?
Laura: Oh god. Wait, can I just ask, because we had three days and I didn't check on it, I had that jewelry box that we stole from the Tylieri house?
Matt: Yes.
Laura: I didn't ever look in it. Because we just took it and set it aside. And I have this whole thing of jewelry. And I also have a bloody bag of gold and a bag of gems that I never checked in on.
Marisha: Maybe we can just hand over the bloody bag of gold to Desmond.
Sam: Well, let's look at it first.
Matt: The bloody bag of gold, sifting through it, it contains the equivalent of 230 gold pieces.
Laura: All right.
Matt: The bag of gems, it's a few semi-precious stones, but then there are a couple of well-carved sapphires, emeralds, couple of nice gems. The overall worth of that bag probably comes to about 1,200 gold.
Laura: Awesome! And then the jewelry box?
Matt: The jewelry box has largely gold rings, a few gold earrings, the overall worth of the jewelry in there from what you can ascertain given the time that you were spending with it and your experience with having to hock and pawn things that you've acquired over your travels, you could probably sell everything in the jewelry box for about 150 gold.
Laura: Is any of it, you know, magical?
Matt: No, there are no magical implements of it. It is purely just a jewelry box for Tylieri's own collection.
Laura: I'm keeping the jewelry box, 'cause I want it.
Matt: Okay. It is a nice jewelry box.
Laura: And I'll add the 150 to our party funds. Because I'm generous.
Liam: Your greed is endearing.
Taliesin: I think so.
Laura: All right, yeah, let's go to court.
Marisha: We have our, who has our papers?
Laura: Scanlan had them.
Sam: I have some papers.
Liam: Yes, our diplomat.
Marisha: Bust out the mustache?
Laura: Oh wait, wait, did we send anybody ahead with our letters?
Liam: Yeah, I mean, it's probably fine, but I really don't think we should walk up, just in case.
Taliesin: I'll do it.
Laura: Yeah, he's, you know.
Taliesin: It's my problem, on a certain level.
Travis: I'll go with you.
Sam: What do you mean, you don't want to walk up to the palace?
Liam: The last time we saw Uriel, he was rather awful to us, and I think he's probably fine after we took out the Briarwoods, I think, but I'm not a hundred percent sure and I like my head on its shoulders.
Marisha: You think he would go that far?
Laura: Potentially. We did leave town.
Liam: I don't know, it's an unknown quantity.
Taliesin: Well, I have some heavy lifting on my shoulders, I'll take a bit of it on now.
Laura: All right. We'll just follow behind him and stay at a distance.
Travis: I'll go with him.
Matt: So Percy and Grog will helm the walk and the rest of you will stay back at a distance and keep a close eye. You guys make your way into Emon, and the first thing you notice is, as it was recently Winter's Crest, a lot of the decorations are still up. You see streamers and ribbons of white and blue throughout the city, elements of confetti that are still being cleaned up off the streets. It is a busy day, being midweek and about noon-time, so it's also nice to be back home where you can hear the classic sound of hoofs clopping on the cobblestone, the shouting of different individuals across the thoroughfare, and you make your way towards the center of the Cloudtop District. As you guys approach the main gate, the guards immediately step in front and as you two approach, "Halt, there! Have you business here in the Cloudtop?" And he looks over at you and goes, "You're Vox Machina. You're not allowed in here, and I'd like to know your business, please."
Taliesin: We're here to seek an audience, and we would be more than happy to have an escort. This is an audience that the king is going to wish to take.
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Liam: C'mon, snitch.
Taliesin: Better. 21.
Matt: Okay. Looks at the both of you, looks past and sees the rest of the group a little ways back, looks at the guard companion at the front of the gate, and goes, "That can be arranged, just no funny business. The moment you do, this entire district's gonna be down on your head."
Taliesin: We have no intention of anything funny.
Matt: "Good, good." He puts his thumb up, and you hear the chains (rattling) and the portcullis begins to lift that leads into the central area of the Cloudtop District. You guys step back into the familiar area, the streets here much cleaner, the cobblestone much fresher-- this is where the more upper-class and elite of Emon stay, live, and keep most of their business. You make your way through with the two guards flanking you guys, and you can see four more coming down from nearby parts of the wall, and flank you guys from the back to make sure that you're encased and taken care of. As you walk through the streets, what turned out to be an arrival is almost a procession, as individuals are now coming out and seeing this group of you guys walking through the street and peek out. Some of the local nobles and such, some seem to recognize you and go "Oh!" and dart back in. There was a woman you spoke to a couple years ago, it was an older, spinster-type woman who was planning a wedding for her daughter. She waves for a second and goes to talk to you guys real fast, and then one of the guards raises a pike towards her and goes "Mmm."
Taliesin: Later, later. It's going to be fine.
Matt: "All right, hmm." She walks back off. "Curious." You are led past the Citrine Garrison, through the central palace, up the front steps that lead to the doorway, the gates that are currently opened. You are led into the central foyer chamber of the central palace, and as you are brought to that point, you can immediately see the guards on the inside step forward and have a whispering conversation with the gentleman--
Laura: I can read lips.
Matt: You can.
Laura: What do they say?
Taliesin: Touch.
Matt: The conversation entails  "Vox Machina has returned to Emon. They are requesting an audience with Uriel." The other guard says: "Last bit of documentation we've received was they were to be arrested on sight." The first says: "I know, I know, but Uriel rescinded that recently. He said if they show up to bring them in. They don't seem to be aggressive at all. If they're now going to do anything stupid we could just kill them here, so they know better than to do anything stupid." The other guard person goes: "You're right, but I've seen what they can do. Bring out whoever you have on shift." And as they step away, "This way, please!" and you can see the guard that was with you splinters off from the rest of the party and as you guys walk down the hallway, a few moments later, about 20 guards begin to come out from the nearby hallways, and follow behind you. And it--
Liam: I see a guard I recognize and I go  "Oh, I got my snake!"
Matt: And he goes  "Oh, ha, yeah, good." And another guy pats him on the shoulder and he puts his spear back in place.
Travis: See, everything's fine, it's a lovely welcoming party.
Liam: I'm thoroughly impressed.
Matt: The throne doors open, entering the skylight-- the noonday sun now pouring beams of light into the central chamber. You can see, stepping towards the central dais is Uriel Tal'Dorei, who has not been there previously, and apparently has been recently summoned to the chamber through your arrival. As he steps up and sits in his chair, he notices you guys entering with the guards, and nods his head for a moment and looks off to the side, and approaching him to join him on top of the platform is Seeker Asum, who apparently has returned, with his shaven halfling head, with his tattoos on the side, and Arbiter Brom, the cleric of Ioun who oversaw part of your guys' initial trial here in the castle chambers--
Laura: Ooh, yeah, yeah, he was under their control, I think.
Matt: And then after them, you see Guardian Tofor Brotorus, who is the silver-scaled female dragonborn, who is currently the head of the town's guard.
Marisha: Tofor, what was her last name?
Matt: Brotorus.
Laura: Man, I need to organize my notes better. Got it all written down somewhere.
Marisha: So this is essentially our jury? Judge? Judgment party?
Matt: It's most of it, from the last time you guys were here, yeah. As you guys are brought forward, the guards stop, and let you continue the rest of your pathway forward, you step up to the--
Taliesin: I step up.
Matt: Okay, is Percival the only one that's gonna step up?
Travis: I stay with him.
Laura: Wait, what are you doing?
Taliesin: I'm stepping up.
Laura: I'll step up behind you.
Liam: I pull her a little further along with me, and we step up.
Matt: As those of you who wish to then step up to the front of the dais, Uriel sits up and puts his hand out to tell you to stop where you are.
Taliesin: I genuflect.
Laura: I follow suit.
Matt: He waves his hand. "It's all right, don't worry." And he puts his hands together like this, and he seems very thoughtful for a moment, and the silence that pierces the room leaves this underlying tension, this awkward bit of wondering. This build of tension begins to fill the room before he goes: "First and foremost, I owe each and every one of you the deepest apologies. I've only recently cleared my head of a cloud of poor judgment, one that apparently wasn't one of my own making." And you can see, he looks genuinely distraught. There's bags under his eyes a little bit, like he hasn't been sleeping well, and you can see one of the servants go: "Shall we bring Salda?" He says: "No, no, it's all right. When last we spoke, we had a trial, many things that were brought to our attention. In the time of your absence, in hoping that you would find means of absolving yourselves of these charges, Seeker Asum here traveled out about to Wildemount to do his own bit of informatory gathering. He returned about a week ago, and just as I was attempting to sort out this haze-- Asum, if you would please." And he rests his hands for a second, and Asum steps forward and puts his hood back and closes his hands before him. "First of all, a gracious welcome to you, Vox Machina and friends. I did my digging in Wildemount, specifically Wynandir and Port Damali, near the southwest coast of the Shearing Channel. Inquiries by myself and my gatherers before me revealed that the Briarwoods, while once respected in that community, had been accused of necromancy about six years before, a practice that had long been outlawed in Wildemount. Their estate and all lands were to be seized by King Dwendal, but the Briarwoods were officially killed when their homestead was burned by a mob."
Sam: By what?
Matt: "By a mob. All official documentation in Wildemount on the Briarwoods was set in this day, and that we the end of their line. However, this information was kept from ever making its way across the shore, as there isn't a lot of business between Wildemount and Emon. Upon doing more digging, in Port Damali, months later, it seemed that individuals matching their appearance appeared briefly within the Port, where they bought a ship and hired a crew. Now there was no political knowledge in Wildemount, or any approval of a bridge being built, either. This announcement from the Briarwoods, whom had previously been silent, came about the time that I'd sent two of my gatherers to look around, and never returned. I theorized that this entire presentation to Emon, and these political handshakes, were a means to avoid suspicion. I don't know what to, or to what means, but the timing seemed a bit conspicuous to me. Those were my findings in Wildemount, and based on our last discussion, it appears that Lord Briarwood seemed to contain some semblance of mind-affecting prowess. I myself befell to it, as did our Sovereign here. Thankfully, it came to its end recently." And you can see there's a nod and a deep sigh of guilt that emanates from Uriel. "Anyway, that is the gist of my findings while you were off in Whitestone. Sovereign." And he steps back, and Uriel raises his head, leaning forward with his elbows on the edge of his knees, still sitting on his throne. "It's also been brought to my attention that the attack within my walls was indeed instigated by the Briarwoods themselves, and that Sylas is vampiric in nature. This is the influence that clouded me. This is twice now that I have found myself, in spite of all of my protections and intents to defend this city, that I have fallen prey to the wills and whims of some infernal intent. And that is not a way to breed respect or trust in one's leader. I have a lot to think about. Regardless, let it stand that as of this moment, Vox Machina is immediately returned to their place on the council, and all charges against them dropped."
Travis: Yeah! Sorry.
Matt: "So. We've also received a bit of word that you were successful in returning Whitestone to some semblance of new order. Please, if you would."
Taliesin: If you would, your majesty, yes, first of all Whitestone is once again ruled by the de Rolo family.
Matt: "It is good to know."
Taliesin: And I must also, at this point, offer our own apologies which are in order. While there was a supernatural flame of distrust in your heart, it couldn't have been ignited without the embers of our own rash judgements, and poor choices. It is difficult for men of action to necessarily pay attention to the smaller details of their world and their realities, and for this we do apologize. I wish I could say it would be the last of it, but again, it is a difficult world, and we are prone to action, and for that you have our apologies. I would also offer, my lord, that perhaps these infernal powers are attracted by your innate goodness, and that would be worth meditating upon.
Matt: "I appreciate your counsel, Percival. (sighs) Well, if there is the de Rolos still in rule, then are you to return to Whitestone?"
Taliesin: I am not. There is another de Rolo. The Briarwoods were sloppy in their extermination of my line and family. Cassandra de Rolo now rules, along with a--
Sam: Triumvirate?
Taliesin: Triumvirate, I suppose?
Sam: Council?
Taliesin: Council of leaders pushing to build the economy once again, in that sense I'm sure they would be delighted by the opening of trade, and perhaps continuing with the plans for a bridge. Worth discussing at the very least with the new rulers of Whitestone.
Matt: "We will, very much, endeavor to extend as much aid as we can to the rebuilding of Whitestone. As to the bridge, this may be more of a matter of us working with the powers of Wildemount, as we were under the impression that that was being handled by the Briarwoods. But we shall pursue this, as this would still be a great boon to our countryside. Well, thank you, thank you for coming."
Sam: Excuse me, Sovereign Uriel, perhaps I'm speaking out of turn here, and I haven't consulted with my fellows here, but you did mention that you've been mind-controlled twice now, and as council members, this doesn't sit well, and--
Matt: "I understand."
Sam: Well, what are we to do? The security that you have in place clearly hasn't worked. Is there a role that we can serve to ensure that you will be further protected?
Liam: If I may, Vox Machina would not be here today without the aid and advice of Lady Allura, and I would like to personally testify on her behalf of her ability and her wisdom, and her heart. I feel she has a great place in this city, and you should put great trust in her, specifically. She will do much good by you, Sovereign.
Laura: Plus they may be able to enchant your crown so it has some, you know, special mind-control fighting abilities.
Sam: She's spit-balling here, it doesn't have to be that.
Laura: Just, you know, throwing out some ideas. That's all.
Travis: That could be nice. Yeah.
Matt: "This is being looked into, as previously was thought that such an enchantment was already provided. It appears the magic went inert, and a re-enchantment is being looked into. And your advisement on Allura's great deal of respect, influence, has been noted, as it has for the entirety of her length here as part of the council. When she returns from Whitestone, I intend to see that she is properly rewarded and regarded in this forum."
Liam: My mother would have said she is a good egg.
Matt: "That she is. That she is."
Travis: Should we hand over the rest of our--
Sam: Evidence? Documents for the archives. We did collect quite a bit of paperwork, and documentation that would fill in any of the gaps in the history of Whitestone, and--
Matt: He leans forward and puts his hand out. "Please, anything--"
Sam: Of course, we gathered this from the palace in Whitestone.
Matt: Thumbing through the paperwork. "It's not-- Asum." He hands it over and Asum takes a moment of quiet to himself to thumb through, and he's very carefully inspecting and looking about the edges.
Laura: Are you looking for something specific?
Matt: "I'm currently confirming handwriting. One that I deal with quite often."
Laura: Oh, yes, actually, that is something we discovered on our own.
Matt: "My liege, these papers do appear to be genuine, and that does indeed appear to be the handwriting of Riskel Daxio."
Marisha: Yeah, sorry.
Matt: Uriel takes the papers back and, "It's not-- he's been at my side since I was young. His father, Mikael, helms our forces at Fort Daxio. Guards! Find and seize Riskel Daxio at once." The guards immediately go to action, bringing their weapons and scattering outside of the throne room. You can hear the clanging of footsteps, heavy footfalls, and weapons and shields banging as they start just scattering about the entire palace around you.
Travis: Hate to be him right now.
Sam: Did you just say that there's a fort somewhere?
Marisha: Fort Daxio?
Matt: "Fort Daxio. It's our northern military post. It's by the Cliffkeep Mountains. Lots of very dangerous things reside up there, giant creatures, and he holds the border. He's the adopted father of Riskel, not his actual--"
Sam: But any connection to this traitor may-- it may be dangerous for him to be in command up there. This whole place could be a risk.
Matt: "I shall look into it. They haven't spoken in quite a long time, and as far as I know there wasn't a lot of love between the two. Besides, Mikael is not at the Fort right now, Mikael is down in Syngorn on a diplomatic military mission."
Taliesin: Your majesty, I know well the betrayal you feel, and I urge caution.
Matt: "Caution it is."
Travis: Don't forget about Kibble.
Laura: Oh, that's right, I guess we don't need him to testify--
Sam: Well we should bring him out just to, just 'cause-- Otherwise he just sat around for nothing.
Matt: You look behind and Desmond is standing behind you all, wide-eyed and so confused and overwhelmed by everything that's happening, and just eagerly awaiting for you to fill him in--
Taliesin: This young man was an unfortunate victim of my wrath when the Briarwoods visited. He is a citizen of Whitestone, and--
Matt: "Yes, yes I was told of this, the carriage-man that you had attacked."
Taliesin: I would like to have him be the official letter carrier for any-- the first set of correspondence to the new rulers of Whitecastle, so since he--
Sam: Stone.
Taliesin: Whitestone. My god, I'm hungry.
Liam: Oh no! So if you could send an order of sliders--
Taliesin: About 12.
Marisha: Don't forget the mustard.
Taliesin: I'm coming up with this shit. It's not easy.
Travis: Might need some gut healing after those.
Taliesin: I know. Constitution roll. (fart noise)
Taliesin: Would it be reasonable to appoint him as our first correspondence messenger, since he must return home at the very least?
Matt: "Yes. I would still wish to send him with a few of our trusted soldiers to keep him safe. The roads are not safe between here and Whitestone in general, and I mean no offense to you, young sir, but you don't look able with a weapon."
Laura: Especially not against harpies.
Taliesin: I should also mention that my lineage has now been restored to me, and I am now of royal descent once again. And so, again, with my companions' permission, and we will discuss this in the future, but I would like to put forward the beginnings of the proper paperwork to perhaps have Greyskull Keep designated as an embassy, with all the privileges and rights that that presumes.
Ashley: What does that mean?
Matt: "That could, no, that will be arranged."
Taliesin: I will confer with my peers.
Liam: You're on Whitestone soil.
Sam: Before we give Desmond his appointment as a royal messenger, which I guess he is, would the kingdom-- he risked much to keep himself alive and possibly to testify on our behalf-- would the kingdom be willing to give him a quick little reward for his time spent in captivity?
Matt: Make a persuasion roll.
Sam: Not great. 24.
Matt: Not great.
Travis: Yeah, come on.
Matt: He gives a nod and looks to Desmond. "Certainly. It's only fair. You've travelled this far and undergone much personal difficulty in aiding us and relieving this darkness in our territory, and yours as well. I would like to grant upon him by my estate as Sovereign Uriel a granted gift of 1,000 gold pieces to be sent on his way."
Sam: That's more than what we would've done by far!
Matt: Desmond's like  "I-I--"
Sam: Don't faint!
Marisha: Don't spend it all in one place, bruh.
Taliesin: Desmond? The debt that I owe you is larger than coin, and is--
Matt: "That's a lot of coins, huh?"
Taliesin: And it's ongoing, so if you can think of how-- what sort of trade you would like to spend your next years of life pursuing, whether it be in--
Laura: Probably not lute-playing, I'm gonna just throw that out there.
Travis: (laughs) Wow. Fucking cold.
Taliesin: Drums it is! Drums it is.
Travis: Holy shit.
Taliesin: You are a terrible person. I'm a terrible person, but you're the worst.
Travis: Even I am taken aback. My jaw is just open like: (gasps).
Matt: There's an awkward tense pause for a moment as everyone looks over to Vex, including Uriel. Seeker Asum stifles a chuckle.
Liam: Do you know what's amazing, Sovereign, is that Vex'ahlia and Percival were just talking earlier today and they promised each other to match whatever you offered this boy, and I am amazed at their generosity and kindness--
Laura: I walk rocks hand him, on the back of his arm, just like that.
Matt: Uriel nods, "That is generous." At which point, two--
Taliesin: Whatever work you would wish, Desmond, is available to you.
Matt: Two guards rush in at this point, and whisper something into his ear, which, Vex, you see their lips moving, as that's what you can do. The verbiage comes across as-- actually, no.
Sam: Oh! Oh oh! The first whisper of 2016!
Taliesin: Breaking in the new year!
Marisha: Watch the flask.
Liam: "I'm making this up as I go! I don't know what I'm doing."
Taliesin: "Look surprised!"
Sam: "I'm a fraud!"
Taliesin: "I've got a reddit page open behind my DM screen."
Matt: Okay! Climbing over a camera. So Uriel's eyes go wide for a moment, nods. "All right." The guards rush back off, and, "Well, if there's anything else, I believe this concludes our business."
Laura: Of course.
Sam: Is there anything else we need or require?
Taliesin: I think we're perfectly well-suited for now.
Liam: Is Desmond off to Whitestone?
Matt: Desmond nods. "I imagine so."
Liam: Oh, Vex'ahlia, you'd best give him that 1,000 gold now--
Laura: I would right now, but I don't have any on me, how crazy is that?
Travis: Oh that is such a shame, I know, I almost thought about reminding you to bring your extra--
Taliesin: Since I am also gold-poor, I'm writing it into the letter to my sister that we owe money, that they are to employ him in any way he sees fit.
Matt: An individual of the Court has just come up and handed him a sack of gold coins and he hasn't even-- he's not listening to you.
Laura: Hide it around. Put some in your shorts, put some in your shoes--
Travis: Yeah, tuck it down by your nuts, eh?
Matt: He puts some down the front of his pants and pulls his little belt tight. "I-I, um--"
Travis: Keeps it safe, makes a lady take a double look.
Taliesin: I also made sure in the letter that they know that he is returning to Whitestone with this money, so that if he, somehow-- if it's mismanaged by any of the guards or otherwise that it will be taken care of.
Matt: He is escorted by two of the guards to his temporary chambers here at the palace.
Laura: Uriel, we'll leave you to your business, but if you need any help finding anyone, we're here for you.
Matt: Thinks for a minute. "I know you just returned. You've already done so much. But it has come to my attention that Riskel Daxio apparently has fled the palace, or at least has not been seen for a number of days. I've set the guards on it, and Seeker Asum, you as well, see if you can gather as much information as you can-- but if you find it within your capabilities to seek any information regarding his whereabouts and possibly bring him to justice, I would be very grateful and happy to reward for the destruction of this traitor."
Travis: Yeah. (satisfied laugh)
Laura: Of course.
Sam: Do you have any intelligence that he's still within the city walls, or?
Matt: "It's only been a few days, so, I haven't, no--"
Sam: Could be anywhere.
Matt: "We're trying to find out now. You may move swifter than my guard, if previous experience has taught me anything." He looks over to some of his guards who are like, what?
Travis: "Ah sir, we're standing right here!"
Taliesin: You guys are doing a great job, you're great, you look great, you're doing great, you're great, thank you.
Liam: "Man, we ain't found shit."
Matt: At this point, Guardian Tofor reaches over and says, "My liege, if I might also be excused to do my own search, I would appreciate that." "But of course, Guardian, please, go on your way." And she scatters off. The rest of the council looks about, and glances at the rest of you. Uriel stands up from his throne, "Very well. Thank you, and you're all dismissed from this council meeting." And he stands up and begins walking off with Seeker Asum at his side, quickly talking up to him and they're both having this heated discussion as they leave out to the western side of the throne room.
Travis: Are there any other guards in the room as we leave?
Matt: There are four other guards, two appointed to the front door and there are two at the sides of the central throne.
Travis: I look at the guards at the door and I go, told ya!
Matt: They both step back for a minute from the booming voice out of nowhere, and, "Yeah." (laughter)
Sam: All right, so we're free.
Taliesin: That went well.
Laura: Better than I expected, to be sure.
Travis: I wasn't worried. Who are we tracking down?
Laura: The dickhead that built our frigging keep!
Marisha: Yeah, you know, I'm wondering  if I was a sneaky bastard--
Sam: You're not, don't say that about yourself.
Marisha: Thank you so much. I sometimes get concerned.
Taliesin: I know where you're going with this, you should finish the thought.
Marisha: If I was a sneaky bastard, and I wanted to make sure--
Sam: You're not.
Marisha: Thank you. And if I were to make sure (laughs) I had an emergency escape route outside of the city, and was maybe tasked to build, I don't know, say, our keep, within the last year, I feel like we need to start at home here.
Laura: Yeah, I mean he's built-- he's built a lot, but I assume he's probably built secret entrances into different places.
Marisha: Because our keep is butted up against the border of the city and everywhere else.
Taliesin: Do we have the blueprints to Greyskull Keep?
Marisha: Yeah, can we get them?
Travis: They won't be on there.
Taliesin: No, but being able to study them we might find places where--
Sam: You're thinking that he's hiding in our keep somewhere?
Marisha: No, I think he escaped through our keep.
Taliesin: Or he might have hidden an escape-- there might be things about our keep we don't know.
Liam: I mean, could I take a week and really size up the entire building?
Matt: Which building?
Liam: The keep. For little sneaky holes that I didn't know were there.
Taliesin: We'll get the blueprints just to help.
Travis: Did we even ask where we last saw Riskel whatever?
Laura: Can I search his room? Are we allowed to do that? I mean, he did ask--
Marisha: Yeah, can we ask for transparency and information exchange or something like that with these people? So that we can come in and out of the Cloudtop District? Are we cool there?
Matt: You're cool now. Yeah, all the charges have been dropped.
Taliesin: We're representatives of a foreign government.
Marisha: Okay, cool. So here's my other question. The Briarwoods wanted something with Emon. That had nothing to do with building a bridge, right?
Taliesin: What did they want?
Marisha: What did they want?
Matt: Seeker Asum found information that it seems that the whole bridge conversation--
Marisha: Was like a ruse?
Matt: It was a ruse that arose-- well, it arose because he began to send agents into Whitestone to find out what was happening, and he believes they discovered that Emon was now looking at them, and so they reached out to try and distract or prevent them from going any further. So as opposed to being just quiet and accepting this outside attention, they cut it off at the head and went like, "Hey! Let's talk about how we can work together as a way to try and not keep this weird, constant influx of spies."
Marisha: So the Briarwoods coming to Emon is assumed to be just a formality? That's all they were here for?
Travis: A distraction.
Matt: To continue to raise belief in that conversation. It may not be the case, but that was--
Marisha: But why send-- why would I go? Why would you go? Why not send a representative? You know what I mean?
Laura: So you can gain better control.
Travis: So you can work your magic.
Liam: Validity.
Laura: Anyway, I want to go check out his room.
Matt: Okay. Riskel was also in charge of security within the palace. And part of the notes that you had received about him talked about discussing back and forth with the Briarwoods in preparation for their arrival, to make sure that most of the magical wards and defenses that were usually set up there were all removed or false.
Sam: Wait a second, so we're gonna go check out his room to see if we can find clues, but also, who would know? Is there anyone that we know who would know-- would Gilmore know where this guy has gone?
Taliesin: You just really want to see Gilmore.
Laura: Why would Gilmore know?
Sam: Because he knows everything about everyone.
Taliesin: He just has really nice hair.
Sam: Isn't that the same thing?
Taliesin: It's different from actually knowing things.
Liam: I honestly think that if Asum doesn't know, nobody knows. Asum is our source of information here.
Marisha: Well you know what they say when you Asum. (weak laughter)
Laura: He's just staring at you.
Matt: So, as you make your way over to-- (laughs) as you make your way over to Riskel Daxio's room, there are two guards out the front. You can hear things being rummaged around through inside. You can see a couple guards are picking apart his room, and at first glance as you step up, they see you, and the guards step aside.
Laura: Council members coming through.
Sam: Take five.
Matt: The guards stop rummaging as you enter. You can see cabinets and stuff have been pulled out, bedsheets have been turned over. Most of the room appears to have been left untouched, except for most of his belongings-- anything that would have worth is empty. Most of his drawers are empty. You can see already, there is what looks to be a small chest that is open and empty on the ground.
Liam: Well, I'm gonna perception check that shit.
Matt: Go for it.
Laura: I'm gonna perception check the whole room to see--
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Sam: And I'm going to look for secret compartments in the wall.
Liam: Investigation, you said?
Matt: For investigating these specific things for this purpose, yes.
Liam: All right, 20 for me.
Sam: 19 for me.
Laura: 23 for me.
Matt: Okay. Inspecting the room, you find-- the chest that you're looking at currently, Vax, it has scrapes on the inside that look like it contained a great sum of money, that was then removed and taken, as if pretty much a large portion of his personal wealth was removed. That's your inspection check.
Liam: Okay.
Matt: You, looking about the room, Vex, you find that the arrangement of the furniture seems to have these glyphs that are inscribed on certain pieces of his furniture that are reminiscent of some of the glyphs that you saw--
Laura: In a teleportation circle?
Matt: No, actually, on the ziggurat. There are symbols that are concurrent with some of the writings that you saw inscribed up there. You can't read it, necessarily, and they don't appear to be enchanted by any means, at least not anymore, but there is-- it appears like there was something about this room that was purposely arranged for some sort of arcane purpose.
Liam: What are you gasping about? You sound perturbed.
Laura: Oh. The glyphs, I saw them at the ziggurat. Keyleth, Pike, do you know anything about--
Matt: Anyone who wants to take a shot at arcane, I would recommend those who are proficient, because it's pretty deep knowledge.
Marisha: I can't do the arcane thing.
Sam: I'll do an arcane check.
Travis: Yep, me as well.
Sam: Grog is an expert on all things.
Liam: Natural 20, Grog.
Ashley: Oh! Natural 20!
Taliesin: I wanna see how this pulls together.
Travis: (confused laugh) I'm sorry.
Matt: So. As you all sit around and pull forth this chair, there's a broken piece of the-- (laughs) of the bed that was found as part of the guards rummaging through the room. You also see that one of the floorboards that is pulled up has this carved on the bottom element of it. And as you're looking it over, especially, specifically Scanlan, who has seen many things about the world as a bard, and taken in much knowledge.
Sam: I'm very well-travelled and very old.
Matt: You're trying to find out what the connection to this is. You've seen parts of this arrangement before, and while the runes are different, there is something about the way they're arranged that reminds you of something, and Grog, you immediately remember that the last time that your party tried to scry into somewhere that didn't want to be scryed in, and it was either aggressively ousted or prevented from any sort of intrusion--
Travis: The beholder.
Matt: It's the same type of arrangement in here. Something about this just says, "This room doesn't want you to look at it."
Travis: Right, yeah, it's funny, but like the pictures that were on the big shape, right, there's something about it that reminds me with this arrangement of that time that we fought that shit-head beholder. Yeah, like, it doesn't really want us to look in it.
Laura: Is this like an anti-scrying glyph set?
Matt: Having a look at it now that you've been given the guidance from Grog, the all-arcane-seeing barbarian--
Sam: His instincts are just right there.
Travis: Yeah, it's just a feral thing, you know.
Matt: He's very good at finding the memory. But that helps guide you to the knowledge and understanding, and immediately that is it. These glyphs were, while no longer having power because an element of them was taken or damaged in the process, this room was guarded against scrying, very subtly, but essentially preventing anyone from peering into Riskel's private goings-on and anything he was doing within his personal delvings with the Briarwoods was all kept from being peered into.
Sam: Do I know what kind of magic or what kind of magic wielder would have been able to protect this room or design this protection?
Matt: Pretty much any caster of a decent, mediocre skill for casting can be done, and it's not a terribly uncommon enchantment, it's just expensive.
Marisha: Do we have any idea when the letters came in to Emon that we were successful?
Matt: Which ones? You sent different ones at different times.
Marisha: Either or. When did they get them, do we know? Can we find that information?
Matt: The letter that you guys had sent that just absolved you of your stuff that you had sealed, that was sent closer to Winter's Crest, and that has not arrived yet. The one that you sent to Allura, regarding the inspection of the ziggurat--
Marisha: Yes, that one.
Matt: That arrived about a week and a half ago, so-- that arrived a lot sooner because you sent it a lot sooner, and Allura's already left, and apparently has gone to seek some allies to help her--
Marisha: And it's been about three days since they've seen Riskel?
Matt: About three days, yeah.
Sam: And did we find anything else, any hidden compartments or anything?
Matt: No hidden compartments throughout the room throughout your search, no.
Marisha: Can I go outside?
Matt: Yeah. You step outside of the room.
Marisha: I wanna do a-- no, outside. Dirt. I want dirt under me.
Matt: Okay. You're gonna have to walk out on the actual palace into the courtyard area that's around the front.
Sam: Okay, bye, Keyleth.
Marisha: I'll be right back! I'll be right back, I'm not gonna, I'll be right back.
Sam: I think she has to drop a D. With that expression--
Marisha: I just like the bushes better.
Travis: Is there a guard outside of the room?
Matt: Yeah, there are two guards outside of the room, and there are the two guards that have stood back and let you guys go about your business.
Travis: Should we try and shake one down, and ask who was the last person to see him?
Laura: Why do we need to shake him down, hey!
Travis: Because it's what I do.
Laura: Do you know the last time-- who the last person was that saw this gentleman?
Matt: "As far as we know, last he was seen was a few days ago. His servant, actually, who's currently being interrogated, two rooms down, will probably have more information."
Laura: What was the servant's name?
Matt: "This would be--" Hold on, let me pull this up real fast.
Laura: The guard just keeps notes.
Matt: The guard goes through all of his notes here.
Liam: He's got two pieces of toilet paper with charcoal on it.
Matt: "Jeffrey."
All: Jeffrey.
Sam: He's being interrogated right now?
Travis: I immediately leave the room.
Sam: Yeah, yeah, let's go do that.
Taliesin: I follow Grog.
Matt: All right. We'll get there before you get to your place, so. As you're heading down through the palace. You guys go to the next room, and the door's open, and you can see this young man, probably in his early 20s or so, half-elf, his dark hair is pulled back into a very tight ponytail-- go, you got it. He's sat in a chair, currently, not tied up or anything, but there are two guards who are currently shouting at him and currently one's like, "Where'd he go? Have you seen him? Where'd he go?" And he's, "I'm trying to tell you, he just-- he left three days ago. He packed up and he left! He walked right out. He said he--" And he looks over and sees you at the doorway. (whimpers)
Travis: You two. Leave.
Matt: The two guards immediately step away and leave the room. Do you enter with him?
Sam: I do.
Laura: Good cop, bad cop?
Matt: All right, so all of you guys follow in after Grog--
Liam: Grog's the good cop. Look at his face.
Travis: I take out Craven Edge. And I put it, unsheathed, next to my foot.
Matt: As it slams into the wood, it sinks about an inch, as the blade just slips into the wooden floor. And you can see, you guys, as he pulls it out and sets it to his side, almost like mist off of a very hot, wet surface. You can see shadow just drifting off the blade ever so slightly.
Travis: You know, there are those that protect life, and they just left. Now, whatever me and my mates are gonna ask, you're going to answer honestly, or your life will be forfeit.
Matt: "Right, um. I--"
Travis: Don't talk unless you're asked a question. My little mate over here will begin.
Sam: Jeffrey, is it?
Matt: "Aye."
Sam: Jeffrey--
Matt: "Yeah?"
Sam: He doesn't want to use the sword.
Matt: "I don't want him to."
Sam: He doesn't like to use the sword. It's a lot to clean, there's brains on it. He likes to keep it nice and tidy in here. This isn't even our palace. Don't make him use the sword.
Matt: "Oh no. I don't want him to."
Sam: Just answer the questions. It's totally fine, all right? It's going to be fine. Do you want some water?
Matt: "No, no."
Sam: Pipe to smoke or anything? Just anything to relax you, make you feel better.
Matt: "No, I'm okay."
Travis: When was the last time you saw Riskel?
Matt: "That would be three and a half days ago. He took most of his belongings and packed them up for a trip. He said he'd be back within a month."
Travis: Insight check that bitch.
Sam: All right. I will insight check him. That bitch. That did not go well.
Travis: I'll do it as well. 16?
Matt: He seems to be bewildered, fearful, and not holding back any information. He's just at a point where he doesn't seem quite sure what else to say.
Sam: Uh-oh, sorry, Jeffrey. He's not gonna like using that sword, but it looks like it's coming.
Matt: "Please don't. No, no, no, no no. No, no, no. You don't have to--"
Sam: The sword is moving a little, isn't it?
Travis: Spinning it. Spinning it now. On the tip.
Matt: "Three days he left, he said he'd be gone for a month, I-I don't know where-- he left! He-he-he walked right out of the Cloudtop District."
Travis: Where did he say he was gonna go?
Matt: "He didn't tell me. He didn't."
Sam: Oh boy, this is gonna be a hard night for me, I'm gonna have to talk him down from this, he gets so worked up--
Travis: I just got it clean, I just got it clean.
Matt: "I don't know!"
Sam: Jeffrey, please, you're just gonna make more work for me if you-- if he has to behead you right now, please.
Matt: "Don't behead me. I just met a girl, please don't--"
Travis: I mean I know the answers are inside you. If I have to open you up to get to 'em I will.
Matt: "No, there's no answers to find! I'm empty! I--"
Sam: Jeffrey, Jeffrey, did your boss get any letters that he stowed away anywhere, did he have a safe-keeping place, a secret residence somewhere in the city walls--
Matt: "He had a chest, but he took everything out, he left. I don't know! I don't know!"
Sam: Did he ever regularly travel to anywhere in the walls of the city?
Matt: "Uh-- he um--"
Travis: I walk up and stand right next to him.
Matt: "I um-- I-I-I-I escorted him once or twice to the-- to the Graveyard District."
Sam: Where specifically?
Matt: "Uh, it was uh. It was a-a tavern-- it was far, far beneath him. I found it curious that he would attend."
Sam: The tavern's name?
Matt: "Uh, it was um..."
Travis: I lay the sword right on the table and look at the reflection.
Matt: "The Diamond Nest Tavern! That's the one! The Diamond Nest Tavern! He went there, I assumed to do what young-ish elven men do when they're in stuffy work. I don't know! I don't know, I didn't go inside."
Taliesin: How often did he go into the Diamond Nest Tavern?
Sam: This is our sergeant.
Matt: "Not often! A few times every few months."
Taliesin: Did it follow some sort of regular schedule or was it just out of the blue?
Matt: "No, not that I recall. He-- every six months or so... uh, a few times recently, in the past month, but that was, that was all."
Taliesin: I feel this has been very helpful.
Sam: Yes, yes, you have been quite helpful... Give us the name of that girl so we can send our condolences to her?
Matt: "No no no no no! Please please please don't--" He's just weeping now, openly, like this--
Travis: Oh, not on the blade, not on the blade...
Matt: You hear a voice in your head go, "No, keep the tears coming."
Travis: What?
Taliesin: Grog, are you feeling all right?
Travis: What? Yeah. How are you?
Taliesin: I'm fine. I just want to check in, to see how you're doing.
Liam: Percival, you seem a little pallid all of a sudden. Are you feeling all right?
Sam: Jeffrey, is there anything else that might help us in our search for your former employer?
Matt: (whimpering) "Don't kill me." He's lost at this point.
Laura: Lost. Okay...
Taliesin: The sword is a bit iffy...
Sam: Grog, what do you think?
Matt: "End its torture. End its measly life."
Travis: Can you see in this room right now?
Matt: "I can see everything you can see."
Travis: What? I was saying, can you see in this room right now. Can you see what's happening in this room right now? We are totally intimidating the shit out of-- Jeffrey?
Matt: (whimpering) "Yes!"
Travis: Do you see what's happening in the-- (whispering loudly) Shut the fuck up!
Sam: Grog, what do you think? Should we let him live?
Travis: Well, I suppose. He's been pretty helpful. (yelling) Haven't you, Jeffrey?! And I hold it right under his chin. (laughter)
Matt: Go ahead and make a wisdom check.
Laura: Oh my god! You're gonna kill him!
Matt: Oh I'm sorry, a wisdom saving throw.
All: Saving throw?!
Laura: Jeez Louise.
Liam: You're a terrible person.
Travis: 14?
Matt: 14! For a moment, the shadows begin to surround you, and you feel the urge to push the blade right through his measly little throat. But you see the face. But it's not his face: it's the face of Pike right next to you looking up at you with this--
Ashley: Grog!
Matt: -- and you pull yourself out for a second, and the blade comes back instinctively.
Travis: What?! It was all part of the show. Heh. It was a show. All right, Jeffrey, you've been very helpful. Change your britches, and don't do bad stuff. And I sheath it.
Matt: "Okay. I won't. Thank you! Thank you."
Sam: Have a good day! And remember, shop at Gilmore's Glorious Goods! (laughter)
Matt: "Okay! I will! I will!"
Laura: Trinket goes up and licks his face.
Matt: (yelps)
Travis: We should give him something. Ah, fuck him.
Matt: As you guys all walk out of there, you hear in the back of your head, Grog, this long, rumbling, deep, unhappy sigh.
Laura: We should go check out this tavern, then.
Sam: Yes, we should. Maybe get a drink there?
Laura: Yeah. And maybe go to the bathroom there.
Matt: All right. So you guys, you're heading to the--
Marisha: Well, I'm out in the courtyard.
Matt: Yes. Now getting to Keyleth.
Marisha: I want to do a Commune with Nature spell.
Matt: All right! So.
All: (singing) The Age of Aquarius.
Matt: That got weird.
Taliesin: This is what happens when you spend time on your phone.
Matt: All right. Commune with Nature. So what are you requesting to know about?
Marisha: Is Riskel anywhere in town?
Matt: As you're connecting, you feel your mind reach out to the earth itself, to all the plant life that exists beneath and through the cracks of the cobblestones. The few trees that are peppered throughout the city, keeping arduous watch over the goings-on within the city of Emon, and a single thought comes back to you that says, yes.
Sam: Oh, shit. I mean, I'm not there.
Marisha: Can I take my second question to focus a little harder and figure out where in town he is?
Laura: What a good idea. Good idea!
Marisha: Thanks!
Matt: Your vision casts through and brings towards the outskirts of the Graveyard District. It brings you to a series of buildings, one building in particular, but not within, beneath. And the vision fades.
Laura: He's at the tavern, right? I mean.
Travis: Or is he a fucking vampire?
Laura: Oh my gosh.
Marisha: Vision fades? That's all I got?
Matt: Yeah. He's beneath the tavern. That tavern--
Marisha: So I get one more question?
Matt: You do.
Sam: How and when will I die?
Marisha: (laughs) What is the meaning of life?
Laura: 42.
Marisha: Can I see any type of underground secret tunnels or passageways that lead out of the city? What?
Matt: You have a brief vision. There are a number of tunnels that snake underneath the city, many of which are long-collapsed or destroyed. You do know there are a handful that spill out towards the docks, deep beneath the city itself.
Laura: Smugglers.
Matt: You're hard-pressed to find specific locations, but one of them does seem to drift near the location of the tavern you were previously given a vision of.
Marisha: Okay. Cool beans.
Matt: Nature fades from your grasp, and suddenly your consciousness returns to just your simple form of Keyleth.
Sam: Keyleth!
Marisha: Ah! What!
Sam: Keyleth, we found a lot of information by scaring an innocent boy. We need to go to the Graveyard District for some reason.
Laura: There's a tavern!
Marisha: That's funny, I found the same thing, but I just meditated for a minute.
Sam: Shit.
Taliesin: That's not nearly as much fun.
Marisha: You know, I'm glad we got things that overlapped, though. That's good, I mean, it corroborates, exactly. Cool. Well, I found good news, Eskil, I mean, Riskel is still in town.
Laura: Really? Are you sure?
Marisha: I'm pretty sure. I got-- his essence was floating in nature's ether, and nature told me he was here.
Laura: Where? At the tavern?
Marisha: In the Graveyard District, it seems like he's somewhere-- I saw that-- he's somewhere underground. Also, it looks like there is in fact quite a lot of tunnels and secret passageways that lead out of the city near there.
Sam: You are amazing. Amazing.
Liam: Pike and I spent a bit of time underground in the Graveyard District with the Clasp, I don't know if the Thieves' Guild is connected--
Matt: This tavern, the Diamond Nest Tavern was the tavern that contained the secret entrance to the Clasp.
Laura: We busted in there!
Marisha: So we have been, I thought it sounded familiar.
Laura: Oh, shit.
Marisha: Wait, was this the same tavern, is this the one that's got, like--
Taliesin: Burt Reynolds?
Marisha: Right, is this the one that's also like a whorehouse? Is that that one?
Sam: Aren't they all?
Travis: We're definitely going.
Matt: No, no, this one does not. You've only really been to it at the really wee hours of the morning when no one was there for the most part so you could sneak in and out. You have not been there during its normal operating business hours.
Marisha: What time is it right now?
Matt: Right now, after all this conversation, I'd say it's pushing one, two o'clock in the afternoon.
Travis: Yeah, let's go, plenty of time.
Laura: I think it's a perfect time to take a break and then--
Matt: I was about to get to that. Actually.
Travis: Somebody's about to bust.
Laura: Somebody needs to go to the bathroom.
Matt: Gotcha. Are you guys heading towards the Graveyard District?
Sam: We're heading.
Matt: All right. As you gather up this information, head out of the Cloudtop District towards the western side of Emon, towards the Graveyard District, we will go ahead and take a quick break. We'll see you guys back here in a little bit. [break]
Matt: Welcome back, guys. We've had a little break here, we're gonna go ahead and hop back into this chaos. So. As the party, Vox Machina, makes their way through Emon, the sun itself pushing towards about 2:30, three o'clock in the afternoon. You make your way towards the Graveyard District, and there to the familiar-- (laughs)
Liam: Wait! On the way, can I throw something in here? Halfway there I go: Argh! Oh my foot. Pike! Come here! and I pull her off to the side. We'll catch up, we'll catch up.
Laura: What?! What's wrong with your stupid foot?
Liam: I take the insults and I wait 'til they all march on.
Travis: (laughing) I take the insults!
Ashley: I take the insults, and I continue.
Liam: Used to it, used to it. Pike. I had a front row seat to the Briarwoods, and that blade that Grog has now that we have never seen before came off of Sylas Briarwood.
Ashley: I thought something was wrong.
Liam: It makes me nervous. I don't know why other than it looks big and fucking scary. I thought about talking to him myself but he will just kick me in the goolies, so I thought that I would tell you, because I think he would listen to you, he certainly would--
Ashley: Did you see the stuff coming off the--
Liam: Yeah, it kind of reminded me of Percival's shit, which is why I'm talking to you now.
Ashley: Well, that makes me stressed.
Liam: But he likes you! Not so much me.
Ashley: I'll talk to him, and see maybe if... I don't know, I'm gonna check out the sword and see if maybe--
Laura: What's that sound? Is somebody popping popcorn?!
Marisha: Yeah, I think they are. I think they're eating popcorn. I can hear it.
Travis: There's a street vendor on the way to the tavern that's, yep.
Liam: Anyway, that's it.
Ashley: Okay. Thanks for letting me know. Fist bump.
Travis: (belches)
Matt: You hear Grog belch in the distance and it echoes through the open walkway of the city's streets. Yeah, it's pretty fantastic. You catch up to the party, and you guys make your way to the outside of the Diamond Nest Tavern, a familiar tavern to all of you as you've been here once or some of you twice before. However, during this time, the front doors are open, in the middle of the afternoon, and you can hear from the inside the laughter, bustle and movement of people, and music playing very loudly from the interior, it sounds like various instruments cross-playing and the occasional cheer as glasses and steins clink on the inside.
Liam: I'm gonna throw up my hood, and I'm gonna pull out my other cloak, the red one, and I'm putting it over Pike, putting the hood over Pike's head.
Laura: You have two extra cloaks? You gave me one and then you have another one?
Travis: It's like Dumb and Dumber with the gloves.
Matt: Which cloak are you giving her, then?
Liam: Oh, the Mountebank.
Matt: Okay. And you're keeping which one?
Liam: The displacer cloak I've been wearing. I just don't want you to be seen.
Ashley: Am I invisible?
Matt: No. (laughter)
Travis: Just say yes! Just say yes!
Sam: Where's Pike? Where did Pike go?
Ashley: Hey! Nobody can see me! (clanking noises)
Matt: Your features are better hidden by this cloak, just because it's big and not currently designed for someone of your stature.
Liam: You gotta pull it round your cheeks.
Marisha: I was gonna say, what does the clientele of the bar look like?
Matt: Well, as you guys step inside, the clientele here appears to be regular; the equivalent of like a blue-collar work staff, like, a lot of folks that are you know, sleeves rolled up to the elbows, dirt on the face, gentlemen who are part of either construction crews, or stone workers, masonry, probably work within the actual district in the process of moving plots, or building, you know, small mausoleums, things like that within the actual confines of the district. You see across the way there's a live band playing, of which, you know, they're no one really of note at first, however, Scanlan, you do recognize two of the individuals on the far side of the bar. In the band. There is an individual named Kent Plucker, who is a halfling bard, currently on the lute, which you had traveled with previously, for quite some time along with the other individual you recognize, a rowdy-looking but well-dressed half-orc violinist named named Dr. Dranzel. (cheering)
Matt: A half-orc. Black hair slicked back, well-dressed with a really rough-looking angry chin. Aside from the attire and the dress would look the meanest, and leaning more towards the orc side than the human side, but very well-dressed, with a violin over the chin that looks so tiny by his massive frame, but he's playing away and it is glorious.
Liam: Have we heard of these individuals and these--
Matt: You've heard whispers from Scanlan long ago about just his travel, but you don't speak--
Sam: My troupe.
Liam: Oh, I forgot about Dran.
Travis: Oh! We forgot about Dre.
Marisha: (laughing) Dr. Dre! (laughter)
Liam: 60 seconds late, ladies and gentlemen.
Sam: It's my troupe.
Ashley: This is amazing.
Sam: It's my troupe!
Travis: Wanna go say hi?
Sam: Of course I want to go say hi, but I don't want to distract us from our mission.
Laura: No no no, do your shit Scanlan, we'll just look around.
Ashley: How about you ask to jump in for a tune?
Marisha: Yeah, you know, we never get to see you play, Scanlan, not to your full capacity!
Liam: I plant my foot firmly into his arse and just shove him towards the two guys.
Sam: I haven't seen them for a while. I don't know how they'll react to seeing me.
Matt: As you're getting that word out, you're shoved forward, stumbling, almost being tripped by a few of the patrons, but as you stop and look up, you see before you a young, cute gnomish girl with very short pixie-brown hair, currently playing the flute. She looks over at you and gives you a winky grin. To the right of her you see a rather rotund human male, with a bushy blond beard and raggedy hair who currently has a series of small percussion drums around him and just hitting around, and to the other side of the small gnome girl you see a half-elven, more mature woman, in the later years for a half-elven woman, hair tied into a very, very tight bun, and she is in the process of singing this wondrous tune that matches this improvisational feel of the band. Currently Kent is not paying attention and is on the far right side, but behind them all, towering over, just by stature, is Dr. Dranzel with his violin, and as you stumble forward he looks over and just gives you a smile and keeps playing. (laughter)
Sam: Mind if I jump in?
Matt: "It would be an honor! Scanlan Shorthalt, ladies and gentlemen! Jump into the fray!"
Sam: Feast your eyes, feast your ears, on quite a traveling troupe of musicians, and one humble gnome who is so lucky and humbled to join them. Please, keep the tips flowing for us, and your waitresses!
Matt: And with that, the current song comes to a close, they all lift their instruments expectantly and look towards you.
Sam: Let's play our old standard. And a oney and a twoey and a oney and a twoey.
Matt: What instrument do you pull out?
Liam: Vuvuzela.
Sam: I'm gonna pull out the flute, the flute, I'm gonna play the flute for a while. 'Cause I don't wanna, the singer sounds good, I don't wanna rain on her parade.
Matt: Yeah, no worries. So you pull out your flute and other gnomish girl with her flute as well gives you a look, and you guys start weaving together this flute duel, almost like Flight of the Bumblebees but two conflicting sides-- Go ahead and make a perform check if you could.
Sam: I've never done one of these before. Something tells me it might not go well.
Travis: It's gonna be great!
Marisha: I go and I get as many ales as I can carry and start handing them to those guys.
Matt: Okay. No worries.
Sam: 22.
Matt: As you guys begin to build this perpetual symphony of-- it's almost jazz flute almost in this improvisational feel to it.
Sam: (flute noises)
Matt: The drums build, you can see Dr. Dranzel is tapping his foot to it and he gets this really fast fiddle sound out of a classic violin, the whole room begins to gather around and cheer. Vex.
Marisha: Here, have a drink. Yeah!
Liam: Another whisper. Two whispers!
Sam: Jesus. (laughter)
Sam: Ashley is subtly massaging Laura's ass.
Ashley: For inspiration.
Laura: I keep an eye on him and make sure he doesn't-- any of us.
Matt: Okay. Gotcha. All right, so. As the song builds, builds, builds, people are cheering and shouting, and you bring the drinks over, Keyleth, and you set them down.
Sam: Can me and the other flutist end with an impossibly long held note?
Matt: Make another perform check.
Sam: 33.
Matt: And with that, you both inhale, almost like through eye contact you knew it was coming. Hold, and hold, and you can see her eyes start to get tense and bloodshot, her face starts turning beet red, all the rest of the music stops and everyone just gathers around, the air leaves the room as everyone seems to lean in, and eventually she gives up and exhales and inhales sharply, dizzied by it but still smiling and you can only imagine the blurred romantic tunnel vision she has in your direction, as you carry it for about three seconds more and then end with a trill at the end. The whole room just rouses in cheers and clapping, you can now see coppers and silvers and a few gold are being thrown onto the floor in front of you, there's a small bucket at the base of the small stage platform and Dr. Dranzel then stands up, takes his hat off of the ground next to him, and bows, as the rest of the group bows before as well. You know the drill, you've done this for quite some time. Everyone cheers, a few more drinks, even though you bought rounds for everyone, other people are buying rounds and bringing it up. And it's been a while since you've done a performance of this magnitude, and it makes you feel good, and at that point you feel a hand clasp your shoulder and Dr. Dranzel leans in, "It's good to see you again, Shorthalt. It's been a while."
Sam: Yes it has, sir, yes it has.
Matt: "Haven't lost your edge."
Sam: I'm a little rusty, but I trust you'll keep me honest through this.
Matt: "Honest? We've always been honest. Come! Drink. Eat with us." And they all put their instruments up, as he says: "We've just finished our set. Let's catch up. It's been some time, I'd like to hear of your journeys and tell you of some of ours."
Sam: Absolutely. I'll be back in a while, fellows.
Ashley: Good job, Scanlan!
Matt: "Oh are these, are these your friends?"
Sam: Oh yes, these are my traveling companions and--
Travis: I'm his bodyguard. He's very popular.
Matt: "You can afford a bodyguard of that magnitude?"
Sam: Oh, I've done quite well, thanks to your tutelage.
Matt: "Well great, great, well, come on, you don't all need to stay away! Have your friends sit with us."
Sam: They can join us?
Matt: "Certainly!" He goes and calls over, he goes, "Kaylie, Zed, help me with the tables." And the gnome and the rotund bearded human rush off and start grabbing a couple of the tables and they cram them in the corner, so now you basically have built this monopoly on the far corner of the tavern now, where all of you guys can sit around and cluster.
Sam: Kaylie, that was some fine playing. I might have a tip or two about breath control.
Matt: "Sorry, not all of us are quite as old and seasoned as the others." (jeering and laughter)
Sam: Well, I've learned quite a thing or two in my years and, it might interest you to take a little private tutoring session sometime.
Matt: "Scanlan Shorthalt. You know, I've heard quite a bit about you."
Sam: My legend is spread far and wide, I'm sure.
Matt: "Indeed. And I know better than most ladies that may cross your path."
Sam: You may change your "tune." (noncommittal groans)
Sam: Grog, a little help over here.
Liam: You had us, and then you lost us.
Ashley: Can I give him inspiration? Somehow?
Matt: How?
Ashley: I don't know.
Matt: What would you like to do to make Scanlan look better in this circumstance?
Taliesin: Perhaps help him with his pitch.
Ashley: Yeah.
Sam: It's lovely to meet you anyway.
Liam: Vex once helped Grog in a very specific way.
Ashley: I will-- the man, the myth, and the legend, is true. So, in case you wanted to find out-- (laughter)
Matt: She gives you a look over, looks over at Scanlan.
Sam: Yeah. Yeah that, we're close, we're tight, she and I and-- she's come back for more. MATT "A holy woman?"
Marisha: Oh shit!
Sam: She's got holes in all the right places. (groaning)
Sam: I don't know what I'm doing here!
Matt: She actually at that point goes (laughs), turns around, "Doctor! You weren't kidding. This one's certainly a card." And she gives you a wink, and passes a drink your way across the table. As the crowd simmers down, people go back about their business, and the drinks are brought to the table and scattered about, the rest of you find your seats, and sitting around, they gather up the coin that was taken, and Kent, who sits down next to Dr. Dranzel, looks over and says: "Ah, it's been a while, Scanlan. I'm glad to see you. Glad you could join us. It was like old times. It was nice."
Sam: "It was nice. What have you fellows been doing for these years?"
Matt: "Well, we just finished up coming out here and playing for Winter's Crest. We made a good deal of money, we're on our way out and figured we'd finish up a few of these gigs." And Dr. Dranzel kicks in and says, "Emon, these days, seems to be doing all right. Paid us well for our time here and, well, you've earned a little coin yourself from this." And he takes a little handful of coins from the pile they had amassed and chucks it over your way. It's like 25 gold.
Sam: Oh, well, thank you, but I can't possibly accept this.
Matt: "Fair enough!" And he scoops it back. (laughter)
Sam: You deserve it. It's your gig, you booked it. I'm just playing here for the night.
Matt: "Ah, you're fine." At this point, you guys notice a small halfling boy, definitely not an adult, probably in his late teens, comes up to the edge of the table, you know, big eyes and softer features, and he's dressed a little inconspicuously, comes up. "Doctor. Good performance, good performance." and he claps and looks about the rest of the table. And Doctor's like, "It's fine, boy, they're friends." At which point the boy nods, looks about the rest of you, lifts up a small satchel and unloads it on the table next to Dr. Dranzel, and you see spill out a much larger collection of coppers, silver, rings, bits of jewelry, a few loose coin purses, and Dr. Dranzel reaches over and pats him on the head. "Good boy, Samson, good boy."
Laura: Nice haul, Samson.
Matt: "Thanks," and he looks about awkwardly and expectantly and---
Sam: Still up to the old tricks, I see, Doctor.
Matt: "Hey, when business is good, Scanlan, when business is good." And he reaches over and grabs a small bit of the gold coin and puts it into Samson's hands and goes, "Go buy yourself some toys," and pats him on the back, and the boy runs off excitedly. He quickly looks about and takes a bunch of the gold and scoops it into a small satchel at his side and hands it off to Kaylie. Kaylie takes it. Kaylie, who at this point has been introduced as the gnomish girl who you saw her grabbing the table. She takes the satchel and whisks her hand for a moment and the satchel just vanishes in her grasp in a little puff of smoke.
Sam: I like this girl.
Matt: "Huh. So the company you're keeping seems to be formidable."
Laura: We are.
Matt: "What can we call you?"
Sam: We call ourselves Vox Machina.
Matt: "Sounds really formal."
Laura: (laughs) You can call us The S.H.I.T.s.
Matt: "I like that much better!" (laughter) "That's the Scanlan I know. Shits it is. So, Shits, what do you do? What's your trade? What are you tugging around with this sorry sap for?"
Sam: They're powerful warriors, killers, assassins, magic wielders. Not quite as ornery as a bunch as musicians, but still pretty amazing people. We've had quite a few adventures the past few years.
Laura: Scanlan's a kingslayer.
Marisha: It's true.
Sam: He might not believe you or really anything about me.
Liam: You doubt the cube?
Matt: There aren't a lot of kings in these lands.
Sam: But there's one fewer now.
Matt: (laughs) "All right, Kingslayer. So I take it you're all experienced in a little skullduggery from time to time, yes?"
Travis: (laughs)
Taliesin: Grog, it doesn't mean what you think it means.
Travis: Oh.
Matt: "We're thinking of shoving off. We recently got a tip, if you're interested. Word came about about a dickhead with too much change in his basement---"
Laura: (laughs) Are you leaning on something, Doctor?
Matt: Yes. I'm leaning on the back of a chair that I see in my imagination. (shouts) It's my window! Go with it!
Ashley: I got it, I got it, I got it! (laughter)
Liam: There's a very short man, right there.
Taliesin: He's in a cast. He's been playing with a cast the entire time.
Matt: Towards the back of the tavern, there's a small wooden thing. He's lounging, he's a casual guy, the Doctor.
Liam: His name is Jonathon.
Matt: No. It is Doctor Dranzel.
Sam: Please, Vex, a little respect, he's a physician. (laughter)
Matt: "Anyway."
Sam: A tip about a dickhead.
Matt: "Word came about a dickhead who has too much change in his basement. It's weighing down his personality. You wanna help this poor old withered man alleviate this burden?"
Sam: You mean steal from him?
Matt: "No! I mean, help it go to good hard-working folk who deserve it more."
Sam: What kind of a dickhead is he?
Matt: "I haven't dealt with him personally. People have told me he's a bit of a thorn in the side of, well, any lively folk. Especially those of an artistic persuasion."
Marisha: What's his name?
Matt: "Don't know the name. But I know where he lives. We've looked at the place, cased it if you will. There could be a few ways in. Unfortunately, we've become a little higher profile during our stay here than we expected and I don't know if we're quite as skilled in the realm of shadow-walking."
Laura: Doctor, we're quite skilled but we have a bit of a name for ourselves as well. I'm afraid we may not be able to help you out.
Matt: "Right, very well."
Taliesin: We're quite the opposite of low profile.
Matt: "Well, not to worry. Figured I'd pass it your way."
Sam: If we were to pursue it, what would your take be?
Matt: "Well, based on a finder's fee, and based on the relationship we've had all these years, our troupe would be happy to take a 40% cut."
Sam: And this is a vast sum of money we might find?
Matt: "From what I've heard, sizeable enough for me to want to include someone the likes of you. You know I don't like to include outsiders so regularly."
Sam: Well, I'm not quite an outsider. Yes, them. Well, we could investigate, if you give us an address or description.
Matt: "All right, all right."
Liam: I haven't been paying close attention, but who is this mark?
Laura: He didn't say his name.
Liam: Don't know his name, he's just a dickhead. That's all you know?
Laura: What district does he live in?
Travis: No, no, no. The old man wants to redistribute his wealth and we would be the vessel by which he would do that.
Matt: "You've got a smart bodyguard on your hands, too! (laughs) What's your name?"
Travis: Grog.
Matt: "That's a good name. Yeah. Speaks of intelligence."
Marisha: Insight check?
Matt: Sure.
Marisha: 29.
Laura: Wow, that's a good insight check.
Marisha: I rolled a 19.
Laura: Secrets, secrets.
Marisha: I get secrets!
Sam: Pike, thank you for being my wingman back there.
Ashley: You're welcome, but how come you never told us about Dr. Dranzel? Did you forget about him?
Sam: I told you--
Ashley: Did you forget about Dr. Dranzel?
Travis: You forgot about Dranzel. Those motherfuckers act like they forgot about Dranzel. (laughter)
Taliesin: This is my favorite thing ever.
Matt: "But no worries."
Marisha: So you're just, out of the good of your heart, wanting to redistribute a little bit of funds to help out a few less fortunate people, that's all you have in this?
Matt: "Yeah!"
Marisha: Really?
Matt: "We're all rather less fortunate than this dickhead, and I don't see why a little off his table wouldn't even be noticed, probably."
Marisha: And where exactly did you find this information? On this dickhead?
Travis: I think he said he asked him.
Marisha: You asked him? What?
Travis: No, no the old man asked him  oh, I need to redistribute.
Matt: I have my reasons, my connections, my friends here, and I've been told that his estate has been abandoned for some time, actually.
Sam: Keyleth, this is an old friend of mine, who I trust very much. He saved me when I was troubled and taught me much about the ways of performing and charming. He has my full trust.
Marisha: Well, if I know anything about your skills, Scanlan, I think it says a lot about Dr. Dranzel. So--
Sam: I'll take that as a compliment.
Marisha: You're welcome. Forgive me if I'm--
Taliesin: I think we obviously-- any friend of Scanlan is a friend of ours and I think if Dr. Dranzel here-- may I call you Dr. Dranzel?
Matt: "You may."
Ashley: Can I call you Dr. Dra?
Taliesin: That has a really nice ring to it.
Matt: "Sounds to me unfinished and rather sloppy. Just Doctor is fine."
Ashley: All right. Sorry.
Taliesin: Professor Dranzel.
Matt: "Yes? Doctor. Doctor."
Taliesin: Dr. Dranzel, and I want to know if you're really a doctor later, but I think, perhaps, maybe there's a little tidbit of information about this that you're holding back with because-- I would understand. We're new. We don't really know each other. We're not really on that friendship level yet, but my point is, we could be friends like that. We could be-- I'm trying to see if this works.
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Taliesin: You know what I'm doing. I'm attempting Friends.
Matt: Oh, interesting.
Taliesin: I'm attempting.
Matt: Okay, okay. Good to know this. All right, then. What saving throw does he get for that one?
Taliesin: I get advantage on charisma rolls.
Matt: Oh, right, right. Okay, okay. Yep, go for it.
Taliesin: Am I just rolling charisma?
Matt: You're rolling a persuasion with advantage.
Taliesin: Oh, persuasion roll with advantage. Oh, that's nice. 23.
Matt: Okay. He looks to you and goes, "We don't know who it is. We've been told it's in the Cloudtop District. It's a red brick building. It's been abandoned for over a year and apparently it's been well boarded up. But from what I've been told, quite a lot of wealth is down there. But it's a bit dangerous of an entry. We have no way of getting into the Cloudtop, but these myths keep finding our ears."
Taliesin: If it's the house that I think it is, it's already been--
Laura: Pillaged?
Taliesin: Pillaged. Pillaged is a good word. The rumors were not incorrect but--
Sam: What house is this?
Taliesin: Do you remember with the agon-day with our utler-bay?
Sam: I don't speak Latin.
Laura: Pretty sure it's already been cleaned out.
Matt: "That's unfortunate."
Laura: Unless you're hearing things we don't know about.
Matt: "I know that a few individuals have tried to make their way in. Came out with hefty sums of gold but seemed to be a bit spooked."
Liam: I'm gonna pull up a chair and sit down in front of him. Hi, there. My name's Greg. Greg. Yeah, I'm Scanlan's friend, Craig.
Matt: "Hello, Greg. All right, Craig."
Liam: Scanlan might be able to help you with this. I'll definitely be able to help you with this, but I'm not going to do anything unless I know something more, so if you want to go into the house, if you want me to break us into the house, which I can certainly do, I really need to know a little bit more. Your chances of getting whatever you're after inside raise if you're honest with me. And I don't feel yet like you're being honest with me, so I want to help you, but I don't think I can and without me, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, but we're not getting in the house, so is there anything else you wanna tell me about--?
Matt: "That's all I know. All I know is they've had a few other of the thieving persuasion have made their way in before and they came out with a decent chunk of change, given that they could only be in there for a short time."
Liam: I'm gonna insight check. That is a 19.
Matt: He's hard to read, but the best you can tell is he's been pretty clear with you. And at this point as you're looking at him, his eyes go--
Taliesin: And this is the point where I buy you a beer. And I put the coin down.
Matt: (laughs) "You're a tricky one. All right, you've got yourself some talented compadres."
Sam: Well, they can't play as well as you, but they're pretty good.
Matt: He takes the coin. Takes the drink. "Well, you know where it is. You know what it looks like. If you're interested in finding your way in and come out with anything, we'll be here about another week."
Laura: All right. How long have you been here?
Matt: "Probably been here about two weeks now. Two and a half weeks."
Laura: Hmm. Have you noticed-- I'm sure you've seen many people come in and out, but an older gentleman dressed much nicer than he should be in an establishment like this?
Matt: You describe Riskel to him? Riskel's elven. Thin features, older. Has some battle scars, but long-ish hair kept behind his ears. And as you describe it, he goes, "Yes, yes actually. We had a gentleman like that who came in here a couple of times about a week ago, and last saw a few days ago."
Laura: A few days ago?
Matt: "Yeah! He came in and watched one of our performances. Tipped us rather well!" (chuckles)
Laura: Did he?
Matt: "Seemed a bit hurried."
Laura: Yes. Did you see where he went?
Matt: "No, I assumed he was staying here at the tavern."
Laura: Really? Are there rooms here?
Matt: "Yeah. Just upstairs, they have rooms here."
Taliesin: You should see if there's rooms downstairs.
Laura: Yeah. I get up and leave the table and go talk to the barkeep.
Sam: Do you guys want us to create some sort of distraction while you go search the place?
Laura: I'm going to talk to the barkeep and talk about rooms, potentially, first.
Sam: For us?
Laura: Just seeing what they have available, and what's being rented right now.
Sam: Because we know he's downstairs.
Marisha: Yeah, I was going to say, he was going to go downstairs. I'll go with Team Downstairs.
Taliesin: Team Downstairs it is.
Ashley: Team Downstairs.
Matt: As you head to the barkeep, you see a dwarven woman wearing a simple blouse, but pulled up past the elbows. She's currently wiping down part of the front-- you can see her hair is pulled up to a ponytail that drifts past her shoulders down to the center of her chest. She glances up to you as you approach. "Hi, so what can I get you, dear?"
Laura: Hi. You have rooms, yes?
Matt: "We have rooms, aye. We only got one currently not occupied."
Laura: Do you have an older gentleman? Elven, battle scars-- I describe him-- staying here right now?
Matt: "No? No, I haven't seen someone like that."
Laura: Insight-check her?
Matt: Make an insight check.
Laura: That's okay. 23?
Matt: 23? Her demeanor has changed, and she has gotten guarded. "Nope, haven't seen anyone like that here. Sorry! No. A lot of patrons coming through."
Laura: Yeah. So many people come in and out. It would be so easy to lose sight of somebody like that who came in. I put five gold pieces onto the countertop. It sure would be wonderful if you could remember anything about him being here, however.
Matt: She takes her cloth that she's wiping the counter with, and wipes over and pushes the gold coins towards you. Pulls back and goes, "Sorry, dear. I can't help you."
Liam: I walk up by my sister, and where the woman just wiped that away, I take a piece of chalk out of my pocket and write thieves' cant-- not the word "thieves' cant"-- I use the thieves' cant on the bar and say, in that language: there is a threat here. I can help you deal with it. And that's it.
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Liam: Persuasion, you said? 20.
Matt: She looks at it. Looks at you. Still holding her cloth, wipes it clean from the bar pretty quickly. (quietly) "You one of them? Kitchen storage room. Under the rice and grain barrels." (louder) "Sorry! Can't help you. That's unfortunate."
Laura: Completely understandable. Thank you for your time!
Matt: "Of course, of course."
Liam: We need to have a talk.
Taliesin: Let's all meet.
Laura: Scanlan, could you have your wonderful friends create a distraction?
Sam: I can help them create one.
Laura: Just enough so we can slip unnoticed downstairs.
Travis: Hold on. He's downstairs. Underground. Do we think maybe he's a--
Taliesin: No, because that would be very complicated to deal with while still being part of the political infrastructure of the city here.
Liam: We need to talk.
Matt: You actually have seen him outside at various events for the council. He was publicly around for-- especially during your guys' intro-- when you were first given entry to the council. You've seen Riskel around in daylight.
Travis: I bet you one gold he's a vampire. (laughter)
Taliesin: Done!
Liam: Yes, Grog, it's true. He's a vampire. Could we please meet in a booth in the corner of the pub, please? We need to talk now.
Laura: All right.
Taliesin: Excuse us, lovely fellows, we have prior business. We'll be talking again very soon.
Matt: "Certainly hope so."
Liam: I can't be 100% sure, but we are sitting atop the thieves' guild. Pike and I have been here before--
Laura: We've been here. We've barged in here before.
Liam: Not down in the heart of it like we have. Underneath here is a honeycomb of thieves.
Travis: (gasps excitedly) Honeycomb! Oh, of thieves.
Liam: I think our man is downstairs. They've given me the way in. But it's not going to be easy, it's not just an empty basement. We're sitting on top of the thieves' guild. This is the Clasp!
Laura: Well, why do we have to-- why is it dangerous? Why can't we just go in and ask for him and get him?
Travis: Aren't you part of them?
Liam: I can-- Yes. I should take point. I'm just saying we're not going down into an empty grain cellar to kill a bunch of rats.
Marisha: So do we think that the Clasp is protecting Riskel? Is that what we're assuming?
Liam: It's possible. For money, anything is possible.
Sam: Well good to know, but we're still going.
Marisha: I mean, you were with these people. Once. What--
Laura: Aren't you still-- I look at your hand-- don't you have the mark?
Liam: It's complicated. Where did she say to go? It was through the kitchen?
Matt: She said through the kitchen storage room, on the left. And the mark is actually at the middle of his--
Laura: I mean, that's what I mean. I've seen it.
Liam: Your memory is like an iron trap!
Sam: I think you guys should go. Right away.
Laura: You guys? Where are you?
Sam: I'll follow close behind.
Liam: We're going to go into the kitchen. We're going to go two minutes apart, all right? Don't all go in a crowd. I'm going to go in first. I'll see you in there. And then I walk--
Sam: I walk over to Kaylie. And I say  my dear Kaylie, I'm sorry if we got off on a weird foot. I have that effect on people sometimes, especially--
Matt: "Your feet are weird? That's interesting."
Sam: (chuckles) Especially lovely-to-look-at young ladies.
Matt: "Smaller than I expected, those feet!"
Sam: Well, you know what they say. Wait, no. Don't.
Matt: "I know what they say."
Sam: Don't, no. Don't. That's not what-- Anyway. (clears throat) I was impressed with you up there. Your skills with the flute are remarkable. I was wondering if I could have a little fun tonight and challenge you to a flute-off! We go up on stage, we ask the audience for suggestions, and we see who can last the longest and blow the hardest. (laughter)
Sam: If you win, I'll give you whatever's in my purse. And if I win, I get a kiss.
Matt: "Somehow I think I'm still getting the shit end of the deal." (laughter and applause)
Matt: "But I'm one for fun at the very least. It's a deal." (spits loudly)
Sam: No, don't worry. (laughter)
Matt: You guys shake on it. Are you waiting until sundown, or are you doing it now--
Sam: No, we're going-- Oh, are we waiting until sundown? Is that what's happening?
Liam: I'm in the kitchen.
Sam: Ladies and gentlemen! Boys and girls! The first ever flaute-off? Flutist-off? Flute duel! Featuring me! Scanlan Shorthalt! And you, Kaylie...?
Matt: "Kaylie's fine."
Sam: Kaylie's Fine, everyone! (laughter)
Matt: Some of the folks around are like-- some seem disinterested by it, and some clap.
Sam: All eyes up here! It'll be a great show!
Matt: At this point, Dr. Dranzel is like  "Hah! Well, this will be interesting!" And he's still sitting back, watching. You guys are going in first, you said?
Liam: No, I already went in.
Matt: Stealth check.
Liam: (quietly) She told me to go in! So that's a 23.
Matt: Okay. You seem to slip in. And there are two individuals currently running the kitchen. There's the smell of food, but there are no meals currently being cooked. They're just talking to each other. They don't even notice you slip by.
Laura: I put my hood up before I head back that way.
Matt: Go for it. Make a stealth check?
Laura: (quietly) Oh no.
Ashley: I follow them! No, just kidding.
Laura: Oh, I get advantage. Yeah! 25.
Matt: 25? Same thing. You guys turn around to the left of the kitchen. There is a small stairway that goes down about five feet into the storage room, where you find your brother. And this is all very familiar to you. You've been here once before. This is where you guys exited the guild on the way out, a long time ago. And there are a series of crates and stuff. But in the far back corner, there are two sacks that are labeled "rice" and "grain", that are leaned up against each other. So we'll get to you guys in just a moment. Who is next up after you guys?
Sam: After they go, I call back to the kitchen and I say: to choose the first song will be the lovely gentlemen who have prepared our food for the evening! Please come out here and choose a song for us!
Matt: Everyone looks over and one gentleman stands up and--yells out into the kitchen--is like: "Hey! You're picking the song, mates!" Then you see two folks come out. One's an older woman, wrinkled face, hair's a bit tattered, but she seems happy and smiling amongst her-- happy lines are all throughout her face. The other one's a younger guy. Probably, looking at the features, related to her, who's helping her out in the kitchen. And they both step out, confounded. "What's going on?" "Well yes, what's going on?"
Sam: Just pick us a song, any song! Everyone, give a round of applause to your cooks for the evening!
Taliesin: I grab Keyleth and we slip behind them and into the kitchen.
Matt: All right. Stealth checks from both of you guys.
Marisha: 15.
Taliesin: 14.
Matt: Okay! The distraction was helpful! So you guys slip past, seemingly unnoticed. Everyone's attention is on them, currently. And they both look at each other, and she goes, "I, um. Could you-- Flute, you say?" Takes some popcorn from her pouch.
Sam: Sure. Oh, yeah, she's-- Weird place to put popcorn.
Matt: "It's a busy kitchen! Could you sing Clouds Upon the Horizon? That was my favorite as a girl!"
Sam: Ah! It's a ballad, but okay. Sure. (laughter)
Liam: Do you have an earring on? Scanlan, I need you to make an ode to the kitchen staff. Could you call the kitchen staff out and--
Sam: I did already! I did already!
Laura: You called the kitchen staff out?
Sam: Yes! They're the ones who are suggesting the song!
Liam: Oh, really? We've just been in-- in the back-- in that downstairs room where we didn't know!? Well, we're in a separate room!
Matt: Yep! There you go! (chuckles)
Sam: Good thought! I had the same one!
Liam: Everybody else  come now, come now, come now.
Matt: All right, so you guys head down. Make stealth checks for both of you. That's going to be disadvantage on you, Pike.
Laura: Oh, and... Trinket.
Matt: Coming down with you?
Sam: A bear!?
Liam: Really? Every tool has its place.
Ashley: Nine.
Sam: Nine?!
Ashley: Come on! What else is it gonna be with a disadvantage?
Travis: 13?
Laura: 16.
Matt: After the-- You're really bringing Trinket down there with you?
Laura: Is that bad? What else--
Sam: (yelling) Yes, it's bad! (laughter)
Matt: As you all are waiting, you guys start heading around. And as you're scooting around the kitchen staff, Trinket, who is currently out front, sees everyone scooting around and disappearing into the back. Leaning his head into the tavern, goes, (bear grunt) and begins walking into the tavern. Other patrons start like (startled exclamations), then like, "Bear! Bear, bear!" And other individuals start standing up and seeing this bear come lumbering through the tavern, towards the kitchen.
Laura: Oh, shit. I hear it. I come out of the kitchen very sneakily. Oh! Oh, my bear! I've been looking everywhere for you. Trinket!
Liam: Story of my life.
Laura: What are you doing in this tavern! Oh, dear! We should probably head outside! You and me, Trinket!
Liam: You've got two minutes.
Laura: Fuck. I tell him-- Oh! Oh no, that's so sad! But I tell him to head back to the keep, I guess.
Travis: To the keep, or just outside?
Laura: To the keep! 'Cause what else? He can't just hang out without us there!
Ashley: Maybe he could stay out there.
Laura: Really?
Liam: While she's doing this bullshit, I'm going to make sure that the rice bags and everything are not trapped. Is there a clear stairways down, or?
Matt: The bags. You go to lift them, expecting them to be very heavy. They're actually filled with something much lighter. They're false-filled, and they actually move out of the way very quickly. And there is this similar hatch that you guys have come through before. It's about five by five foot wide.
Liam: I check for traps. Check for traps.
Matt: Go for it.
Travis: So mayhaps with the bear entering, there is enough of a distraction for one suit of armor to clankily make its way down?
Sam: You would think.
Matt: You guys were caught in the attention with Trinket, at the same time. So you guys were in the middle of the fray, as you were walking past. As you're bringing Trinket out, the attention is pulled away. I want you guys to make another stealth check.
Ashley: Come on.
Matt: Grog? You have disadvantage on this one now.
Ashley: Fuck. Ugh. Same rolls. Exact same rolls.
Travis: 12.
Ashley: Nine.
Matt: You guys walk past. As you're stepping into the kitchen, you hear the voice of one of the staff, "Excuse me! Excuse me! You can't be back here! This is our kitchen, we're trying--"
Ashley: I'm gonna throw up! I'm gonna throw up!
Travis: Yeah, she had a lot to drink!
Ashley: I've had so much to drink!
Travis: You had a lot to drink, be careful. Yeah, she's going to spew!
Matt: "Take it outside! Don't do it in our kitchen!"
Ashley: I need a pan, or something!
Travis: She's got infectious diseases too! When she spews, everybody catches it!
Ashley: I have the consumption.
Matt: Pike, make a deception check. (chuckles) I'll say with advantage, since Grog is aiding you in this.
Ashley: Perception or persuasion?
Matt: No, deception.
Laura: Oh, deception, deception.
Ashley: Deception? Fuck, come on. 12.
Matt: With advantage, because Grog's helping you.
Liam: Come on, gnome!
Ashley: 14.
Matt: That's better.
Marisha: Yeah, hork like you mean it!
Matt: The guy is like, "Oh, no. No! Not in here! Um! Right there!" and he points to a doorway on the other side of the kitchen that leads to the alleyway. And he's like, "Out there! No, go. Go!"
Ashley: I just start running. I just start running.
Matt: Okay. You run and you open the door out into the alleyway. Grog follows you out.
Laura: I lead Trinket outside and I see them come out the alleyway!
Matt: You do, if you go around the side, yeah.
Laura: Okay, yeah. So I have Trinket hang out in the alley and stay there and wait for us. Be safe, Trinket! If any danger comes your way, intimidate them and run the other direction. Go home. I love you.
Matt: Trinket just lies there with his head on his paws.
Laura: You guys are evil for making me leave him.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: So there are still two cooks in the kitchen?
Matt: No, one cook has come back in and is currently watching her pretend to vomit in the alleyway.
Liam: I got a 25 when I checked for traps a few minutes ago?
Matt: Okay, thank you. There are no traps on this door, but it is locked.
Liam: All right. I don't know what's down there, but let me take the lead because I've dealt with this before. I don't crouch down or anything, I just start-- still quietly-- but I just walk. Head held high, walking down the stairs. Motioning everyone to follow who's here.
Matt: Okay. As you're doing this, you begin your "flaute-off"? I don't know. Roll performance!
Sam: Am I rolling for performance? 28.
Matt: 28!
Sam: I perform very well. (singing) Too many cooks!
Marisha: (singing) Too many cooks! (laughter)
Taliesin: (singing) Too many cooks! (laughter)
Ashley: (moans) Oh, don't get it in my head!
Matt: Hold on, sorry. This is important, guys. Once I can get the ad off here. So, as you pull out your flute and you prepare for this wondrous--
Sam: You've got this on your machine? (banjo playing)
Sam: Is this Jethro Tull?
Matt: Yes it is. (laughter)
Liam: Yes! Yes!
Matt: Let's get to the good part here.
Sam: Is there a good part?
Matt: This is the whole album.
Marisha: It was just one big, full album. The song was a whole album.
Matt: Sure, and as the band picks up behind you--
Sam: Come on, Dr. Dra!
Matt: Dr. Dranzel picks up his instruments and you guys start playing back and forth with your flutes just picking off-- improvising off of the classic! (laughs) Make another perform check.
Sam: Everybody give it up for Zed on drums! 24!
Matt: All right. Kaylie is trying to keep up and you can see her face starting to go red. But she's determined on this, and she continues pushing this into an improvisational flurry of notes that completely walks around your performance, previously done. And you find yourself having to take a step back as she begins stepping up onto the table. And now, even at her gnomish height, is looking over the entire crowd, as people-- who were not previously as interested-- are starting to turn around and look towards you two play.
Sam: I can't be one-upped. I use Minor Illusion to create sort of a mirror image of myself, over myself, also playing the flute. (laughter)
Matt: Make another performance check, with advantage.
Sam: With advantage? Not as good, 22.
Matt: 22, all right.
Marisha: I can't believe the Jethro Tull song with no flutes was the one you happened to find!
Sam: It was a ballad! She chose a ballad!
Liam: You have the best of Jethro Tull over there, or what?
Matt: Apparently all Jethro Tull songs don't have any flute in them! Failure. Big failure on that part.
Sam: Just play the scene from Anchorman.
Matt: We're going to go back to the-- (laughter)
Matt: You failed me, Tull! Failed me! A great moment ruined by your inability to play a flute in your own album! (laughter)
Taliesin: Jethro Tull would be a great name for a Sith.
Laura: It would!
Ashley: It would!
Liam: Careful, careful, I'm still raw.
Matt: Aw. Anyway, as it crescendos and crescendos-- What did you roll?
Sam: 22.
Matt: 22! You can see, now, the volume of her flute playing begins to pull back, as you begin to step up onto the same table next to her. Twice as high now, with the illusionary Scanlan above you, almost like those awkward middle school superimposed photos of yourself in the upper corner.
Sam: And lasers in the background?
Matt: Yeah! As the music swells, and the drums start picking up, you see Dranzel has now pulled up his violin and he's now furiously fiddling along with it. The music swells and swells. The guy in the kitchen who is looking for you guys hears this, and now turns his head and goes, "What's going on?" And looks back into the room. Guys, make one more stealth check.
Ashley: Come on.
Travis: With advantage?
Matt: No.
Liam: We're all doing stealth checks?
Laura: No, just me.
Travis: What is fucking going on?
Laura: I got 18.
Travis: 20.
Ashley: We don't have an extra roll? It is what it is. I have a six.
Matt: Okay. What did you get?
Laura: 18.
Ashley: Maybe he'll think it's cymbals or something.
Matt: Best two out of three, you make your way in. (laughter)
Matt: Thanks to the music, the clanking is over--
Travis: How about I pick up Pike with my 20, and I carry her in.
Matt: Sure! Still works out.
Travis: Minimal clank.
Marisha: Plank. Hold your abs.
Matt: So, as the music picks up and swells, at this point, make one final performance check.
Sam: 27.
Matt: 27. With this note, you bring once again, this same duel you guys had when you first entered the tavern, and you and Kaylie are facing off, looking directly at each other, furiously going on your flutes.
Sam: Blowing at each other.
Matt: Eyes locked, tapping your feet heavily against the actual wood to the table. The rhythmic pounding of your feet and the drums-- because the entire room now also slamming their tables in with it as the music builds and builds until eventually you both take one deep breath and go for that same sustained note a second time. She's challenging you at the game she lost last time, and the two of you both swell into this cacophonous spray of music that hits this one final note that pierces through and all the slamming stops, and everyone just waits to hear how long it will go. It carries and carries and carries. The breath never seems to end. Roll another performance roll.
Laura: Come on, Scanlan!
Sam: It's a 22, but I'm going to let her win.
Matt: As you begin to trail off the sound of the note, you can see she's starting to already go a little blue in the face, determined to win this. And she's about to falter. You could win this, if you want to, but are you going to let her?
Sam: With a wink, I end my note.
Matt: As the flute leaves your lips and you go into a fake gasp of air, she finishes on a high, piercing tune, a trill, and then finishes off, carrying the flute away with a smile as your illusion fades.
Sam: Ladies and gentlemen, Kaylie's Fine! Ladies and gentlemen.
Matt: "You're good, but I'm better."
Sam: I tip my hat to her and say, yes ma'am. It seems that tonight, you are. All right, I kick her 100 gold.
Travis: What?
Matt: "You said your purse."
Sam: Is she going to inspect it?
Matt: You reach over. Are you going to start thumbing through your purse and pulling out gold? She goes, "No, your purse. You bet your purse."
Sam: I mean, that was a figure of speech, right?
Laura: You totally let her win and you're going to give her all your money?
Travis: He forgot about that part.
Matt: "I spit on it." She looks over to Dranzel. Dranzel goes, "I did hear you say a full purse."
Liam: Oh, I hope there's so much money in that bag.
Sam: A deal is a deal.
Travis: The things you do for women.
Laura: Do not give her your money!
Matt: What are you doing, Scanlan?
Taliesin: If there was a piece of advice that ever lived.
Sam: I untie the purse and I hand it over.
Laura: Do you take any of the gold out secretly before you hand it over to her?
Matt: You're not there.
Taliesin: Such a life lesson.
Matt: She takes it. How much was in there?
Sam: 2,600.
Matt: She takes the chain purse and weighs it. "Let it be known throughout this tavern that Scanlan Shorthalt is a man of his word."
Sam: Thank you, my dear.
Matt: She takes the chain purse and flicks it away. It vanishes in a puff of smoke. She goes, "That's a lot of coin."
Sam: I get around a lot.
Matt: "Perhaps we'll have a drink later." And she steps off the table. Now the rest of you have all made your way down into the storage chamber.
Laura: Oh god.
Liam: Anything we encounter is far easier than what just happened.
Laura: Do you want to cry? Because I would want to cry.
Sam: Money means nothing to me.
Ashley: Should somebody pickpocket her?
Laura: Fuck yeah, man.
Matt: Are you going to join them?
Sam: Yes, of course!
Matt: Go ahead and make a stealth check.
Sam: Oh, wait. Oh yes, I still have to sneak back there, don't I? I just go invisible.
Matt: All right, you step under one of the nearby tables and come out, completely invisible. You make your way, stepping through the kitchen, downstairs and find that you currently, right now-- Vax, you are going to unlock the latch, you said?
Liam: I'm sorry, I was just thinking of Wendydoodle's art from the comic. Yeah, yeah, I'm going to check that door for traps, is what I'm going to do.
Matt: All right, perception check. Wait, you checked earlier, there's no traps. There's just a lock.
Liam: Earlier, yeah, I did get a 25 up top, yeah. I thought you were giving me another door. Yeah, 25 up top where the fake bags of rice were.
Matt: Right, but it was still locked, you didn't roll to--
Liam: To pick it, sure, that's no problem. It is a 23.
Matt: 23, it's a little tough, you just manage to get it up and it comes off and the latch-- pretty solid still.
Liam: Amateurs.
Matt: Okay, you open the (creaks) leads down below and you find yourself looking down into a familiar stairway that leads into darkness.
Liam: All right, I know sometimes I can seem like I'm an idiot, but let me do the talking, yeah? And then I start down and lead the way.
Matt: All right, so, as you push down the stairway, we're doing marching order here just so we have it. So we have currently, you're at the front, who's behind Vax?
Laura: Me.
Matt: All right Vex, you're behind him. Who's behind Vex?
Taliesin: I am.
Matt: All right, Percy.
Marisha: I'm up next.
Matt: All right, now, Scanlan, Pike, Grog, who's up next?
Ashley: Oh, do we roll?
Matt: No, just let me-- Who wants to go after Keyleth?
Sam: I'm probably in the back since I was the last to move.
Matt: Okay, so Scanlan will be in the back and then probably Grog next to him and Pike right there.
Taliesin: He made a little rainbow.
Marisha: Oh, it is a rainbow.
Laura: It's so pretty.
Taliesin: They can't see it because it's off; they won't be able to see it.
Matt: There's a reason for that. All right, so, as you step down, the wood creaking with every here-and-there step. It stops, switches back, and then heads down further. You can see that this area of the room is mostly completed in construction, but a portion of this has been rebuilt. If you recall, last time you guys exited, part of this exit was destroyed. It has been reconstructed and there at the bottom of the stairway is a thick wooden door, wrapped in iron bars or strips of iron to keep it nice and taut and strong, and you can immediately see five locks down the side of the door.
Liam: Everybody hold up for a second, could we crowd-surf the bard up to us at the front please?
Sam: Oh, is that me?
Liam: The bard, yes.
Sam: Grog, toss me forward.
Travis: Not really getting his meaning, I grab him by the back of the shirt and I just chuck him.
Matt: Being at the bottom of a stairway, I want you to make an acrobatics check.
Sam: (laughs) Oh, acrobatics, 12.
Matt: 12? Scanlan (boof) on the ground right next to you, thankfully just missing the bottom stair, which would have hurt even worse in the back, but through the slight toss you take six points of damage. The fall. A real crick in your back in your back in your shoulder from the impact. You get up.
Sam: Thanks Grog, thanks.
Liam: I'm gonna scoop a hand under his head and give him a slap on both sides.
Sam: (huffs) What are we looking at?
Liam: Listen to me. I'm gonna try to do the talking in here, because I know these people a little. But if that fails, I need you. All right?
Sam: You-- me? Yes, just do my thing?
Liam: I need you on ice for a little while, all right, so just stay between me and my sister.
Sam: Okay. Yes, yes, sir.
Liam: Five locks?
Matt: Five locks, yes.
Liam: I want to perception check for traps and for Thieves' Cant and anything else.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: That's all right, 20.
Matt: Okay. Looking about the locks, none of them look to be trapped. You do notice that there is a bit of scratching on the wood next to each lock. Each one is a different language. What languages do you speak?
Liam: I speak Elvish, Common, Abyssal.
Laura: You speak the same languages as me.
Matt: It's like you grew up together.
Laura: Oh, I also speak Undercommon.
Matt: Okay. Looking at it, Abyssal-- you do recognize two of them, and it's the top one and the bottom one. And both of them, the equivalent in Common would be a phrase like: enter, or pass.
Ashley: Is one of them in Underdark?
Matt: No Undercommon, no.
Laura: What about Draconic?
Matt: Underdark would be Undercommon.
Taliesin: Celestial? Elven?
Matt: Nothing in Elven.
Ashley: Dwarvish?
Matt: There is a Dwarvish one.
Travis: Oh, oh! I have a Belt of Dwarvenkind that lets me read Dwarvish.
Matt: If you could read. (laughter)
Laura: But that's okay, Pike can read Dwarvish.
Sam: It sounds like the Abyssal ones are the ones that you have to do.
Liam: There's five of them.
Sam: Yeah, but those say 'enter'.
Taliesin: We don't know what the other ones say, though.
Matt: All right. So. There is the one in the middle, is in Dwarven. The two of you recognize it. You walk up and say: that's Dwarven, but that's as far as you actually understand. You know it's Dwarven. Go ahead and make an intelligence check, just go for it. Roll a d20 and add your modifier.
Travis: For intelligence?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: (laughs) Nine.
Laura: You have a negative two modifier? (laughs)
Matt: You-- It's Dwarvish. You know Dwarvish?
Ashley: I do.
Matt: Okay. Coming up behind Grog and you whisper to him and let him have the moment. You recognize the rune and it's the Common equivalent of entry, enter.
Liam: None of them are in Elvish?
Matt: No, none of them are in Elvish.
Marisha: Sylvan?
Matt: There's no Elvish whatsoever.
Travis: This word in Dwarvish means "gentry".
Matt: Does anyone know Goblin?
Laura: Don't you know Goblin, Scanlan?
Sam: I fucking hate goblins, that doesn't mean I know their language.
Matt: And does anyone know Primordial?
Marisha: I do.
Taliesin: You know Primordial?
Matt: The fourth one on the bottom. You have the top one and the bottom one, which you read. The middle one in Dwarvish, which you guys read. The fourth one is a Primordial phrase that says the equivalent, and it is a language of guttural, elemental sounds. It is a no, a stop, a general halt type.
Sam: Shit. Don't do that lock.
Liam: So we that leaves one left and we don't know what says. There's no Thieves' Cant on this door?
Laura: So wait, the top one is a yes. The middle one is a yes. The bottom one is a yes.
Matt: The second one down.
Laura: We don't know.
Matt: The second one down you do know, that's the one that says no.
Sam: The B-slot we don't know.
Liam: So all together there's five locks and we know four of them?
Matt: You know four of them, yes.
Ashley: Is there any way to try to figure out what it says?
Matt: Outside of not knowing the language or any magical means that would allow you to.
Liam: I look at the two in Abyssal. They say 'entry', is that right?
Matt: Correct.
Liam: And I already checked for traps and there were no traps, just locks
Matt: No, you have not checked for traps on this one.
Liam: Do I need to check each lock?
Matt: You would.
Liam: Fuck.
Sam: Why don't you just check the two that are unknown to us, that are negative?
Marisha: Do you want an enhancement of your abilities?
Liam: Yeah.
Marisha: Okay. You use dexterity, right? I give him Cat's Grace? I cast Enhance Ability on him.
Sam: You're making this shit up.
Marisha: Kind of, yeah.
Matt: All right. So Keyleth reaches out and you feel your form become even more-- So you have advantage now on dexterity checks for as long as she remains concentration on the spell.
Liam: So we got Abyssal, Abyssal, Dwarven in the middle and--
Matt: Primordial on the second to last.
Liam: And the Primordial says no, yeah?
Matt: Correct.
Liam: The Abyssals say yes and the Dwarven said what?
Laura: Yes. They all say enter, entry.
Liam: So I want to try to pick the three that I know. Two Abyssals and the Dwarven say entry. And I have advantage on.
Laura: Did you check for traps?
Liam: I did. I checked for traps, right?
Matt: You're rolling right now to check for traps.
Liam: I'm rolling right now to check for traps.
Matt: All right, go for it.
Liam: So the top is Abyssal. Here I go.
Laura: Natural 20!
Matt: The top one is locked, but it is not trapped.
Sam: Go for the middle.
Liam: No, I'm gonna unlock that.
Matt: Okay, go for it. With advantage.
Liam: With advantage.
Laura: Balls!
Liam: Four, so that's okay. This is lock-pick, right? 23.
Matt: 23. Not a very complicated lock, the top one (click). Comes off without a problem. Perfectly silently, you just pull the latch back. (creaks)
Liam: All right. I'm gonna go down to the bottom, to the Abyssal at the bottom. Checking for traps.
Laura: Natural 20!
Matt: You don't have advantage on checking for traps.
Liam: Oh, I thought you said I did.
Matt: No, for making the checks you do. This is for dexterity, checking for traps is a perception roll.
Liam: Perception's 20.
Matt: Okay. Bottom one, not trapped.
Liam: All right. Dwarven in the middle. Checking for traps.
Matt: Go for it.
Liam: 20.
Matt: That one is also not trapped.
Liam: All right. That's three, the fourth one was Primordial.
Laura: Yes, and don't--
Liam: 20.
Matt: That one is trapped.
Liam: And the Primordial said no.
Marisha: Yeah. In their language it's pronounced huh-gluf.
Liam: But what does it mean? We've got three traps.
Sam: What the fuck is wrong with you? The ones that say no are trapped! How is this hard to understand?!
Liam: That is 26, the last one.
Matt: The second one? The one that--
Liam: That we don't know what it is.
Matt: You've seen scribbles like this before. It appears to be some sort of goblinoid language but none of you actually understand what it says. Does appear to be trapped.
Liam: Does appear to be trapped.
Laura: How about you don't unlock those ones.
Travis: No, no, don't tell him.
Liam: I'm not alone, and this affects you, asshole.
Ashley: Unlock the ones that are not trapped.
Marisha: You already popped the top lock and nothing happened, right?
Liam: So there's two that are trapped. I'm going to attempt to disarm the two that are trapped.
Travis: Yeah, do that.
Sam: What are you doing?
Liam: This affects you, you dark sword-wielding dick!
Travis: No, I'm serious, you had a good thought!
Sam: Why would you do that? Do the ones that aren't trapped first.
Liam: Everybody wait, wait, wait, wait. Everybody please walk up the stairs ten feet, please.
Ashley: No!
Liam: Yeah, walk up the stairs. Ten feet.
Laura: I'm walking away.
Liam: You're all gonna see it.
Sam: What are you doing?
Liam: I'm gonna try to open the door, you little asshole. But I don't want you to get burned while I get burned.
Sam: I won't be burned because you're not gonna mess with the traps! Just do the ones that aren't trapped!
Travis: I walk forward and I grab Scanlan and everybody and I back everybody up ten feet.
Laura: Try the ones that aren't trapped first, please?
Sam: All right. I'm gonna quickly inspire him. I'm gonna read him a limerick.
Matt: Go for it.
Sam: I knew a goliath in Whitestone Who lived in a very, very fine home 'Til one day a wizard, or maybe a large lizard Burned it and left him alone.
Liam: Okay. So of the five at the top and the bottom and the middle, it's Abyssal, Abyssal, Dwarven. And I checked those for traps and there aren't any so I'm gonna unlock them, all right. So for the top one.
Sam: You did the top already.
Liam: Check for traps or?
All: You unlocked it.
Matt: You unlocked the top one. And the latch came open without a problem.
Laura: Do the middle one.
Liam: Can I use what I just rolled for the middle one?
Travis: Make sure you disarm the other two.
Liam: There's too many people talking, I don't know what's going on. I don't know what's going on. Yeah, I just rolled a ten twice, and that's a 23.
Matt: 23? (clicking) The middle one opens. (creaking)
Liam: Now the bottom one-- shush!
Matt: Go for it.
Liam: Okay. (laughs) 29.
Matt: 29. The bottom one you-- It's a different type of latch that's actually a rod that pushes into the door. You manage to find a break in the wood where it's split and you put an instrument and you pull the latch open. So those three are now currently unlocked.
Laura: Try pushing the door.
Travis: No, no, think of your team, make sure they're all disarmed. (laughter)
Liam: So here's where we don't know what's going on. We got number one, number three, and number five are untrapped, unlocked. Number two and number four are trapped, but I'm just pushing the door open?
Laura: Do whatever you want to do.
Liam: But I don't have to make the decision on my own, because you're all ten feet away from me.
Laura: Try disarming them, sure, why not? Do your thing
Travis: (singing) Follow your heart, don't blow up your head to solve those fucking locks. Do it, man.
Marisha: You've got advantage, so why not, fuck it.
Matt: Vax. What is your choice? What do you wish to do in this moment? You have three untrapped locks open, two locks that seem to be trapped. One of which said no.
Liam: Yeah, I'm gonna open it.
Matt: You push the door open. As you push on the door, the two locks on there give no resistance. Seems they were both false locks and as the door opens you get the feeling that perhaps the traps were based on the attempt to pick them, or disarm.
Laura: Good job, good job, brother.
Ashley: High five.
Liam: No high fives.
Ashley: Just maybe-- just like a touch then.
Liam: Here.
Ashley: Okay. (laughter)
Matt: You're now looking into a familiar very dark hallway with very low light by a few torch sconces that just flicker. The material used to keep them burning, pretty low and the embers are starting to drift into a small pile of soot on the stone floor beneath them. You can smell the remaining smoke and scent of burning wood. To the right of you is a hallway that continues down to where Spireling Modeth once lived before you cut his head off. The doors are closed to that room and it curves off to the left down a long hallway. To the left of where you currently are, the hallway continues into darkness and turns around the corner into shadow.
Liam: Okay, so there was a cell that we were in, and there was a larger room where we were surrounded by Modeth and a lot of people.
Ashley: But there were a lot of hallways
Taliesin: Do we smell anything?
Matt: You smell the residue of burnt wood and tinder. Nothing beyond that.
Laura: Do I see any tracks that look like they could have been from an elf, an old guy with some battle scars.
Matt: Make a survival check.
Travis: Oh, I could do those too. Can I help her with that?
Matt: No. Sorry, her ranger tracking training is far beyond anything you as a barbarian have attempted. Though you are good at tracking naturally as a barbarian, you could attempt to make a roll on your own. But it wouldn't be helping her with it.
Laura: 21.
Matt: Okay. Looking about the stone floor, you do see scuff marks and where dust has been pushed aside by boots. Many footfalls have come through this area, but there's no way to really ascertain any recent traffic or direction.
Laura: I would have had to roll a 20, I bet.
Liam: While we're waiting, I'm gonna throw my hood over one shoulder and I'm gonna undo my sleeves so that-- Oh, the Clasp is back here, isn't it?
Laura: Just take your shirt off. Show it to the world. I'm gonna cast Pass without a Trace on all of us.
Marisha: So wait, are there two different directions?
Matt: Yeah, so the right or the left.
Marisha: Can I ascertain if there's any type of draft or any--?
Matt: Percival already tried that.
Marisha: Oh, you already tried?
Liam: So, here's what I'm thinking. I mean, we could sneak through here and this one's going to sound like a herd of--
Laura: Not necessarily. I just cast Pass Without a Trace.
Sam: Don't disparage her, she's wonderful and beautiful.
Liam: Our chances of sneaking through here are low. I could try to talk us through. This guy's a threat to them because the kingdom wants him and they're housing him. And that is not really financially viable. So I feel like perhaps we talk our way out of this. We don't have to go in banging an evil sword, not that we have one.
Laura: Yeah, we're down here, obviously we belong.
Liam: I belong. And I will vouch for you.
Laura: Beautiful. Let's do it.
Marisha: I definitely would rather not fight the entire thieves' guild.
Sam: We're not sneaking, then? 'Cause if we did sneak, we could-- Don't you have Fly or something?
Liam: We're in a very thin hallway right now.
Sam: All she'd have to do is fly just off the-
Laura: I've got no flying. I used my only flying potion.
Sam: All right. All right, so we're talking our way out of it?
Liam: I'm gonna call out. I'm calling out, "Member of the Clasp entering. I need to parlay."
Matt: A moment passes and you see stepping out of both sides of the hallway a number of hooded figures. Five. Ten. 15 individuals then begin to close in, all hoods up, cloaks around them, you can see through the dim light the crest of chins. Those of you that have darkvision, you can see some features, they all are humanoid, around human height, a few that are smaller, whether they be younger or halfling or gnomish in origin, you can't really make out their details in this circumstance, but they all close in as you guys all stand there in the center of the hallway.
Liam: I do start unlacing, and I say, I'm one of you. And I show the tattoo on my back.
Matt: As this happens, you can see there's a part in the crowd, and one much larger than the rest of the members of the Clasp steps forward, pushing others out of the way. You see a very thick square jaw piercing out from underneath the shadowed hood, and the hand pulls it back and as you can now see the crooked pointed ears, snarling nose and underbite of a mostly orcish half-orc, one you've encountered once before--
Liam: It's Modeth?
Matt: No, no. Modeth was human, you killed Modeth. The orc steps forward and looks about the group and goes, (grunts) "Seems like you stumbled into an early grave."
Liam: I didn't stumble, I've been here before. I've a fucked up past with this organisation but I've come to tell you-- And I'm pointing at the tattoo.
Matt: He reaches out and grabs your arm and spins you around to look at the tattoo on your back violently. Like a ragdoll. You're being treated like a child. (grunts) Releases you for a second, as you fall off-balance for a second but catch yourself. He has his other hand at his belt side, and you can see what looks to be the the pommel of the dagger at the ready and he goes--
Liam: Sovereign Uriel knows you have Daxio here. Uriel wants him. You are in danger. This whole organisation is in danger with him here.
Matt: "Silence! Who else knows you're here?"
Laura: Not a soul.
Matt: "Wait a second. I do know you. Customs department, wasn't it?"
Sam: I've been promoted since then. I'm now a supervisor of-- it was a ruse. I apologise for it.
Matt: "As we found out. So you break back into our facility--"
Laura: We didn't exactly break in, we just kind of-- I'm just shutting up.
Sam: He's a member of the Clasp. He gained entry the way that you do.
Matt: "He brings in outsiders after being warned not to return with them. Yet you say you are here for a-- who was it?"
Liam: Do you care that the Emperor knows you're holding a person he wants?
Matt: "He won't be held for long. You can tell the Emperor he's not a worry of ours soon."
Laura: Where's he going?
Liam: He's a traitor to the kingdom. Uriel wants him, you are bringing danger upon this house.
Matt: "Uriel's useless."
Laura: Uriel has a lot of gold and will probably give a reward.
Matt: (laughs) "We have our hand in their coffers whether we get a reward or not."
Sam: Not the kind of reward he's already offering you. We come bearing an offering from Sovereign Uriel himself in exchange for this man. I reach into my bag and I produce--
Ashley: No gold. No money.
Sam: The very elegantly carved box I had made that contains the magical blue shard that we discovered many, many years ago, and I open it just for a moment and close it and say, this is the Shard of Kara. It is a magical item that can grant the user one wish, any wish.
Laura: But Scanlan, you said we were going to keep that for ourselves.
Sam: I did. But it's clear that this man knows who we are and why we've come.
Laura: No.
Sam: As a last resort we are cleared to offer this to you in exchange for your prisoner, or is he-- are you holding him as a prisoner or--?
Matt: He shushes you. Make a deception check.
Laura: Can I help him? Can I assist that?
Matt: You know what, you would be, so go ahead and that would give you advantage on this, so--
Sam: Deception or persuasion?
Matt: This is deception.
Sam: 32.
Taliesin: What in the living--
Matt: "Let me see your box."
Laura: Oh, well.
Matt: "Hush!"
Sam: It is activated by a secret chant that we will only tell you once we are safe and the prisoner-- or keep-- I don't know. Are you keeping him as a prisoner or--
Matt: He waves his hand and shushes you.
Sam: All right, as soon as we get the man, you get the chant.
Matt: "Daxio, huh? (huffs) He just paid us a rather large sum of money to produce documentation and acquire transit to Ank'harel. We've kept him here while we've prepared his documentation and we're to send him on his way through our tunnels to the docks. So you're asking us to betray a client of the Clasp?"
Liam: And avoid the hammer of the Empire.
Travis: And keep the money at the same time.
Marisha: Sounds to me like you just won twice.
Matt: He reaches his hand out for the box.
Sam: Where is he? Where is he? All right, here. You can inspect it, scan it for magic if you'd like.
Matt: Takes the box and hands it to one of his compatriots, who takes it and inspects it and pulls out a small glass, puts it over his eye--
Marisha: Can I Druidcraft a little bit and Druidcraft a little bit of breeze seeping from the box?
Taliesin: I pull out a small note that I hold in my right hand.
Matt: Make a sleight-of-hand check.
Marisha: Sleight of hand?
Laura: Ah, damn it.
Marisha: Oh! Did you see that? That was awesome. 21.
Matt: 21. You mutter beneath your breath and swivel your hand for a second as he hands-- the other individual inspecting it with the glass monocle looking piece. (whoosh) Wind drifts around it and you can see the wood itself almost shimmer as if the grain of the wood is moving in a pattern.
Taliesin: I hold up a beautiful elegant note that I show in my hand and put it in my breast pocket.
Matt: "Very well. We have him in holding, awaiting his documents. I'll show you. I'll leave the door open, we'll clear the halls. Do what you must. We will not be involved. You have an hour."
Laura: That's all we need.
Matt: "What is your password?"
Taliesin: Once he is free, then you get-- in our custody, then you get the note.
Laura: We'll leave it outside the door.
Matt: (chuckles) He puts his hand like this and other individuals of the Clasp back out and leave into the hallway behind you and he leads you to follow him and--
Marisha: I say, careful. Do not open that box without the password or else it will melt your eyeballs from inside your head. (laughter)
Matt: Make a deception check.
Travis: Unnecessary.
Laura: He was going for it!
Liam: We had the mark!
Sam: Is this deception, what is this?
Marisha: 11.
Matt: He takes a few steps and turns and looks at you.
Marisha: You never know, it acts in mysterious ways.
Matt: (box lid creaks)
Marisha: Oh, shit!
Matt: Opens the box. Inspects the piece of blue crystal--
Marisha: Can I Druidcraft a gust coming out of it?
Matt: I would not recommend it.
Marisha: Okay!
Matt: He looks over at the gentleman who inspected it earlier and nods his head. "Accepted." And they continue walking forward.
Travis: Lucky fucking druid.
Matt: It is the piece you put in the actual--
Sam: It's a blue shard that we found in-- long, long ago-- it's real crystal and it's real magic.
Matt: Yes. I know what that is.
Sam: Because I don't.
Matt: Well, it was sufficient upon inspection for this.
Sam: Okay.
Laura: Whoa, I think it opens a portal to another plane.
Sam: I don't know what it is, but it's magic.
Marisha: Is it the one we got at last Winter's Crest? That one? The one that we were using shards of it to carve through dimensions? Cool.
Matt: It had a few uses. So as you guys move into the hallway, a bunch of the Clasp members leave, you're led down a couple of doors on the left and right. You guys recognise these, these are the holding cells that you guys were held shortly after your battle.
Ashley: Yep, we were held in these cells.
Matt: So the cell on the left is closed, the cell on the right is closed. He walks up to that cell, and without even a bit of noise pulls out a keyring, unlocks it and puts the keys away. (grunts) Turns around and the rest of the Clasp scatter out of the hallway. He puts the box away in his cloak and he says, "One hour. Do as you must."
Liam: I take the keys. We've got two to choose from?
Matt: He's at the door. He unlocked one for you guys.
Liam: No, no. But there's two cells? Or has he opened the cell that he's in?
Matt: There are three cells in this hallway. The middle cell is the one that he led you to and unlocked for you.
Liam: Okay, thanks.
Matt: And he steps away, looks at the rest of you guys--
Travis: There are five blocks on each side.
Matt: -- and then vanishes down the hallway. So it's now just you guys in this hallway.
Laura: Did you give him the password?
Taliesin: I have not given him the password yet.
Matt: No, because he already opened the box.
Liam: Daxio, we've got your papers, c'mon.
Matt: I just, because I foresee something possibly happening here.
Laura: I think we were saying the password made it work.
Travis: I think he knows we're full of shit.
Laura: I think he knows it's super powerful magic anyway and he doesn't give a shit and he's taking it anyway.
Taliesin: That's good, because man, this was some bullshit.
Matt: So. All right. So, you guys are all gathered in this hallway. Who is standing where?
Taliesin: Where did he leave from?
Matt: You guys entered this direction and they scattered this way.
Liam: I'm going to lock eyes with Grog and motion him towards one side of the door, and I'm gonna take the other.
Laura: Can you Wall of Stone the other side of the hallway? Just to block them from coming down that hallway again. Can you block, Wall of Stone that other side?
Marisha: I'm going to go ahead and block in the entryway for good measure.
Matt: Right here?
Laura: I thought the one he left through.
Matt: Okay, they left this way. Okay, so you wall this off?
Marisha: Yeah. Why not?
Matt: There is now a wall of stone in the middle of that hallway.
Sam: Hope we don't have to leave that way, but she can just dispel it.
Marisha: I mean, we can get it out.
Matt: All right, so, who is standing where? Is there any particular placement you guys wish to--
Travis: Vax and I are on either side of the door.
Matt: All right, so you guys are here. All right.
Marisha: So is this leading into something crazy?
Laura: Into his cell.
Marisha: Into a labyrinth? Or just his cell?
Matt: As far so you know, a cell.
Marisha: As far as we know, just a cell.
Laura: He just completely took an expensive thing and left us to rot, pretty much, I think.
Matt: Anyone else want to change this arrangement?
Travis: We are in a giant death cluster. How about we spread out a touch? Like two people to a door in that hallway.
Sam: All right, I'll take the other door.
Taliesin: I'll take the other door.
Laura: I'll go down with Scanlan on the other one so I can ranged attack--
Travis: I'm just saying, if he took out a magical spectacle and knows we're full of shit, we're all gonna die.
Laura: I'm gonna stand with my back against the wall that she's built up. Like that, yeah.
Marisha: Did half-orc dude say he was just in this cell? That's all he said?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: They essentially unlocked the cell, they're walking away, they're turning their heads and letting you do what you want.
Ashley: How do we know that's the one that he's in?
Liam: We don't.
Taliesin: Let's find out.
Sam: Why don't you go in and kill some shit?
Matt: Everyone's good with this arrangement?
Marisha: Is there any other entrances or anything else around?
Matt: There's just this door and this door and they're both currently--
Marisha: Fine, go for it.
Liam: And I called out already.
Travis: I would like to rage.
Matt: Okay. Let us go ahead for the sake of this, roll initiative depending on what happens going forward just so we have that.
Sam: Just in case, eh?
Travis: Just because I have a fear of construction paper. Advantage.
Taliesin: What did construction paper do to you?
Travis: What did it not do?
Matt: All right so. 25 to 20?
Liam: 25.
Taliesin: 25.
Laura: 26.
Matt: 20 to 15?
Travis: 17.
Matt: 15 to ten?
Marisha: 14.
Sam: 14.
Matt: And what did Ashley get?
Travis: Nine. Of course.
Matt: Okay. I would expect nothing less.
Taliesin: I like to think that she looks both ways before attacking just to see--
Matt: All right, so. You rage.
Travis: I rage.
Matt: Who's doing what now?
Marisha: Vax is our point man.
Liam: We're both at the door and I called out, so I guess we'll wait a moment to see if he'll--
Matt: A moment passes.
Travis: You want to check? I can open the door.
Liam: Well, I already went stealth earlier too, I got a 25 on the stealth check. I can go again if you want.
Matt: Do you want to try and stealth in the room?
Liam: If we wait like 30 seconds and nothing happens.
Matt: Nothing happens, yeah. Okay, make another stealth check.
Liam: No. 21. I'm doing nothing, I'm just standing in place.
Travis: He thinks you're going in.
Matt: So, as you push in the doorway, quietly, you see, for a moment inside, you can see there's a little bit of light from overheard in the room that lights it up. You see in the distance what looks to be a latrine in the far corner, and as soon as you peek in the doorway, you glance out the side of your eyeline, and you immediately see a figure, and a flash of metal.
Liam: Okay, I'll use Uncanny Dodge, then.
Matt: All right.
Liam: Unless it's an area effect. If it's an area effect I'll use Evasion.
Matt: No, it is a direct attack, as a giant metallic glaive comes down to you. That is going to be a 19 to hit.
Liam: That hits.
Matt: All right. That is 18 points of piercing. I'm sorry, slashing damage.
Liam: Nine points with the Uncanny Dodge.
Matt: Okay. At this point now you reveal the interior, and right here at the door, you see there, standing, Daxio right before you. Armored up, sweat on the brow, holding what looks to be a large glaive, a halberd-type weapon with a giant bladed tip, which (whack) strikes you and gets back in defensive position. "You! I knew it."
Laura: Isn't he old?
Matt: Daxio's a mature elf.
Liam: Can I move and then hold my turn? Can I move at all? Hold the actions?
Matt: You've moved in, you could ready your action if you'd like.
Liam: Yeah, that's what I'm saying, could I just use my movement and then wait?
Matt: You could if you'd like.
Liam: Yeah. That's what I'm going to do. I'm going to circle around and I'm never going to leave him. I'm going to go all the way around, circle him, and then wait. And then my trigger is when Grog steps up to him.
Matt: You can't move through other creatures. In this place and area--
Liam: Oh, I can't go around him?
Matt: No, he has you blocked off at the doorway, and has like squared off with you right now, with the glaive.
Liam: Is Grog considered five feet away from him?
Matt: Grog is considered five feet away from you, yes.
Liam: Oh. Then I'm going to sneak attack him.
Matt: Not five feet away from him.
Liam: From me?
Matt: In order to sneak attack a creature, you have to have an ally adjacent to the enemy, not to you. The idea is, they're being harried by two different points and can't form a good defense
Liam: Okay, all right. Then I'm going to use Disengage, I'm going to step five feet back. I'm going to use one action to click my Boots of Haste. And then can I attack, because the boots are on, after that? Then I'll throw a dagger at him.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: That is a 24.
Matt: 24 does hit.
Liam: All right. 11 from the Keen Dagger.
Matt: All right. Cool.
Matt: All right. We have now officially, as of this moment, entered combat. You technically would be next in the initiative round at this point, but you're holding your action until-- what are you holding your action until?
Liam: I was only going to do that if you told me that I could move around him, now that I know that I can't--
Matt: All right, you did that, okay. Okay, never mind. Gotcha. All right, cool. So that will be, in theory, the first opening to the battle. Now we start the initiative order. All right. So now we're starting off. Vex, you're up first.
Laura: I call out  Daxio, don't be a moron. Step outside and lower your weapon, you're surrounded.
Matt: Make an intimidation check.
Sam: You were using your deep voice, so you could--
Laura: My deep voice!
Sam: You could get advantage.
Laura: To intimidate him more. 13.
Matt: 13. Okay. You shout it out, and it echoes through the hallway. Who knows if it's landed or had an effect, you can't see him from your current perspective.
Laura: Should I walk forward or should I keep--
Travis: He's in there by himself, and no other are enemies.
Laura: I mean, as far as we know. SAM; Why don't you check the other door?
Liam: Whoever's in there is locked in there.
Laura: Yeah. I'm just going to-- I'm going to stay where I am, I guess.
Matt: All righty. So you stay there. Next up is Vax and Percy.
Liam: I'm going to disengage and back up against the back wall--
Matt: You've already disengaged.
Liam: Already have? All right, so I'm going to back up and hold.
Matt: Okay. So you back up-- You notice at this point, as you step five feet back that that weapon he's carrying is pretty long and has a pretty decent reach. You may have to disengage to get out of there without taking another strike.
Liam: But if I were to go left or right, would I be out of range of hitting him because of the doorway?
Matt: You would be over here, probably, yeah.
Liam: So if I move sideways either way I can't hit him?
Matt: Correct.
Liam: So I'm not going to do that. I'm going to just step back against the back wall and hold.
Matt: Are you using your disengage action or not?
Liam: Was I within five feet of him? Yes, I'm going to use disengage.
Matt: Okay. So you use your bonus action to disengage. Because you're not used to fighting these long polearm weapons, as you begin to take another step back, you realize he can actually hit you from further away than you expect.
Laura: Oh! Can I have used my bonus action to hide?
Matt: Sure. Go ahead and roll stealth. All right, and now you're going to go ahead and--
Laura: Natural 20.
Matt: Okay. You vanish. Hold until what? What do you want to be the trigger?
Liam: Until Grog steps in.
Matt: Okay. All right, next up is Percy.
Taliesin: Is there a grille on that door? Any kind of--
Matt: No, it is a solid door.
Taliesin: It is a solid door.
Matt: It is currently open, but--
Taliesin: Oh, no, I mean on the door that I'm next to.
Matt: Oh, no, that is closed. That is a solid door.
Taliesin: I'm going to hold-- I'm going to stay where I am and hold my action until I see somebody I want to shoot in the hallway.
Matt: Okay. Good to know. All right, that brings us to Grog.
Travis: I bellow out  you're in for the fight of your life if you don't drop your polearm. The next thing that hits the ground if you don't will be your skull.
Matt: Are you using your action to intimidate?
Travis: Yes.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and roll an intimidate check.
Sam: Don't you have some sort of intimidate thing?
Matt: He's not in a frenzied rage, though.
Travis: No, but I'll take Craven Edge out and leave him unsheathed, which gives me an advantage on intimidation checks. 17.
Matt: 17. Okay. You can see now, with the blade forward, sweat dripping down his face, this look of a cornered animal, and as the sword comes out with a ringing sound in the air, the shadows coalesce around the black obsidian blade. He gives you a look and he's questioning his current circumstance, but seems to be holding firm.
Travis: What do I have left of my turn? Anything?
Matt: You have your bonus action and your move.
Travis: Bonus action. Bonus action. What's a bonus action? What can I do?
Laura: I don't know what you can do.
Matt: If you're in frenzied rage it would be another attack, but--
Travis: No, that makes me tired as shit. No, I won't do anything else.
Matt: Okay, you stay there? All righty. Now being his turn, Daxio is just going to curve around the side, looking at you with the glaive in position, responding to your intimidating act. Takes the blade and swirls it around and goes for your legs. So, that's going to be a 21 to hit.
Travis: That'll hit.
Matt: All righty. This is going to be, as the glaive sweeps under your legs, trying to gash across, that's eight points of slashing damage.
Travis: Halved, because I'm raging.
Matt: Plus an additional five points from his superiority die.
Travis: From his what?
Sam: Superiority.
Matt: He's attempting to trip you. Go ahead and make a strength saving throw.
Travis: Do I have--
Matt: Ability checks, not your saving throws.
Travis: Strength checks and strength saving throws, advantage.
Matt: Is that what it says?
Travis: Yeah. Advantage on all strength checks and strength saving throws.
Matt: Then yeah, you would have advantage on this.
Travis: Haha. 26.
Matt: 26. You stand firm in your position. The blade strikes and gashes open a part of your shin, but you just hold your place there, leaning against the wall for support. Doesn't affect you.
Travis: So 13 total halved, so seven?
Matt: Mm-hm. Next is going to-- You know what, he's going to go ahead and attempt to strike you two more times. That is going to be a 16 to hit?
Travis: Misses.
Matt: And this one is going to take a minus five on that one. That was a-- Oh, okay. All right, that's 24.
Travis: That'll hit.
Matt: All right. This is going to be a Great Weapon Master strike. So this is 20 points of slashing damage, halved to ten. And is going to hold firm in his current position, daring anyone to come near, yeah. Holding this pincher point. Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: Okay, I'm going to peek around Grog, and try and cast Hold Person on him.
Matt: Okay. What's the DC on that?
Marisha: 18. Just my spell DC, right?
Matt: Okay. Well, that is 17. However, he is going to use Indomitable to reroll a saving throw.
Marisha: Aw.
Matt: That is going to be a 20. So as you finish the spell, you can see his head beginning to be affected and he shrugs it off through sheer force of will. Anything else you want to do on your turn?
Taliesin: This guy's annoying.
Marisha: No. Ah! Yes!
Matt: Okay. That ends Keyleth's turn. Scanlan, you're up.
Marisha: I just said yes. No, wait, I don't have it, I don't have it. Nope. Never mind. No! Go.
Matt: Scanlan, what are you doing?
Sam: I can't see him yet or I can?
Matt: No, not right now. You just see this blade going (whoosh whoosh) out the doorway.
Sam: And I saw Keyleth cast that spell, yeah?
Matt: Correct, yes.
Sam: I run up a little closer to be in visual range, yeah?
Matt: There you can see him, yeah.
Sam: And I will do the same fucking thing. And I'll cast Hold Person on him as well, with my Hand Cone of Clarity.
Matt: Your hand cone. That is a natural one. (cheering)
Matt: He's going to use his other use of Indomitable to attempt to reroll that.
Sam: He has two?!
Matt: Two, but this is his last one. That brings him to a 19.
Sam: 19.
Matt: Just beats your DC.
Marisha: He has to make a wisdom saving throw.
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: Oh, is that what he was doing against my spell save? Is that what it is?
Sam: Damn.
Matt: Wait, no. That is a 17. Sorry, I misdid the math. So it does go through him. So as you finish the Hold Person, he (groans) locks up into place, tense, his eyes darting around with an angry fury. Anything else you want to do?
Sam: I will, with my bonus, can I talk to him?
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: I will say  hey man! Just give up already. Come on! Come on! That's my intimidation.
Matt: Make an intimidation check.
Sam: 21.
Matt: 21. He seems visibly shaken by the presence of the two of you and the fact that he can't move right now. That's the best I can give you at the moment.
Laura: Can we take his weapon from him since he can't move?
Matt: All right. That ends your turn, I believe. Pike.
Ashley: Okay. Can I intimidate him to give me his weapon?
Sam: He can't move.
Ashley: He can't move? Can I go up and try to take his weapon?
Matt: If you want to. One, two, three, four, five. So you step up into the hallway. And you walk up to him and he's looking at you, sweat dripping down his face, hair matted across the side of his chin.
Laura: Do it, Pike!
Marisha: Do it.
Matt: What are you doing?
Ashley: Please give me your weapon. (laughter)
Matt: Roll an intimidation check.
Sam: Get more flies with honey.
Ashley: Fuck. Well, it's probably not going to work with a four.
Matt: With a four? The eyes-- Though frozen, he still manages to roll his eyes, as the armored gnome walks up and requests his weapon, and is no longer paying attention.
Ashley: Can I just take it from him?
Matt: Go ahead and make a strength check. Just roll and add your strength modifier.
Laura: That's good.
Ashley: 18.
Laura: Oh wait, it might be higher than that. No.
Ashley: 18?
Matt: 18. You go and grab and all the muscles tensed up, it's like a vice grip, and as you pull and pull and pull, to no avail. You're unable to wrestle it from his grasp. That ends your turn. Back up. Vex.
Laura: All right. I guess I walk-- Look at us all bunched up in this little hall.
Matt: Yeah. This is a bad circumstance for a party.
Laura: I'm going to stay where I am. And I'm going to just call out: you're being really stupid, obviously. You are outnumbered. You are frozen. You should probably just, you know, give up.
Ashley: You have him held?
Sam: He's held. And also, we probably can't tell if he's giving up because he probably can't talk.
Laura: Okay, until Grog. I want to hold my action until Grog gets him to move. Until he moves out of--
Matt: Okay. What action do you want to hold? What are you going to do?
Laura: Do I have to say what I'm going to--
Matt: I want to know what you're readying, essentially.
Laura: I want to, if anything attacks us, I want to be able to attack it.
Matt: Okay. Good to know. Same, Percy? All right. Then Vax, same?
Liam: I'm going to wait to see what Grog does. As soon as Grog's done, I'm throwing.
Matt: Grog, what are you doing?
Travis: Can I squeeze by Pike, or do I need to pick her up and move her out of the way?
Matt: Technically, being held doesn't threaten the square and you can probably walk around Pike, so you can get into the room. I'd say right now, because he can't really defend it or keep you at bay with his weapon.
Travis: Walk, that's cute. I would like to run past Pike and bear-form tackle him.
Matt: Okay! All right, so we're doing a full--
Travis: Full shoulder in the gut, wrapping my arms around his legs, picking him up and throwing him on the ground.
Laura: Don't you wish we had Trinket now?
Sam: Oh, it's like football drills? Running into a-- What are those things called?
Travis: Guy's standing up and you're just driving into him with your whole body mass.
Liam: Why do we need Trinket? We have a small giant.
Matt: All right. Go ahead and make an athletics check.
Travis: Okay. Yes! 19.
Matt: 19? That's fine. He can't even defend at this point. So you push him back five feet and you manage to push your way into this and shove him further into the room.
Travis: But not to the ground?
Marisha: He wanted to take him to the ground.
Travis: Yeah, I wanted to tackle him and be on top of him.
Matt: Yeah, you know what (impact sound), on the ground and you are right over, lording the space. Okay. That all you're going to do on your turn?
Travis: I can't attack, right? That's all I got?
Taliesin: You can move.
Travis: No. I'll stay there.
Liam: Are we able to tell from what Grog just did what he does? Does he react, does he just go (grunts).
Matt: He just falls over, because he can't move his muscles.
Laura: Can we move his muscles or is he frozen?
Sam: You mean use him like Weekend at Bernie's?
Laura: Can we handcuff him while he's frozen?
Marisha: That's what I was going to say. Can we tie him? Tie him up?
Matt: You can attempt to if you get to him on your turn.
Ashley: Hog-tie him.
Matt: Grog, you finish your turn? Comes to Daxio's turn. Daxio's attempting to resist. That's a natural 20.
Laura: Weren't you holding your turn until Grog moved him?
Liam: Until Grog did his thing. Yeah, but I wanted to see what happened. So it would be after this.
Matt: Right. So as Daxio is on the ground, muscles lax for a second and looks up at you and can't do anything, because that was his turn, but is no longer seemingly affected by the ability. And just looks up at you with eyes flicking around with thoughts and trying to formulate a plan here.
Travis: Yeah, like what you see, don't you?
Matt: Vax, what did you want to do?
Liam: All right. So I'm hasted, because I did the boots, so I'm going to use Haste to climb through my friends, over Pike, under Grog's legs, and I'm going to-- I'm going to flip daggers over and I'm going to bean this guy in the face a couple of times. Should be a Sneak Attack the first time, because of Grog being there.
Matt: Make an acrobatics check.
Liam: All right. That is 30.
Matt: 30? Landing on the opposite side of the room. On the other side of Daxio. You jump off of Grog's back, land, and go for your attack.
Liam: All right. I'm going to blunt-edge him three times.
Matt: You have advantage on these attacks, because he's currently prone on the ground.
Liam: So the first one is a natural 20. That's also sneak attack, so that doesn't get quadrupled, does it? It's already doubled from sneak attack.
Matt: Correct. Well, no, no. It's doubled because it's a critical hit. That's all.
Laura: Oh right. Sneak Attack you just get the additional six, remember?
Liam: Yeah. Okay. So-- And then the second one is a 23.
Matt: 23? Both hit.
Liam: Okay. And did I use all my movement to climb through the scrum or do I have my third attack?
Matt: The movement wouldn't affect your attack at all. Your movement is just your movement action.
Liam: So I do have a third attack, then?
Matt: You would in theory, yes.
Liam: Okay, so that's 17.
Matt: 17 does hit, yes.
Liam: Okay. So the first one, blunt, using the end, is--
Laura: And then add your six.
Liam: 11. Two, three, seven, ten, 15, 19.
Matt: 19 times two.
Liam: 19 times two, right, is 38. Plus the seven, so 46 for the first.
Matt: 46 points of damage.
Liam: That's blunt, though. And two plus six is eight on the second. And seven on the third.
Matt: All right, got it. So as you slam the daggers into each side of his head, you can see, cracking the side of the temple, blood beginning to pour out the side of where the impact hit. He's staggered momentarily from the impact, but after the third strike hit, manages to bring the glaive up to try and defend himself at this point. That would be it. That ends your turn, that brings us--
Liam: Did I use all my movement to get there. All of it?
Matt: You could try and get away if you like. With Haste you would have more movement, yeah.
Liam: I'll take-- I'll go back ten feet. See what happens. He's on his back, so he could probably take a swing at me.
Matt: He tries to, but it's with disadvantage.
Liam: All right. Yeah.
Matt: Yeah, rolled a two. That (whoomph) hits the tile. All right, that brings us to Keyleth.
Marisha: He's down on the ground?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: (gasps)
Marisha: I was going to say, I can. Okay. Yeah, I'll go ahead and vine him.
Matt: Grasping Vine? To where?
Marisha: To-- Oh, right, because it's got to be against a wall.
Travis: It can't be the ground?
Marisha: Can it be the ground?
Matt: It can probably be the ground if you want to, yeah.
Marisha: Yeah, can I essentially just entangle him into the ground?
Matt: Sure. Let's give it a shot. So fourth level Grasping Vine. All right. Dexterity saving throw, which he has a disadvantage on. That is a failure. All right. So is now (groans) and--
Taliesin: While prone.
Marisha: Yeah, he's down.
Taliesin: That's hot.
Matt: So, technically, the spell doesn't grapple, it just pulls things towards it. It just moves things around the battlefield.
Marisha: Yeah, that's right.
Matt: So the vine pulls him closer to the ground.
Marisha: Can I do Entangle instead and just do a concentrated Entangle?
Matt: Entangle would affect the entire floor of that room. Yeah, Grasping Vine-- The vine's around him, you don't know how much of an effect it'll have when it comes to his turn, but you'll find out.
Laura: It may help.
Sam: You did great!
Matt: It was also your bonus action. You can still use your action to cast another second level if you wanted to.
Sam: Cast Speak with Animals.
Laura: Commune with Nature.
Marisha: I mean, I can try and Hold Person him again. Do we want to do that? I can Hold Person him again.
Sam: We want to hear what he has to say, I think, at this point.
Marisha: Can I do a Druidcraft, Matt? A Druidcraft where I druidcraft a vine around his ankles?
Matt: Sure.
Marisha: Oh, okay, cool.
Matt: Out of the Grasping Vine, a little vine goes around the legs. It's more of a grapevine. A really pretty to grow plant life on.
Marisha: A grapevine? Grapevines are pretty hard.
Travis: A white or red grapevine?
Matt: A red one. Okay, Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: Me? Jesus. Hey! Hey, dude! Come on! Can you give up, please? Can you please give up? I'm just going to intimidate him again.
Matt: Okay. Roll an intimidation check.
Laura: Come on! Roll so high.
Sam: Ah, that was a dead roll. That was the same roll, but not wonky. This is intimidate? 22.
Matt: Okay. You get the sense now that these rounds of perpetual pressuring Daxio and now recovering his position in this fight and you guys have stepped into this room with him, he's become less of a sensible individual and more of a desperate man lashing out as a last stand. And your intimidation shouts are falling upon deaf ears.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: Does that end your turn?
Sam: I don't know. Is that my action?
Matt: I'd say because you're already there and shouting at him, it can be a bonus action. So if you want to take your action still.
Sam: I can't do anything, I'm behind all those fucking people. Well, if we're fighting then, I can't do much. I will just-- I will blind him this time.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Can I do that?
Matt: Sure.
Sam: I'll blind him at a level three.
Matt: Ooh, level three blind.
Travis: Blind him?
Sam: Blind.
Taliesin: With science.
Matt: At level three just means you can target an additional creature.
Sam: I know, I just don't have any level two slots.
Matt: Okay, so spend it. No worries. All right, so that's a constitution saving throw. That is a 19.
Sam: That's 19, so he saves.
Matt: Yeah, so he saves, unfortunately.
Laura: This guy sucks.
Sam: Oh wait, I can blind one other person?
Matt: If you want to.
Sam: Nah, no, I won't.
Matt: All right. Pike, you're up.
Ashley: Oh, jeez. I don't know what to do. So intimidating is not working?
Laura: No.
Ashley: Can't we just take him out of there now that he's all tied up?
Matt: He's not tied up. The vine grabbed around, but doesn't appear to be really changing his physicality.
Ashley: Okay. Can I make, with my Spiritual Weapon, a sort of-- holding like a--
Matt: It's a weapon. Spiritual Weapon. Weapon's in the name. What kind of weapon would you want to summon?
Ashley: I want to make a lasso again. A lariat. Maybe with a little stinger on the end. Just to listen.
Matt: All right, a little lasso there.
Ashley: So his arms--
Matt: Well, we'll have to see.
Ashley: If it works.
Matt: So go ahead and roll and add your spell attack. It has advantage, because he's prone still.
Ashley: That would be a natural 20. (cheering)
Matt: He's also now grappled.
Ashley: He's also now grappled. Okay. Can the stinger go right here to his neck?
Matt: Sure. It's right there. The spiritual energy wraps around the body. He's held there, with the vine both holding him there. The stinger (swish) up over the throat.
Laura: Brother. Come on. What are you gonna do?
Travis: We take him the fuck out of here.
Ashley: Yeah, we got to take him out, yeah.
Matt: That the end of your turn?
Ashley: Yeah. But I can still-- has he dropped his weapon? No?
Matt: The weapon's still clutched to him and wrapped--
Ashley: Can I try to intimidate him with my extra bonus attack and tell him to drop his weapon?
Matt: You get the sense he can't drop it, because he's currently-- everything's wrapped up to him. Between the lasso and the vine. And intimidation doesn't seem to affect him anymore.
Ashley: Okay.
Laura: How long does the spiritual weapon last?
Matt: It's concentration so can be a number of rounds as long as she uses her bonus action to maintain it.
Ashley: So concentrated.
Matt: Yes, I would recommend it. Vex?
Laura: Me? Okay. Oh no, should I go in the room?
Taliesin: Room's kind of busy, in my opinion.
Laura: I feel like I don't want to. I just, okay. You know what? I'm gonna Hunter's Mark him.
Matt: So you're gonna get over-- You still can't see him at that distance, unfortunately.
Laura: Seriously?
Matt: You've stayed at the far back. Um, so.
Laura: Well then fuck it, I'm gonna just stay where I am.
Taliesin: Yeah, let's keep point.
Laura: I'm gonna keep point. I'm gonna stay at the back of the hallway, just in case.
Matt: All right. Vax, Percy?
Laura: Again, still hiding.
Liam: Okay. I've still got daggers turned around. I'm gonna knock this fool out. Okay, yeah, and you guys are right on top of him so first one is-- and advantage because he's grappled and down, right?
Matt: Correct.
Liam: So first one is 22. Second one is a natural 20. Third one is 20.
Matt: All right, so go for it. All three attacks hit.
Liam: All right, so the first one is regular attack.
Matt: Well, you can't choose which one is the sneak attack.
Liam: Well, there is no sneak attack-- oh yeah, yeah. I meant that the critical was on the second one. That's what I meant.
Matt: Yeah, no worries.
Liam: So the first one is 11 plus double this. 11 plus four, eight, 12, 15, 16, 22. So that's 44 plus--
Laura: You don't double it.
Liam: Oh, the second one's the critical attack. Thank you. 22 plus seven is 30. I have three attacks! 31. Second one is-- that's easy. 14. And the third attack is ten. The second one was critical, but much smaller.
Matt: All right. (fighting sounds) You slam down on the face. You can see nose actually breaks under the blunt of the weapon and blood begins to pour out of his nostrils. And he's fighting now and coughing up--
Laura: Who's gonna tie him up? Who's in the fucking room?
Liam: And I'm gonna jump back ten feet again.
Laura: And pull him out of the room. Anyone?
Matt: And Percy, you're holding?
Taliesin: I'm holding.
Matt: All righty, Grog.
Travis: I'm gonna take manacles out of the Bag of Holding. Since he's holding-- his arms are pinned to his chest. And I'm gonna clasp it on both of his wrists. And then I'm gonna pick that motherfucker up on my shoulder and walk out of the room. I'd like to try.
Ashley: And I can help.
Matt: You can, by just controlling it with your mind. So I will say, go ahead and make an athletics check, just to--
Travis: Strength or athletics?
Matt: This'd be athletics. Athletics is better for you, technically.
Travis: Yeah, it is. 20.
Matt: Yeah. You lift him over your shoulder, past Pike. Take him out into the hallway. You gonna keep him on your shoulder? Or slam him down?
Travis: Yeah, I was gonna slam him into the wall.
Matt: Wham, whack, into the wall. Go ahead and roll 1d6 plus your strength modifier. For the sheer force of this, this near currently helpless individual slammed against the stone wall.
Travis: Seven.
Matt: All right.
Laura: Can I toss Grog my-- some of the infinite rope and tell him to tie him up, tie up his ankles too.
Matt: As you're holding? Sure. So Vex yells out to you and throws you the source of the infinite rope, you grab and begin to, if you want to, start tying up. All right.
Ashley: Loot tying? I mean, rage tying.
Matt: Rage tying. (laughter)
Matt: All right, great. Now it comes to Daxio's turn. He's currently trying to resist the current grappling and your attempt to tie him. That's gonna be a natural 20 on athletics check.
Laura: Yeah, but he's got his ankles tied up.
Sam: Not no more he don't.
Matt: Yeah, the manacles are there. You turn was to lift him up and slam him into the wall, and you're beginning to wrap him up. His turn immediately afterward is he breaks out of the lasso.
Travis: The spirit weapon?
Matt: The spirit weapon lasso, and at that point, still manages to (grunts) get back with half the movement onto his feet.
Taliesin: I can't take my turn now, can I?
Matt: You can, after this. He still has the manacles on, which holding the polearm now wouldn't do too much of a disadvantage to him. So I say this round it doesn't do anything.
Marisha: I know, it'd be a close grip.
Matt: The grip's pretty tight.
Laura: He wouldn't be able to get a firm grip on the swing, it'd be like.
Liam: Let him be a hardass.
Marisha: As a fight-- as a staff user that's--
Matt: All right, so disadvantage on attacks with this. But they're all against Keyleth. (laughter)
Ashley: Oh no.
Marisha: You know what? Bring it, bitch.
Matt: All right. So Daxio gets up. Seeing Grog had taken the majority of the attacks and looking over at the druid that made the vine curl and drag him to the ground. Turns over and--
Marisha: 'Sup?
Matt: Makes three strikes against you. The first one is going to be-- all right, so that is a 15?
Marisha: Miss.
Matt: All right. Second one-- natural one on the second roll. Metal's clinking against the wall. Third one-- is going to be a 17?
Marisha: 17 is exactly what he needed.
Matt: 17 does hit, all right. It's going to try and trip-attack you, so you take as this third strike-- 12 points of slashing damage. And make a strength saving throw.
Marisha: 15.
Matt: 15. With that, slams it around and hits you right about the kneecap. The blade hits the armor and it guards most of it, but the sheer force of the impact knocks you off your feet and you land face-down on the ground, in front. With that, Daxio uses the momentum of the strike to and use the action surge ability. He's gonna do three more strikes against your now-prone self. With disadvantage, and you're prone so each attack has no disadvantage against you.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: That's a natural 20.
Laura: (gasps)
Matt: First one-- and these are all Great Weapon Master. This one's gonna be a 23. And this is gonna be a 18. And this one is a 21. So all three hit?
Marisha: Uh-huh.
Ashley: I got you girl.
Marisha: Is this all for that staff comment?
Matt: It's pretty harsh. But also, given the circumstance that you were, from his perspective, the one that was trying to hold him in place too. And Grog hasn't taken much visual impact from the blows. You're the one that's currently protecting him from rushing off in that direction. Say what you want. But anyway. That is-- (laughter)
Matt: 30 points of slashing damage from the first strike. That's the critical.
Marisha: Uh-huh. (laughs)
Matt: The next one is 24 points of slashing damage.
Taliesin: Oh, god.
Matt: And this last one is 21 points of slashing damage.
Ashley: She's out?
Taliesin: No. She's standing. Or I mean, she's not, but--
Matt: That ends Daxio's turn. You're up, Keyleth.
Taliesin: Oh wait!
Matt: Oh yeah, Percy, you're making your action, that's right.
Taliesin: I'm gonna pull grit shot to the hands. With the new pistol.
Laura: With the new weapon?
Sam: That might explode.
Taliesin: That's a 21 to hit.
Matt: That hits.
Taliesin: All right, drop it.
Matt: Make a strength saving throw?
Taliesin: Let me double-check.
Matt: No, I made a change to that, because-- That's gonna be a 21.
Taliesin: Against my?
Matt: Against the DC for all your other abilities. So I'm pretty sure that he resists it.
Taliesin: Against my DC?
Matt: Against your DC, yeah. So you take your first shot. It does damage-- It does no damage, this is the--
Taliesin: No, this does no damage. I don't know what my DC is.
Matt: I think for this one, if I look at the change I made for the update on the gunslinger. Let me go ahead and check real fast. Stay with me folks.
Sam: Is this gun called Little Sparky?
Matt: It's the arms you said, right?
Taliesin: Hands, yeah.
Matt: Actually, no, I did not change this one. He doesn't get a saving throw. He drops it, no damage. (clapping)
Matt: So as Keyleth is on the ground being hacked by this glaive, he lifts up again for another brutal strike and (shooting sound) this echoing blast sound hits as the glaive is knocked out of his hands.
Marisha: I just go to my earpiece and I go  Thank you, Percy.
Taliesin: Did we-- are we going to go with that discussion we had about the torso shot, or are we dropping that for now? Dropping it for now? Totally okay. In that case, I'm just going to take two sharpshooter shots to drag him down a little bit.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: That's 18, 19, 20, 27 to hit.
Matt: 27 hits.
Taliesin: That does-- God, new gun, there we are. That's six, 22 points of damage.
Sam: Yeah, Little Sparky.
Taliesin: And that's 17 to hit.
Matt: 17 to hit, yeah, just hits.
Taliesin: And that's 23 points of damage. And that's all she wrote.
Matt: All right. How do you want to do this? (gasps)
Laura: Wait, wait, keep him alive.
Travis: I don't think we have a chance now.
Taliesin: Well, we do.
Marisha: Fucking dick, he deserves it.
Taliesin: I want to take both of those shots, and try and graze his collarbones with both those shots. It'll heal, but he's gonna have a really hard time lifting his arms, for like the next couple months.
Matt: Okay. So with those shots (gunshot) a splash of blood with bits of splintered bone come shooting out of the half-plate armor he's been wearing as the metal itself blows open from the impact of the first blast. With the glaive still clinking to the ground behind him and him reacting, the first impact sends him back and he leans against the wall, looks up to see the source of the impact. Looks into your eyes for a second and before he has a moment of reaction the second blast comes out (gunshot) shattering the other part of the clavicle. You can now see the armor sundered on each shoulder and blood beginning to pour over the sides of where the armor's been torn. He slumps to the ground (groaning).
Taliesin: You're lucky. It'll even heal.
Matt: (panting) "Do what you must. But I am his blood. His dominion will call back, call me back when everything else has fallen into nothing."
Laura: Are you talking about Dres-- Vecna? Are you talking about Vecna?
Matt: (low chuckle)
Laura: Oh, that's a yes.
Taliesin: Oh yeah, that didn't go very well. I'm afraid you might be out of luck.
Liam: We've got about 50 more minutes in here. What say we drag this asshole out of here?
Laura: Let's get this fucker out of here.
Taliesin: Grog, tie him up! And let's get you, do you need--?
Marisha: Yeah, Keyleth gets up and bleeding from my mouth. And I just take him and I grab him by his face. and I just say: Fucking traitor. And I spit a big glob of blood in his face.
Taliesin: And she's the nice one.
Marisha: It's true. (laughs)
Travis: I pick him up, I put him over my shoulder and we start to walk out of the hall.
Ashley: And I'm gonna heal Keyleth.
Matt: Okay. He's-- in the process of you tying him up and jostling him over, he falls pretty much nearly unconscious. He's fading in and out of consciousness right now. Every now and then you feel a little chuckle come out of him on your shoulder. (dark chuckle) and then passes out again.
Taliesin: I pick up the glaive also.
Matt: Okay.
Ashley: Wait, what was I at? 30.
Matt: All right. Keyleth, you heal 30 points.
Marisha: Oh, that's very good.
Matt: What do you do now?
Liam: Let's get the fuck out of here.
Matt: With Daxio over your shoulder, you guys quickly head back into the hallway, emptied, the doorway still lies open as you guys left it. And--
Liam: I get that piece of chalk and in thieves' cant I'm going to write on the wall: Much appreciated, Uriel sends his regards, V.
Matt: All right, okay. You close the door behind you.
Travis: Do we want to check those other rooms?
Laura: No.
Liam: No.
Sam: Oh, what about the room he was in?
Liam: No.
Sam: What do you mean no? What if he had-- he had stuff to travel with.
Laura: That's true, he had a lot of money with him.
Taliesin: I'll do a quick rummage of it. Very quick.
Matt: All right. Make an investigation roll.
Laura: I'm gonna hang out by the door, I'm gonna let him hang out.
Taliesin: I'm an idiot, so I'm going to roll a six.
Sam: I'm going to go in and do it too.
Ashley: Can I wedge the door open or something?
Sam: 20.
Matt: You guys take a few more moments, thankfully there's no real pressure. you have plenty of time going forward. You guys go through the room. Underneath his bed, up inside the actual wooden frame of the bed itself, in part of the cushion, you feel there is a large sack of something. You pull it out and--
Sam: I'll hang on to that. I need it.
Laura: I'm sure you do, but you lost yours so I'm gonna hold on to it for you.
Taliesin: You've proven to be irresponsible.
Sam: I have had the most money of all of us.
Laura: I take it.
Matt: It contains, I'll say for the sake of-- you're probably counting it as you go up the stairs, because you're Vex. 3,002 gold pieces.
Sam: I'm back to normal.
Taliesin: No, you're not. Because it's--
Sam: I found it.
Taliesin: I know, but we took it away from you.
Sam: No you didn't.
Taliesin: Yes we did.
Sam: You didn't even find it.
Taliesin: We saw you find it.
Travis: Excuse me, no interest in the other rooms, or shall we leave?
Taliesin: Let's just go.
Liam: We're outstaying our welcome, let's go now.
Matt: All right. You guys head back up the stairway, leading back into the storage room, outside of the kitchen. How are you going to proceed from the kitchen?
Travis: We could set it on fire.
Marisha: The cooks are back in the kitchen?
Matt: If you glance around and you look, you can listen. You do hear the sound of pots and various sounds--
Liam: What the fuck are the cooks gonna do?
Travis: We're on the fucking council.
Marisha: Yeah, I mean, what are they gonna do now? Oh, hang on. Are we about to walk through a very crowded bar?
Laura: No, we're not. We're going to leave through the alley, where Trinket is waiting. We can toss him over Trinket's back. We just walk on out.
Travis: We just walk through the kitchen.
Matt: You guys head up to the kitchen, as you guys come stomping up in succession, carrying the bleeding and unconscious Daxio on the back, the younger gentleman who's working in the kitchen who's in the middle of cooking something in a large cast iron pan, goes: "You can't be in here!"
Ashley: We're leaving, we're leaving!
Taliesin: And my compliments to the chef. Good night.
Matt: And then you guys head back into the alleyway. Trinket eagerly (bear grunts).
Laura: Hey darling.
Matt: Licks your face. (slurping sounds)
Laura: Could you do us a favor and carry him?
Matt: Comes up to you and nudges you to--
Sam: I tell them  I'll catch up, guys. I have to say goodbye to my mates.
Taliesin: Can we frisk him while we're waiting?
Laura: I like it. Can I dig in his pockets?
Matt: Digging in his pockets, you find a strange holy symbol that appears to be a skull that is missing the left side of its face.
Ashley: Can I do a religion check on it?
Matt: Yeah, go for it.
Ashley: 15.
Matt: 15. Based on the conversations you've had with the party and the seeming subtle rise of worshipers of Vecna, intertwined with the Whitestone scenario, this is a symbol of Vecna. It's not a holy symbol per se, more than it's just some sort of a token or some sort of a-- it has a purpose that isn't magical.
Sam: It is magic?
Ashley: It's not.
Travis: It's not.
Matt: So, while you're doing that, Scanlan, you head back into the tavern, and in the time that's passed, you can see now your band with Dr. Dranzel, they're all gathered together and they're finishing up their drinks, and it looks like they're ready to go ahead and find their way out on the town for the evening, and as soon as you walk into the room they all look over, "Scanlan! (laughs) Good to see you, friend."
Sam: Hi, hi, sorry I disappeared there for a while, I just got a little distracted. Just wanted to say it was wonderful running into you, if you'll be around for another week, you said?
Matt: "Another week, yes."
Sam: Well, our paths may cross again, and if you know, or can ask around where Greyskull Keep is, come pay us a visit. I would love to talk to you about the past, and history, and your travels and mine, all right?
Matt: "All right. Greyskull Keep, you say?"
Sam: It's actually called Greyskull Embassy, now.
Matt: (laughs) "You're an ass." (laughter)
Matt: "I'll see you at your keep."
Sam: And I turn to-- what is her name? Kaylie?
Matt: Kaylie, who is already behind you, as you turn she goes, "Greyskull Keep, is it?"
Sam: Yes, it is. My room's on the second floor.
Matt: "All right."
Marisha: Playing the long game, I like it.
Matt: You step out of the tavern and meet with the rest of your allies, and as the sun sets on the distant western sky over Emon, Vox Machina makes its way back to its keep, with its current quarry. And we'll end it for tonight, unless you--
Travis: We're taking him to Uriel, right?
Liam: Just as a minor detail, as we're walking, almost like a magic trick, I wanna grab my cloak and yank it off Pike and wrap it up and put it into my pocket.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: We're taking him to Uriel, we're taking him to Uriel.
Matt: The flowers are still standing.
Travis: We're not taking him to our place, we're taking him to Uriel.
Matt: Are you going to your keep, or are you going to Uriel?
Travis: To Uriel.
Matt: Then you make a quick turn and start heading back towards the Cloudtop District. And that's where we'll end it for the evening!
Travis: Walk off into the sunset, credits roll, they turn right.
Marisha: Oh shit, forgot.
Taliesin: Freeze frame!
Laura: 2,600 gold to get some booty, I like it.
Ashley: Oh, we didn't get to talk about your sword!
Matt: No, never had an opportunity to discuss it.
Travis: Nope, haven't had a minute.
Matt: I guess you'll have to Skype in next week.
Ashley: I might be able to.
Matt: If you can, that'd be awesome.
Liam: Don't make me talk to him, because it won't go well.
Ashley: No no no, no. We just didn't get a chance to talk to him about his sword.
Matt: Well, cool. Back in the swing of things, our first game of the year, got some story beats completed, and some other mysteries put in there, just a fun little step into Scanlan's old world, that was pretty cool.
Marisha: Yeah! Scanlan backstory.
Sam: I wanna get some more into that!
Matt: Oh, and we're dropping shit.
Marisha: Oh, popcorn down. So next week we're doing Critmas, next week.
Matt: Yeah, we're doing Critmas next week, so be ready for that. Gonna watch us see what the new year has in store, looks like they've got some great possible charity gifts coming, I'm excited to see what they got us, so. Well all right then! We're gonna go ahead and get ourselves out and sleeping for tomorrow morning. Thank you, guys, for coming and geeking with us, we'll see you next week, and happy new year, guys.

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello everyone, and welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play Dungeons and Dragons, roll dice, and stuff. Tonight is a special episode; it's a special 50th episode. We've made 50 of these! To kick off the evening's festivities before the game, we want to show our first big present to you guys, something we've been working on for about a little over a month. We hope you guys enjoy it. Let's go ahead and have a look at the new full intro for Critical Role. [dramatic music]
Matt: And welcome back, guys! (cheering)
Matt: That was fun! We've been silently working on that for a long time.
Marisha: It was so hard to keep secret.
Matt: I know. Every edit that came in was awesome. Yeah, we all went together in Simi Valley for a day and shot, and did wonderful photos, which we actually have wallpaper going up tonight!
Laura: That is correct. It'll be going up very soon.
Marisha: I guess I could go right--
Laura: Do it now, he just said it!
Liam: We're doing it live! We're doing it live.
Sam: We're releasing a special 50th episode wallpaper all for you guys to use on your home PCs.
Marisha: On the Critical Role Twitter and Facebook right now.
Sam: Download it!
Matt: There you go.
Marisha: Download it, @criticalrole.
Liam: Good, pressure's off.
Marisha: It's done.
Matt: It's all over. Episode's over. No, thank you guys for coming tonight. Hope you enjoyed that. We have some really awesome people that helped out with that. I'm going to go ahead and get some thank-yous here. We have, first off, a big thank you to Jan-Michael Losada, our DP for that shoot; Pamela Joy who did all the incredible photography, and Loretta Richert, both of them helped us find and secure the location and shot an incredible series of photos that we'll be using in upcoming episode releases and promotional stuff! So check that out. You guys have been amazing, thank you so much. Next up, I want to go ahead and thank Dave and James Codeglia who are from Ghostlight. They did all the special effects you see as well as the color grading and the editing. They did a phenomenal job on this, and big thanks to you guys. It's far more than I ever expected it could be. Ghostlight is awesome.
Travis: Are we cutting to that title camera so they can see the addresses?
Matt: Yeah. For makeup we want to thank Misti Dawn, Talor Bianca Appice, and Heather Galipo, they did an amazing job. And Travis, of course, for sitting in the makeup chair for a long time.
Travis: It was cold (laughs). It was real cold.
Marisha: Four hours! Specifically, Misti did a lot of our beauty makeup, Bianca did Travis, and Heather did all of our ears. Because ears take a lot of time!
Matt: You guys did an amazing job. Next up, for our illustrious costumers, we have Jessica Dru, who did an amazing job, Jessica Dru Johnson for selling me the costumes, Vanessa Walton, who made your wonderful headpiece--
Marisha: Yes, and she has an Etsy store, actually Creature of Habit on Etsy. So follow her on Instagram and of course you can go-- she makes all these amazing flower crowns; she's basically a real-life faerie.
Taliesin: It's a magical Instagram.
Marisha: It is a magical Instagram, Creature of Habit.
Matt: Check that out. And of course Bryan Forrest for both applying a lot of the armor to Pike and a lot of individuals here. He brought a lot of the great costume pieces and armor, and was one of our illustrious goblins; he got killed as two different goblins! Took two arrows, one in the face, one in the chest. A great stuntman, Bryan, thank you so much for helping out with that.
Marisha: Thank you Bryan, we love you!
Matt: Jon Enge who was our special effects supervisor on set and was the goblin who got stabbed in the back. He was amazing.
Marisha: And he's got a youtube channel, Mars Rising, which is great. And I did a Splinter Cell guards sketch that I did with him a while ago
Taliesin: He and I used to perform at the Ren Faire together, it was a thing.
Marisha: Oh! That's awesome; Jon's awesome. Go check his stuff out.
Liam: You worked at Ren Faire?
Taliesin: Oh, shut up. Suck it.
Travis: Lord Taliesin!
Matt: Of course, Jason Charles Miller, who's a friend of the show, who's been on the show as Garthok the half-orc rogue, did the new theme, as well as the old one, but he re-upped for the new theme, extending it and making it that much more epic. Thank you so much. And Geoff Bisente did a lot of the sound design on it as well. You guys kicked ass on making it sound as good as it did. Check out their stuff, they're amazing. I think Jason should have the actual new song up on iTunes soon in case you want it for a ringtone or something. And last but certainly not least, we have Avery Faeth, who did the amazing Percy costume.
Taliesin: My coat! She's an amazing coat designer. She's got a--
Marisha: She's a coat designer.
Taliesin: She did the coat, she's an amazing cosplayer and costume designer and you can find her on Sickhorse all over the place.
Matt: And Kai Norman, who you've seen on the show, he actually did our casts of the K'Varn horn, and his incredible work. He did Percy's gun. He did a number of the props we used for it, he's great. You can find him at @KommissarProps. Additional costuming done by Anne Valiant, who did an amazing job helping us out getting the costume pieces we needed for it. As well, a big shout-out to Labyrinth of Jared at Masquerade Ball who also helped provide a lot of the costumes for the shoot, and Sword and the Stone who helped provide a lot of the weaponry and armor, along with Bryan. So thank you guys, all of you so much, for helping make this happen. We're really excited and we hope you liked it!
Travis: Can you put the first one up again, because we didn't get the Pamela Joy title-- yeah. It's the only one we missed. They were so instrumental and did such a lovely job.
Laura: Yeah they did!
Marisha: And Pam did the photo of the wallpaper.
Laura: She's actually shot all of our photos from the very beginning. She's freaking amazing.
Travis: We have so much, you guys, so much.
Marisha: Go follow her on Instagram! She's great.
Matt: All right. So getting into our actual announcements here, try and cruise through this as fast as possible.
Sam: It's our special episode; I thought everyone was dressing up.
Laura: We're all wearing our shirts
Marisha: You're appropriate for Scanlan.
Sam: You all look like shit!
Liam: Sam, can I show you my snake? (oohing and aahing)
Travis: Bigger than I thought it'd be!
Matt: Strangely, he lost it for a few sessions.
Liam: This too shall pass.
Matt: All right, so  50th episode, guys! (cheering)
Matt: Can't believe we made it this far! And more to come. 50 more! Hopefully.
Liam: Hey look! Ashley's here!
Ashley: Hey! I just landed. Not landed in a plane, but just drove in.
Matt: Drove all across the country, from New York.
Ashley: From, yes. Drove in from New York.
Laura: So what does that mean, Ashley?
Ashley: I'm here for a little while. (cheering)
Marisha: She's back!
Ashley: I'm back for a little bit.
Travis: Yay, Pike!
Ashley: Probably for a couple months, a few months, we'll see. We're pushing it for a few months.
Marisha: That sounds better.
Ashley: I'm excited and I'm nervous, but I'm excited.
Travis: Yeah.
Ashley: Yeah.
Matt: I'm so glad you could join us, and welcome back, Ashley.
Ashley: Thanks. Thank you.
Matt: Also tonight we're putting up for the next two weeks on pre-order a brand new set of "How Do You Want To Do This" hoodies, which I'm wearing here.
Laura: It's Alternative Apparel and it's super-duper-super-duper cozy inside.
Travis: Look at that! Look at that.
Ashley: That's so softy-puffy.
Marisha: They're super soft.
Laura: You could use it as a pillow, you could use it as a hoodie.
Ashley: You could wear it on a plane.
Sam: Where are all the other places they could wear it?
Ashley: On a train.
Laura: Dinner, you could wear it to dinner.
Taliesin: You could wear it in a boat!
Sam: With a goat?
Taliesin: You could put it on a goat.
Marisha: To Big Lots.
Taliesin: At work or on the go.
Liam: Keep this going all night long.
Matt: Two hours.
Sam: It's this content that you've demanded. (laughter)
Matt: So yeah, these are up on the store, or should be, and will be up for pre-order for the next two weeks. If you want one, get one! Because they're cool. I like them.
Travis: Yeah, we all have one.
Matt: Indeed. All right, next up, Critmas is tonight. So we got that coming up after the show.
Laura: Just a few packages.
Marisha: Yeah, just a few cartloads
Matt: We're going to do our best to keep it as organized and as expedient as possible so we can get to bed at a decent hour, especially those of us who have like 8:00am call times in the morning. Travis.
Travis: I'm going to stay as long as I can.
Matt: (laughs) But yeah, so stick around for that. You get to watch us all cry forever, because that's what happens every time.
Travis: Cry forever.
Matt: A couple other announcements  has here on the list "posters."
Travis: Posters?
Liam: Posters?
Sam: Posters?
Matt: Posters. Somebody must've put that on the list.
Liam: Maybe later.
Sam: What's a poster?
Liam: There's four of them on a bed.
Matt: There you go, that makes sense.
Taliesin: If somebody says they're one thing but really they're just not all that.
Matt: That makes sense. Quick announcement, an event coming up: a convention on May 26 to 29 in Atlanta called MomoCon. I will be a guest at that, so all you east coast folks around Atlanta come say hello! I have panels, and talks, and autographs to give, and cool artwork you can pick up. So yeah, MomoCon, May 26-29, hope to see you guys there. Me and Marisha are both announced to be guests at the Haven Expo in Mackay, Australia on July 2nd, so all you folks in the outback, you'll want to come hang out with me and Marisha at the beginning of July.
Ashley: (Australian accent) In the outback!
Matt: Just like that.
Ashley: (accented) Going to get a bloomin' onion?
Matt: I'm so sorry.
Laura: I'm sure they're really thrilled about that.
Matt: She's back for ten minutes, guys.
Ashley: I know a lot of Australians.
Sam: You've already offended an entire continent.
Matt: You and Johnny Depp in the same week, come on. So yeah, hopefully we're looking forward to seeing a bunch of you guys down under at the beginning of July. Let's see, reveal secret Scientology message and ascend to Xenu, that's on the list. We got that one situated.
Taliesin: Who put this one together?
Matt: Rat Queens! The next Rat Queens issue coming up. 16, I guess? Issue 16 is the number? Has a series of pages in which all of Vox Machina have a wonderful cameo.
Sam: It's amazing. We're in a comic book. We did it.
Taliesin: Has that not publicly been seen yet, is that not out yet?
Sam: Some pictures have been, but not all of it.
Marisha: We have transcended, you guys.
Taliesin: We are fiction now.
Ashley: That's so crazy.
Matt: Yeah. Isn't it? One more thing I want to mention: a really great game called Masquerada; I play the lead character, Cicero Gavar. It's been developed by a great studio named Witching Hour. They put up a Kickstarter today to see if they can make the game as good as it possibly can be-- that final push. As an independent/indie studio and an indie product, they're putting out a phenomenal isometric RPG. Great voice talent that includes Jennifer Hale, Dave Fennoy, it's a great cast. Check it out on Kickstarter if it's something you think you'd be interested in, and possibly helping them polish it and make it phenomenal. So check that out. Anything else you guys want to announce?
Liam: Yeah! Can I get a CritRole?
All: CritRole!
Liam: Boy, I always love sitting at the table with my dice and having a nice cozy wooden box to keep my dice in. Wyrmwood Gaming makes all kinds of wooden boxes to hold your dice in. We have them here, we have all kinds. There's these, there's these-- they hold dice!
Sam: Those seem really remarkable, Liam.
Ashley: Wait, what is this one?
Sam: Is there anything any bigger?
Liam: In due time.
Liam: Wyrmwood Gaming, you know them already because we talk about them non-stop, friend of the show. If you use the code CritRole, you'll get free shipping. Also Wyrmwood Gaming has a kickstarter up this month for their Sentinel box, which holds--
All: Ooh!
Ashley: What is this?
Liam: It holds your cards, it holds your dice, there's a bluetooth doohickey in it so you'll never lose your box with dice and cards. And you can get all kinds of woods, there's all kinds of tiers, you can get the Critical Role logo etched into any kind of box that they have. And if you want to go full wizard you can get the shnazzy Masterworks box, did I get that right?
Laura: It is masterworks.
Ashley: I want that one!
Travis: I think that's one of the Vestiges.
Liam: So, check it out. Wyrmwood Gaming, they got a Kickstarter, they got a website. They're our good buddies.
Matt: All right. So, anything else anyone wants to talk about or mention?
Marisha: I mean.
Matt: Because if not, I think we may have to watch that intro again. (cheering)
Travis: Yeah, yeah, do it again! Do that shit again, please!
Matt: Let's watch that intro again. [dramatic music]
Matt: And welcome back. I remember writing the script for that and going, "We're going to have to cut all this." And then we didn't. I'm so happy how it turned out.
Marisha: Mainly because we ran out of time.
Matt: Like, "Well, we got to do it. Make it work."
Taliesin: "There's no time to do anything else, other than this."
Matt: "We can't cut the tentacle creature. I don't know how we'll do it, but it's in there." Let's go ahead and bring us back into the realm of Exandria and catch us up to what happened last time. Vox Machina, a group of adventurers currently on the path to try and usurp and destroy the Chroma Conclave, a collection of chromatic dragons that have torn through Tal'Dorei and currently reign supreme over the partially ruined cities that dot the landscape. The largest of them, and apparently the leader, Thordak the Cinder King sitting in the main city of Emon, forcing you guys to flee. You've gone about and discovered these artifacts, these legendary items known as the Vestiges of Divergence. Ancient magical weapons and equipment from the last great war, the Divergence. And these seem to be a key in which you can ascertain a level of power and a means of destroying these creatures. Upon seeking information about these, you traveled south to the Frostweald, where you battled a camp of orcs, freeing survivors from Westruun's attack, and managed to walk your way into the deep den of a forgotten Ioun temple where Osysa, the sphinx's mate, resides. After traversing past traps and puzzles you made your way to the main chamber in which the nameless sphinx demanded you reveal that you have earned its name. During this battle you traveled through portals to other elemental realms to seek out the information to hopefully devise the title of this sphinx before it was too late. During which, Grog leapt through, if I recall, one of these portals into the Elemental Plane of Air. Set adrift without a means of returning, he took his Chain of Returning, attached it to Craven Edge, and threw it through the portal. It found purchase and you pulled yourself through, face-to-face with Pike, with the blade embedded in her abdomen. The weapon, which had achieved its maximum strength potential of devouring the essence of others, transformed during this battle and has been in its rather intense and dangerous form since. You guys managed to piece together the name of this sphinx, at which point the battle ended and it presented to you the information you required. It gave you the information of the Vestiges that still exist, to its knowledge, and you were escorted via immediate sandstorm out of the temple and now stand at the edge of the Stormcrest Mountains and the Frostweald Forest itself. So. You all take a moment to gather your thoughts, think over what just transpired, and think on your next course of action.
Laura: Well, I want that bow. (laughs)
Marisha: I heard a few things that seemed very desireable.
Liam: How is Pike?
Sam: Yeah, Pike, are you alive?
Ashley: I-- yes. (laughter)
Laura: He healed us all up before we left, right?
Ashley: He healed us. Yes, I'm fine! I'm fine.
Matt: Well, not completely, you guys healed from a couple of spells that were cast at the time, but you haven't had a rest.
Marisha: But some of us are still older, right?
Matt: Indeed.
Liam: Is your stomach closed?
Laura: Yeah?
Matt: You go and inspect the armor itself, the plates that separated and scraped from the impact of Craven Edge's blade. The wound itself seems to have at least stopped bleeding as part of the healing magic and the wound has closed, though you're still in a relatively damaged state post-battle. You guys haven't had really a moment to recover and heal what you could. She seems to be okay. There's still that lingering sweat from the stress and the impact of the blade, but nothing seems to be mortally endangered about her current state.
Liam: Do you need a moment, do you need to speak to Sarenrae?
Ashley: I think I'm okay. Do I know what hit points I'm at?
Matt: Yes. You're at 63.
Ashley: I'm doing okay.
Laura: What time is it?
Matt: Right now, from the time it took you guys to go through the temple and the strangeness that is the shift of time around the temple, it's probably mid-day. Pretty much the same time you entered the temple.
Marisha: Weird.
Travis: I'm really sorry about that.
Ashley: Hey, it's okay, Grog. I know you didn't mean to.
Travis: No. No, I didn't. I was floating away, you should've seen the inside. It was wind everywhere.
Ashley: It sounds pretty crazy.
Travis: Yeah. And I was like, what would my buddy Pike do? She would take the sword and attach the chain to it and throw it through the door! And then you were there!
Ashley: It's okay, Grog! I'll be fine.
Travis: Yeah, but you're my best buddy!
Ashley: Oh, Grog.
Travis: Do you want one of my healing potions, are you sure you're all right?
Ashley: I'm going to be okay, I'm going to be okay. I think if we just-- (laughs) I'm excited to see you guys. (laughter)
Ashley: I'm going to be okay, I'm going to be okay.
Travis: Yeah!
Ashley: Are we taking a rest? I don't know how many--
Laura: It's mid-day!
Taliesin: I think a short rest would not be a bad idea.
Marisha: I don't think this is actually the time of day, I don't think nature works the same around this temple.
Travis: What do you mean? It's magic time of day?
Marisha: Kind of, but it's always magic time of day.
Laura: So maybe we should hang out in the mouth of the cave and take a short rest
Marisha: I'm all right with that.
Laura: Yes?
Ashley: I would be okay with that.
Matt: Ashley, you've used a 5th-level spell. How many 4th-level spells do you have, because you used two I believe?
Ashley: Three 4th-level.
Matt: So you have one left.
Laura: Maybe we should take a long rest.
Marisha: We could try and hoof it home.
Taliesin: I think we start moving in that direction and when nightfall comes we make camp.
Travis: Towards the campsite?
Laura: Unless I was healed, and I don't remember being healed, I'm at 11 health points. So I'm feeling a little sore.
Ashley: Oh gosh!
Sam: He only healed a couple of us.
Marisha: I thought she was the one that he--
Laura: He healed me back to my age.
Matt: Yeah, the aging effect was restored, but only to her. The rest of you are still aged up based on the effect of the lair of the sphinx.
Marisha: That's something we're going to have to Restoration away.
Travis: Please, I'm handsome as fuck right now, come on.
Laura: Did you get aged?
Travis: Like a fine wine. Yeah, I got aged.
Ashley: Can you do Greater Restoration on a group?
Matt: No, on an individual each time.
Ashley: Who is the oldest?
Travis: Well, she was.
Laura: I was and he healed me.
Liam: Typically Scanlan is the oldest, but I've been aged the most maybe.
Laura: He's really fucking old right now. Look at all those wrinkles.
Ashley: How old are you?
Laura: His ears are starting to droop!
Matt: If I recall, you aged close to roughly 20 to 25 years.
Ashley: You look like a fine wine, you just got better with age.
Liam: I knew that this was coming, I just thought I had more years until it happened.
Ashley: They gray looks great on you, the salt and pepper hair.
Marisha: You should really look at this as a nice peek into the future. It's not bad.
Liam: Yeah, so--
Ashley: Would you like to be younger?
Travis: Young again?
Ashley: Would you like to be young again?
Liam: It's probably a good idea.
Laura: Are you sure you want to do it, Pike, are you sure?
Liam: You could do it tomorrow, could you take care of my sister first, Pike?
Ashley: Yes. We need to get you into better order, okay? All right, where we at here?
Travis: Oh, I don't cast that.
Liam: Give her the works.
Marisha: So, we are taking a short rest? I'm going to burn a couple of hit dice.
Laura: Shorty rest and then we'll walk.
Matt: Everyone taking a short rest?
Travis: Yes.
Matt: Yes?
Travis: (emphatically) Yes.
Ashley: I'm going to heal her up.
Laura: I mean, I could roll my own hit dice.
Ashley: No, no, it's my job.
Travis: So I lose all the buffs, right?
Matt: Here's what happens. So as you guys are taking a rest, you step a little bit away from the group, sit down and hold the blade. Chain's still attached across your lap. Just look down at it and you can see it's still pulsing with the power of all the life energy that it'd taken before. And as you take a moment, see to your wounds, relax, recover from the intense rage and all the emotional pain that's transpired here, the blade begins to shrink. You hear the slight crackle (squeal) as the metal begins to creak and pull backward, all the jagged edges pulling into the central singular curved blade at the front of it. As it hits, it seems to almost shrink slightly smaller than it was before and the metal creaks for a second and a voice in your head goes, (breathes heavily) "Hungry--" Make a constitution saving throw.
Sam: Oh shit. Now it's going to steal his strength.
Travis: Natural 20.
Marisha: What?
Liam: Eat it, sword.
Matt: For but a moment, you sense a very similar feeling, one that-- it's been really since the battle with K'Varn when all of the light in the world vanished for a second and darkness took your consciousness, and that same cold sensation starts to stem from the blade itself like it's actually trying to pull you into it, and you resist it. And you stand there and look at the blade and it just-- in comparison to its larger form, it looks small. It's the same size it was since you originally got it, but you look at it there in this long, still silence as you try and conjecture what just transpired. And in that silence you hear the voice once again go, "Feed. Now."
Travis: I don't have anything to feed you.
Matt: "Find something."
Travis: (exhales) All right, all right, all right. What?
Laura: Who you talking to, Grog?
Travis: I'm so hungry. My stomach's rumbling.
Sam: Don't we have our cold pack of food?
Marisha: We do and we have some boar meat.
Laura: Yeah, sure.
Ashley: Or some chicken?
Laura: Yeah I did, I think I did take quite a bit of chicken.
Sam: Love me some chicken.
Matt: As you open the freezer chest there's a (poof) of chicken-scented smoke and mist that vanishes.
Laura: Aw, the chicken, we can't take it. That's okay, I've got boar meat. Do you want to feed your stomach the boar meat?
Travis: What? My stomach?
Ashley: Yeah, are you hungry?
Travis: Yeah, I would not turn down some delicious boar.
Laura: I'll mark it down to half the boar meat is gone now, you guys.
Sam: Wow, he's a big eater. That was a lot. That was a whole boar.
Laura: Well, he's a big guy.
Liam: You're a good hunter, though, it's not really--
Laura: That's right. Well?
Taliesin: We can find some more boar if we have to.
Sam: If we're rested, are we going to set off again?
Matt: You guys can use your hit dice if you want to, to heal up.
Travis: Do I get a level of exhaustion back or no? Long rest?
Matt: No, long rest for your exhaustion.
Travis: Fuck!
Ashley: So short rest means--
Liam: That sword is an asshole.
Sam: Be honest.
Travis: That should've been at disadvantage.
Taliesin: Yeah, should've been at disadvantage.
Matt: Roll again.
Marisha: Oh fuck! No!
Taliesin: Do it!
Laura: You have to roll again?
Sam: He's exhausted.
Ashley: Fuck!
Marisha: No! You're lying!
Sam: What is it?
Taliesin: It's a one. He rolled a one.
Liam: (high-pitched) What are the odds?
Travis: 5% both times.
Liam: Everybody roll for initiative
Laura: No joke, though!
Matt: As you guys finish your rest, and you're all gathering the next stage of your advancement, you watch as Grog stands up and starts walking into the snow of the forest with the blade out, topples and falls to one knee, then falls face-first in the snow.
Sam: (yells)
Ashley: Grog? I run over to him.
Laura: We all run out.
Sam: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Matt: He's still, he's cold, there are no signs of life.
Liam: Roll him over, roll him over! Grog!
Laura: I slap him across the face.
Liam: Yeah. Punch him across the face. Grog! Pike?
Sam: Heal, heal, heal!
Ashley: I grab the sword and I take it off of his-- away from him, off of his person.
Matt: Okay, you pull the blade and you take it and you shove it off, and the chain's still attached to the side of his arm. You have to pull-- make a strength check.
Liam: Use those gauntlets.
Laura: Oh yeah, 19!
Ashley: What do I-- roll the 20?
Matt: And add four to it.
Ashley: 11?
Matt: 11, that's enough. You (clink) and you pull the chain off the side of his forearm, toss the blade and it (scrapes) skids to a stop in the snow, cutting a shallow swath through the little bit of the embankment. Grog's still rolled on his back, eyes just dead, lifeless.
Ashley: Okay.
Marisha: Pike is it the sword, is it the sword?
Ashley: I feel like it's the sword, I mean we all know that sword has been weird.
Laura: Can you Greater Restoration him?
Ashley: Yes, I'll Greater Restoration on Grog.
Marisha: While she does Greater Restoration, I want to go over and--
Liam: Break it.
Laura: Don't break it!
Marisha: -- grab the sword and see-- yeah, actually, can I do like a--
Sam: Don't--
Marisha: What?
Sam: Don't break it.
Marisha: Why not?!
Sam: His soul could be inside of it
Laura: What do you mean, his soul could be inside of it?
Sam: I touched the sword, it spoke to me, it craves strength from other beings
Marisha: Wait, what do you mean it spoke to you?
Matt: Here's my question to you, Pike. What spells do you have?
Ashley: Okay, so short rest--
Matt: Short rest doesn't give you any spells back. What level spells do you have still?
Ashley: I have a 5th-level. I have one 5th-level, which is Greater Restoration.
Matt: Right, you have Greater Restoration as an option there. What other spells do you have prepared?
Ashley: Aw, shit. I mean, Cure Wounds? No, that's not going to do anything.
Matt: Because from your knowledge and experience, Greater Restoration removes serious curses, it removes avenues--
Ashley: But wouldn't that be--?
Matt: Grog, though you are having a hard time coming to terms with it, in the back of your head there's a part of you that knows that right now, Grog in the snow is dead.
Ashley: Oh no!
Liam: Where can we take him, where can we take him?
Laura: How can he be, how can he be dead?
Liam: Can we take him to Gilmore, can we take him to--?
Marisha: Scanlan, what should I do with this sword?
Sam: Don't break it.
Marisha: Should I cast something through it to try and purge whatever it is out of it?
Sam: You could try to do Greater Restoration on the sword to see if that would somehow free the soul from it or--
Marisha: I can do like a Sunbeam spell, that's like a light spell.
Liam: Who could we take him to, could we tree to Gilmore?
Laura: He wouldn't know anything about these-- Can we go back in?
Marisha: I didn't bring anything because we decided to hoof it.
Laura: What about going back to Kamal?
Marisha: I didn't bring a transportation spell because we decided to walk.
Laura: No, but he's right inside the cave, what if he knows things? The sphinx!
Sam: The sphinx-- yeah. We could go to the sphinx.
Ashley: I have Heal, I have one 6th-level.
Matt: Heal? Heal restores damage or damaged flesh to living entities.
Laura: Me and Scanlan go back into the cave and search for Kamal again.
Taliesin: I'm grabbing the sword and taking it to a corner and I'm going to stare at it for a second.
Matt: Okay. What are you doing, you're going to...?
Laura: Me and Scanlan take flight and we go back in and we try to find Kamal again.
Matt: Okay. You guys cruise into the cavern and as you sit inside where the stairs were that led into the temple, it's solid stone.
Laura: Shit!
Matt: There's no sign of an entrance whatsoever to this temple.
Ashley: Wait, wait. I have Revivify!
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Learned?
Ashley: Yes. Yes yes yes yes yes.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Has it been enough time?
Ashley: You touch a creature that has died--
Matt: Within the last minute.
Laura: Has it been a minute? He just did it, it just happened!
Taliesin: It's barely been a minute of real time.
Laura: We just ran over!
Ashley: I wasn't even looking at my 3rd-levels.
Matt: Ashley, go ahead and roll an initiative check.
Ashley: Oh, goodness. Okay.
Taliesin: Can I assist with a whisper to the sword?
Matt: Sure.
Sam: Can I inspire her?
Matt: Sure.
Sam: Okay.
Taliesin: You do first.
Sam: I just hold her hand and I look in her eyes and I just say, "Please, Pike, please. Please. I love him as much as you do. Please."
Ashley: Okay.
Matt: Take your d10, and if you want to go ahead and use that now or make this as part of the resurrection ritual, which we're now undergoing.
Laura: Oh my god.
Ashley: Can I do this first? Just to see if it works?
Matt: Well, what'd you roll for your initiative?
Ashley: 14.
Matt: 14, okay. You get to his body and his back rolled in the snow looking up, just as that window of time begins to fade for the magic to have any effect. You reach down and you grasp his cold-muscled chest and you find the one singular thread, that little soul thread that's still connected to the essence of his eternal being that once resided within this corpse and you clutch onto it with the magic and hold on to it to begin this ritual. Who wishes to bring something to this ritual? You have hold of the thread right now, you need something stronger to keep him here.
Laura: Is that stupid? (laughs anxiously)
Taliesin: No! It's not stupid!
Laura: Okay, okay. Then I reach into the Bag of Holding and I get out Grog's cask of ale.
Matt: Okay. And--? And what do you do with it?
Laura: Okay. I pour a little in his mouth. Just a little bit, so he doesn't choke.
Matt: (laughing) You reach over and you grab the edge of his beard and pull his mouth open, it's hanging limply. You pull off the cork of the cask and begin pouring it and it spills down the side into the snow, darkening it on the sides of his head.
Laura: I turn his head so he doesn't drown in it.
Matt: Understood. Make a persuasion roll.
Laura: This is so stressful. 16?
Matt: Okay. The ale seems to slide back into the throat and find its way in towards the stomach. There is no swallowing motion whatsoever, but it appears that at least it's not drowning him or blocking his airway. You're clutching onto the spirit here. You only have a few moments left before the magic is lost. Who wishes to--
Liam: While that's going on I walk off 30 feet away and I fall to my knees on the ground facing away. I know you are not what I want. But you are what we need. And I will put aside my reservations and serve you. It is too soon for him, we need him. He is needed. I will set aside my reservations and serve you. Please.
Matt: Go ahead and roll a religion check.
Liam: 15.
Matt: 15. As you're looking up into the frozen boughs of the trees before you, a little bit of snow begins to fall from what was once the still air. It begins to dot the top of your face and touch your nose, and as the first cold singular snowflake hits, your vision goes dark again. In that darkness, you feel your breath go cold as well, and your whole body is locked in place like it can't move. And all you see is the white porcelain face of the Raven Queen step out of the darkness as her hand comes up and touches the side of your cheek. And a voice in your head, a familiar voice, says, "I believe that every death has its place." And the hand lets go and pulls back. Who wishes to make the third and final aid to this ritual?
Sam: Have I already aided by inspiring Pike?
Matt: Well, if Pike wants to go ahead and make a roll of some sort of attempt at this, that would help as Bardic Inspiration.
Sam: But I can't help again?
Matt: If you wish to do your own thing, you can.
Ashley: Just for extra, yeah.
Sam: The sword seems to want power and strength. I don't know if it will help, but maybe if we gave Grog some extra strength it might help him to come back, so. I have a Potion of Fire Giant Strength.
Marisha: I could cast an Enhance Ability spell.
Sam: He has no abilities now, though.
Marisha: That's true.
Sam: So I'm going to pour this Potion of Fire Giant Strength into his gullet.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Hope it gives him some sort of strength.
Matt: Go ahead and make an arcana check.
Sam: Okay. 18.
Matt: 18, okay. As you pour the potion into his throat, the somewhat thick red and yellowish compound that drips from it like a thicker molasses finds its way, mingling with the ale currently in his gullet. You help try and massage it down, like feeding a pill to a dog. As you do, you can see the veins around the shoulders instinctually affected by this, as the flesh itself, you know, the cells are still alive. It's just the nervous system and all else that the lights are currently out on. You hope this is enough. And as you hold onto that singular thread of Grog's existence--
Laura: He's taking a picture
Marisha: Why is he taking a picture?
Sam: Because it's not good.
Taliesin: Because he's a terrible person, that's why he's taking a picture.
Marisha: It's either really good or really bad.
Laura: I know, yeah, it's either really good or really bad.
Travis: I can't hide.
Laura: Matthew!
Marisha: This is bullshit.
Matt: As you're certainly staring at the sword--
Taliesin: I was going to say something to it.
Matt: What do you say to it?
Taliesin: If I were you, I'd put it back. Or else it will be the last meal you ever eat, because I will find an abyss so deep and so far you will never taste a drop of blood again. And I'm not touching it. I touched it and put it down and let go and said that to it.
Matt: The shadow begins to bleed from the blade and rise up and it seems almost like an incensed fury from your words. However, you also hear a raging scream bellow from inside the blade. A familiar yell echoing in distant (roars).
Taliesin: I'll start summoning my own fucking mist, man, I'm not fucking intimidated by this shit.
Matt: Your shadow begins to rise over your back as well. As it begins to coalesce, these two black centers of dark energy facing off in wordless anger and lack of understanding, the arm of Grog's body grabs you by the throat and starts clutching as it sits up and looks you in the face, eyes red with rage, going (growl). Roll a strength check.
Laura: Oh my god!
Sam: Strength check?! He's got 25 strength now!
Travis: Disadvantage still?
Matt: Yes.
Sam: He's going to crush my neck.
Travis: 11.
Matt: 11. He manages to close off the windpipe just for a short moment, but in that time the red fades from his eyes and the first inhale of breath (gasps) comes into Grog's chest, and your vision clears. And the moment of confusion hits you as you look around and notice this tiny gnome in your grip, head beet-red as you notice that your thumbs are pressed into his larynx.
Travis: No, no. No. (clears throat) What'd you do to me?
Sam: (gasps) Nothing.
Laura: What the fuck is that sword, Grog?
Sam: Gave you some ale.
Sam: What's with you and gnomes today, man?
Travis: I like gnomes, I don't know! What? Why am I down here?
Marisha: Are we sure it's him? Scanlan? Percy? Percy, are we sure?
Sam: Nope! I'm not sure. I'll do a perception check to see if it's--
Marisha: Can I also do an insight check? Can I assist him or make an insight as well?
Matt: You can make your own insight check.
Sam: 17.
Marisha: Sorry. 23.
Laura: What?
Taliesin: I love a whisper.
Liam: I don't.
Laura: How come he's getting a whisper and you're not getting a whisper? Hey, you guys (sobbing) check out those "How Do You Want to do This" hoodies-- (laughter)
Taliesin: I want to do this with great pain and sadness.
Ashley: This is so stressful!
Laura: Oh my god, you came back and Grog died!
Ashley: I want to go back!
Matt: He rolled a 20, then he rolled a one.
Travis: I did my classic ten-minutes-later remembering-the-rules shit.
Matt: That's right, because you got the third point at the end of that battle because you frenzied for that last fight.
Marisha: Grog! How many fingers am I holding up?
Liam: Six.
Travis: Nine!
Marisha: I think it's him. All right.
Sam: Oh my god.
Laura: Grog, you died!
Ashley: You fell over dead!
Marisha: How many more of us are going to die?!
Travis: No, I didn't. No.
Laura: Yes. You did.
Travis: What, when?
Laura: Pike saved you. Pike brought you back.
Sam: Where's your sword, Grog?
Travis: My sword is-- where is my sword?
Sam: Yeah, exactly.
Ashley: It's not your sword anymore.
Travis: What do you mean?! Wait, wait. Where is my-- where's Craven Edge?
Matt: You sit up and glance over, and you see about 15 feet from you, set up against the bottom of a tree, the blade is currently being crouched over by Percy, his fingers tense, his shoulders and back arched and locked, and you see two shadow sources that are almost on their own subtle plane having a staredown.
Laura: Shit.
Travis: Hey! Hey, Percy! Percy!
Taliesin: Little busy.
Marisha: Do you want to explain this, Grog?
Laura: Can we see what's going on?
Matt: You guys look over and you see this happening, yeah.
Travis: Well, I mean he's obviously messing with other people's property! And I walk over to the sword.
Marisha: No, no, no!
Laura: I run over and I block it. I stand next to Percy and I block the sword.
Travis: What?
Ashley: Yeah, I walk over and I stop Grog.
Liam: I'm pulling out daggers and standing behind my sister. Grog. Grog, let it go.
Travis: Let what--
Liam: This has been something on the tip of our tongue for weeks. Let it go. Whatever that thing is, it's fucked. Let it go!
Travis: But it's my sword.
Marisha: It was never your sword, was it, Grog?
Travis: I mean, Percy gave it to me, but it's mine.
Laura: Percy gave it to you?
Sam: Yeah. Yeah, he let him have it.
Travis: Yeah, we traded. Fair and square.
Liam: What did you say?
Taliesin: Little busy.
Liam: Scanlan, what?
Sam: Grog, listen, when I experienced the sword, it was pretty cool, and it is a powerful, powerful weapon, but after seeing what it's just done to you, I don't think you can have it, man.
Travis: I'm still a bit fuzzy. Like I mean, you know, we fought the sphinx, it got super-gnarly, and then we took a little rest and you-- did you see it shrunk?
Laura: Grog! The sword pulled you into it! You were dead, your soul was with whatever the fuck is in there now.
Travis: Well, how did I get out of there?
Laura: Pike saved you.
Ashley: We brought you back!
Sam: We? It was you, Pike.
Travis: Oh, like just now?
Ashley: It was a group effort!
Travis: Why do I taste ale, and whiskey?
Ashley: Because she gave you a little to bring you back!
Travis: I mean, I didn't know if I'd thrown up in my mouth, and like swallowed it.
Matt: The shadow has now rescinded into the blade.
Taliesin: Keyleth?
Marisha: Yes, Percy?
Taliesin: I'm debating whether or not to touch the sword. And I'm debating whether or not you should touch the sword.
Laura: Nobody should touch the sword, Percy.
Taliesin: We have to move it.
Sam: I've touched it before and it was fine. I can touch it again.
Ashley: Well, I could try to--
Laura: I feel like it's going to try and suck anybody in right now.
Marisha: Well, what should we do with it? We should get rid of it?
Travis: Look, guys, I can carry it at least.
Laura: No.
Ashley: No! You're not going to touch it again!
Taliesin: It's a bad deal.
Liam: Put it in the Bag of Holding and give the Bag of Holding to Pike.
Marisha: Wait, no, we're not putting that in the Bag of Holding. That sounds like a terrible idea. However, let me read something really fast.
Laura: Can we talk to it? I mean, can we see what it is?
Matt: I mean, you see a blade before you.
Laura: The shadow's not there anymore?
Matt: The shadow's pulled back into the blade.
Ashley: Percy, what did you get from it?
Laura: I mean, what did it sound like?
Sam: It sounded evil.
Travis: Well, now, that's really judgmental.
Sam: And also awesomely powerful.
Travis: Yeah.
Ashley: What were you going to say, Vax?
Liam: de Rolo knew about this. That's perfectly clear. You knew about this too, Scanlan?
Sam: I didn't know what it was. And I wasn't alone in this; I had asked Pike to weigh in and she was thinking about it. Doing more research.
Ashley: That's true.
Marisha: Pike knew about it as well? Wait, how many people knew about this?
Travis: Yeah! Only four of us. Look, it's been a great ally!
Laura: Four out of seven!
Sam: Vax, I assume you have secrets you haven't told us.
Laura: He has a third testicle. It's out. There, I said it!
Liam: That's a great time for a joke. That's a great time for a joke.
Taliesin: Best time for a joke.
Sam: The weird part is it's not in his crotch area.
Ashley: I could try casting Greater Restoration on the sword.
Marisha: I might be able to Banish it.
Taliesin: Can you do that?
Travis: Well, that's a bit strong, don't you think?
Sam: And that's only for a minute.
Marisha: No, I can do a more permanent version of that. I've never tried it before. And it's a 7th-level spell.
Travis: Look, look! Okay. Look, if you get bucked off a horse, right? You don't kill the horse, you just train it up a bit. Let's just work with the sword.
Laura: Horses don't try to steal your soul, Grog.
Liam: Who owned the sword before you had it? Who?
Travis: Ah. Well.
Liam: Find it on the ground?
Laura: Oh. It was Lord Briarwood.
Liam: It's very familiar, that's right. It belonged to the arch-vampire who we fucked up.
Travis: Yeah. Right.
Marisha: And I hate to be the one to point it out, but I feel like you've been almost a little bit more brutal than you usually are here lately, which is almost impressive.
Taliesin: Grog, I'm going to make you a deal. We're going to deal with this as a family, and we're going to get you something much nicer.
Marisha: It just killed you.
Taliesin: Right away. We're going to replace it with something a little less complicated.
Laura: Maybe some bone knuckles? I hear those are pretty badass.
Travis: Bone?
Laura: Giant's bone?
Travis: Titanstone?
Marisha: Maybe a family heirloom?
Taliesin: Perhaps it's time to be a better badass.
Sam: Does, DM, does Suggestion last forever or just for a little amount of time?
Matt: Suggestion, I think it lasts for a short time.
Marisha: I can attempt to Plane Shift this into another dimension.
Laura: No, how about we just wrap it in fabric. No?
Travis: Well look, hey, look, all right, fine, look, I won't touch it. But can we like at least figure out what it was doing? Lord Briarwood had it, I asked it a few questions, like if it knew Vecna. And we just got to see it level up a little bit.
Marisha: What all has it told you, Grog?
Travis: It's always hungry, right, so it likes to be, it likes what I do--
Ashley: Grog!
Travis: What? What, I'm hungry too!
Liam: Show of hands. Who here is uncomfortable with that piece of shit?
Ashley: I mean, it stabbed me, so yeah, I'm uncomfortable.
Travis: I said I was sorry, I really--
Ashley: It's okay. It's not your fault.
Laura: But I do think that whatever it is might know something.
Marisha: Well, Grog said he's been talking to it, which makes--
Taliesin: You don't want to interrogate it, because if we interrogate it we're going to have to make a deal.
Liam: You have to choose between this group and that sword.
Travis: Oh, well I choose the group, I mean, I voted I was uncomfortable as well.
Liam: So what are we arguing about?
Travis: Well, I don't just want to destroy it.
Marisha: It served its purpose. You got its fair use. You got your money's worth, which was free.
Travis: Yeah, but I could use it on Kevdak.
Taliesin: It can use you on Kevdak.
Laura: Do not use it against Kevdak. You don't want something making your strength unnatural when you fight your new foe.
Travis: Well look, the last I remember was it said it was hungry. If it gets hungry again, I'll just give it something to eat.
Marisha: Like one of us?
Travis: No, like my thigh or something.
Laura: You'll chop off your own leg--
Travis: No, I would just stab it.
Marisha: You want to sacrifice your own leg for a sword?
Travis: Kevdak has the Titanstone Knuckles. It's a Vestige that we're looking for, right? It's going to be a hell of a fight, and this is a hell of a sword.
Laura: He's got a Vestige. He's still just him.
Liam: The sword just fucking killed you, you dummy!
Marisha: And you were far powerful before the sword. You killed Lord Briarwood without the sword.
Laura: That's right.
Marisha: The sword didn't make you Grog.
Travis: All right, hold on, Pike. Look. If we're going back to Kevdak. You know I'm not scared of death, right? I would die by a dragon, I would die by a beholder, and I wouldn't care, as long as it was a beautiful death. But I don't want to die from Kevdak. Not him.
Ashley: We'll find you a better weapon. I don't want you to die from something that's not worth it.
Travis: All right. Fine. Do what you want with it. I don't need it.
Taliesin: What do you think we should do with it?
Ashley: We'll find you something strong.
Travis: This is an empty cup.
Taliesin: Oh, we've already poured it into your mouth.
Laura: No, there's a little left in the cask, here. Here's your cask.
Travis: I throw the cup away and just take the cask.
Marisha: All right. Should I attempt to banish this thing forever?
Sam: You can banish something forever?
Marisha: It's called Plane Shift, I can shift it into its own little pocket dimension where it'll stay and nothing else can get to it.
Taliesin: I think I'm perfectly content with it being someone else's problem.
Marisha: All right.
Taliesin: I'm staring hard to make sure it's not going to fight this.
Marisha: So looking at Plane Shift, it says you can use this spell to banish an unwilling creature to another plane. But I can also transport eight willing creatures, so can I hold the sword and attempt to Plane Shift it away?
Matt: I don't see why you would not be able to do that to an object, honestly. Especially based on the power of the spell. Where would you want to banish it to?
Marisha: Ooh. Ooh! Ooh!
Liam: Newark.
Marisha: The pocket dimension of the green-eyed boy. The golden-eyed boy.
Matt: Oh!
Laura: The Dread Emperor that we already killed.
Marisha: Yes, it was empty, it was his own dimension and he's dead.
Matt: It was the Dread Emperor.
Taliesin: Well, let's think about this.
Marisha: What?
Sam: What else lives there?
Marisha: Nothing.
Liam: It was an island with child labor, it's full-circle for Keyleth.
Taliesin: I'm going to suggest something that's going to sound a little iffy, but I swear to god I'm being clever. Send it somewhere where it will be content. Let's not anger something. Where do we send vampires?
Marisha: I could easily send it to one of the Nine Hells, where I'm sure someone would be very happy with the new gift they just found.
Laura: No! Somebody could use it.
Marisha: Exactly.
Taliesin: But they would be using it in the Nine Hells. And it's going--
Marisha: Yes, but you forget that all these planes cross over. We have fought many a demon.
Liam: I don't want to send it to the Hells.
Travis: Can I make like one little suggestion that doesn't involve it coming back to me? I had a thought that since Lord Briarwood had it before, that every time it killed it might've been sending that life back to Vecna? But I don't have any proof of that, you know, I just remember being in that room with all the bodies, with the little sphere of-- the little dough button in the middle of the room.
Sam: We could throw it in the sphere.
Laura: No.
Taliesin: No. That might go poorly.
Travis: Or really cool?
Marisha: I mean, does anyone else have any better ideas where to send this thing?
Ashley: What would happen if you threw it into the sphere?
Sam: Vecna would get it, right?
Ashley: It would get, yeah, that would be bad.
Laura: How about you throw it in that pocket dimension and then we can always go to that same pocket dimension and get it if we decide it's bad there.
Liam: Yes.
Marisha: That's true. I mean, it's its own little pocket. It's at least blocked off. That we know of.
Laura: Drop it in a thorny patch.
Marisha: I'm going to go for that Dread Emperor dimension.
Liam: Percival? Percy?
Taliesin: Yes?
Liam: You are clever.
Taliesin: I am.
Liam: It doesn't mean you're always right.
Taliesin: I know. I know.
Marisha: And you do have this terrible habit of liking to push problems on other people.
Ashley: You don't think it would work if I tried Greater Restoration?
Laura: Do you have any more 5th-level?
Ashley: I do, I have one more 5th-level.
Laura: Oh, you do?
Ashley: I do.
Taliesin: I don't think so, but what do I know?
Laura: Why not try it? Before we send it.
Liam: We can camp here for the night. We don't have to go anywhere.
Taliesin: That's fair, yes.
Marisha: Wait, you want to do Greater Restoration, why?
Taliesin: On the sword.
Travis: I'm at one hitpoint.
Laura: You're at--?
Taliesin: I'm going to kick myself if I'm right.
Ashley: Okay, hold on a minute.
Travis: I could just take a healing potion.
Marisha: It needs a wielder, Percy.
Taliesin: Does it? All right, let's-- go ahead. I'm curious.
Ashley: First, Grog is at one hit point. Okay? So I'm going to use my 6th-level and I'm going to use Heal.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: All right. As Pike turns to you, looks you in the eye, clutching her holy symbol of Sarenrae, there's a smile at the corner of her mouth at noticing that her friend is back. Though as tenuous as this argument has been, and you weren't present for the scare that was there, you can see there is a genuine shake to a lot of their fingertips from what has just transpired. She reaches forward and touches you and you immediately heal 70 hitpoints.
Laura: Bam! Shebang.
Travis: (sings) I feel amazing.
Laura: What do you think Greater Restoration will do?
Ashley: I don't know. Because I remember it worked one time on-- didn't we try that on his--
Taliesin: In my mind I have a worst-case scenario, but.
Laura: I'm afraid it will make whatever's in the sword come out.
Marisha: That's what I'm afraid of as well.
Laura: But if it comes out then we can banish it or kill it and--
Ashley: And then he could keep the sword.
Laura: It will be just a useless sword at that point.
Travis: Not if I'm wielding it.
Sam: Something tells me you won't be wielding it.
Taliesin: I'm tempted to ask you to do it just because I would love to be wrong.
Laura: Fucking try it, Pike!
Ashley: Should we try it? Let's try it.
Travis: Yeah, go for it. We've got a backup if there's something wrong.
Matt: So, as Pike turns around from Grog, the softness in her face fades, and the hard jawline of Pike Trickfoot, seafaring gnome cleric, steps across the snow, step by step towards the darkened blade that nearly stole away her childhood friend. Still clutching in one ogre-gauntleted fist the symbol of Sarenrae, your other hand comes out and you can see the shadow begin to spill from the blade as you approach.
Marisha: Pike, be careful.
Sam: I'm going to inspire her again. I'm going to sing a very romantic ballad.
Ashley: Bring it.
Sam: (sings) Oh my little pretty one, my little pretty one, Pike the Gnome-a, oh you make my nipples hum, my nipples hum, oh you make my nipples hum, Pike the Gnome-a. (laughter)
Matt: Take your d10 inspiration.
Liam: All sad and tragic and with gravitas.
Ashley: A d10?
Matt: A d10 inspiration die.
Ashley: That was beautiful, Scanlan.
Sam: I know.
Matt: All right. As you step forward and the shadow begins to emanate from the blade, you focus and concentrate, and as you do, the light of Sarenrae begins to glow from the front of your hand, and as it does, the shadow seems to be cast away, and the blade now stands currently bare before you. You reach out and touch the blade and recite a few words under your breath, and release the energy of the spell into the sword. Go ahead and make a wisdom check. Just roll a d20 and add your wisdom modifier.
Ashley: Okay.
Laura: Oh, that's good.
Ashley: 17.
Sam: You also have inspiration if you need it.
Ashley: Okay.
Matt: Add your d10 inspiration die to it.
Liam: Yeah!
Ashley: 26. No, wait. Yeah, 26.
Matt: As you reach out and touch the blade, you can feel suddenly the dark, chaotic presence in there. you can see flashes in your mind of an individual, an ancient person. You see flashes in your head of a clamoring for power, a need for attention and wealth. You see a person making a deal with something it didn't understand. You see a flash of a punishment. You see the remnants of their eternal soul bound to a blade. You see themselves cursed with eternal, gluttonous, unending hunger and cast through the ages, the rest forgotten. And you see, just like the singular thread that was holding Grog to his corpse, a dark, dark thread that connects the sword to Grog. And with this spell, you grasp out and clutch it-- and tear it in two. Grog, wherever you're standing, it's like you just got punched in the gut. You're thrown off your feet and land in the snow once again, eyes wide open. All of you freak out because it's just like how Grog fell originally, except for he shoots up, heavy breathing, alive. With that, the blade just snarls in your grasp.
Ashley: (laughs) Oopsie.
Laura: What just happened?
Matt: Grog? That fucking blade ate your soul.
Travis: What?
Matt: You wonder, this entire time, how you could be so foolish to give into something that this whole time has been using you.
Travis: How could I have been so foolish? This whole time, that fucking blade has been using me!
Marisha: Pike, let go, let go. Before it--
Laura: Drop the sword.
Ashley: I'm scared to let go of it.
Marisha: Let go of it!
Matt: (impact) It sits in the snow. Motionless.
Liam: Keyleth?
Marisha: It didn't attach itself to you now, did it, or anything?
Ashley: No. No.
Travis: Yo, guys, update. That sword is totally evil.
Ashley: Grog, what did you think we were telling you?
Marisha: I reach out and I Plane Shift it to the pocket dimension of the Dread Emperor.
Matt: Okay, you reach out and you pick up the blade, and as you grab it in your hand you can hear the voice, "You! I will--" And before it can finish the phrase, you guys watch as a little thin slit within the plane just shutters open, and you have a quick glance at that distant starscape with various broken, slowly floating islands of earth and rock. You see the partially destroyed bramble forest that you once trekked through, and with that, you throw the blade through the small doorway--
Laura: Eat it, Craven Edge!
Liam: (tiny voice) Help meeee.
Travis: Yeah, I'm not cravin' bacon anymore!
Matt: It slams shut and is gone.
Laura: Well? Fingers crossed nobody gets it.
Travis: And there was a dagger that came with it.
Laura: What?
Marisha: What?
Taliesin: What?
Travis: (laughs) I'm fucking with you.
Ashley: Grog.
Marisha: I know how that spell works now! That's nice.
Liam: What do you say we camp here for the night, everybody?
Taliesin: Let's camp here for the night.
Liam: Right in the cave.
Sam: Wait, it's not at night, it's the middle of the day.
Laura: We can just fucking hang out for a day.
Sam: Shouldn't we start walking?
Marisha: No.
Taliesin: No.
Laura: She's out of spells.
Liam: You got a hard-on for adventure, little man?
Sam: I just think we should make headway if we're going to be traveling all day. Grog, do you even have any weapons anymore?
Travis: I'm super exhausted--
Laura: Yeah, he's got so many weapons.
Sam: I could lend you my whip if you'd like.
Travis: No, I'm like Northrop Grumman meets Raytheon in this Bag of Holding, we're good.
Ashley: Since we got rid of Craven Edge, do you want the Gauntlets of Ogre Power back?
Travis: Oh no, I just gave them to you, though.
Ashley: Yeah, but you're the muscle. I take them off and I give them back.
Travis: What about if I trade you, what if I trade you--
Ashley: Are we doing a trade?
Travis: I have Boots of Levitation.
Ashley: Ooh!
Travis: Or I have black iron plate that while wearing this heavy plate armor the bearer gains resistance to any fire damage.
Laura: Ooh! That's good.
Sam: She already has plate armor.
Laura: Yeah, but this one gives her fire resistance.
Ashley: Does it maybe make me quiet as well?
Travis: I bet if you levitate you'd just be floating above the ground.
Liam: Levitate would make her quiet, yeah.
Laura: Does she have to-- in the levitation boots, can you move?
Matt: Levitation, someone has to push you along.
Travis: Yeah, yeah, that's fine, I'll take care of that.
Marisha: Oh my god, we can get like a little kid leash for you.
Laura: We could tie her onto the broom, we could tie her onto the broom!
Ashley: I could be a Pike kite!
Marisha: It'll be like that scene in Inception.
Travis: Yes! We'll discover electricity with you, you're a great conductor.
Ashley: Grog, that would kill me!
Travis: Oh. That's true. Which one you want?
Ashley: All right, I'll take Boots of Levitation. And you get these so you're super strong again.
Travis: I'll take my Gauntlets of Ogre Power back, strength back up to 19.
Liam: It was good times, though, Pike in those gauntlets. That was pretty cool.
Ashley: Hey, I felt real cool punching that chicken that one time. (laughter)
Ashley: One day I'll be strong.
Sam: Well, I think you just cured Grog, saved his life, and got rid of a soul-eating sword, so you're pretty strong.
Ashley: What did you say?
Sam: You killed the sword and saved Grog's life, so I think you're pretty strong.
Ashley: That's true, that's most important.
Travis: Way to go, badass.
Ashley: Hey, thanks.
Travis: No problem, man.
Ashley: Anytime.
Matt: (laughs) All right. So you guys go ahead and take a--
Travis: Long.
Laura: We just short-rested, but now we're going to sleep. It's been a traumatic five minutes.
Taliesin: We were in a time vortex, really it's time to sleep.
Matt: Fair enough. Where're you resting?
Liam: In the mouth of the cave.
Laura: In the mouth of the cave.
Travis: In the mouth of the cave.
Taliesin: No, no, no.
Sam: You guys can sleep wherever you want. I'll be sleeping in my bed.
Laura: Oh, in the mansion, fuck, we'll sleep in the mansion.
Liam: Sorry, you know, it's so new, it's hard to remember--
Laura: --that we have that.
Sam: Yeah. We do have it.
Marisha: Can I blow my last 5th-level spell to Greater Restoration somebody from their age?
Matt: Sure, yeah.
Sam: Oh, do we know? Are we aware that we went under that effect, I mean we just feel different, or how do--
Matt: No, you guys have-- it's one of those things where you felt the impact happen and you saw each other rapidly age for those that were present, and even afterward there's a noticeable effect, so yeah. You would be able to ascertain via those situations, and the time you've had to rest to think over the battle and see that difference. Plus the fact that you watched Vex get cured of that aging effect by the sphinx before you left, that was also the big indicator. So you would be aware.
Marisha: Who wants to go first?
Sam: You can do multiples?
Marisha: No, just one tonight. The rest of y'all have to stay old.
Travis: Take ol' wrinkly-nuts over there. (laughs)
Laura: Triple the wrinkles, triple the nuts.
Marisha: All right, come here, Vax.
Liam: Here I come, ol' wrinkly-nuts.
Taliesin: Can I borrow your broom for a bit?
Laura: You want to work on it? Or you want to fly around?
Taliesin: It's early, I might as well.
Laura: Can I stand next to you while you work on it? Would that bother you?
Taliesin: Only if you want to double the amount of time it takes me to work on it.
Laura: Oh, Percy, I just want to see what you're doing.
Taliesin: All right, it's very boring.
Sam: Wait, are we in the mansion or are we--
Matt: So you guys have all walked into the mansion at this point. Keyleth, you cast Greater Restoration, and you reach out to Vax. And what little bit of crow's-nest wrinkles, crow's feet that have crawled on the side of his face, and a little bit of the grey hairs that began to spray in the side, all revert back, skin tightens, he's back to his normal roguish half-elf average-aged self.
Liam: I am still older than you.
Laura: By like two whole minutes.
Liam: Which means I get to tell you what to do and don't you forget it.
Matt: All right, so all of you guys head into the mansion. Vex, you're helping Percy to the workshop?
Laura: Yes.
Matt: Okay. What're you doing?
Taliesin: Hit dice just restore at the end of the day, correct?
Matt: Half of your spent hit dice is restored.
Laura: I pop Trinket out, of course, so he can hang out. Shake it out. Run around, get some exercise, I feel like an asshole for keeping you in this thing.
Matt: (bear noises) Goes into the kitchen. All right, so as you guys are preparing to rest for the evening, you head down to the workshop.
Taliesin: Yeah, just to work on the broom.
Matt: Okay. Are you aiding?
Taliesin: Sure.
Laura: Sure.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and make a tinkering check with advantage.
Taliesin: All right. Oh! With advantage. Very nice. It's new now, I have to remember, I got a new number. Natural 20.
Matt: You guys, there are other numbers between these, by the way.
Taliesin: Are there? Are there? LA-New York-LA-New York, sorry, yeah.
Matt: Don't poke the badger, Percy.
Taliesin: I gave it to Ashly this week, it was working fine.
Matt: Yeah, no.
Taliesin: The other Ashly.
Matt: All right, so. You guys work the evening, and though you were uncertain, Vex is actually a very quick learner and is eager to help, and so between bringing tools at your disposal and helping you hold a few places properly during the construction process, you manage to get far more headway than you expected in just an evening's bit of work. You still have probably a couple of days of work before you can actually complete your prototype for this and try it out, but--
Taliesin: Can I at least have the tether done, or is it still in progress?
Matt: The tether for?
Taliesin: For a dex save if you fall off.
Matt: Yeah, I'd say you've gotten that enough.
Taliesin: All right. Can't stabilize yet, but at least there's a-- okay.
Matt: Yeah. At least if there's ever a tumble there's a tether piece that would hopefully have a chance of keeping the broom with you, so.
Laura: Percy? I feel safer already.
Taliesin: Excellent. Yay to a constructive day. That was-- you're quite good at this, we should do this again sometime.
Laura: I would love that.
Taliesin: Yes, this was actually agreeable. All right.
Travis: I'm in the training room in my sandpit sleeping bed.
Matt: Which in contemplating over the experiences you've had, you now have access to the full Craven Edge weapon sheet.
Travis: The full one?
Ashley: That's a scroll.
Matt: Just so you know what it had done.
Laura: What it had done to you?
Travis: Oh, fuck you! (laughter)
Travis: (high-pitched) Okay.
Laura: Can I see, can we see it?
Travis: No.
Laura: Why? Come on.
Taliesin: I'm so excited.
Ashley: All I just saw was "dark aura" in really dark letters.
Travis: No, no, I can make really good origami now. Can I try and take out the flaming warhammer, the Firebrand Warhammer?
Matt: Yeah, you pull it out, take it, swing it around, dust it off a bit.
Travis: Can I get it to light?
Matt: Bursts into flames, and for a second that warmth near your face is like an old friend coming to roost for a bit.
Travis: Can you hear me? (laughter)
Matt: (fire sounds)
Travis: The silent type. I like it. (laughter)
Matt: All right. You guys all have your evening's rest. Though it is an early evening, you manage to comfortably, after a number of harrowing experiences, recoup, recover, wake up to a grand chickenful breakfast.
Marisha: Yeah. (laughter)
Sam: Chicken and eggs, everyone!
Laura: Yay!
Ashley: Chicken and waffles, perhaps?
Sam: Nope, just eggs.
Ashley: Oh, just eggs, okay.
Sam: What's a waffle?
Ashley: I don't know, it's like a mishmash of dough, the side--
Sam: Sounds great.
Taliesin: Can I spend my tinkering check building a waffle iron? I'm just kidding. I'm kind of kidding. I'm going to put that aside for later.
Matt: Okay. Okay.
Marisha: (laughs) I'm going to put that aside.
Sam: I spent some of the morning just with a little piece of parchment paper and a pen, just writing out something.
Matt: Okay. All right. You guys finish your rest, the servants are eager to send you on your way, should you require anything else. Otherwise, you guys continue your journey?
Taliesin: Let's head towards the town.
Sam: We walk, is that what we do?
Taliesin: We walk.
Sam: What is this walking thing? It's terrible.
Taliesin: It's also very inconspicuous. I know you're not a fan of inconspicuous, but there's nothing you want to be conspicu-ed by, here.
Marisha: I mean, I could mist, I could Wind Walk us. Do we want to Wind Walk it?
Sam: I mean, will that burn something?
Marisha: My 6th-level spell.
Sam: Let's just walk, then.
Matt: All right. You guys walking north?
Laura: I float on my broom.
Matt: Okay. Who's leading?
Laura: And keep an eye out in front for any sort of problems.
Liam: Have fun, doofus!
Laura: Shh! Yes, I'm leading.
Travis: This is a lot to leave off, that's a lot.
Matt: Well, you know. (laughter)
Travis: To not have. That's a big fucking difference.
Laura: Would you have kept it if you had known all those other things? Or would you have wanted to use more of it?
Travis: You don't know.
Matt: This is, by the way, the benefits of Identify spells and things like that.
Laura: Oh, shit.
Travis: Oh, well, if only I'd used my Identify spell.
Matt: But going forward, if you have something you don't know about, you can always go to people with those abilities and be like, could you see what the fuck this does?
Laura: Do any of our people have Identify?
Marisha: Negative. It's like a wizard thing.
Travis: I didn't even know people could do that.
Matt: Allura or Gilmore could probably do that for you.
Laura: Don't act like you know for sure. (laughter)
Liam: I know about Gilmore.
Ashley: Such a twinsies.
Matt: Aw, so good. All right, so. You guys start heading northward, you're leading then, Vex? Make a survival check. Technically in the forest, since you're moving through.
Liam: Yeah!
Laura: 26.
Matt: Not a problem. Utilizing the backtracking of the path you guys took through anyway, is there anything you want to do while you're in the forest? Pushing through? Okay. So you keep moving north--
Laura: Oh! Did you want to look for that lake, or are you good, Grog?
Travis: Oh, right, remember there was a lake when we were looking for the heart of a nymph?
Laura: Doesn't it lead into the Fey world? The plane?
Travis: Yeah, there's a portal there, right? And isn't one of the vestiges in the Fey?
Laura: In the Fey world?
Travis: Yeah.
Taliesin: Do we want to do that first, or do we want to deal with--
Laura: We should probably, but I do want to come back here.
Taliesin: Oh yes, of course, it'll be right, next thing we do.
Travis: Yeah, only if it's close, otherwise I'm good to go back to Westruun. Only if the lake was close, I don't know where it is.
Liam: Are you in a hurry to talk to Dad?
Laura: Oh.
Taliesin: We don't have to stop there, that's fine.
Liam: Maybe later.
Marisha: I mean, do you need to talk to Dad?
Liam: No. We do not need to talk to Dad.
Laura: Let's go to Westruun!
Taliesin: Westruun it is!
Liam: Sore spot.
Matt: Continuing pushing forward, I'd like you all to make a stealth check. (something clatters offscreen)
Laura: Oh, shit. (laughter)
Sam: Someone just failed it. Pike!
Matt: With disadvantage, Pike.
Ashley: Disadvantage? Okay.
Travis: I'm still there, right? No, we took a long rest!
Matt: Yeah, you're fine, you're no longer exhausted.
Travis: 28.
Ashley: Can I put on my Boots of Levitation?
Sam: Too late.
Liam: Too late.
Matt: Too late.
Ashley: I rolled a six.
Travis: Yeah, she's back!
Ashley: Pike is back! What would it be without some clanging?
Matt: So as you guys are making your way across the path, keeping as quiet as you can, Pike, you're starting to fall behind a little bit, and in trying to catch up, you get a run on before you start to hear this (hiss) out of the side of the forest, and you see a deep blue scaled-looking lizard entity. You see in the distance a basilisk that's coming over the ridge.
Marisha: Oh, again.
Taliesin: I wouldn't have let her get that far back, I would've been hanging back there too.
Matt: Okay, then you're hanging with her and you see this as well, what are you guys doing? It's about, it's about 30, 40 feet off.
Taliesin: How big is it?
Marisha: Should we run?
Matt: It's the same size as the other ones, they're about five and a half, six feet from nose to back end.
Travis: Let's run. I pick up Pike, I put her on my shoulder, and we run.
Matt: Okay. First off, Pike, I need you to go ahead and make a constitution saving throw.
Laura: Aw, because you saw it.
Matt: You glanced over and saw it before you realized.
Ashley: I don't think I did, though. (laughter)
Ashley: Oh! I got 19.
Matt: 19, okay. Just the instinctual glance at it, you're like, oh crap, and you feel the impact of its gaze. However, you're a fairly hardy gnome and you resist the creeping stone-based enchantment. As you begin to run forward, Percy pushes behind you as Grog rushes forward, both of you guys recognizing that sound and averting your gaze, pick up Pike and you all begin charging forward. As you do, you can hear the hiss behind you gathered by a second one. (hissing) And the sounds of many feet charging through the snow quickly. I would like you guys all to go ahead and, we'll say for the sake of this, just roll dexterity checks. Or no, athletics. This would be your run speed on this one, sorry.
Laura: What if I'm on the broom, though?
Matt: If you're on the broom, you don't have to worry about it, you're not exerting energy to maintain a pace. Athletics.
Travis: 24.
Ashley: 19.
Liam: 30.
Marisha: Ten.
Taliesin: Ten.
Sam: 11.
Matt: Okay. You guys all manage to maintain a fairly decent pace; these creatures are fairly quick and as they begin to catch up, you begin to use your guidance as a person who knows the forest fairly well to begin ducking in and out of areas, using snowbanks at your disposal. At one point, Grog, you see a partially broken old dying tree that you just go ahead and grab and throw behind you. Make a strength check?
Travis: 21.
Matt: 21. With one hand you grab it and, boom, the actual trunk, old and long-rotted, snaps and falls behind you with a large impact. You believe from the sound of it, it at least hit or halted one of them for a short time, it's just a (snarl) sound. And as you guys continue pushing forward towards the northern side of this forest, the sound of the hissing begins to slowly subside as you dodge back and forth, zigzagging across this pathway. Eventually you guys, over about an additional hour and a half of pushing forward, you hear, and have not heard any following hissing sound for a while, and eventually see before you the outside of the Frostweald Forest finally approaching. With that, you guys push through the last elements of this frozen forest, back into the fields heading northward towards Westruun proper. With that, we're going to take a quick break. (cheering)
Matt: So yeah, we're going to go ahead and take a little trip here to the restroom, we'll see you guys here in a few minutes to continue the next length of this journey.
Travis: We get to play that shit again, right?
Liam: Why did it get so scary? [break]
Matt: And welcome back, everybody. So. Returning from-- Stop dying. Returning from that harrowing endeavor, you continue your trek northward toward Westruun. It is a few days' travel to make your way, a little over two days, I think, from where the Frostweald is, you can stop and pass by the camp at the lake if you wish to, or continue pressing forward, it's up to you.
Marisha: Well, we should probably stop by and tell them that their problem has been handled.
Taliesin: We could stop by later and tell them that both their problems have been handled.
Marisha: Why can't we stop by now? They're right here, we might as well pop in. We'll forget if we don't do it now. I know us. It'll be three months before we come back, and then we'll be like, by the way--
Laura: No, we're coming back soon because we're going into the Feywild.
Taliesin: Well, they know their problem's been handled because we sent all their people back to them.
Marisha: Let's just talk to them real fast. Okay. We pop in, we're like, hey.
Laura: I think Keyleth wants a reward.
Matt: You guys stop by the Foramere Basin, where you originally saw the encampment of some of the survivors of the Westruun incursion by the Chroma Conclave. As you approach, some of the guards immediately come up, crossbows up, when they notice who it was before previously, they lower their weapons and one of the guards comes forward, approaches you, saying, "Good to see that you've returned. We've managed to also acquire our recently captured individuals, most at least have come back safely, it's appreciated. If you wish to talk to Cornelius, well, he should be up and about. I'll take you." Leads you guys into the camp. As you find your way in, folks around you tend to stop again and watch you quietly as you pass, a few with smiles, and you see a few people wave and say, thank you. And you do see a couple of individuals that you did help escape from the orc encampment, they themselves are still on the mend, a lot of them were fairly brutalized when they were there, but the same child that you found in the tent just runs up and gives a big ol' hug to Vex and holds you for a second, then lets go and runs back off to her mother. You're led back to the tent where Cornelius originally met with you guys, but Cornelius is outside of the tent right now, just in the process of cutting firewood that's going to be used for the firepits later on.
Laura: Where'd he find the wood? I thought there were no trees around.
Matt: You imagine that they don't go to other nearby wooded areas and cut them down?
Travis: Yeah, poke the DM. (glass shatters offscreen)
Liam: Oh dear.
Matt: And that's what happens. (laughter)
Matt: You think that was an accident.
Taliesin: When you're in 50 episodes, this is the first one.
Marisha: This is the first one. It's like that scene in the second Matrix.
Matt: Let's not remember the second Matrix. Cornelius is there. What little bit of timber they've managed to scavenge or find from local wooded areas, Cornelius sits there, wipes his brow, his sleeves rolled up. "Oh. Hold on just a second." He puts his axe down and walks over, wipes his hands. "Well, you're true to your word. And for that I'm real appreciative. You did us a real favor and brought back some good people alive and intact."
Sam: Did your brother make it back safely?
Matt: "Cyrus did and I certainly had a very stern talking-to to that boy. But I--"
Sam: Don't go too hard on him, he was being held up by a rope and tortured by a bunch of monsters.
Laura: Pretty traumatizing, I would assume.
Matt: (laughs) "That would be him, wouldn't it? Well, nevertheless, I appreciate it. Looks like through some talks we might be able to bring most of us into Kymal for the time being. It's the town to the west of here. It's small, it's cramped, but we figure at least that's better than being out here in the open. And we have numbers there, so we'll be a little more protected."
Taliesin: Well, that's where we'll send word if anything happens in Westruun.
Laura: Yes.
Matt: "Heading to Westruun yourself, now?"
Marisha: It's next on the list.
Laura: If all goes well, you may be able-- no, I don't know.
Taliesin: Let's not make promises.
Laura: Dragons.
Marisha: Dragons.
Laura: It may be a while, but we're trying.
Matt: "Well, I wish you all the best of luck. Yeah. Figure if anyone could do it, it'd probably be you folk. Well. I look forward to hearing from your victorious recovery of our homestead, and I'll get the first round when we come back to our town."
Marisha: Farewell, Cornelius.
Matt: "Stay safe." He turns around and grabs his axe again and starts chopping through the wood once more.
Laura: Was there anything else you wanted to do, Keyleth?
Marisha: No, I'm good.
Laura: All right.
Sam: Do we need to check in with Drez? No, we know what he wants.
Liam: Fuck Drez.
Marisha: That guy's a weasel.
Sam: We have his Hunk of Quall.
Marisha: That was a gift, I'm pretty sure. It's a loaner, it's on loan for the foreseeable future until we save the world.
Ashley: Mr. Vina. Mr. Drez Vina.
Matt: Drez Vina, who is the assistant to Master Quall. Who is the one that originally hired you. And by the fact that he called a debt on the initial enchanted ruby that you used on your first endeavor, yeah, you get the feeling that whatever this object is that he gave you, it's probably on loan.
Ashley: (coughs)
Travis: Pike! Are you all right?
Sam: Heal her!
Matt: So you guys continue forward into Westruun?
Sam: To Westruun. And what is our mission?
Laura: Okay, what are we, what's our plan here, Grog?
Travis: What time is it?
Matt: You guys have traveled for one day, you've gone into the evening, you can take a rest here or, you know, rest within your mansion on the outskirts of this encampment before it roots up and starts heading back to Kymal relatively soon. You guys then, the next morning, can continue your trek northward, and you can probably get to Westruun by the end of day, if you travel quickly and consistently.
Laura: What do you think, Grog, what do you want to do? Walk right into town?
Travis: No. No. I like what Percy said, I think there's worth in being clever.
Taliesin: I would agree.
Travis: I would actually like to maybe run some ideas by you. We don't walk into town, but we have the town walk out to us.
Sam: How do we do that?
Taliesin: Oh, there's many ways we could do that.
Travis: Well, look, so there are people in there that are innocents, right, we told the farmer we'd get his people back and I really want to see if Wilhand's all right. So listen. How do you feel about sending someone in that would draw out their worst?
Taliesin: I think we could draw out their worst very easily. Hmm. How committed are your people to trial by combat?
Travis: Oh, it's about all we do.
Taliesin: What can you imagine would be the most exciting show they could possibly hope for?
Laura: A rematch, I would think.
Travis: Well, it wasn't really an official fight, it was more of like a one-sided ass-whooping.
Laura: But they think you're dead.
Travis: Yeah. We're going to get to that later. I was thinking maybe we could set a fire and send someone running in and say there's a roving band of orcs that are challenging the goliaths, and then when they come out and leave we can move into the town and get all the innocents out. And then if we want, we could set a trap, or an ambush, or we could play some mind games, but I want to try and get the town clear first.
Sam: You know, your people might not be the brightest, but they're not going to send everybody out to meet these orcs.
Travis: No no no no. Just a few.
Marisha: And probably not Kevdak.
Travis: Well, look, if it's not Kevdak, we get a practice round on those that do come out.
Marisha: Well, here's my question  there's got to be hundreds of people still left in Westruun. It could take hours to evacuate a city of that size.
Travis: Well, so you know how last time when we went over there and Horace was just outside the city walls? I'm pretty sure if we wait for a bit, somebody will come out, we take him, we mess him up real good, maybe take his tongue out, chop off his arms, and then send him back in.
Taliesin: Some of that is...
Travis: I mean, I'm open to augmenting that plan a little bit.
Sam: I could make you look like an orc or something.
Travis: No, like I said before, if I go in there--
Sam: No no no, just to rough up the guy that we send back in to tell them about the orcs.
Travis: I'll hold him while somebody else can rough him up, but--
Taliesin: How smart are your people?
Travis: Well, pretty smart, they're all like me.
Laura: As smart as you?
Travis: Yeah, scholars the lot.
Marisha: Grog. If someone kills Kevdak, say hypothetically you, who takes control of the Herd after that?
Travis: Well, my math is a little shoddy, but I think that would be me.
Marisha: Well then, why do we need to evacuate the city if you could theoretically have control over it?
Liam: If we could figure out where Kevdak is and drop in on that point.
Laura: Well, he's in the mayor's--
Liam: Yeah. And handle Kevdak before the rest of the city can descend upon us. It's a gamble, but so is everything we do.
Laura: Yeah, but if the city, if the rest of them don't see him defeating Kevdak, then it's worthless. They need to watch it happen.
Liam: Well, how honorable are your people, if you fell Kevdak or whatever the fuck his name is, will the rest stand down?
Travis: Maybe, but-- (sighs) So, here it is. My whole life has been wanting to punish or get back at Kevdak. I don't want to do it cheaply, I don't want to do it quickly. I want to do it with my own hands. Now, I'll do it with my family, do it with my buddy Pike, but I want it done right.
Taliesin: I've got a thought. It's dangerous, but I have a thought. You literally walk, march right to the city gates and demand a challenge.
Marisha: I have a feeling you're going to be the most attractive bait that we can think of.
Taliesin: If we put you right in front there, perhaps we let Pike stay with you, I doubt there's any of them who will not want to watch that. And while they're watching, the rest of us do our best to get everybody as safe as possible.
Laura: But what's to keep Grog safe in the meantime?
Taliesin: They won't want to sully that fight, no one will want to sully that fight.
Travis: No, I can guarantee you, no one will interfere.
Taliesin: And if things get bad--
Marisha: We'll be nearby.
Taliesin: We'll pull him out.
Travis: I like that.
Laura: I don't want to abandon Grog to a fight with Kevdak while we're freeing villagers. No offense to them. I want to have Grog's back.
Liam: I agree with that.
Marisha: I think we won't need to worry about freeing the villagers if we can defeat Kevdak.
Laura: What if we stay hidden?
Travis: Oh, wait a minute. Right, so they think I'm dead.
Laura: Yeah.
Travis: Maybe I let them think I conquered death.
Laura: Which you kind of did, Grog.
Travis: Maybe we let them think that I'm not the same Grog I was before. Maybe we let them think I've gained abilities.
Marisha: I'm pretty sure all those things are actually true.
Travis: Yeah, yeah, but I mean like--
Sam: Yeah, yeah, make a show of it a bit.
Travis: Yeah. But they don't have to see where those abilities come from.
Marisha: Sure.
Travis: All they've got to see is me. There are roofs, right, I mean it's like two- and three-story buildings all in that city.
Ashley: It just makes me so nervous.
Laura: So wait, we stay hidden and you call lightning.
Travis: Yeah. You guys get all up on the roofs while I'm making a scene in the middle and we pull off the greatest stage show there's ever been.
Sam: I love a good stage show.
Ashley: This is not a bad idea.
Marisha: We can make you look as cool as you want. That's undeniable.
Travis: If I do a pelvic thrust, will you do your--
Sam: I will grant you cock lightning.
Travis: Holy shit. "I will grant you cock lightning."
Liam: Weirdest production of Grease ever.
Taliesin: How many objects are you attuned to right now?
Travis: Three.
Sam: If he could unattune to one, we can put him in the Hat of Disguise.
Travis: I don't want it.
Taliesin: What do you have right now?
Travis: I have the Gauntlets of Ogre Strength.
Taliesin: That's good.
Travis: I have the flaming--
Laura: Warhammer?
Travis: Yup.
Taliesin: That's good.
Travis: And the belt. What's the other? Oh, and my--
Laura: You gained the ability to grow a beard in the afterlife. It's pretty major.
Matt: Well, you have three of those, so you have to get rid of the necklace.
Travis: Actually, the flaming warhammer's not attuned.
Matt: Oh, that's right. That's true, no, you're good.
Taliesin: What does the amulet do?
Travis: It gives me plus two to my AC.
Marisha: Pretty nice.
Taliesin: That's pretty nice.
Sam: And so the object of this would be to stall, to enthrall, to captivate them as long as you can, keep talking to them, not engage in fights for as long as possible while we--
Travis: Get in place. I mean, I could try and do it while you're getting the hostages out, or we could just take down the snake's head.
Taliesin: We need his Knuckles.
Laura: Kill Kevdak.
Sam: Yeah, but is Kevdak going to engage in a fight with a magical Grog? That's not a fair fight, is it?
Laura: It's a pride issue.
Ashley: I think he will.
Travis: I do know how to get his pride in check.
Laura: Grog, would you engage in a fight with a magical being who wronged you, if you thought you were better than him?
Travis: Why, who said something?
Sam: And when they discover, and they surely will, that you are not magical and that your friends are aiding you, will that bring you great shame?
Travis: No. No, I made a choice. This is my family. My old family left me to die.
Marisha: Plus, I mean, it's like wearing really cool robes. Right, Scanlan? You know, there's nothing wrong with wanting to look cool.
Sam: I don't know about wanting to look cool, it just comes naturally.
Ashley: Let's make sure that it doesn't happen, that they won't know.
Laura: Nice beret there, Scanlan.
Taliesin: This is going to end with a fight between the two of you, there's no denying that.
Liam: Anyway, Kevdak's using a gift of the gods.
Taliesin: Yes.
Laura: That's right! He's full of shit.
Ashley: These are very scary people, you guys. They left him in a very horrible state and I would not like to see that again.
Marisha: But that was years ago!
Taliesin: We defeated the people who left me in a horrible state, I think we will have no problem defeating the people who left him.
Liam: We have a gift of the gods and soon we will have many more.
Sam: So you do intend to engage in a fight. Because otherwise I would say, I can go in, just sort of looking like you, and draw their attention.
Taliesin: And then what?
Sam: And then bamf outta there.
Taliesin: But then what?
Sam: Or run away and draw them with me.
Taliesin: How does that save the city?
Sam: It gets them to follow me.
Travis: Yeah, I mean, and either way, I like that because either way, if only the pawns of the group follow him out? That's fewer goliaths we have to worry about. Best-case scenario, Kevdak, Zanror, and the best of the baddies chase him out, we can get the hostages out, and then set the trap for when they come back.
Taliesin: It's not just the hostages, though, it's a city under siege. I just don't think it's feasible to empty it.
Marisha: Right, but you have to remember it's-- right, yes, pretty much. What you said. It's a city under siege, under siege, it's meta under siege, under siege from the goliaths and then again from the dragons.
Taliesin: They're in a place, though, where if we can get rid of the goliaths, at least they could function with the dragons.
Laura: And if we remove all of the villagers, it'll definitely gain the attention of the dragons.
Marisha: That's true.
Travis: Will it? I thought they only fly over every few days.
Marisha: They have wyverns who have been running patrol.
Travis: Not over Westruun.
Taliesin: Not over Westruun.
Marisha: But we haven't been hanging out over Westruun.
Travis: If there are no wyverns, are you open to the idea of gerbil-ball Scanlan doing a thing?
Marisha: No, not at all. But that's actually not a bad idea. We're still outside the camp, right? How about this: why don't we hike to the outskirts of Westruun, camp out the rest of the evening, keep an eye out, and just scout for a little bit?
Travis: Yeah, and if we get close, hopefully we can ask somebody that's nice if they've seen any dragons and how long it's been since.
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: Well, we probably want to set up shop for a while and wait for the dragons to come and leave and then strike, so that we've got some time.
Taliesin: Very clever.
Travis: That's brilliant.
Liam: We use fake shithead Grog. Sorry. Fake shitheadier Grog to create a scene and run off and draw away some of the goliaths, probably not Kevdak, and then you go in for the main event with a thinned-out Herd.
Travis: Yep. I like it.
Marisha: I can be on the roofs nearby along with Vex and Percy doing range.
Laura: What if we do the same thing that those orcs did? When you go in and cause a distraction and lead them out, we spend the few days that we're waiting for the dragons to build a massive trench, you can use Move Earth, and lead them all out over something and drop a Herd of goliaths.
Marisha: And I can do the Hallucinatory Terrain thing again. It has been a while.
Laura: Drop them into a trench, they're stuck in there while he fights Kevdak.
Marisha: And I do love using that spell.
Travis: I'm game.
Ashley: I like this idea.
Sam: It still doesn't solve one question.
Travis: What's that?
Sam: I love you, but can you beat Kevdak without magic and friends?
Travis: I mean, look, we're going to find out one way or the other. I don't know. But look.
Laura: Can we aid you?
Travis: Yeah!
Laura: This isn't like the Crucible.
Travis: No, look, he's wearing weapons given by a god. I don't care if it's a totally fair fight, I just don't want to dispatch him cheaply.
Sam: All right.
Taliesin: All right.
Marisha: All right.
Taliesin: We can do this. We've got lightning.
Liam: That's very intelligent of you, Grog.
Sam: That means good.
Laura: Smart.
Travis: Oh. Thank you.
Taliesin: Let's rest up and wait for the dragons.
Marisha: All right, so we're going to hike to the outskirts of Westruun.
Matt: Okay. You guys, during this journey, find your way northward. Are you skirting around the west side like you did when you first arrived?
Laura: Sure?
Matt: All right.
Laura: We're keeping a good distance, as we get closer, so it lasts, I cast Pass Without a Trace on us.
Travis: We have that really nice high grass, right?
Matt: It was like waist-high or so.
Travis: Not like cornstalk high.
Matt: There were areas where there was, like during the thick farmland, there are areas where they have high-stalk.
Travis: I'd like to stay there, I'd like to stay in those areas.
Matt: Okay, so you'll be pretty much dodging from farmland to farmland, on the outside. I need you all to roll stealth checks, if you could?
Laura: Add ten because I cast Pass Without a Trace.
Ashley: I'm going to use, oh no. Because that won't be enough time.
Sam: Come on, Pikey.
Travis: That's good.
Laura: That's really good. Plus ten.
Ashley: Plus ten?
Laura: Yeah, because I cast Pass Without a Trace on us.
Travis: 19. Oh. 29.
Ashley: 24.
Laura: 33.
Liam: 30.
Marisha: 32.
Taliesin: 23.
Sam: 20.
Matt: All right.
Ashley: We're quiet.
Travis: He rolled anyway.
Matt: All right, as you guys leap into the high grass, moving around the outside of Westruun, eyes peeled, as the sun sets and the night kicks in, you try your best to watch for any patrols that are keeping an eye. Make a perception check.
Travis: 13.
Sam: 16.
Marisha: 19.
Taliesin: 20.
Liam: 22.
Laura: 32.
Ashley: 23.
Matt: All right. The three of you guys glance over and you do see there is a patrol of three individuals, one of which appears to be goliath in nature, the other two humanoid of some degree. In the distance, it's hard to see this far away. And they're patrolling the same area where you guys came through before. It appears like the patrol has increased, like there's a mildly heightened state of awareness that something bad went down recently. However, you stay far enough away and out of sight, they do not catch visual on you and eventually you get enough distance northward where you feel like they haven't really noticed.
Travis: Did we pass the area that we were at before, where the farmer, Frederick?
Matt: Yeah, you passed that area, yeah.
Travis: Did we see him?
Matt: You did not see him, no.
Laura: Was his name Frederick? No, it was with an 'r'.
Sam: Can we go to that place?
Travis: Reggie. Reginald, sorry.
Sam: Can we sneak there, can Vax sneak there? What was the man's name who we killed?
Laura: Oh, that you killed?
Travis: Horace.
Sam: No no no, the goliath.
Travis: Horace.
Sam: Vax, can you go get Horace's head?
Taliesin: Okay, that's a good idea.
Liam: Yeah, I can get that.
Taliesin: I take that back, that's a great idea.
Liam: I don't know why, but I can get that.
Matt: So you're heading forward to do that?
Laura: I rolled a better stealth than him, though.
Matt: Make a new stealth check. As you guys hold back and you--
Laura: Oh, that's so much better! No, it's good.
Liam: 39.
Matt: 39, okay. So as you guys wait in the back, staying low to the grass, you watch as Vax dives into the field and vanishes. You, darting in a forward way, find your way to the outside of the initial crop-grid. There does not appear to be any guards that are watching this property. You recall the various avenues you guys utilized in systematically making your way from path to path. It takes you a few minutes, but you manage to find an area that looks familiar enough where you find your way into the center of one of the crop lanes where the corpse of Horace recently was. Roll a perception check.
Liam: 27.
Matt: 27. You get there and you glance about. But the body's gone.
Liam: Fuck.
Matt: Body's not there, it's taken. You start following the trail, you see where maybe it was dragged off. Make a survival roll.
Liam: Survival roll? Well, I'm going to use Luck, because I slept. Yeah. 18.
Matt: 18, okay, so you find signs of his body being dragged and you start trying to find the direction it was taken. You dart along, once again keeping within the crops as best you can to stay out of sight. You make your way out of the northern side of it before the trail disappears. You do not know where the body was taken, other than north and outward. You glance over and all you see is the original farmhouse where Reginald was living, there's the crops out there, there's the big scarecrow that was in the center. There wasn't a scarecrow before. You look over real close and you see, strung up across a haphazard wooden spike, arms out, is the currently being pecked apart body of Reginald, who apparently suffered the brunt of the discovery of Horace's corpse in the time that has transpired since you last left Westruun.
Liam: Do I sense anything around?
Matt: At the moment? No. The patrol's probably a good ten minutes before it's seeming, because it's headed in the direction where you are but you don't know, probably take ten or 15 minutes before they reach where you are.
Liam: I'm going to stealth up to the body. Cut him down.
Matt: Okay. Cut the ropes off, he slumps down.
Liam: I shoulder him back to the group.
Matt: Okay. Make a stealth check with disadvantage.
Liam: 20.
Laura: 30.
Liam: 25. 35.
Matt: Okay. Though he wasn't a very heavy individual, and especially now that he's been out to dry for at least a couple days, most of the bloat has worn off and the-- not going into graphic detail, elements of the corpse have been left behind. You bring most of him with you through the grass over to the rest of the group. You guys watch as Vax pulls his way up out of the grass, carrying over his shoulder the lifeless body of Reginald.
Liam: Let's all talk about repercussions. And I lay him out.
Taliesin: Well, they know we're here now.
Travis: Do they?
Taliesin: Yes.
Travis: I think they thought it was him.
Liam: They did not think the farmer killed Horace.
Travis: We should've sent him off to the camp.
Taliesin: They know we're here now because now his body's missing.
Sam: Also, I assume they tortured him before they killed him.
Taliesin: I don't know if they're that clever.
Sam: Can you talk to the dead?
Liam: These people were in a shit situation, while I don't blame us entirely for this because of where they live now, we must not do anything we're doing lightly. There are many lives at stake, not just Reginald's. Let's just not flit about, here, let's take this seriously, please.
Taliesin: Should've left him up there.
Marisha: What?
Taliesin: Should've cut him down tomorrow. One more day up there would have made no difference to him, and it's going to make a difference to us because we have to move tonight now.
Marisha: Maybe it's a matter of respect, Percy.
Taliesin: Respect him by freeing his daughter.
Travis: I agree.
Laura: They know we're here.
Taliesin: They know we're here.
Laura: They're going to see he's missing.
Marisha: I think they already knew we were here.
Taliesin: I don't think they did.
Travis: I don't think they did either.
Liam: Scanlan, can you make a fake stupid body, can you make a scarecrow?
Sam: Not really. Not really.
Liam: Can any of us?
Laura: I can fashion something.
Taliesin: No, tonight's fine. There's nothing wrong with tonight. I just figure, if we do it, and we should do it, and obviously this is nothing if not a sign that we should've done it sooner.
Sam: Why don't we just burn the whole field? They won't know if there's a body in there or not.
Taliesin: That was our reasoning last time, no, we do this, I think we do this tonight.
Marisha: We do this tonight?
Ashley: I could cast Speak with Dead and we could ask him some questions.
Sam: We could.
Ashley: We could ask him up to five questions.
Sam: Let's do it.
Taliesin: All right.
Matt: So you guys quietly press down in a small area of grass to give you enough of a space for you to go ahead and perform this ritual. As you lay the body down, you look up to the sky and where some of the cloud cover that is slowly drawing over the area, there's a little gap in the clouds, and as you look up to the now-visible stars, you whisper Sarenrae's name, look down at the body, touch it with your hand, and the still corpse, the chest begins to rise and fall with an unnatural breath for the time being. The eyes begin to twitch and move around. No physical movement beyond that, but the mouth slowly draws open and you hear, while the lips do not move, you hear a voice emanate through like an exhale. "You returned."
Laura: Reginald. We're so sorry.
Matt: "I knew what I was getting into. Do not fret or blame."
Laura: We will rescue your daughter.
Travis: Five questions. Vax. Make it count.
Taliesin: Do they know we're coming?
Liam: Me?
Travis: Yeah.
Sam: I think we can all ask.
Liam: Reginald, how much do your murderers know? About us?
Matt: "I told them it was me. They should not and could not know your intent to return."
Sam: Can he describe the one who did it?
Liam: Go ahead, Scanlan.
Sam: Hi. Sorry. The ones who did you in. Other than large and pale, were there any distinguishing marks or names thrown about?
Matt: "They brought me to one of their leaders. Half-tattooed face and brow and rags. His jaw, once broken, pushes to one side. I know not the name."
Travis: Do I understand that description?
Matt: You recall the tattoo, and you recall the moment the jaw was broken.
Travis: I was wondering.
Matt: This was Zanror.
Sam: This was who?
Travis: Kevdak's son.
Liam: He broke it. Grog broke it.
Laura: Oh shit.
Taliesin: What are the things that we face inside the city? What should we fear inside the city?
Matt: "Fear those that are fueled by rage, skilled with weapons, and those that call the elements their own. And the dragon does come."
Travis: Does come. One more question, can we ask if he's seen the dragon or how long it's been?
Sam: Go ahead.
Travis: We thank you for your time. If we may, how long has it been since the dragon was last here?
Matt: "Two days."
Laura: It's coming tomorrow.
Travis: Two days, it's coming back. Okay.
Laura: That means tomorrow it's coming back.
Sam: We can wait another day. How many more questions?
Laura: Is that it, or one more?
Sam: No, we get five.
Taliesin: We have one more if we want it.
Sam: What would you like us to tell your daughter?
Matt: "Tell her that my life was given so she could live hers. And my memory lives in her eyes." And with that, the head just lolls back a little bit, the jaw hangs open, the last of the breath in the chest (exhales) and the magic fades.
Taliesin: Vax. We have to put it back.
Liam: Yes.
Marisha: They don't know we're here. It could be anyone who could've cut him down. Why would they suspect us? I would suspect the village people first.
Travis: I would too, and I'm the smartest of them all.
Laura: Which is actually worse. We need to put something back up. I don't want anyone else to get hurt.
Taliesin: He's going to save his daughter one last time, we're going to put him back up for one day. We're going to wait for the dragon to pass, and then he will be buried on his land properly with stone and dirt.
Liam: Yes. I'll take him. Yes.
Taliesin: Thank you. And thank you for bringing him. This was helpful.
Ashley: Can we give him a proper burial?
Travis: No, we're going to put him back up.
Ashley: We're going to put him back up, that's what you. Sorry.
Matt: Vax, are you taking the corpse back? Stealth check with disadvantage.
Liam: Disadvantage.
Matt: Yeah, carrying him along, man.
Liam: Oh, it's all right, though, 35.
Taliesin: Jesus Christ.
Matt: Rogues. Coming back, as you approach the outside you can see now the patrol has skirted by and you have to wait patiently, but not wait too long because you know you have about a 30-second window before they will come into sight of this farmstead. Using that, you dart forward, take the body, thrust it up, trying to catch-- I want you to go ahead and make a dexterity check to see how fast you can utilize what rope is at your disposal.
Liam: Just straight dexterity? 17.
Matt: 17. With that, you throw the body up, look over your shoulder, grab out, pull out bits of twine you have, a piece of rope or a piece of your shirt that you (tearing noise) tear off to the side, and fashion a quick knot over one arm and the other, you look over your shoulder again, you can see the shadow of them beginning to just turn around the side, you get the other arm up, just manage to slump it over the wood. You know there isn't any more time, and with that you duck back underneath the grass and vanish. He's haphazardly up and one arm is not actually tied, it's just kind of laid over it, but he's currently back on the wooden stake, across.
Liam: Better than what it was.
Matt: As you dart back and slowly return to your group, glancing over in that direction, the patrol doesn't seem to take notice and continues walking past.
Travis: So am I the only one that, while we wait, is itching for a fight?
Laura: Grog.
Travis: I'm sorry, look, it's just who I am.
Sam: Well listen, if you want a fight, we could still use one of their heads. We could find one of those patrolmen walking around, grab him, take his head.
Taliesin: Too soon.
Travis: Too soon.
Marisha: Did we not just learn anything?
Liam: We're going to be fighting soon enough. I think everyone should hide inside your love shack and my sister and I should wait here in the grass and watch and wait. And when the dragon comes, we alert you all.
Taliesin: We wait for a dragon pass. The day after the dragon passes, we strike.
Laura: I agree.
Travis: Okay.
Marisha: Let's go.
Matt: You guys, most of you, other than the twins, head into the magnificent mansion. An evening that is restful by definition but still wracked with tension and anxiety. You guys watch throughout the night, relatively uneventful, though a cool evening. Without building a fire, you both do have to keep bundled up against the elements. It's not cold enough to the point where it's going to be impactful, but it is chilly.
Liam: I fart a lot.
Matt: The farting does keep you warm, Vax.
Taliesin: I want to tinker for the evening as well.
Matt: Make another tinker check.
Taliesin: 21.
Matt: 21. Okay. You made headway. You've constructed a portion of the seat and the apparatus that connects it to the broom without interfering with the enchantment. Right now it's testing that and then getting the stirrups and making sure that it's functional and not going to get her killed.
Taliesin: Whatever night we have time, I want to keep poking at that.
Marisha: Can I also spend some time practicing a Protection from Energy potion?
Matt: Want to go ahead and utilize the delightfully presented brewing vicinity in the--
Marisha: I do.
Matt: All right, sure.
Marisha: Not enough to where I can't, you know, sleep, but just, you know.
Taliesin: I'm going to lend her my resist lightning ring so that she can study it and hopefully come up with a resist energy potion.
Matt: Okay. I'll say, what level is that?
Marisha: Protection from Energy is a 3rd-level spell. (musical tone)
Matt: I don't know what that was.
Taliesin: Matt Mercer, white courtesy phone. Matt Mercer, white courtesy phone.
Matt: Now reaching housewares, spell scrolls.
Liam: Kevdak, you are wanted at the front gates.
Matt: Third, that would be an uncommon spell scroll, that would put it, I'd say that'd put it about-- how many gold pieces? I'd say you begin the process of brewing one.
Marisha: All right.
Matt: It'll take you a little while to get that done.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: A few days, at the very least. All right, so.
Sam: Grog. Just before tomorrow and stuff, Kevdak.
Travis: Yeah.
Sam: His son is--
Travis: Zanror.
Sam: Zanror.
Travis: It's spelled-- it's spelled like this. And then like it sounds.
Sam: Sure, sure. Standard spelling. What about anyone else I need to know about? Who you were familiar with or had a relationship with?
Travis: Nah. Not any longer.
Sam: All right, so, we're still resting, right?
Matt: Yes.
Sam: So I'm going to knock on Pike's door. (knocking sound)
Ashley: I don't answer. No, I'm just kidding.
Sam: (whispers) I can still get in.
Ashley: Hi, Scanlan.
Sam: Hello. Did you get your robe and everything and your slippers?
Ashley: Oh, yes, slippers and everything.
Sam: The monogram?
Ashley: Yes, it's great, thank you so much. P.T.
Sam: And the scented candles?
Ashley: Yes, it smells so good in here. Thank you.
Sam: Great, great. If you need anything, there's two bells next to your bed, there's one to call servants and there's one for me.
Ashley: Oh, thank you, Scanlan.
Sam: The purple one is mine.
Marisha: Percy and I strategize.
Taliesin: We're doing strategies.
Sam: Great. Listen, there's been a lot of death recently and, well, just, I might die and stuff so, ah. Just don't read this until I do.
Liam: Can I read it?
Laura: Don't!
Ashley: What is this?
Laura: Pass it over.
Liam: Do you want to go steady? If yes, check this box.
Ashley: "Do not open" and in parentheses "(until I'm dead)."
Sam: That's all.
Ashley: Well, hopefully I never have to open this.
Sam: I hope so, too. That's all. Have a good night.
Ashley: Bye, Scanlan.
Sam: Bye.
Liam: (whispers) Secrets.
Ashley: I close the door, I open it, and I read it. (cheering)
Taliesin: I'm so proud of you. I'm so proud of you!
Travis: Nobody look, nobody look. Don't you look! Don't you look. Don't you look.
Laura: She's full-on reading it!
Sam: You know what? I love her anyway. (laughter)
Ashley: This is a bit of tome, so I think I should wait to read this, but a part of me-- Oh.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: You clever fucker. Good god.
Ashley: Oh, man. (gasps)
Laura: Oh, I want to know what it says so fucking bad!
Travis: We got to wait for her to finish, because the night is young.
Sam: It's all dick pics. (laughter)
Laura: The cube. Over and over and over again.
Matt: In the meantime, while you're reading that, you guys are doing what?
Taliesin: We were strategizing. We were just, we're figuring out some strategy for how to make this work.
Matt: Okay, fair enough.
Liam: Dick pics hand-drawn by quill.
Taliesin: By candlelight.
Matt: As the evening progresses, you guys rest, preparing yourselves for the next day. You guys--
Laura: We're still outside.
Matt: You guys are woken up right as the sun begins to rise by the distant sound of (roar, sweeping wings).
Travis: Oh, fuck.
Matt: You shake Vax awake and you guys look up from the grass and you can see, coming down from the very very top of Gatshadow, you see the wings unfurled and with each swoosh down, the gargantuan black dragon streaks down, dive bombs just past the Bramblewood, and scoots over the entire city of Westruun, making its presence known. As it just roars out (roar, sweeping wings), circling over the city twice, three times, as you see lights going on in the city. As it goes over three times, seemingly content that it's made its presence known and asserted its vocal dominance over the vicinity by instilling some early-morning fear in the denizens of this town, the dragon then lands a little bit northwest of the city itself. It's hard to make out exactly what's happening at this distance, but you see it, at its size, circle around an area, scrape into the dirt a bit, take a moment, makes a couple of grumbled (snarls). Takes one of its claws and scoops up a large cart that has apparently a few sacks inside of it. And its wings (sweeping wings). It begins taking up in the air again and you can see now there are three goliaths that are walking away from the point. As the dragon turns and scoops one up in its other claw. And the two others turn around and watch it as it takes off towards the top of the mountain, unable to do anything.
Laura: That's one less fuck we have to worry about.
Matt: Up onto Gatshadow.
Taliesin: So we're watching the other two head back towards the--
Matt: Nobody sees this except for the twins.
Travis: No windows? Okay.
Matt: No, you guys are in another plane. You look out the window and it's just like this purple expanse.
Liam: It seems like a slim thread of hope, but perhaps the underlings are not entirely satisfied with this arrangement? Just scooped one up.
Laura: It's possible. I have a feeling they're having a hard time finding any sort of hoard to offer after this many days.
Liam: Yeah.
Laura: Fuck.
Liam: It's a long shot, but you told me about those giants.
Laura: Yes?
Liam: When you were with Zahra, and they turned. We shouldn't rely on it.
Laura: It's possible. If Grog can take control of the Herd, they may be able to fight with us. But I wouldn't trust them.
Liam: No.
Laura: We need to tell the others.
Liam: Yep.
Matt: You guys find your way back to the door, entering the mansion. Servants have already, at the sound of you entering, begin to appear out of their spectral, ethereal states, bowing to you, offering to take your coat.
Liam: Chicken, please.
Matt: "Right away, sir." And they drift off to prepare your bountiful breakfast. Eventually you go ahead and begin to muster the rest of your party down towards the breakfast area, and the rest of you come to consciousness and find your way to where the food is being served and Vex and Vax both wait, rather stone-faced, and prepared to speak.
Laura: Well. Dragon came. Not happy. You'll be glad to know, however, that it took one of your Herd away with it.
Taliesin: I imagine the offering was a little light.
Laura: Yes, that's what I think as well.
Travis: From the three that were walking around?
Laura: Yes.
Travis: What did the other two do?
Laura: Not much. What are you going to do when a dragon comes and takes someone away? Stand there and watch, really.
Liam: Your buddy Horace made it sound like it was easy street, but I don't know if that's entirely accurate.
Travis: We can use that.
Laura: They may not be very happy with the dragon right now. They may not care at all.
Taliesin: They may not be very happy with leadership that leaves them in a place where they're being taken advantage of. That's very clever. Might be time to move on.
Sam: Move on? Move in?
Taliesin: For them to leave.
Sam: Oh, for them to move on.
Taliesin: This is not a good deal for them anymore.
Laura: So we start today, yes?
Taliesin: I think it starts today.
Marisha: I think it starts right now.
Sam: Want to go in?
Travis: Well, I haven't had my morning shit yet, but as soon as I do--
Laura: While Grog shits, I'm just going to take a little nap, while he's shitting, it takes a while usually, right?
Marisha: Sure, yeah, yeah.
Liam: Same, same.
Taliesin: He'll play Candy Crush.
Laura: Something to recover a little bit of time.
Sam: Want me to guard the door?
Travis: I don't think I need it this time. (laughter)
Laura: I'll be right back.
Travis: What, you really got to go?
Laura: Oh no. Blocked.
Sam: She's going to go take a shit.
Laura: Don't say that!
Liam: Laura doesn't shit!
Sam: No, she doesn't.
Travis: All right. Yeah, then we do it. And we do it the way we said. Right?
Sam: You want me to go in, draw out as many as I can, but wait, no, first we have to prepare a trap, don't we? Isn't there a trap to be prepared?
Marisha: Yes, I can dig a trench pretty quickly, honestly, if we want to go the trench route? Is that we were thinking?
Travis: Now here's the thing. Sorry.
Sam: You need to be inside the city gates as well.
Travis: Well, hold on, what were you going to say?
Ashley: No, I, go.
Travis: So if we try and build that trench outside, right, we risk being seen and then pop goes the weasel. If you go in--
Sam: While I'm in, you can build the trench.
Travis: Well, what, can you go in looking like me, or can you go in looking like me on fire?
Sam: Go in and what?
Travis: Can you conjure just me, or could you be me as a walking flame?
Sam: Hmm, that would be harder. Yeah, that would be harder to do, to pull off, you're big. You're pretty big.
Travis: Oh I know, this is like a one-time thing for me, so I figured I'd just do it rockstar. I just want to see what it looks like.
Sam: If someone else set me on literal fire, I could, but I wouldn't--
Travis: We'll stand down from that idea, it was just a thought, no problem.
Taliesin: There's no bad idea when we're workshopping.
Sam: Spitballing, spitballing.
Travis: If we want to do the trench, we have to wait for nightfall.
Sam: I was going to make myself look like you, but a dead version of you. A zombified Grog.
Travis: I'm all right with that. Can I hear your best undead Grog?
Sam: (Grog voice) Right. So. Right so I'm. Ugh, I'm so dead.
Liam: Maybe you don't say anything. (laughter)
Sam: No, no, I just have to warm up, ah, mimimimi, right, right, rrrr. Cor, all right then, I've been dead for about five, six years.
Travis: It's amazing, it's like a verbal mirror. So, if we do the trench, though, we have to-- Percy--
Marisha: I could theoretically dig the trench possibly without anybody noticing, like tunnel underground and just tunnel it out and maybe even, you know. Leave like a thin layer of dirt, possibly? I dunno. Maybe.
Liam: Like Dig Dug.
Marisha: Like Dig Dug. Exactly the same thing.
Sam: Wait, can't you just shape earth without affecting the surface of it, I mean, can't you just shape the underneath of it?
Marisha: That's what I'm saying.
Sam: No one will even see it being moved.
Marisha: And I could possibly maybe carve it thin enough to where when they run over it it'll collapse.
Travis: Percy, what was your idea?
Taliesin: And mix a little black powder into the dirt.
Marisha: Well, I was also hoping, oh, and explode it as they run by--
Taliesin: Hit it with lightning and it'll go up.
Marisha: Also, if we could maybe have something fancy at the bottom of it to, you know. Finish them off.
Taliesin: Do we have something fancy to put at the bottom?
Sam: We have a bear.
Travis: If we do the ditch for the people that're coming out of the city, we waste it if it's not Zanror and Kevdak. If we go in--
Laura: At least it gets them out of commission.
Marisha: Yeah, I thought the trench was to thin the herd.
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: Literally.
Laura: Good. I like it.
Sam: So, wait, is there a gate to the city?
Matt: There are multiple entrances to the city. The few that you've seen are guarded with outward-facing defensive spikes and pikes that are set up to prevent any sort of like cavalry entry or just as a warning.
Liam: I have a question.
Matt: Yes.
Liam: For Grog. (crash in the background)
Sam: (laughs) What the hell's going on there tonight?
Liam: We fought your father and he was dead. What's the last thing the Herd has heard of your father?
Travis: I don't know. Last thing I remember, I was looking up at my father. And the rest of my Herd. He made no move to save me.
Liam: Well. I don't know how he got there, but we saved you from your father and the dead guy deep underground, so they lost him at some point. What if instead of Grog, you appeared as Grog's dad?
Sam: I don't know what Grog's dad looks like.
Liam: Yes you do, you fought him. He was a rotting corpse in front of you trying to kill you.
Travis: Way back in the beginning.
Sam: Of course. How could I forget? (laughter)
Liam: Make yourself look like that, I'm not exactly sure what that would do.
Taliesin: It could be interesting.
Liam: It could be interesting.
Marisha: I mean, it could also further instill Grog being powerful and undead.
Taliesin: Yes, that's actually even better.
Laura: If he brought his father back to fight underneath him.
Marisha: With him, right, like he's a necromancer.
Liam: And Kevdak would think that Grog's father was serving him.
Marisha: Yes.
Liam: And he wouldn't feel pissy if he saw one Grog do a magic trick and then the other Grog sprang up and said, "Fight me instead." It would seem more real.
Sam: What was your dad's name?
Liam: Larry?
Taliesin: Curly.
Marisha: Moe.
Matt: Do you remember? It was Stonejaw. So Stonejaw Strongjaw. (laughter)
Liam: Wow.
Sam: That's a terrible name!
Taliesin: That's embarrassing.
Laura: Wow.
Liam: That's like George Foreman IV.
Laura: He had an intelligence of four.
Matt: I know, yeah.
Travis: It's a repressed memory, all right?
Taliesin: All right.
Travis: He comes up never.
Liam: This is George Foreman.
Liam: This is also George Foreman. These three guys are also George Foreman.
Marisha: This is also George Foreman. These three guys are also George Foreman.
Matt: Other brother Darryl.
Taliesin: All right. So I say you, your dad, and maybe Pike walk up to the front door and then we get ready to hit them with the doozy once things start.
Marisha: All right, give me a little bit of time to dig a ditch.
Taliesin: No Pike?
Travis: No. If I walk in, I want to walk in on my own.
Laura: So this is only your fake father walking up at this point.
Travis: As the distraction, right?
Laura: Yes.
Laura: Done.
Taliesin: You're going to lure them out and we're going to hit them when they come out.
Sam: Okay, but wait. I've got to bring them out of a specific gate where there's going to be a trap and if you go in and rescue any other civilians, you have to bring them out through a different gate that doesn't have a trap at it.
Marisha: We're not going to worry about that.
Taliesin: We're not going to evacuate several thousand people, it's just not going to happen.
Sam: Okay.
Laura: We're going to kill Kevdak. He's going to kill Kevdak.
Sam: All right. I'm ready to do this except for a few holes in our plan.
Travis: Yeah, go ahead.
Sam: I don't run very fast. (laughter)
Sam: Maybe if I Polymorph as a goliath, I would have their speed, right?
Ashley: What if you borrow my boots that levitate? Then you can--
Sam: I can't move myself, though, I couldn't just, I would be the Dread Pirate Roberts.
Matt: There will be no survivors.
Ashley: All right, all right, bad idea.
Sam: But if I am Polymorphed as a goliath, would I gain their-- all their abilities and--
Matt: Their movement speed, yes.
Sam: Intelligence?
Matt: Yeah. It's everything--
Taliesin: So why not just look like them and if you need to you can make a bubble?
Liam: You know what would make you move pretty fast is a lady rogue with a flying broom.
Laura: That's true, I could be hiding behind you and drag you.
Taliesin: Could have a rope tied to him.
Matt: However, Polymorph is any beast form, if I recall.
Sam: It can't be a man? He's not a beast, that guy?
Matt: A "beast." Yeah, this, you'd be looking at more of an illusion-based spell like Alter Self.
Sam: Oh, well I don't have that. Oh, I have the hat, but it doesn't make me grow, does it?
Matt: No, you'd be a very, very tiny goliath.
Liam: Maybe they'd think it was perspective fuckery like in the Lord of the Rings movies.
Sam: Well, backup plan, I can go in as dead Reginald.
Liam: His dad is much better.
Sam: They killed him, they just killed him, Kevdak's son killed him, Kevdak's son knows who he is.
Marisha: No. They don't care.
Sam: Sure he does, they just killed him two days ago.
Taliesin: Can you remember who you killed two days ago?
Sam: I can, I remember all of them because I barely kill anybody.
Taliesin: Oh, well, that's fair. I don't think they care who he is.
Travis: Right.
Taliesin: I think you showing up at the front doors is the best option at this point.
Marisha: Scanlan, can you do it with an illusion instead of an actual, physical person? Just an illusion?
Sam: My illusions are small in size. I mean, I could just go in as hey, I'm Mr. Scanlan, come chase after me.
Travis: This is your trick. You pick.
Laura: You could be a fucking triceratops again, for all--
Sam: Are they going to chase after a triceratops, though?
Marisha: It could make theoretical sense if you're still undead Stonejaw, because, you know, decomposition I'm sure shrinks you a little bit.
Ashley: What's something that they would chase after?
Liam: Grog.
Travis: Anything that moves.
Marisha: While you guys figure it out, I'm going to start digging a trench.
Taliesin: I'll help. I'm going to get some--
Marisha: No no no, I'm good. I'm good. You stay. I don't want to blow our cover, I'm going to do this all underground.
Taliesin: All right.
Marisha: So outside of the city I'm going to start digging underground and I'm going to start digging a trench.
Matt: All right. So you're using Move Earth?
Marisha: I'm moving earth, I'm going to go underground. And it lasts up to two hours.
Matt: You're going underground to do it?
Marisha: I want to go underground and tunnel towards--
Matt: Okay, I see, and then create like the trench tunnel underneath, okay.
Marisha: And do-- and I want to make it really thin to where there's a nice thin layer of earth, and then I want to make it really deep.
Matt: Okay, Move Earth is a concentration up to two hours.
Marisha: Uh-huh, and I can concentrate on a 40-square-foot for ten minutes. And each ten minutes I can change it.
Matt: If you're doing a 40-foot square it could be like 20 feet lower for every 40-foot square you can do, yeah.
Marisha: Yeah. Yeah. So real deep.
Matt: Okay. So we'll say over the two-hour period you could create, for a 40-foot square, like a hundred feet deep, 120 feet deep--
Marisha: I want to make sure it's wide enough to cover the whole entrance as well.
Matt: The whole entrance? Okay. So you dig underneath. Stealth check to get close enough. Because in digging, it'll take you most of that duration to dig up to the gate.
Marisha: Uh-huh. Underground.
Matt: Yeah. I'd say, so in order to do this, you have to actually get fairly close before you start digging down there.
Marisha: I rolled a 19.
Matt: 19?
Marisha: And I have a stealth of 11.
Matt: Okay. All right, so. You make your way up there, moving through the grass best you can. The guards that are there are partially (yawns) coming to, you begin to slowly manipulate downward into the ground using a relatively untouched patch of high grass for cover, and pushing your way through. Over the next two hours, you manage to dig a ditch, the width of this entrance is about 40 feet.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: So from end to end, if you just go straight down from there at 20 feet per section every ten minutes, looking at 240 feet deep if you wanted to go the full, although, actually, having to tunnel underneath would probably take-- we'll say 180 feet.
Marisha: 180 feet. That'll do.
Laura: Oh my god, that's amazing.
Marisha: And I can make the ground thin enough to where it's not going to support weight, yeah?
Matt: Yeah, you give yourself enough of a buffer where yeah, you could, might require a bit of a jolt, make an intelligence check.
Marisha: Ah, jeez Louise. Ooh. 19.
Matt: Okay. You feel pretty confident that you've left just enough of a surface that it would support a little bit of weight and maintain its placement. But upon the weight of maybe two humanoid-sized individuals, it would probably crumble beneath.
Marisha: Cool. Cool cool cool. Did I get a little black powder from you?
Taliesin: I did, I gave you a little bit of black powder.
Marisha: Can I put a little black powder in the top of the dirt?
Matt: What is a little bit?
Marisha: Whatever he gave me.
Taliesin: I have a little bit left over. I gave her a third of a barrel worth, like twice this.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: So I pepper it in the top, where if it gets hit it's going to go boom.
Taliesin: I'm going to have to deal with it eventually, but I'm fine at the moment.
Matt: Okay. All right. You pepper it on the earth from underneath. Okay.
Marisha: Maybe it works. Maybe. I don't know.
Taliesin: If it's hit by lightning it should be fine.
Marisha: Okay, okay.
Liam: So Grog's father's too big for you, what about the undead severed head of Grog's father?
Sam: I can make an image of that.
Liam: Floating about in the air with Pike's boots.
Laura: Oh my gosh, a floating severed head?
Liam: Saying nasty, nasty, nasty things at the Herd.
Sam: I can do that.
Travis: But he can't move if he's wearing the boots.
Taliesin: He'll be tied to a rope. You can make it move when it's time.
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: Could you pull him like a balloon?
Sam: I can make the head move.
Marisha: Can you be a floating head inside of a hamster ball?
Sam: I wouldn't need to be the head, I mean, I can't make my body look like a head.
Liam: You can't? I thought you could do anything.
Laura: But you can make the illusion of a head talking.
Sam: I can make the illusion of a head talking. Wizard of Oz-style.
Liam: Can it follow you about?
Marisha: Well, he can be on a roof.
Sam: It would be within 60 feet of me, I think.
Matt: Which one?
Sam: Minor Illusion, I guess.
Matt: Minor Illusion, you could, it's a very minor illusion.
Sam: I know.
Matt: But you could make noise escape from the vicinity of where the head is.
Taliesin: Could I assist with that?
Sam: Because he has Minor Illusion as well.
Matt: If you're close enough to it, it's possible.
Sam: I could also do-- these goliaths, they don't like wyverns. I could be a wyvern.
Laura: The head is so perfect.
Liam: You could be a whole wyvern, but you can't be a goliath?
Sam: It's not a beast, apparently.
Matt: Yeah. Polymorph-- there are higher-level spells that can let you it, but they're a little out of your range.
Sam: A wyvern is a beast?
Taliesin: Okay, we can do the head.
Laura: The head. Be a head! Be a giant, floating, severed head, I like it.
Taliesin: Can you get me out of there once they come to attack?
Laura: Me?
Taliesin: Yes.
Laura: I mean, I can use the tether and tie you to the broom.
Taliesin: I'll be the bait.
Matt: A wyvern is a dragon, it is not a beast.
Sam: Huh?
Matt: A wyvern is a dragon, it is not a beast.
Sam: I cannot be a wyvern.
Taliesin: I can be the bait.
Marisha: With the hat? With your hat?
Ashley: How are you going to be the bait?
Sam: Yeah, how are you going to be the bait?
Taliesin: I'm going to have the severed head of your father talking to them.
Sam: Yes, I can do that too, and I can escape. You can't.
Taliesin: Up to you. All right.
Laura: Do it.
Liam: Do it, Scanlan, do it.
Laura: Come on, Scanlan.
Sam: I mean, I can try. Might be shit. How are you going to hide?
Travis: Can I ask this? Let's say we pick this gate where she's digging out this ditch. What is the terrain like on the outside of the wall next to that gate?
Matt: Because of the building, or the structure of it for about 30 feet on the outside of the wall it's mainly just hard-packed dirt and earth from patrols for hundreds of years going around the wall, whether it be carts, beasts of burden, or just people walking all around the outskirts of the town of Westruun, it's very heavy-packed and often-walked earth.
Travis: Zero cover.
Matt: Zero coverage within 30 feet of it, and the grass does thin as it gets close to that. Keyleth had to pick a specific area and get low and even then had to force her way under and use a good, you know, a quarter of her spell time to be able to dig well enough to get past that space.
Travis: Past 30 feet from the wall, from the edge of town, what kind of cover is there? Is there any?
Matt: Not really.
Travis: Not even the tall grass?
Matt: The grass at that point gets about waist- to knee-high, even less so.
Travis: This is an important thing we need to remember. As we're doing all this, let's just assume that we're us and this'll all go tits-up real quick. We're going to be a fucking long way away from you before we can come to help.
Sam: That's why you're going to send Pike with me. No, I'm just kidding, I would never.
Liam: No, but my sister or I could go with you. One of us.
Sam: That would make me feel quite nice.
Taliesin: Sister's good for an escape route.
Travis: We should at least find a forward operating base, a place where we can watch this unfold from cover and figure out how far away we are from the first act of our show.
Taliesin: Well, if everything goes wrong we meet back here at the very least.
Marisha: I mean, theoretically we'll be stationed throughout, and we'll have our earpieces, correct?
Taliesin: Yeah, but I'm just talking about, what if we have to para-rescue his ass out of a fucking pickle?
Taliesin: That's what Vex is for.
Laura: I'm standing nearby on my broom. I'll fly in and pick him up. He can Dimension Door out, though, very quickly.
Marisha: I also have both of my beast shaping, still, so I can always fly in and evac you.
Travis: How far away are we from the entrance now?
Matt: As you guys have plotted this, and Keyleth has come back to you through the grass after creating this tunnel, I'd say you're about 150, 200 feet out.
Taliesin: That's perfect.
Sam: And we know Westruun.
Matt: Yeah, you know it well.
Sam: And I know how far away from the center of town are we--
Travis: Wait a minute, are there sewers in Westruun?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: It's okay.
Travis: I don't know.
Taliesin: We have that option if it comes to it.
Travis: Yeah, I hadn't thought of that.
Taliesin: It's all right. And again, like any good plan, everything will go wrong.
Laura: Yes.
Laura: Let's do it!
Marisha: Let's do it!
Taliesin: It's time.
Matt: The grass dies, begins to die away, and become in-- not helpful for stealth about 80, 70-80 feet outside the wall.
Marisha: Can we get a Pass Without a Trace while we all get to our positions?
Laura: Fuck yeah.
Matt: Okay. Pass Without a Trace, even so, you can't stealth in the open. In order to stealth, you have to have some way of staying out of sight. Once you get to about 70 feet from the wall, it's basically just open ground and the large wall that surrounds Westruun.
Marisha: I could give us a fog cloud.
Laura: Can you dig a hole under and we can hang out in a hole with something over top of it so we can bust up out, like shallow ground?
Marisha: I've already burned it. I mean, we can still go underground, I have a tunnel built to a certain point.
Laura: But we have to be able to get out of it.
Taliesin: Let's just keep our distance, let's get them out of the castle and coming out at us.
Laura: Okay. And then we go in.
Matt: Okay. So. What's the plan? Who's doing what?
Sam: I go invisible and start walking into town.
Laura: We stay at the very edge, stealthed as fuck.
Taliesin: You're not going into town, why are you going into town? We dug a giant pit in front of the main entrance.
Marisha: Yeah, everyone be mindful of the pit, I point it out to everyone where the pit is so we can go around it.
Matt: Okay. To be fair, yeah, and he is a gnome. He is not a very heavy individual. And you were pretty spot-on-- You're fairly certain it can support the weight of a gnome.
Marisha: I can Polymorph a couple people. No. Sorry. I can Polymorph one person as a stealth kind of deal.
Matt: There are the three guards there, about 20 feet in from the main gate, or the main entranceway, one of which appears to be a female goliath, muscular scar-based torso, very thick, dark, dreaded hair that's pulled tightly to the back of her head and hangs down to the mid-back, and you see two humans that are also as rugged-looking, possibly members of the secondary tribe that they adopted, as was mentioned when you first inquired about the tribe as it currently stands, the Herd. They're all just looking out, bored, one of them is chewing on some dried meat, and they're just keeping an eye out. Scanlan, you've gone invisible and you're approaching the front gate. What are you doing?
Sam: Hey, can you cast Pass Without a Trace on me?
Laura: I already did!
Sam: Okay, good. I'm just going to walk in, straight into town.
Matt: Okay. Yeah. Just for the sake of this, go ahead and make a stealth check. With advantage.
Sam: With advantage.
Matt: Yeah, they have very little chance to even notice.
Sam: So 16 plus--
Laura: Ten.
Sam: Plus two. So 28.
Matt: Yeah. Given the circumstance that you're invisible and that advantage roll, even the quietness of your footsteps, you manage to literally walk within five feet of them without them noticing. You hear some low mutters, some of it's just like broken words, "Stupid hungry--" And the larger female goliath is like, "Shut up. Eyes peeled. I hate this." They look very unhappy about having to be stuck there at this watch. So you've moved past them, now.
Sam: All right, I'm going to go into the-- just the center. We had a scouting party go in and see that-- yes we did, yes we did. It was the center of town, and that's where the key people were around, milling about.
Matt: Yeah, the very center of town is about a 15-minute walk from the outside of town.
Taliesin: We can hear everything that happens.
Matt: How long does your invisibility last?
Sam: An hour.
Matt: An hour. Okay. You start coasting through the town, you come towards a T-intersection of where the road continues forward and turns to the right, you can see a number of the buildings, just like you saw previously on you guys' journey, some of them are charred and black from fires that have been set. Some of them, you do notice as you pass by, large elements of the buildings have just dissolved, melted down by some sort of chemical reaction. Many buildings still stand. You do see that there are broken barrels and crates in the streets, it looks like a lot of what may have been in storage or being brought around as commerce has been ransacked and raided or relocated. You do see a couple carts that are half-broken or just up on the side, with whatever's on the inside pulled out. You do manage to see a couple of horses that were killed during some altercation that were just left rotting in the middle of the street. There are no people visible on the street. Make a perception check.
Laura: What time is it?
Matt: At this point now? In the two hours for you to do that digging, it's close to 10:30, 11:00 in the morning.
Sam: 13.
Matt: 13. Okay. You keep walking past, you don't notice anything that catches your attention. You keep moving towards the center of the town. You start moving through the religious district of the middle of Westruun. Make another perception check.
Sam: 19.
Taliesin: Plus.
Sam: Nothing.
Matt: 19. You glance by what you knew previously in Westruun as the central church of Erathis there. It's a rather, in comparison to the rest of the town, a gaudy temple. But it has been defiled fairly heavily. You can see paint, mud, or some other substance has been smeared across parts of it, portions of the rock have been pushed over and collapsed. You do glance and see a small humanoid peeking through one of the ajar doors that you see, for a second you see a set of eyes, then it sees you and closes the door.
Laura: It saw you?
Sam: Oh, shit. Fuck, he knows I'm there, I got to keep going. I got to keep going, yeah.
Laura: You're invisible!
Sam: Yeah. (laughs) Yeah.
Matt: You keep moving towards the very, very center of town, moving past a couple of other patrols. You've passed, even in just this journey into the center of-- journey to the center of Westruun-- you've passed roughly 30 or so well-armed, relatively savage individuals that mark the same civilized level of Grog, give or take some further steps into society. Many of them are wearing pieces of clothing that have been taken from this town, they're dressed better than their station, you know, rough-looking, big, thick, unshaven faces for the humans, but they're still like dressed in pompous clothing that's partially torn and smeared. They're a walking parody of the people that once ruled this town, and they seem to know it. They're enjoying this gloating. Eventually you make your way to the central town square, which is not far from where the Margrave's home is. This area, you do notice, has been set up as a defensive central location. There are just barriers and barricades of all sorts of furniture that have been nailed together and this has been made an assault post, where if anyone were to attempt to attack the center of this town, this would be a wonderful defensive position for someone to hole up and wait it out, whether it be against other people or a dragon. It has been built with the best of their ability in that regard. And there are a number of weapons that they've taken from the city that have been bolted in, that have been strapped around, so there's just like jagged edges of halberds and whatever blades they could muster in every direction, therefore if anything wasn't being very careful and running through here, they could be easily shoved into one of these hazards or perhaps even pushed onto it as a means of display. Which you do notice, on a number of these, various heads are currently placed as warning symbols, in varying states of decay. You recognize two of the heads. One of which is--
Laura: No no no no no.
Matt: Sorry. One of them you recognize as the Margrave who once ruled Westruun, whose home Kevdak currently keeps as his own. And the other, let's see if I can recall what this one is. I have it written down here.
Taliesin: I like that this is that deep in your notes, is which heads are on spikes.
Matt: Hey, man, got to keep up with this.
Sam: Appendix A  Heads on Spikes, Various.
Matt: (laughs) Pretty much.
Sam: Subappendix  Westruun.
Matt: Ah, okay, here we go. Here we go. Okay. Loran the Bear. Loran the Bear was a mercenary that you guys faced off with the first time that you fought in the brawlers' league. You guys had a playful rivalry? You kept running into each other when looking for various--
Taliesin: It's like a best of season one, that's great.
Sam: The season that didn't air.
Taliesin: The season that didn't air.
Matt: But there you see him, or what remains of him, placed on one of these weapons. It looks like anybody who has attempted to rise up or at least make a stink about the current ruling class in Westruun have been put on display in this square in some way, shape, or form.
Sam: Are there any people? Guards? Goliaths?
Matt: You see a rather heavy group of well-armored goliaths and other savage-looking humanoid individuals. Mostly human, you see a couple half-orcs, but it's a total of ten of them that are all currently scattered throughout this central area, some of them just sitting down, snacking, a few that are just keeping watch, and a number that are hovering in and out of the door of the main area, giving orders and carrying some small supplies around.
Sam: Okay. So I'll just quickly-- are you guys ready?
Marisha: Do we want to get up on the wall? There's like a wall, right, around the city?
Sam: Yeah, but I'm in the center of the city.
Matt: Right. Also, there's no response.
Laura: Oh, he's out of range. Shit.
Sam: Do you know what the range is on that?
Matt: The range on those earpieces are roughly two miles.
Sam: Two miles.
Laura: He's out of two miles' range?
Matt: Well yeah, Westruun's a pretty big town, and it's--
Laura: It's a 15-minute walk, though.
Sam: Yeah, I walk fast.
Laura: You're a fast walker for a gnome.
Marisha: He really is a really fast walker.
Taliesin: Okay, go ahead.
Marisha: I cast Polymorph on Percy and turn him into a crow.
Taliesin: (eerily good crow noise)
Laura: Oh, again with the crows.
Marisha: Also, I use my beast shape to go into a crow. (crow noise)
Taliesin: (eerily good crow noise)
Marisha: (crow noise)
Taliesin: That's good enough, that's good.
Marisha: And we fly to the walls and perch on opposite sides on the entrance.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Look, your god is here to help us.
Marisha: (crow noises)
Laura: She sounds like shit.
Marisha: (a panoply of crow noises)
Taliesin: (a panoply of crow noises)
Matt: Stop it.
Taliesin: Sorry. (laughter)
Taliesin: It's really pleasing.
Matt: All right. You guys are perched on the edges of that. Scanlan, what're you doing?
Sam: So much. So much.
Laura: I feel like this is the first time I've seen you at a loss.
Travis: Look at those eyes.
Laura: Oh god.
Taliesin: Don't you want her to read the note?
Sam: Yeah, I go over to where the most people are congregated.
Matt: That's going to be right at the steps of the Margrave's manor.
Sam: I position myself about seven feet away from them.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: And I cast Thunderwave.
Matt: And with that, (explosion), this burst of thunder comes blasting out centrally from where you are located, Scanlan. The DC on this, with your--
Sam: Thunderwave. Oh, is it spell?
Matt: It's spell, what's your DC?
Sam: 20.
Matt: 20.
Taliesin: Oh shit.
Matt: Okay. Six fail, one succeeds on this save. So you hit them and they're all forced backwards, some of them up onto the stairs, some against the wall. Roll 2d8 points of damage.
Liam: Ragdoll physics.
Sam: 2d8?
Matt: Mm-hmm.
Sam: No, it's-- oh, that's, you're right.
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: 11 plus something? No, I guess it's just 11.
Matt: It's just 11. All right, and one of them takes five points of damage and (impact sound) looks down at this little gnome that's there.
Sam: No, no, I'm still invisible. It's not a concentration spell.
Matt: Invisibility, I'm pretty sure that as soon as you do--
Sam: Oh, fuck.
Matt: The spell ends for a target that attacks or casts a spell.
Sam: Casts a spell?
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: Even though it's a concentration spell?
Matt: Yeah, you can cast other instantaneous spells, but as soon as you cast a spell you become visible.
Sam: What?
Matt: High-level invisibility, improved invisibility is the one that remains.
Sam: Oh well, I'm fucked, then. (laughter)
Taliesin: Yes!
Matt: I'll say, do you have Greater Invisibility?
Sam: No. I can cast it at a greater level, but no, I don't have Greater Invisibility.
Matt: Yeah, at that moment you suddenly become visible.
Taliesin: Roll with it, roll with it.
Sam: Hi guys. Hi.
Marisha: But you're Scanlan, you can do this.
Matt: The surprise round, they weren't expecting it. Roll initiative right now.
Marisha: Oh shit.
Laura: Oh my god, Scanlan, run.
Sam: 16.
Matt: Rolled a one. I'm rolling them group initiative on this one, because I don't want to roll six different initiatives in this order. They all look at you dumbfounded. "We got an intruder!" Pull out their weapons, get ready. Two of them (growl) at you really angrily. What are you doing?
Sam: Fuck!
Matt: What are you doing, Sam?
Sam: This is not the plan!
Taliesin: No! No!
Travis: Don't say a thing, don't say shit.
Laura: Okay, yeah yeah, it's all you.
Sam: (mock-crying) At least I know that Pike didn't read the letter, though, so I'm okay. (laughter)
Taliesin: At the end of this fight, can I have your tie? I mean, you're not going to need it anymore.
Travis: Come on, what are you doing?
Sam: Okay. I'll Dimension Door into the house where the guy's eyeballs were.
Travis: Yes! I like it.
Matt: Wait, on the, to the house--
Sam: The house where I saw the guy who was peeking and saw me, he saw me, I'm going in there.
Matt: Oh!
Laura: What?
Liam: Smart.
Matt: How far is the range on Dimension Door?
Sam: 500 feet. Was that long ago or recently?
Matt: Wait, so. You were peeking, are you referring to the--
Sam: The guy who saw me as invisible.
Matt: Right. Okay, got you. All right, so you're going to that temple. That's probably about 1000 feet from you, you can Dimension Door closer to it.
Sam: Yes, I could. I could. Okay, okay. This is exciting, this is so exciting, nothing's working. Okay, yes, I will go toward it 500 feet.
Matt: Okay. You appear to the back end and around the road, just around the corner from where the entrance to that area is, so you're a little ways away. As you appear, catching your breath, you look over your shoulder and you hear in the distance more, a couple yells, and a bell starts going off (ringing) in the center of the town square.
Sam: It's going great, guys.
Laura: Do we hear the bell?
Matt: You guys can hear in the very distance a series of bells beginning to go (ringing).
Taliesin: Oh, sweet Jesus.
Matt: What're you doing now?
Sam: Well, they haven't caught up to me, right?
Matt: No no, you just moved 500 feet in one second, they have no idea where you went. You just showed up, went "Bye!" and vanished out.
Liam: Bell is bad. He's in trouble, we need to go in now.
Sam: I'm going to go again, Dimension Door into the temple.
Matt: Okay, you do see the temple. You're on the interior of it now, and looking inside you know a portion of it is collapsed, there's an open view on the second level where a whole corner of the secondary floor and first floor have fallen in, big pile of rubble, you can see the sky. There as you appear, you look around, you hear a series of gasps as you can now see huddled inside of this temple roughly 30 or so people, varying ages, varying racial backgrounds. These are some of the survivors in Westruun that are keeping in here, whether it be hidden, or at least this is where they live now. They look in various states of personal brutality that's been put against them, some of them are wounded, a few of them draw weapons immediately, and turning around, you see hunkered down inside a half-orc that rushes around, his hat half-kilter, his coat up with his shoulder, mantle part of his collar pressed upward, spins around, puts his blade out. "You've got to be kidding me. Scanlan Shorthalt."
Sam: That's me.
Matt: As Dr. Dranzel stands there before you. (cheering)
Matt: They themselves look a little worse for wear, and he looks over his shoulder and says, "Well shit, Kaylie, weren't you just talking about him yesterday?" As your daughter stands behind him, holding two of the children, trying to protect them as you appeared. She looks up at you and goes, "Oh, you've got to be kidding me." And that's where we'll end tonight's game. (yelling)
Travis: Perfect! Perfect, perfect.
Taliesin: Put that on like a Japanese businessman.
Liam: By the way, this one, under her breath, goes, "Oh I don't like him, he stole from me."
Sam: That's all you can think about?
Laura: Why am I cheering? He stole from us.
Sam: They're going to fucking save my life.
Liam: Well, maybe he needed it to save the world.
Matt: It's all survival. All right, then we'll pick it up from there next week.
Travis: Jesus. That was a hell of a 50th. Fuck's sake!
Taliesin: Why did we even bother to plan?
Taliesin: Why do we even bother to plan?
Marisha: Why do we even bother to plan?
Travis: It's going perfect! It's going perfectly. We are still on the rails. It is working.
Taliesin: We are still on the rails, it'll be great.
Marisha: I spent a 6th-level spell building that trench, it had better come in handy.
Ashley: It will, it will.
Taliesin: We're all going to fall and die in it, it's going to be great.
Liam: Scanlan is drunken master.
Matt: All righty, guys, we're going to go ahead and take a few minutes here to hunker down and prepare for the savage unwrapping of many presents that you, the community of Critical Role, have put in our direction. All of us so eternally undeserving, but so incredibly appreciative of all that you guys do, both to help with the charities that we support and spend your time being so awesome and creative and we're going to go ahead and--
Sam: Matt, though, but what are we going to do with the minutes while we're not on camera right now? How do we fill the airtime?
Matt: We'll, I'm sure, have a few videos to show that may also include our new intro.
Taliesin: Again! Again!
Marisha: Again! Again!
Laura: Again! Again!
Marisha: We're mainly doing this for our own selfishness. [end of transcript]

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello, everyone, and welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play Dungeons and Dragons. Yeah! Before we get started for the day, let's get into some of our quick announcements. First off, happy to be back. Me, Marisha, and Taliesin were gone for a better part of two weeks. We missed you guys. We actually met a few Critters around the desert with us.
Laura: Oh, really?
Matt: Yeah.
Liam: You were in Connecticut for a week, right?
Matt: Yeah!
Travis: Were they dressed up like they were from Marquet?
Matt: Basically, yeah.
Travis: Oh, really?
Matt: (laughs) It was really cool but we were happy to be back--
Taliesin: How do you want to burn this?
Travis: Spice? Spice? Spice?
Matt: Spice? Spice? Spice? Do you spice?
Laura: Everybody spices at Burning Man. I'm pretty sure.
Matt: Sam will be about an hour late tonight. Unfortunately, he has work pushing later in the evening than normally would be, but he'll be joining us as soon as he possibly can. So he'll be on his way. Let's see, also a big round of applause for Liam running an awesome one-shot last week. Once again, well done, man.
Liam: I just wanted to see Travis show his true self.
Travis: I don't know what you mean, sir.
Taliesin: No spoilers!
Liam: It worked.
Matt: Oh, it's great. Anyway, let's get back in the swing of things here. Announcements real fast if you want to start with this, Travis.
Travis: Yes! Our week's amazing episode is brought to you by Loot Crate! And their theme for this month, the month of September, is Speed. They've got amazing, high-octane titles like: Speed, Battlestar Galactica, Iron Man, Gone in 60 Seconds, Arrow, Batman, CW's The Flash, plus many more.
Laura: The fastest things ever!
Travis: I'm telling you, like that announcement. They got collectibles, a figure, and as always, a monthly t-shirt that looks amazing.
Marisha: Yeah. It's always stylish.
Travis: You can get your hands on some of that sweet, nasty Loot Crate swag by going to www.lootcrate.com/criticalrole for $3 off your monthly subscription. You do it. You get it. And Goku's on the table. He stays--
Laura: Because you bite Goku through the game. I don't understand it.
Travis: He's got pointy hair. I like chewing on things!
Marisha: So wait, has this been an ongoing thing. Did this start last week and I missed it?
Travis: If it's not that, it's pen or pencils. I digress. Loot Crate, thank you!
Taliesin: Loot Crate  you can put it in your mouth!
Travis: You can?
Taliesin: You do! Probably shouldn't, but you can.
Matt: Marisha, did you want to talk a little bit about a cool thing we have coming up now?
Marisha: I do. We have a new product that we're coming out with. We teamed up with our friends over at Espionage Cosmetics to come out with Critical Role nail wraps! We've got make-up now because that's how cool we are.
Laura: They look really, really awesome.
Marisha: Yes, and so there's some that are blue with our logo on them on silver. And then we have red ones that say "How do you want to do this?"
Taliesin: It's like a blood red with a little bit of black splatter--
Marisha: And they glow in the dark. What?
Travis: They do?
Taliesin: Yes, they do.
Marisha: Yes, they do.
Laura: Shebang! This is the blood splatter one.
Marisha: And when you open the package, they're brought to you--
Taliesin: Can you do it?
Marisha: Yeah, I got this. I always rip them. But when you open it, they're from Gilmore's Glorious Goods.
Travis: Oh snap!
Laura: There he is on the inside.
Marisha: Yeah, brought to you Gilmore.
Matt: Pretty fantastic.
Laura: That's so awesome, man.
Marisha: Uh-huh. So yes, you can go get them right now. They are available tonight.
Laura: In the store.
Marisha: In the store.
Matt: So you can go ahead and make sure your nails look absolutely glorious.
Marisha: And we tried to make them like unisex because people like Taliesin like to rock the nail wraps.
Taliesin: Yes I do. I love rocking nail wraps.
Laura: I have a feeling you would rock the nails, wouldn't you, Liam?
Liam: Unicorn sex?
Laura: What? Anywho, also available in the store tonight is a plethora of new merchandise for you guys. I know we've had a lack of it lately. Okay, I've got to say it all because it's really exciting. Okay, we have these badges, they come in a set of five--
Travis: Hold your badges up.
Liam: Badges?
Laura: Oh, I took yours. They come in a set of five, they were limited edition at Comic Con so we have some left and so we put them in the store. They're super awesome. So those are available right now, but they are limited.
Travis: How do you want to do this, Gilmore's Glorious Goods, the Slayer's Take.
Laura: What's the other thing that's limited? Oh, the nail wraps, right.
Marisha: Oh, also there are Geek and Sundry nail wraps.
Taliesin: There also are some new Geek and Sundry nail wraps that have a blue and white thing and the little logo and I haven't seen if they're glow in the dark yet and I haven't looked yet, but I definitely have an outfit that these are going to work with so I'm taking these home.
Marisha: Okay.
Laura: We also have the rings back in stock.
Marisha: What?
Laura: Don't, baby, don't flip off everybody. So those we have a limited amount of-- Don't! I had a fly on my food.
Travis: A one?
Laura: Oh no, you really did roll a one!
Travis: This shit never ends.
Laura: Those are limited. Also, something that's going to be in store for a long time is my favorite thing ever, the Critical Role mug. As seen on Blindspot by Patterson. Yeah, so we finally had these in the store and these are made to order, but they are going to stay in the store so order them and whatever. In addition to those, we have things on pre-order that are going to stay in the store for a couple weeks and that is this amazing bracelet. You can check it all out at the store. It's there right now. It says "How do you want to do this?" it's got our logo on it, how badass is that?
Travis: We already have ours because they're amazing. It's got like a raised CR too.
Laura: And these are on pre-order too. You know you can't see them on this shot, I'm sure it's not close enough, but you can go on the store and you can see an awesome view of them and they're enamel pins of our logo and also a "How do you want to do this?" So you can put them on your jean jacket or your backpack or your hat.
Liam: Like flair.
Laura: Like flair. You can wear them on your apron if you work at Bennigan's or TGI Fridays.
Travis: Rep your CR love, we'll slap your hands. Like in a high five, not in a bad way. Like slap hands.
Laura: So that's all the amazingness that we have.
Liam: These are sick.
Laura: That's a lot.
Taliesin: No, I know it's been slowly building and it's this sudden--
Liam: Making it rain!
Marisha: All the shit. Live crit strong.
Matt: That's Travis for the rest of the game.
Travis: My OCD wife will slaughter me.
Laura: Yeah, I really will.
Matt: Good. It never ceases to be the strangest thing to see a phrase that I organically made up in my home game is now on patches and pins. It's so weird. That's so weird.
Taliesin: I'm glad that we finally have these. We had to fight to get these at Comic Con.
Matt: Yeah. (phone notification beep)
Laura: Who didn't silence their phone?
Marisha: It's always Tal.
Taliesin: It's Sam, though!
Laura: Oh, is he here?
Taliesin: He's heading this way in about 20 minutes, so he should be here 20 minutes after that.
Liam: He's just leaving El Segundo.
Matt: All right guys, that being the case, let's go ahead and bring it down unless we have any other announcements. Do we have anything else?
Travis: Negative.
Laura: No. No, no, no.
Matt: All right, let's bring it in after a two week pause to the main story of Vox Machina, tonight's episode of Critical Role. [dramatic music]
Matt: Welcome back. So, last we left off, Vox Machina, in their perpetual quest to take down the Chroma Conclave and the path of destruction they've swept across all of Tal'Dorei and continents beyond, they found themselves going to the continent of Marquet, across the central desert, meeting the parents of Gilmore, and coming to the city, the jewel of Marquet known as Ank'Harel. You found yourself wandering the streets, meeting curious individuals. Our gnome apparently has made a spice deal that is to come to fruition at some point in the near future. In search of the bearer of one of the Vestiges of Divergence you have been seeking, in preparation of your battle with Thordak, as well as seeking allies in this strange, new interesting city. Through the continuous and perpetual threat of evil forces in the world, you found a hookah bar and got fuzzy drunk on a form of sandkheg-based liquor. You learned a bit about the city, about the culture, you learned from Jarett some good possible tips on how to engage with the people around the town.
Laura: Oh, be pleased.
Matt: Yes, be pleased.
Liam: Beep-beep.
Travis: Beep-beep.
Matt: And you guys made your way towards the Cerulean Palace in the center of the city. After being balked by the Hand of Ord upon arrival you were then greeted by the Grand Maven and given entry to the Cerulean Palace. Upon passing up a large translucent blue tower, above the city of Ank'Harel-- not Emon, I was tired--
Marisha: We knew what you meant.
Matt: I know, I figured you guys would be all right with that. And eventually opened into a central chamber at the very top of this tower that overlooks the majority of the desert from this position that you can see. There were large windows across the entirety of this circular room, there was a raised platform in the center, balcony across the opposite way, and sitting atop this throne in the center made of brass and sapphire you met an individual, seemingly the ruler for a long time of this city. The androgynous long-living figure known as J'mon Sa Ord. And that is we're picking up this--
Travis: And the Grand Maven took us up there?
Matt: Yes.
Marisha: And we saw him and we met him, right? He was like "hello."
Matt: Just greeted you when we left off.
Laura: He knew who we were.
Marisha: Right.
Matt: He? She? You're not quite sure what the sex is of this figure specifically. The fine features, elongated limbs, and long dark hair seem to deflect trying to pin down a lot of details about the history or source of where this individual came from. However, they have risen from the throne, bowed deeply, and greeted you, "Welcome to Ank'Harel, heroes of Tal'Dorei. I am J'mon Sa Ord. It is my pleasure to greet you," and gave you a soft bow. "Your arrival has not escaped my whispers and I'm curious if your presence means what I think it means."
Laura: What do you think it means exactly?
Matt: "I have heard our skyport access to Emon was balked by dragon attack. I would hope the problem would be sorted by now for the purposes of our vast trade network. And you've arrived, I hope with good news."
Travis: Oh, yeah, it's like a mixed bag. A little good, a little bad.
Marisha: Hmm, I'd say it's mostly bad.
Travis: It's mostly bad.
Taliesin: It's good news in progress.
Marisha: Hmm, mostly bad.
Taliesin: My version of good news in progress.
Laura: We are making headway. We've taken down one.
Taliesin: We have a problem that, as far as I know, has never been accounted for in the history of civilization. The dragons are cooperating with one another. We are fighting not one dragon, but a conclave of dragons. All cooperating towards the destruction and sublimation of man.
Marisha: It seems as if this is an extermination.
Liam: Mostly successful.
Taliesin: Mostly.
Laura: They mostly come at night.
Travis: Mostly.
Taliesin: They plan at dawn.
Matt: "So you say these dragons are working together, attacking and destroying. I assume they are of the chromatic origin then?"
Laura: Yes.
Matt: "Working together is quite strange. Hmm. What else can you tell me of this threat?"
Laura: A great ancient red one known as the Cinder King is sitting on Emon.
Marisha: He appears to be their leader.
Taliesin: He was released somehow from the Plane of Fire.
Laura: By a green dragon, Raishan.
Matt: "Raishan. I do not recognize this name. What is the name of the red you speak of, this Cider King?"
Travis: Thordak.
Matt: There's a subtle reaction from the creature before you. Draws back and narrows their gaze a bit at the mention of the name. "Thordak, yes. (scoffs) I recall this name. A foolish drake from the Scaldwind Sands who saw, unwisely, to threaten my domain many years ago. We cut his heart and watched him sink beneath the ocean. This creature you speak of, I do not think it is the same Thordak."
Travis: No?
Marisha: Why wouldn't it be?
Matt: "Because I watched him die."
Travis: Oh! But our Thordak, he has like this thing that is at the center of his chest right? It's like a jewel.
Laura: It's replaced his heart, potentially.
Travis: And if you sliced his original maybe he upgraded.
Taliesin: Or perhaps someone brought him back to life.
Laura: Not unheard of.
Matt: "So this beast that harries you, you are certain it goes by the name Thordak?"
Laura: Certain.
Matt: "What proof do you have of this being the same beast?"
Taliesin: Other than his heart obviously having been previously maimed in some way, we have no proof that it could be the same beast. We were not here. But even if it isn't the same beast, the fact that a dragon takes its name should trouble you.
Liam: And we've heard of your success before and were hoping you could offer us a little guidance.
Taliesin: It is an old dragon--
Matt: "The Thordak that came to war here was not quite as large and powerful as you seem to say this one is."
Laura: How long ago was it?
Matt: "This was centuries ago, the city was but maybe 100, 150 years at the time."
Laura: He could have grown by then.
Marisha: Yes, I'm afraid we're not talking about a drake anymore, we're talking about an ancient, full-grown dragon.
Taliesin: God knows how time works in the Fire Elemental Plane, he may be much older than time has allowed.
Travis: With respect, you were here centuries ago?
Matt: The creature known as J'mon Sa Ord, they steeple their fingers and glance over to you-- at head height with you practically, even stepping down from the platform.
Travis: Oh shit.
Matt: "I have been here for some time, yes."
Travis: I've got to get your diet sometime, that's amazing.
Taliesin: Grog, in general it is impolite to query the age of any being. In general.
Travis: Oh right.
Taliesin: I would have assumed you would know that by now.
Travis: (stammers) Beep-beep.
Matt: The still-narrowed black eyes, with a tiny pinpoint of molten metal peeking through, relax. The arms go from a steepled position to a cross and now a look of curiosity comes across their face. "If this is truth, then how do you plan to fell this everburning worm?"
Laura: That is the question, isn't it? We're collecting items. Vestiges of power. Hopefully with them in tow, we will be able to gather armies to combat Thordak. We know we can't take him on alone.
Taliesin: We're also gathering allies and we've already destroyed several of his companion dragons.
Matt: "You have?"
Taliesin: We have.
Laura: Well, a couple.
Travis: And we did recon on a third.
Taliesin: Preparing to kill a white dragon.
Matt: "So am I to understand that you are spearheading this endeavor?"
Marisha: Well. It's sort of unofficially.
Taliesin: We're as surprised as anyone, yes.
Marisha: You know, we didn't necessarily ask for this, it just fell in our lap.
Travis: It fell on our city, actually.
Marisha: Yeah, that's true. Our keep came crashing down on around us and then we were committed.
Matt: "Very well, then what do you want from J'mon Sa Ord?"
Taliesin: Perhaps, if it comes to it, a little bit of help possibly collecting the Vestige that we are looking for in this city, that we are currently, hopefully, collecting and being on our way with, causing as little noise in the city as humanly possible. We are aware that is complicated for people like us. And perhaps an ally in the coming battles to come. It may, I would imagine, please you to perhaps meet these dragons on foreign shores as opposed to in your city walls.
Laura: It's only a matter of time. If we can't defeat them in Emon, he will spread his territory.
Taliesin: If it is the dragon that you remember, he will come here, and if it isn't the dragon you remember, the fact that he took that name means that he will come here.
Matt: "This city is well protected. I am not worried about this dragon or dragons you speak. I am protector here and we are warded against such threats."
Liam: But you would like to awaken trade with Emon again, yes?
Matt: "This does interest me as there is quite a stake in the roads we've built with Tal'Dorei."
Liam: Is there anything you can share with us from your encounter back then? It would help.
Matt: "The creature once known as Thordak had begun to grow tired of his meager dominion in the Scaldwind Sands, began to reach out with his many feral kobold armies and various serpentine followers, decided that the very jewel of our city was perhaps a good throne to sit upon. And, much to its foolish intent, attacked not knowing what it was after. We struck down its armies and for two weeks there was battle between the skies of here and the northern mountains before we took a fell strike against the beast. It escaped to the north and attempted to flee beyond the ocean's waters, but we caught up to it, struck it down, and watched it fall into the fathoms. If this is the same beast you say, then it is uncanny it could survive such an encounter and would say it is even more dangerous having learned from these past struggles."
Liam: Do you think you simply wore it down or was there some angle you used?
Matt: "I have my ways. We have our ways. Well, you wish my aid?"
Taliesin: We do.
Matt: "You go running into the furnace and you wish me to be at your side?"
Laura: Well, we don't run into the furnace willingly.
Travis: Or hastily.
Taliesin: The furnace is the only exit. We wish to just borrow an asbestos coat.
Matt: "Hmm." There's a brief pause as J'mon looks past and seems to peer through each of you, scanning back and forth with those strange smoldering pupils.
Travis: Uh-oh.
Matt: "You look able-bodied and strong of will. However, I have watched many of your kind with these same traits waltz into oblivion before. I will not risk myself or my city by backing a fool's whim. Show me what you are capable of, fellows of Vox Machina. Show the Soul of the Desert Jewel what you are capable of." And J'mon Sa Ord begins to step back-- (mechanical whirring)
Matt: What is that?
Laura: What is that?
Liam: What strange powers do you wield?
Taliesin: He's using a hydraulic pump! He's an imagineer!
Travis: He's omnipotent!
Marisha: It's animatronic!
Travis: That was like the best sound cue ever.
Matt: You hear the cracking and the rumbling of something in the distance as J'mon Sa Ord steps back and fades from view.
Laura: Ugh, come on!
Matt: You hear a latching of stone behind you as it seems the Grand Maven has stepped back into the platform you arrived in and closed it behind you.
Travis: Oh good.
Matt: Another loud crack hits the air around you (loud grinding) and you watch as, over past the other side of the room where the balcony stands, a looming shadow plummets out from seemingly the sky itself and lands, smashing onto the marble floor of the exterior, its silhouette humanoid, but swollen, across the sunlight that's pushing past from beyond.
Travis: Sam is here, somebody go get Sam! Sam's at the door.
Matt: Blue dust and pebbles tumble across the archway from the balcony to your side coming to rest. The shape squeezes through the balcony arch into the room. What you see is a thick-limbed silhouette marching into the throne chamber, a 15-foot-tall armored structure of intricate decorated cobalt plates and iron bulk dragging a massive cleaver-like blade with one arm and a clenched boulder-like fist in the other. Two burning white flames flare as eyes within its solid helmet. I need you all to roll initiative.
Travis: What? Man, you just got back in town!
Laura: We just got here!
Liam: Fetch the gnome!
Marisha: The gnome is just in time.
Travis: And a map?
Laura: Why don't we have Fassbender with us?
Marisha: Oh yeah, where is Fassbender?
Taliesin: Fassbender is busy being a good guy.
Marisha: Fassbender's with Wilhand.
All: Hey!
Laura: Sam, we're all going to die!
Marisha: We just rolled initiative.
Sam: So I have some questions for the leader of-- oh, what?
Travis: Some shit went down, he asked us--
Sam: I know. I'm with this.
Taliesin: I brought you some stickers from Burning Man.
Sam: Thank you.
Travis: I got you.
Matt: Apparently the character minis were not brought to the table. Be with you in a moment when those arise.
Liam: Got to shake off that Burning Man.
Marisha: He's like a big iron samurai.
Taliesin: That is everything I've ever hoped for.
Liam: Percy wishes he created that.
Taliesin: I am definitely having a little bit of Tony Stark porn moment right now. I want to wear it like a suit.
Matt: Initiative orders. 25 to 20.
Laura: Anybody? 25 to 20?
Sam: Wait, let me roll this.
Laura: Wait, let me see. Oh, I think he got something good. No.
Liam: What did you roll? What did you roll, Grog?
Travis: 17.
Matt: 25 to 20. No one? 20 to 15.
Taliesin: 18.
Laura: 17.
Liam: 19.
Laura: Oh, I was wrong. 14. I added wrong. Shit.
Liam: 19.
Travis: 17.
Matt: What did you get, Percy?
Taliesin: 18.
Matt: 18, right. Okay, so Vax, Percy, Grog.
Travis: That thing is huge.
Matt: All right, 15 to ten.
Marisha: 12.
Sam: 14.
Laura: 14 as well! All right, here we go. And then a fucking 20 again as soon as I--
Sam: (sings dramatic music)
Taliesin: The sound of you slowly dying.
Laura: What are those clear blocks? Are those glass?
Matt: Those are the windows.
Taliesin: That's like the DND version of those awful glass bricks from the 80s.
Matt: Keyleth, 12?
Marisha: Yeah, 12.
Matt: All right and what did you get again?
Laura: 14.
Sam: And he's a test? We're not to kill anyone else in the room?
Marisha: Right.
Taliesin: I don't think he's real, we just have to kill him.
Matt: As the entity bursts its way into the room, its flaming eyes flare. Vax, you have the beginning of this encounter, what do you want to do?
Liam: Going to click the boots together and I'm going to slide over this way, between those two windows I'm closest to.
Matt: Between there?
Liam: Yeah. All the way to the wall.
Matt: All the way to the wall?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Right there?
Liam: Yeah.
Travis: (singing) To the windows!
Liam: I'm going to dagger and dagger and dagger him. Okay, first one is 24.
Matt: Hits!
Liam: Second one I'm going to reroll with Luck. Second one-- Balls! It's 16.
Matt: Is this your last Luck of the day? Because you haven't rested.
Liam: That's two. That's my second. I've been checking them off.
Matt: Second? Okay.
Liam: The third one is 24 as well.
Matt: All right, so what was it? 24?
Liam: It was 24, 15 or 16, and 24 again.
Matt: So second one misses. The first and last hit.
Liam: First and last. Okay. Give me the pyramid and I go and get nine, plus I have advantage so I get sneak attack, so that's nine plus 14, 19, 20, 26, 30-- 36 for the first.
Matt: What was that?
Travis: 36.
Liam: 36.
Liam: And the second gets ten.
Matt: All right, 46 points of damage, first round of attacks from Vax. Well done. The blades hit and streak off, and you can see portions of the iron plates between the cobalt armor seem to have carved grooves into them and it's actually made an impact on the outside of the creature. That end your turn?
Liam: That ends my turn.
Matt: All right, Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: Okay, I'm going to, first of all, cast Hex on this creature.
Travis: Attaboy!
Laura: Thanks for the reminder, because now I'm going to do Hunter's Mark.
Taliesin: Going to cast my Hex and then I'm going to start gentle. I'm going to take three shots with the Retort pistol, including the first one is going to be an attempt at a headshot.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: So that's a burn a grit. Come on, I know it's been two weeks. Don't be angry. Don't be a cat, be a dog, just be happy to see me. And it's happy to see me! That's a 31.
Matt: 31 hits.
Taliesin: My cats were not happy. That's terrible! Hold on. Sorry. That's 12 points of piercing damage-- oh no, sorry, that's seven points of piercing damage, five points of necrotic damage. And he has disadvantage on strength checks.
Matt: Okay! Disadvantage on strength checks.
Taliesin: And he has to make a constitution saving throw.
Matt: Okay. That is a 22.
Taliesin: I don't like him.
Matt: As a note  the first shot, it hits the head and bounces off, seemingly no effect. There's a little bit of necrotic seep into the armor that seems to have affected it to a small extent, but the bullets seem to have almost no effect on its form.
Travis: Really?
Sam: But Liam's did?
Taliesin: No, yeah, Liam's not doing piercing damage.
Laura: Yes he does, he does piercing damage. But it seemed to get through less than--
Liam: Magic?
Marisha: Are your bullets not magic?
Taliesin: The bullets are not magic. My bullets are bullets!
Sam: Maybe it's because they're projectiles?
Taliesin: Okay, good to know! That could go really poorly!
Marisha: Is he made of metal? Or is he a big dude in a metal suit?
Taliesin: We don't know.
Matt: You don't know.
Taliesin: So that's good to know. I'm going to take another shot at the helmet for a headshot.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Spread. Out.
Laura: Where? I don't even see where we are!
Travis: We're over there, in front of the throne.
Taliesin: 27.
Matt: 27 hits!
Taliesin: Better! 16 points of piercing damage, three points of necrotic. And another constitution saving throw.
Matt: Constitution saving throw. That is an 18.
Taliesin: He now has disadvantage on attacks until the end of his next turn.
Matt: Okay. This one does hit the head, and it seems to knock it off to the side and one of the flames flutters for a second, but leaves no impact or damage against the helmet.
Travis: You are kidding me. So is it fair to say that 16 points of damage didn't happen?
Taliesin: At the moment, I'm blowing bullets not for damage; I'm blowing bullets for effect at the moment. This is all effect-based, I'm not trying to damage him right now.
Marisha: (singing) She blinded me with science!
Taliesin: (singing) Blinded me with science! I have one more shot, so I guess I'm going to take it. And for shits and giggles, I'm going to take a Sharpshooter shot.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: Fuck me. 19. 27?
Matt: 27 hits.
Taliesin: 21 points of piercing damage, four points of necrotic.
Matt: Okay. Once again it ricochets off with a flash of sparks and energy. You can see the necrotic seems to have left this slight burn against the plate, but the bullet has left no groove in the armor.
Taliesin: All right, that's cool. I'm putting the gun down, and I'm going to back up. I'm going to pull to my left. And I'm going to try and get against the wall, not the glass!
Matt: All righty. End of your turn?
Taliesin: End of my turn.
Matt: Grog, you're up.
Travis: It's time to wake up, boys and girls! So I would like to rage. Am I in front of the throne? That's me, right? That big, proud fuck over there? Can I run as far as my little feet can carry me, over in front of Percy and more towards along the wall?
Matt: Okay, so. (counting) 50 is where you can get right there.
Travis: Yeah, that's cool. I'm cool with that. I'm not in front of that window, right? More in front of the wall?
Matt: It's just to the right of you.
Travis: Okay, sweet. May I attach the Chain of Returning to my bloodaxe, and throw it at said giant bastard?
Matt: You may! What is the range on it?
Travis: 120 feet, on the Chain of Returning. Yes. No. Is that right?
Matt: No, that's not right. I thought it was 30, it's a pretty short distance to throw it.
Travis: Oh shit, is it? I don't have it!
Sam: It's like a thousand feet.
Travis: We're a little rusty.
Laura: How tall would you say this guy is?
Matt: This guy? 15 feet.
Laura: He's 15 feet tall, Grog. 15 feet.
Travis: Uh-huh. Chain of Returning! It doesn't say! It must be attached. Melee weapon. Thrown. Bonus action: athletics strength check provided to pull the thing out. No distance. It's even laminated.
Matt: Okay. It's a 30-foot distance, just like most throwing weapons would be.
Travis: Damn it. You know what? Since I'm raging, I take out the Javelin of Lightning and I'll throw that!
Matt: All righty!
Travis: That'll work. Oh, and I'll make it a reckless attack. That's good because that's a two. And that's a four.
Laura: Oh my god, is this is the dice that was fucking you last week!?
Travis: Yeah, but I've got a lot to-- no, it's not! Don't start with your juju. It's 18.
Matt: 18. As you throw the javelin, it hits the shoulder pauldron and scrapes off, firing out of the balcony, and over the edge
Laura: No! Accio Lightning Javelin. He just lost the Lightning Javelin out the window.
Sam: Jesus. We'll get it later, we'll go get it later.
Taliesin: That's what you get for playing with it in the house.
Travis: That ends my turn.
Liam: Six seconds later  (screams). (laughter)
Marisha: Sorry, Steve!
Liam: "I'm all right!"
Matt: All righty. It is now the cobalt golem's turn.
Laura: Okay. I like how we're clustered right there. It's fun, it's really fun. Yay.
Matt: It's dragging the cleaver behind it, scraping it across the grounds of this palace room as it moves. As it comes sauntering up, its large leg movement, taking large strides against the floor, leaving a small crack under each footfall. It turns around. The blade isn't getting ready to fight, instead its flames curl up and darken, and you watch as its neck opens up to this dark space underneath and it (roars). This fume of purplish blue mist seems to spill out in front of it.
Laura: No!
Travis: Oh no, he's reaching for something.
Laura: Oh no! Area of effect.
Sam: As he attacks, can I use Cutting Words to reduce the attack?
Laura: Yeah, Scanlan, do that!
Matt: You are more than welcome to try.
Travis: That's a no.
Sam: I'll try.
Matt: So you use your Cutting Words.
Sam: Yeah, I say to him, oi! Your face is so ugly I'm considering casting Blindness on myself so I don't have to look at it! (laughter)
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and roll the dice.
Sam: A ten or an eight?
Matt: d10, it's whatever your bardic inspiration is.
Sam: Hey, six!
Matt: Has no affect on it, unfortunately. All right, I need Vex, Keyleth and Scanlan to make constitution saving throws.
Laura: Oh no! I hate constitution saving throws!
Taliesin: That's not terrible.
Sam: I got a natural 20!
Matt: Damn, all right!
Marisha: 17 total.
Laura: 19.
Matt: Okay. This is a lot of dice I've got to roll here, so let me--
Laura: Oh no! How many is a lot?
Matt: (counting) So as the poisonous fumes fill the space, you can feel it burning the outside of your skin, filling your lungs. You guys start coughing as the horrible burning sensation in your interior begins to fill your entire experience right now. Scanlan, you manage to pull aside and close your nose just in time, but it still burns your exterior. You take 26 points of poison damage, Scanlan. That is 55 points of poison damage to both Vex and Keyleth.
Laura: On a 19? I didn't save?
Matt: 20 DC. You missed it by one.
Marisha: Did you say 55? That just dropped me by half my hit points.
Laura: Yeah, basically me too. More than half.
Matt: That's going to end its turn. Vex, you're up.
Travis: Least you fell in love before you died. (laughter)
Laura: Is he within five feet? Can I get away from him?
Marisha: Fuck you, Travis.
Matt: You would take an attack of opportunity if you do. One more rogue level.
Laura: I'm going to hope that he doesn't hit me and I'm going to try and run away from him.
Taliesin: He has disadvantage.
Laura: Okay, does he?
Taliesin: Yeah, he has disadvantage on swinging at you.
Matt: He does, yes. So as you start rushing away, the one lax arm holding the cleaver goes (cleaver slamming) and comes down over her head like a giant, thick, three-and-a-half-foot-wide blade of solid iron. With disadvantage, that's 25 to hit.
Sam: Whoa! This is a powerful fighter!
Laura: He hits me. Watch me die right now!
Marisha: He's right, we're not ready. We're stupid assholes, oh God!
Travis: We're going to do drugs in your lounges for the rest of our lives.
Laura: If he kills me right now, I'm going to be so pissed.
Matt: You take 29 points of bludgeoning damage. Not bludgeoning, sorry, slashing damage, as the blade strikes down, slicing right across your front torso, nearly throwing you to the ground and you can already feel the blood fill up in your mouth and begin to drip down the side of your chin, but you do manage to pull away from him. Where do you want to move?
Laura: Oh my dear lord! I'm going to run around behind the throne but I'm going to shoot him as I'm doing it. I'm going to shoot him from there and then I'm going to keep going. But I'm going to shoot him with-- hopefully, the lightning actually does something, because I'm going to shoot him with the Lightning Arrow. And I'm doing it at a fourth level.
Matt: All right.
Laura: So I roll. Attack as normal. Okay. Oh no! Shit, what is that? 22? 22.
Matt: 22 hits. Go ahead and roll damage on that. So it's normally 4d8, but you did it at a higher level, so it's 5d8 points of lightning damage.
Marisha: Wait, why was it higher? Did you do it at a higher level?
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: Okay, okay.
Laura: 19.
Matt: 19 points of lightning damage. The lightning streaks into it as the arrow hits and the lightning begins arcing through its armor. It bursts outwards. Keyleth, I need you to make a dexterity saving throw.
Laura: Oh shit! Keyleth, I'm so sorry!
Sam: Why?
Matt: Because she's within ten feet of the creature.
Marisha: No, it's fine. I'm good. Dexterity save?
Laura: No, it's a fucking lightning arrow, I never use it.
Marisha: 11.
Matt: 11. You take nine points of lightning-- no, it's 2d8. So you roll 2d8 damage.
Marisha: Does my spell resistance armor help with this? I've got advantage.
Laura: Just eight little old points.
Marisha: Does my advantage from spell resistance on my armor help with this?
Matt: It is technically a spell--
Marisha: So can I roll again?
Matt: Go ahead and roll again.
Marisha: Oh, that's better! 21.
Matt: So yes, you take half damage. So take four points of lightning damage.
Laura: Yay! See, that's nothing!
Marisha: Feels good.
Laura: Now you feel alive.
Marisha: Yeah, I'm awake.
Laura: And I'm going to keep running and go behind the throne.
Matt: That's as far as you can get at 30 feet.
Laura: I'm going to stay right there.
Matt: Unless you want to run past this way. (counting) You can get over there.
Laura: Okay. Sure.
Matt: Knowing you and your movement situation, you would have probably taken the more direct route because you were going to get hit regardless.
Marisha: So lightning radiated off of him?
Matt: Scanlan.
Sam: So it did not hurt him at all?
Matt: The lightning hurt him, it arced through him and it seemed to react to the impact.
Laura: He's metal. He's made of metal.
Sam: Okay, before I go, because I wasn't in the room, did J'mon Sa Ord say this is a test?
All: Yes.
Sam: Okay.
Travis: He said, show me what you can do.
Marisha: Show me what you've got!
Taliesin: Show me what you've got!
Sam: Okay, I'm out of range so he can't swipe me as I walk away, right?
Matt: As far as you know. It's a long blade.
Sam: Then I'll stay put.
Matt: You saw the blade slam down towards Vex and it slammed a few inches away from you so you're right on that maybe/maybe not edge.
Sam: Let's not risk that. So I'll Hand Cone up. Otiluke's Resilient Sphere to trap the beast.
Laura: Yes!
Marisha: Go, Scanlan!
Matt: Let me pull this up real fast.
Laura: Please let this work.
Taliesin: No, it's a good plan.
Laura: It's enough to heal up and get ready.
Matt: A creature of object size Large or smaller. This is technically a Huge creature.
Sam: He's Huge, I thought you said he was 15 feet!
Matt: 15 feet tall. He himself is about 15 or so--
Sam: (groans dramatically)
Matt: A Medium creature's about six to seven feet average. A Large creature is about ten to 12.
Sam: I have perfectly huge balls.
Taliesin: You have big balls, not Huge.
Sam: They're Large or smaller.
Matt: So as soon as you start casting the spell you look at the size and think, this isn't going to fit in one of my spheres.
Sam: Okay, so I ditch that. And because I saw lightning work I'm going to-- well, then I'm going to have to move. Can I hit him now without hitting Keyleth or do I have to move for that?
Matt: You can because he's wide enough you can go that way.
Sam: I'll just Lightning Bolt, then. Level three Lightning Bolt.
Matt: All righty. With advantage on its save, that is a 16 dexterity saving throw.
Sam: It's a saving throw?
Matt: Yeah, against your Lightning Bolt, to see if it manages to dodge out of the way.
Sam: Does my Cutting Words affect that at all?
Matt: No, Cutting Words is to reduce the attack of another creature.
Sam: No, but because I'm armed with Mythcarver, when I use it, my target gets disadvantage on his next saving throw.
Matt: Correct, its saving throw is still a 16, your DC is way higher, it failed.
Sam: Oh, okay.
Matt: This is a big creature, it's not very dexterous. It can't dodge quickly, it's like (groaning), it's like a small moving tank.
Sam: So 8d6 then.
Matt: Correct.
Sam: 24.
Matt: 24 points of lightning damage. The bolt of energy arcs out from your finger, passing Keyleth. You shake from the nearby impact, your body still a little numb from the previous electrical hit. It blasts the front as the arc from Vex's attack begins to wear off, this time the energy coursing through its entire body. You can see as it tries to lift the blade up for another attack it almost drops the blade from the impact, but it stays firm and shrugs it off, but you can see the darkened period across its body where the electric bolts are beginning to take effect across its physical form.
Sam: Okay, I'll use that opportunity to back away and hope it doesn't get me.
Matt: You back away, and you're out of range for it to try to make a strike at you. You can keep moving if you want.
Sam: Yeah, I'll go all the way to the wall.
Matt: All the way to the wall?
Sam: Yeah, but not the glass. God, who's coming up next? I will inspire Grog, he hasn't happened yet, right?
Laura: Yeah, Grog's coming up soon.
Sam: I will inspire him with a hastily written limerick. Okay, ready? Kevdak had these terrible knuckles. They beat up on Grog while he chuckled. But while Kevin laughed, Grog sliced him in half And said, "These are mine now, fuckles!" (laughter)
Matt: Those are all words that you can kind of understand! So you take your inspiration dice.
Travis: Amazing!
Laura: I like how his name was Kevin halfway through the limerick.
Travis: Fuckles. Is that a d10 or a d12?
Matt: d10. So that's the end of your turn?
Sam: That is all I can do.
Matt: All right, Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: Okay, seeing that the lightning is doing some damage, I am going to cast Call Lightning at fourth level.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: I'm going to take a step back first, actually.
Laura: He'll get a swipe at you.
Liam: There's a five foot square.
Laura: Yeah, this is true, but at disadvantage he still got me at 25 before.
Liam: Yes, but you're ten feet away though.
Marisha: Just five feet, I want to shift back five feet.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: I can do that without getting a swipe, right?
Matt: He's already used his reaction to strike.
Marisha: Aw, sick! I'll back it up a little bit more, there's good, no right there's fine, yeah. And I'm going to cast Call Lightning, fourth level.
Matt: All right, the very top-- and this chamber comes to this large, dome-like precipice at about 60 feet up-- upwards you see a skylight series of glass begins to fill with dark clouds, swirling. As Keyleth's concentrating, her eyes fog over white. What are you going to do?
Marisha: Right on his head!
Matt: As Keyleth focuses, she brings her arm down and one singular bolt coalesces, strikes down right onto his head. What's the DC on the spell?
Marisha: 19.
Matt: All right. Nope. He rolled a 19 and failed. He's got a minus one on his dex save. He's a slow guy. So he takes 3d10 lightning damage. Go ahead and roll that.
Marisha: 4d10 because I cast it at fourth level.
Matt: That's right, 4d10, because it's fourth level.
Sam: He's got 500 hit points.
Laura: He's got so many.
Marisha: Three, six, not great. Eight, so make that-- what's six plus eight? 14 plus five, 19 points of lightning damage.
Matt: 19 points of lightning damage strikes into its head, and you see it has to fall back onto its back leg to right itself, and its growling sounds like creaking of metal and stone against each other.
Marisha: And with that, I'm going to use my free action to go earth elemental form.
Matt: Bonus action, you mean?
Marisha: Yes.
Travis: "My free action!"
Laura: Is that what you said? "My free action! Yeah!"
Marisha: Did I sound like Mickey? Did that happen?
Liam: (Mickey Mouse voice) I'd like to use my bonus action to go earth elemental!
Matt: As the growling sound of stone and metal seems to vibrate the floor, you step back and hulk out into your elemental form, almost returning a similar earth-against-stone growl back at it.
Liam: There she is.
Matt: Top of the round. Vax, you're up.
Liam: Would you allow me to use my bonus action to go stealth and quietly run over using my hasted speed to get over to my sister behind that stone thingy in the middle of the room?
Matt: You could certainly try.
Liam: Yes, I'd like to try.
Matt: Four, five, six. one. Get behind there, go ahead and roll a stealth check.
Liam: Okay. I'll use my last Luck of the day, though. Fine. 29.
Matt: Okay. Far as you know, it doesn't see.
Liam: Okay. I'd like to curve around by my sister and use sharpshooter to throw two daggers as hard as I can at him.
Laura: What? Why are you going to--
Liam: That's what I want to do.
Laura: No! He's going to aim at me!
Liam: First one is a 26. 25. And the second one misses, it's a natural one. With sharpshooter. Oh no. 26, 21.
Matt: All right. These are with which blades?
Liam: This is with dagger of venom and flame tongue. So the flame missed, dagger hit. Excuse me, venom hit.
Matt: Right, okay. So you throw. Go ahead and roll damage for the dagger of venom.
Liam: Is it a sneak attack?
Matt: He does not seem to see you, so yes, you are rolling damage.
Liam: All right. So it's plus ten because I used sharpshooter. So one, seven plus ten is 17. That's the 20, 23, 27, 32, 37, 40.
Matt: 40! Nice! 40 points of piercing damage as this one dagger hits one of its front chest plates and causes it to dislodge and hang to the side, and it's hanging by some sort of interior bolted circumstance. You can see a bunch of iron mechanisms that are holding it together, some almost clockwork, some appear to be arcane in nature and are being held aloft by sparking whitish-blue energy.
Liam: Do I have five feet of movement left?
Matt: You have about 15 feet of movement.
Liam: I'm going to slink right behind the thing so I'm out of range.
Laura: Yeah, good! Good job, thanks. So you hit him and he looks over and I'm standing there. It's the best. That's the best move. Ever.
Liam: I didn't hear any of that.
Laura: I'm right behind you, you did hear it!
Liam: That was longer than six seconds.
Matt: End of Vax's turn. Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: Okay. I can see the damage that this thing has taken. Would it be possible to target the wound? I'd be happy to burn a grit to target the mechanisms and not the armor. Try and get a chunk of metal in there?
Matt: Sure.
Taliesin: Okay. First thing I'm going to do is I'm going to take a couple steps to the right and try and shove my elbow on that glass to see what it feels like.
Matt: Okay. So you step by and it's a pretty thick pane, about maybe an inch or so thick. It has very faint glass-cut carvings and designs into it. Mainly geometric vines that curl on themselves. It's a really pretty display for the brief moment that you glance out the corner of your eye at it.
Taliesin: I just wanted to see how strong it felt.
Matt: Pretty strong.
Taliesin: Okay. Like high-rise glass.
Matt: Yeah.
Taliesin: Okay. I'm going to pull the rest of my movement the opposite direction.
Marisha: Yeah, don't stand in front of a window.
Taliesin: Yeah, I don't want to be in front of a window. I'm going to pull out Bad News and I'm going to take a targeted shot at these mechanisms with the big gun. I obviously can't do a trick shot because I'm shooting at a thing. Obviously. That would not work.
Marisha: Obviously. Obvs.
Taliesin: Spend a deadeye shot for it. And I'm going to do a sharpshooter. And I'm burning grit. Here we go. Didn't need that grit, but fuck it. Nope, rolled 18 on both! So 25 to hit.
Matt: 25 hits.
Taliesin: You can borrow the die. 25 hits. Oh boy, this is fun. Come on, where am I? d12s. And a d6. That's a-- (high-pitched giggling) I'm a pretty, pretty princess. 21, 31, 37. 37 points of piercing damage and five points of necrotic.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: You, sir, have the temperament of a Yalie. (gun firing)
Matt: As you fire Bad News you can see the smoke and dark mist that fires at the front of its barrel from the Hex, the heavy bullet goes into the opening in the chest that was given by Grog and you hear it bouncing around inside, seemingly not really doing any damage to the interior of the creature.
Laura: Come on!
Liam: Still well-aimed.
Taliesin: I reload.
Sam: And shoot yourself in the face.
Taliesin: Fuck it, I am Aquaman in this fight, I'm well aware.
Liam: Take that sword out, man.
Taliesin: I'm going to burn another grit. Oh, yeah, no, I am, but I'm trying to be helpful in the moment.
Matt: So you fire, reload, and for your--
Taliesin: This is my third and final shot, I'm going to take an arm shot, I'm going to try and get it to drop its toy.
Matt: All righty.
Taliesin: Finally, a-- Oh, yay, that's better. (counting) Sorry, I can't count. 22.
Matt: That hits. So the bullet ricochets off the hand, doing no damage to it, but what's the DC on--
Taliesin: No damage?
Matt: No damage.
Taliesin: Normal damage.
Matt: No damage.
Taliesin: My bullets do no damage.
Matt: Your bullets do no damage.
Taliesin: But you still get necrotic.
Matt: Yes, it does.
Taliesin: One point of necrotic damage.
Matt: One point of necrotic damage. (laughter)
Matt: What's the DC?
Taliesin: The DC is 19.
Matt: A 19? Okay, that brings it to--
Taliesin: It's a strength saving throw.
Matt: Strength, okay, that is a 17.
Taliesin: He drops it. I yell out, somebody get that thing away from him!
Matt: As the bullet slams into its hands, its fingers, against its own will, are pried open from the blast, a little bit of poof of smoke off to the side. And the giant blade, which is about, I'd say, seven and a half feet long, clatters to the ground. That thing probably weighs quite a bit.
Taliesin: I put my gun away and I'm done.
Matt: Okay, that's the end of your turn. Grog, you're up.
Travis: Can I run, using a mixture of horizontal and diagonal movements, to run straight at Iron Giant?
Matt: Yeah. (counting) And you have two more squares of movement you can do if you want.
Travis: Yeah, I want to get right up on him.
Matt: All right, you're right there.
Travis: Can I put myself on the opposite side of him from the window?
Matt: Right there?
Travis: I would like to, since I have two attacks, I would like to try to shove him.
Marisha: Yes. This is what I was going for, yeah.
Liam: There's a 20 on the die.
Travis: He's only one size larger than me, so--
Matt: He's two sizes larger.
Travis: In an effort to show off our Vestiges of Divergence, I'd like to retcon this and smash my Knuckles together and use the Enlarge to grow to incredible size.
Liam: Do you see me, angel guy?
Sam: To ridiculous size!
Matt: As you rush forward, towards it, you slam your gauntlets together. As you get towards it you begin to swell in size, your strides getting longer and longer. By the time you approach it, you are right there. You are now one size category larger.
Travis: Mighty Joe Young, bitch.
Laura: Push him out the window, Grog!
Matt: All righty, so you are attempting to make a shove attack. Okay. You push it away from you.
Travis: Yes, a strength check against either his strength or dexterity, it's the target's choice.
Taliesin: He also has disadvantage on strength checks.
Laura: So he's going to choose dexterity.
Matt: Nope, his dexterity is fucking awful. So you go ahead and make an athletics check.
Travis: Yes, which I get advantage on. 23.
Matt: 23? With disadvantage it's 19.
Laura: Yes! How far can you throw him?
Travis: Only five feet, or knock him prone.
Laura: Knock him prone!
Sam: I don't know.
Travis: Yeah, I'd like to knock him--
Sam: Yeah, I'm not there.
Travis: I'd like to knock him prone.
Taliesin: Live your dreams.
Matt: You rush forward, and leaning the axe to the side, you get low as it attempts to grab out and punch towards your head. Reach down and grab it from behind the ankle and then lift up, throwing its leg up over and it goes tumbling backwards, crashing onto its back on the ground, its limbs loosely flailing, trying to find some sort of purchase on the floor.
Travis: Amazing.
Matt: You still have another attack, if you want to.
Travis: Oh, I do?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: And because he's prone, does that give me-- no, I don't know. Reckless. I hit him with the axe!
Matt: Go for it.
Travis: Eight. Eight again. Fuck you!
Sam: You've got inspiration.
Travis: But I don't need it.
Sam: Oh great.
Travis: Yeah, fuck, what did I say.
Liam: 22.
Travis: Thank you, 22.
Matt: 22? Hits.
Travis: Thank you, sir. My brain don't work so good. 19 plus one point of necrotic damage for 20 total.
Matt: 20 points of damage as you bring the axe down with both hands, whack! Right into the center of its chest armored cavity. You can see the axe fits about halfway, almost to the center of the handle itself into the chest and you have to work it back and forth to wedge it out of its metal hide. The axe is back in your grasp, and you can see a giant gash mark where it was left.
Sam: So it felt that?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: Yeah, you feel Grog.
Taliesin: It's armored, it's got a heavy armor on.
Matt: So Grog, end of your turn?
Travis: That ends my turn. You know Grog always leaves his mark, player.
Matt: Now the golem's turn. Ah, look at that, it rolled a six. So it recharges its poison breath.
Travis: Don't say that so willy-nilly.
Matt: So it stands up in its space, using half its movement.
Travis: I hate how confidently he's saying that.
Laura: Oh no.
Matt: It's then going to pull back (deep breath). The helmet opens up from underneath and you can see that giant black vacuous space in the center of its throat. It lets another torrent of it forward.
Laura: Yeah. Oh! Tell me I'm just out of reach!
Matt: Nope. You're in reach.
Laura: Fucking shitballs.
Matt: I need Keyleth, Grog, and Vex to make constitution saving throws.
Laura: (singing) It doesn't matter, even with a save I'm going to die.
Marisha: I am immune to poison.
Matt: You're immune to poison?
Marisha: Because I'm a big earth elemental.
Travis: I have resistance to poison.
Matt: All right. So what's your constitution saving throw, Grog?
Travis: It is an 18.
Matt: 18. All right. That fails, unfortunately, but you still take half damage.
Travis: Because of the belt of dwarvenkind.
Matt: Indeed. So with a full roll there. All right. Grog, you take 25 points of poison damage.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: Keyleth, you take none because of your earth elemental form.
Marisha: That's right!
Matt: You take 50 points of poison damage.
Laura: Awesome. I'm unconscious.
Sam: Did you say 50?
Laura: Yeah. I'm straight up on the ground. I feel like Matt, he wants me to die. He makes me unconscious in every fight now.
Liam: Who, that golem?
Laura: No, Matt.
Matt: You were there!
Laura: Nope. Matt wants me to die, I can feel it.
Taliesin: To be fair, we have this really great idea of what to do with Trinket once you're--
Travis: Okay, let's not! Okay? Let's not!
Matt: To be fair, you've spent 90% of the game flying way away from everything you've ever fought, so maybe it's about time it caught up to you a little. All right. That ends the golem's turn. Vex, I need you to make a death saving throw.
Marisha: Jesus fucking fuck.
Travis: Roll one of the good ones? Which one will it be, of the 90?
Taliesin: Which child will disappoint you today?
Laura: Oh no, I failed it!
Matt: So mark off one failed death saving throw.
Laura: Oh shitballs. Oh no!
Matt: All right. Ends your turn. Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: I will heal Vex'ahlia.
Laura: Oh Scanlan!
Sam: Am I 30 feet away or closer?
Matt: You are further away from her. You are currently off to that side. You are 40 feet from her.
Sam: Well, then I will walk 11 feet closer.
Matt: Okay. There you go.
Sam: And I will use Healing Word to heal her. I'll sing to her (singing) Up, up and away on your beautiful, your beautiful broom! (laughter)
Matt: What level?
Sam: I mean, it's a bonus action so I can't go very high with the level, can I?
Matt: You can go as high as you want on the bonus action, whatever spell you cast as your main action can't be higher than level two.
Sam: As my main action can't be level-- what?
Matt: One of the spells has to be level two, the other can be any level it wants to. That's how it works.
Laura: Oh.
Sam: Got it. Well, then I'll do this one at level two, and I can do anything for my main action.
Matt: Correct.
Sam: Okay. Level two!
Matt: All right. So that's 2d4 plus six.
Sam: Do I roll? I roll.
Matt: You do.
Sam: One, two--
Taliesin: Eight.
Sam: That's it! Seven.
Matt: So you heal seven hit points, Vex.
Laura: Yay!
Matt: Did you roll seven?
Sam: No, I rolled two.
Taliesin: So it's eight.
Matt: Okay, then eight. You're at eight.
Laura: Yay!
Sam: Six? I thought it was plus five? Well, whatever.
Matt: Plus six now because your charisma went up by one, buddy.
Sam: Oh that's right! I got to mark that down!
Matt: Yes, you should. The soothing words of Scanlan Shorthalt pull you from unconsciousness as your eyes begin to focus downward. You're looking out past the balcony and you can see bits of dust being scattered across the ground and you hear the heavy footfalls of your friends and the golem behind you as suddenly you're like, Oh shit!
Laura: And I cough out blood.
Matt: All right. Scanlan, you still have 15 more feet of movement. Or ten more feet, technically.
Sam: I'm going to go back to right where I was.
Matt: You get close to it at least. Right there.
Sam: And shit. Shitballs. Shit. Shitballs fucking shit. I will use (singing) Bigby's Hand.
Matt: Grog, did you add your 1d4 points of damage for your enlarged state? In your attack?
Travis: No.
Matt: Roll 1d4. Add that. When you're enlarged you do an additional 1d4 with any weapon attacks because the weapon got larger as well.
Travis: One.
Matt: There you go. All right. So what are you doing Scanlan?
Sam: Bigby's Hand is going to make a huge fist, fly forward, and smash the window.
Matt: Behind?
Sam: Behind him.
Marisha: Fuck yes. Yes!
Taliesin: That's what I'm talking about!
Marisha: Yeah. We're all on the same page. I'm so proud of us you guys.
Matt: Let's have Bigby's Hand make a melee spell attack against the glass.
Sam: Melee spell attack. Well, that's cocked. 12 plus what?
Matt: Plus your spell attack bonus.
Sam: Oh. 22.
Matt: 22. Without an issue the fist appears behind the golem, fists up, and is about to punch it in the back of the head when, last minute, it whirls around and slams into the glass. Go ahead and roll 4d8 points of damage.
Sam: 4d8. I only have 1d8. 13 plus eight. 21. No! 22. No! What is it?
Travis: 21! Holy shit!
Matt: You had it right. The window shatters, comes clattering down, and suddenly the wind begins to pick up into the room. At this high a point, all the silks are now whirling around. The storm at the top that Keyleth is holding is starting to meet the turbulence and the lightning bolts are beginning to course through it even heavier. Right now it's pretty heavy winds coming through here regardless, so a lot of you are having to keep--
Sam: Can I use any action to take off my hat and let my hair flow, Matthew Mercer style?
Matt: Yeah. I'll give you that. Like a fantastic 1991 rock video.
Laura: Yeah!
Taliesin: (singing) I don't want to wait for our lives to be over.
Marisha: (singing) I don't want to wait for our lives to be over.
Matt: All right. Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: Okay. Grog's sort of out of my way--
Travis: Just bring it.
Marisha: I want to full on linebacker style go for this guy, and we're going out the fucking window.
Travis: Yes!
Marisha: And I'm going to take him, tackling him out the window.
Matt: Okay, so you're going to go ahead and do a shove attack?
Marisha: Yes, that is what I'm going to do.
Matt: All right. Go ahead and make an athletics check.
Taliesin: So much strength disadvantage.
Liam: Such hassle. Too much hassle.
Laura: Yes. Do it, giant earth.
Liam: Shove out window, fighting too much hassle.
Sam: You know, if we can't kill it we can all kill ourselves out the window.
Laura: Exactly.
Marisha: What am I doing? I'm an earth elemental, so is that just strength?
Matt: Yeah, so add plus five to it.
Marisha: Ten.
Matt: All right. 18. And with disadvantage that is going to be 22. So as you rush forward and slam into it, it puts its hand out and takes the blow, and it screeches a couple inches, but it's still too heavy for you to get it forward. You have two slam attacks, as part of it?
Marisha: Yeah, can I do it again?
Matt: You can do it again if you want.
Marisha: Yeah, let's try this again.
Matt: All right, go ahead and roll a d20 and add five.
Marisha: Come on, big money-- ugh! No. Just no.
Matt: What did you roll? What's the total.
Marisha: I rolled seven total.
Matt: Yeah, he-- natural one. (cheering)
Matt: He rolled a seven and then a one. So as you pull back with your other fist and you slam it square into the center of the one plate that's still visible, you hit it, and using all your might, looking over at Grog to get a little inspiration, you grin at him with this horrible earthy smile as you watch as it scrapes across the floor of the throne room being pushed back right there, five feet. All right. That ends your turn.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: Vax, your turn.
Liam: I want to, like a hasted spider monkey, scrabble along the floor really low and flank the thing opposite Keyleth and stab it in any gears I see.
Matt: All right.
Sam: Sorry, Vax.
Liam: I've got wings!
Sam: Okay.
Liam: First attack is a 17. Second attack misses, it's a natural one. Third attack is a natural one.
Matt: So 17?
Liam: Oh, it's advantage on all the attacks because I'm flanking?
Matt: Because you are flanking, it is advantage on the attacks, yes.
Liam: Advantage on all?
Matt: Yes.
Liam: So the first one was a 17.
Taliesin: And now you have one more roll for the second.
Liam: One more roll for the second is a 13. And then the third attack--holy cow--is a 25.
Matt: Okay, so the first two miss, the last one hits. The blades are (screeching) streaking across it. Which dagger is this?
Liam: The last one is the Dagger of Venom. It is three plus six is nine plus-- they're right there. What did I say before? Nine plus six, 15, 18, 24, 25, 31, 37, 40 again.
Matt: 40 points of piercing damage. First two blades strike and make no mark whatsoever on its hide. However, the second one does manage to pull apart and open this slight piece where you see a number of its giant iron central torso pieces emerging. You see a slight seam there where they've been welded together. You take that moment to pull back your dagger of venom and slip it as hard as you can right into that groove. As it does, it sinks right to the hilt and the creature flexes its back in pain. (groaning)
Liam: I'm going to guess I have a little bit of movement left, and I don't care if he swings at me. I'm going to back into the corner between the hole and the window that's still in one piece.
Matt: There?
Liam: Yeah, all the way to the wall. Yep.
Matt: There you go. All right, as you back away, it swings back with its fist as it hasn't been able to pick up its weapon yet. Its fist is still a large rock-like battering ram. That is a natural 20.
Liam: Is it disadvantage, though, from Percy?
Matt: Not anymore, that only lasts for a round.
Liam: I'll use Uncanny Dodge.
Matt: Eight, five, eight on 3d8. So 21 plus nine. 30 points of bludgeoning damage, 60 points of damage.
Liam: 60 points?!
Matt: 60 points of damage.
Liam: With Uncanny Dodge?
Matt: With Uncanny Dodge reduces it to 30. Whack! It backhands you. While you're running for the wall, your vision goes white from the impact. You hear that high-pitched whine as your ears can't even deal with the ringing of the impact. You stumble and find yourself stumbling towards the broken glass where the wind's coming from and catch yourself back into the side of the wall. (heavy breathing) Catch your breath there on the side. That ends your turn. Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: I'm kind of useless.
Marisha: Don't say that!
Taliesin: I'm going to do something stupid here. I'm going to take a few steps to my left so I have a good, clear shot at it towards the window.
Matt: To your left here?
Taliesin: Yep. More. Yeah, there. That'll do. I'm going to keep blowing through in the hope that I get a crit because then I regain a grit. I'm going to pull out Bad News and start firing to see if I can throw it off its aim.
Marisha: Are you grit farming right now?
Taliesin: I'm grit farming.
Marisha: You're totally grit farming.
Taliesin: I'm fucking grit farming.
Matt: You're grit farming-- okay, go for it. So Bad News is reload, attack, reload.
Taliesin: It's not Bad News, it's--
Matt: Oh, it's Retort you're pulling out.
Taliesin: Yeah, Retort, it's off-balance so I'm trying to find a place where-- give it some momentum to fall.
Matt: You have one more shot, a reload, then a shot.
Taliesin: I have one more shot, a reload, and a shot. Two shots.
Matt: Go for it.
Taliesin: I hit, so that I might as well just roll--
Matt: Just roll the necrotic damage.
Taliesin: That's six points of necrotic damage.
Matt: Six points of necrotic damage? All righty.
Taliesin: And again. 21? Oh, 20.
Matt: 20?
Taliesin: 20. Not natural 20. It misses?
Matt: It misses. The bullet goes past the armor and ends up hitting the side of the wall and cracks some of the marble.
Taliesin: I'm just trying to grit farm at this point.
Matt: Staying where you are?
Taliesin: You know? It occurs to me that this battle's going to be over soon.
Sam: That's wishful thinking!
Laura: Why would you throw that out there?!
Travis: Great way to hear God laugh is to announce your plans.
Taliesin: Point!
Matt: Grog, your turn.
Travis: After seeing Vex fall and then Scanlan lift her up and then Vax get slammed into the wall and Keyleth showing up in this very attractive form, I would like to reckless attack, and for a bonus action, go into a frenzied rage for a third attack, and use all three to try and push him out the window.
Marisha: Yes!
Matt: All righty! You go into your frenzied rage. Go ahead and make three athletics checks. First one.
Travis: I have advantage.
Liam: Get it son!
Travis: That's a 23.
Matt: That is an 18. So the first one, you slam. Pushes it back. It's now teetering on the edge. Right there. Now, as part of the shove, my question, I have to see if you get to move into its space afterward because, right now, it's out of your range.
Travis: That is a good question. I could move.
Matt: You'd have to move to that point to hit it. Because you'd have to move five feet because Keyleth pushed it away. You shove it back. Double-check this one more time.
Marisha: This. Is.
Laura: This. Is.
Marisha: Ank'Harel!
Sam: Do we notice any rocket boosters on its heels?
Matt: You have plenty of movement. You push it back, you move in to get within range there. Go ahead and make another.
Travis: 27.
Matt: 27, that is a 17.
Laura: Yes!
Matt: Pushed back, it's right up to the edge now, its shoulders dropped against the edge. Its blade is still on the ground. Do you move in and go for a final one?
Travis: Yes, please.
Matt: Make an athletics check one more time.
Marisha: Come on!
Travis: That's good! 26.
Matt: Natural one. (yelling)
Matt: 15 and a natural one. All right, so. How do you want to do this? (cheering)
Travis: Because I love 300, I look at him and I say, (yelling) This. Is. Vox Machina! And kick him in the chest out the window.
Matt: As your swollen, giant goliath foot slams into the front, you see the metal plate that's dangling and the one that's still there cave inward, sparks fly as the inner workings of it are jammed with its own armored plate. Its arms reach out and scrape and break off the sides of the walls as it falls backward and tumbles out of sight. You glance over and look down as you watch it plummet.
Travis: We're so high up.
Laura: So high.
Liam: Empire State Building.
Matt: (loud crash) Through the roof of some portion of the Cerulean Palace.
Laura: No!
Marisha: Sorry!
Travis: Fore!
Laura: I hope everyone's okay!
Marisha: Sorry, Steve!
Travis: Do I have any movement to move away from the opening of the window, just in case any trickery happens?
Matt: Yes.
Marisha: I'm okay!
Laura: Can I stand up? I've been watching this whole thing from the ground going: Yay Grog!
Sam: Covered in blood.
Matt: You stand up and look over the side just as Grog kicks it out the window and it disappears out of sight.
Travis: I find earth elemental Keyleth. (heavy hand slap)
Sam: Don't leave me hanging, says Bigby's Hand!
Travis: Yeah! Whack! It's like a jive hand shake, it's like, yeah! Get a little weasel.
Liam: I'm going to skitter over to my sister and help her up Saving Private Ryan style.
Laura: I'm going to cast Cure Wounds on myself there.
Matt: Go for it.
Laura: At 3rd-level there.
Marisha: Hey Grog! Chest bump! Huh! Yeah!
Matt: Both of you guys make athletics checks.
Travis: Yes!
Marisha: Who?
Matt: Both of you guys make athletics checks.
Marisha: For chest bumping each other?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: 23.
Marisha: 19.
Matt: (impact) You end up shoving her earth elemental form back about five feet.
Marisha: Out the window?
Matt: Not out the window, you're not close enough.
Taliesin: Just double checking  can I feel if my Hex has dissipated?
Matt: Your Hex has dissipated, yes.
Taliesin: Just checking.
Sam: Are there shards of glass on the ground? Or did they all go outward?
Matt: There are a few shards, but a lot of it seems to be broken.
Sam: Can I have Bigby pick up one and bring it back? A tiny piece.
Taliesin: Do you have a mending spell of any kind?
Sam: No. You're on your own, fuckface.
Taliesin: I'm not fixing it, I just thought it might be nice, good god!
Matt: How many hit points do you heal, Vex?
Laura: I'm at 28 hit points now.
Matt: 28 hit points. All righty.
Laura: Oh no, what are you going to do now?!
Matt: You guys take a moment to yourself to look around and see if there's no other threat. With the shattered glass window, the wind whipping through the room, the silks all swirling, entangling around you. The wind slowly dies down, suddenly and unnaturally so. You glance over the balcony, and what was once empty, you see a dark figure standing, silhouetted by the outside sunlight. Tall, thin, lithe figure. This appears to be J'mon Sa Ord reappearing, who walks inside, hands together and an expression of amusement, says, "Impressive indeed. Very well. You will have my alliance and allegiance for the coming storm." The door behind you, where you guys entered up inside opens and you see the Grand Maven step out with a smile on her face as well. She looks over to the window and goes, "Perhaps I should go check on-- I should go check." She backs back in and you hear the chain rupture as it begins to shift back down. J'mon steps forward. "Join me by the throne, please." Steps over and sits down once again. "The cruel red that you speak of, that we once fought, was crushed by our might and my hatred for its kind. This city has many wards, as I mentioned, and I am its protector. I have my ways, which I utilize only when necessary. Now what you ask, what you do, is already a deed of justice in and of itself. I require no recompense beyond that. While I cannot leave my city unguarded for long, I must remain until you are prepared to engage this Thordak head on. When the time comes, call to me and I will come to your aid." And they raise their finger and does a small snapping motion. You watch as the throne itself lifts up and shifts off of its place. A chest beneath it opens suddenly, and the wind whips up once more throughout the room and as it does, a small, thin, extended rod-like object floats and is tossed in the air by the wind over in the direction of J'mon Sa Ord who then snatches it and the wind ceases once more. Presents it toward--
Sam: I'll take that, please.
Matt: You take it. Looking at it, it's a small brass flute. Looks simple. Like a penny whistle, almost. As you're about to blow on it, J'mon puts their hand up and says, "It knows the melody to call Devo'ssa but once."
Sam: To call who?
Matt: "Devo'ssa."
Sam: Is that a name that you go by?
Matt: "Devo'ssa is the guardian of this city." J'mon stands back and slowly extends their arms as a sudden burst of wind once again fills the room, swirling around, sending the silks tangling about once more, seeming stronger than what was brought in from the shattered window earlier. Your hair is being tossed and you watch as the lithe creature steps back, the shape bending and swelling behind the silks passing in front as it backs up toward the opposite side of the chamber on the outside of the balcony. You watch the flashing of color, of green and dark gold. A shadow takes the floors, the new form before you holds most of the room, lording over the throne (heavy footsteps). Wings (whooshing noise) unfurl as you see before you the form of the city's protector: a massive brass dragon, scales glistening in the window-fractured sunlight, wings and tail tip becoming a gradient into green at the end. Incredible, frightening, beautiful. The dragon's head curls down, over where the throne was moved, their head massive by comparison to you and reminiscent of most of your recent dragon fights, though there is almost a smile and benevolence to their presence. The same black eyes, with a smoldering molten pupil still stand there, staring back at you. "I share with you my secret. There is now trust between you and I. Do not forsake it."
Laura: Never.
Taliesin: This is a greater gift than we could have hoped for.
Matt: (heavy footsteps) They sit back into a more casual position, their claws still there before them, head still level with the rest of your party. It slowly drifts back up, now looming down over 30 feet ahead of you. The voice booms out once more, "I will prepare here how I can. Now go. Time is ever fleeting."
Laura: When we call your guardian, is that how you'll know that we're calling you as well?
Matt: "I am the guardian."
Laura: I get it. I'm really smart.
Sam: She lost a lot of blood.
Laura: (coughs) Also, like a big giant gash right here. I'm going to hold it together. For now.
Sam: Ahem. Excuse me. Your imminence-- imminence? Eminence. As we are strangers in this foreign land, we were also wondering if you would lend us some sort of a calling card, something that proves that we are friends of the state, it might serve us well as we are automatically suspicious as we walk around your great city.
Travis: I wave my giant hand that I've enlarged.
Sam: Or no. Either way, we're good.
Taliesin: I get the feeling that perhaps, even such a thing would make us even more of a target, perhaps?
Matt: The dragon leans forward, the head coming down straight to you. Their maw right across from your size, one of their front teeth is about up to your waist by comparison. (heavy breathing) (chuckles) "You are sly, gnome." Turns around and reaches into the same box that carried the flute, pulls out a chain that dangles, fluttering in the wind, and hands it to you.
Marisha: It's a four-day Comic-Con badge.
Sam: Oh! Professional!
Matt: "Only one day."
Sam: Sunday? Motherfucker! (laughter)
Matt: The chain, as you grasp it-- it's dropped into your hand and you look at it. There appears to be a brass emblem with a single circular sapphire set into it. "This is a symbol of my crest. Few should argue should they be under my sway."
Sam: Thank you so much. And I drop six inches, which is to my knee, and bow my head in supplication.
Travis: Scanlan! Beep-beep. Beep-beep!
Laura: He means "be pleased."
Sam: Oh! Be pleased.
Taliesin: Before we depart, my lord, I would ask perhaps some local knowledge. We have magical items that we require wisdom as to their origin and their function. Who would you trust in this city? Would you know who to trust in this city?
Matt: Thinks for a second.
Taliesin: Flips through his notes.
Matt: (chuckles) Yeah.
Taliesin: A little Rolodex.
Laura: His Trapper Keeper. I like that everyone has a Trapper Keeper.
Liam: Large brass Trapper Keeper.
Travis: You hear the Velcro.
Taliesin: The iPad is rebooting.
Travis: Neon pinks and purples.
Marisha: Updating? Goddamn it.
Liam: (as Devo'ssa) "I love Night Rider."
Sam: How am I supposed to remember "beep-beep" from two weeks ago?
Matt: "There are many who I would call friends, or trustworthy. The list would be long."
Taliesin: For ancient objects, such as we have. For Vestiges. For things that are old.
Matt: "You would seek Headmaster James Kryon."
Marisha: James Kryon?
Laura: Krylon?
Matt: "Head of the Crystal Chateau's program for arcane arts and training."
Taliesin: I will not tell him of anything other than our gentle acquaintance.
Marisha: Crystal Chateau-- what was that last bit?
Matt: "The Crystal Chateau."
Marisha: Got it. Sure. Crystal Chateau.
Liam: Old magic.
Marisha: Old magic.
Sam: It's a two year professional degree.
Laura: I don't know how to spell chateau. I really don't know how to spell it.
Travis: Percy, what's the proper way to leave a royal chamber?
Taliesin: The way that you leave a royal chamber is you thank them for their patience and their time and for their wisdom, you keep your head beneath theirs, and you never turn your back. And you leave, facing them in reverence.
Travis: Thank you for having patience, put your head, and--
Taliesin: Be pleased. Don't say the words, just do the things. I didn't tell you what to say, I told you what to do.
Travis: Thank you for your patience. And I turn around and walk out. (laughter)
Matt: You hear a hearty, deep-throated chuckle as you turn around. As you make your way to the door of the exit, it opens once more as you hear the platform coming to rest once again. As it opens, there standing in the space is the cobalt golem, eyes flickering with white flame. (footsteps) It comes rushing forward past you, shouldering you out of the way. Grabs its blade. You can see there are dents in its armor, but it's still standing. Apparently didn't seem to take that much damage from the impact of the fall. It takes the blade and drags it behind it as it moves around J'mon, who steps back as the golem goes back under the balcony and then begins to climb back up outside to whatever strange device or platform it was affixed to before it dropped.
Laura: Sick.
Taliesin: Marvelous piece of engineering.
Matt: "We have many throughout the palace."
Taliesin: Your technology is impressive, your craftsmanship beyond anything I have ever seen, and there is nothing more pleasing than a monarch with a sense of humor. Bless you.
Matt: "My patience for your honeyed words grows thin." (laughter)
Taliesin: Oh, that felt good.
Travis: That was so good, too!
Matt: "Now, be on your way. I suspect when the time comes to call me you'd best be ready. Now." Turns around and with a whirl, the wind picks up again and the form shrinks down leaving, once again, in the space as the shadow shrinks, the lithe form of J'mon Sa Ord. They walk back to the throne as the throne seems to magically lift up and cover the box that was there beneath it before. Sits back on the throne, crosses their knees onto the throne, leans on one side of the armrest.
Travis: Should we ask how to tell if someone else is a dragon? Is there a tell?
Taliesin: They won't tell you.
Travis: Oh.
Taliesin: Because I think that's their secret.
Travis: Right.
Laura: Thank you.
Liam: Thank you.
Taliesin: I begin walking out.
Travis: Yeah, we all walk out.
Laura: Backwards. I'm going to keep holding my slashed--
Taliesin: That should actually give you excellent posture for a slight bow.
Laura: Right, yeah.
Liam: I'm going to cast Lay on Hands through my arm around her shoulder and give her a big five hit points.
Laura: Oh, thank you. I'm in the thirties now.
Taliesin: It's like the life force of two kittens.
Marisha: Two kittens worth.
Matt: You guys step back into the platform. The door closes. The chains shudder and begin to unfurl as the platform lowers down once more, giving you the view over the vast expanse of Ank'Harel and the deserts beyond.
Marisha: Oh, in the see-through elevator?
Matt: Yep.
Travis: Just us, no Grand Maven?
Matt: No Grand Maven. It finally reaches the bottom floor. The door opens once again, and there you see the Grand Maven surrounded by twelve different servants that are now picking up pieces of shattered rooftop, broken furniture, and a large crater that is now jammed in the center of what was once the waiting room where you guys were previously set. Furniture scattered and totally ruined, and there seems to be an air of haste in making sure that it doesn't stay like this for long.
Laura: So sorry about that.
Sam: Did anyone die?
Matt: "Thankfully, no. There was no death. You are lucky this time."
Taliesin: Just a heart attack and a metaphor for our entire existence, that's fine.
Sam: Did you see a javelin? No? Maybe? Okay.
Laura: Can we look around for it?
Taliesin: We're going to have to take a walk around the tower for a javelin. You threw it?
Travis: How high is the top of the tower?
Matt: It's hard to tell. A few hundred feet.
Travis: A few hundred feet up, I chucked the shit out of it.
Laura: It could be around.
Travis: You know the needle in the desert metaphor?
Taliesin: Is there a needle in the desert-- is that a thing?
Travis: Well, I've heard it before.
Matt: There is now.
Travis: Many a wise and learned creature--
Matt: You wish to take some time to go ahead and try and figure out a trajectory and where it may have gone?
Taliesin: I'm going to sit down and do a little math and see if I can get a vague sense.
Laura: I'm going to ask the Grand Maven  Flying, is that sort of weird here, or is that totally okay? On a broom, maybe? I don't want to do anything that's wrong here. I feel like I might be able to see it.
Matt: "As far as I understand, there is no issue with flying within Ank'Harel."
Taliesin: Not old math.
Marisha: New math. He's finding fractals and shit over here.
Matt: Did you roll a natural 20?
Taliesin: Weirdly enough, I've figured out--
Marisha: He just created the Mandelbrots.
Laura: Percy, point me in the direction. I'll fly and get it.
Taliesin: Natural 20.
Matt: You became the animated gif of the cat that gets the flower on its head and sees through space and time. You guys watch as Percy zones out for five minutes, the hand moving at a rapid pace across the paper.
Taliesin: I found a window and I'm doing the Beautiful Mind.
Matt: What that enables you, as you get some ideas as to the trajectory, the speed, the strength of Grog in the non-grown form versus the grown form. This does allow you, whoever wants to lead this expedition, one investigation check to possibly even recover anything.
Laura: Can I fly? I feel like I could fly down and get it.
Taliesin: I'll fly with her and use the math to--
Laura: Point me in the direction.
Matt: So the two of you are using the broom. It only has space on it for one.
Taliesin: I'm going to hang.
Matt: Okay, so Percy's hanging from underneath as you fly up a few hundred feet.
Laura: Hold tight, Percy!
Taliesin: I've locked my gauntlet.
Laura: I'm holding onto one of his wrists as I'm flying.
Liam: I'm watching in case I need to catch.
Matt: You guys watch them vanish in a darker and darker spot as they get higher into the sky. Percy. Go ahead and make a wisdom saving throw. You've not been this high before and the sheer perspective and the fact that you have very little affixing you to this broom, we're going to see if you can overcome this singular human fear of heights.
Laura: No, Percy, you're totally fine.
Taliesin: No, I'm not. Oh, I can reroll a saving throw, can't I? Yeah.
Matt: You can, as a fighter, yeah.
Taliesin: I can reroll a saving throw, because I'm going to pretend that number didn't happen.
Matt: Indomitable Will, this is a perfect use for it, actually.
Taliesin: I'm going to do it again. I have one more, so I'm going to blow them all.
Matt: Okay, I'll let you do that.
Taliesin: Better!
Marisha: Fight that vertigo, fight it!
Taliesin: I'll tell you what, because I had to blow all of those, we can say I threw up a little. Let's go there. That's a wisdom, that's 19.
Matt: 19. You feel quivering of the broom as Percy's hands are beginning to shake and you see the fingers constantly flutter. As you look down, about to ask if he's okay, you watch as (vomit noise) this spray of--
Laura: I throw up, too, because anytime I--
Taliesin: This was a very poor decision!
Matt: Vax, you watch as you see a gentle rain.
Taliesin: Have we gone forward, or have we just gone straight up?
Matt: Gone straight up in an arc.
Taliesin: So we're not going to hit them.
Liam: Excuse me, but this is poetic justice if I have ever seen it. That is beautiful.
Taliesin: This has been the metaphor game. This is a metaphor for our entire existence.
Matt: Yeah, some poor folks in Ank'Harel right now are having a really bad afternoon.
Marisha: Yeah, I do a Gust cantrip overtop of us to keep from getting splattered.
Laura: I'm going to keep my hand on your wrist, Percy.
Taliesin: I'm not going to look down. I'm going to look ahead. I'm good.
Matt: He directs you vaguely where it may have landed. I need you to make a perception check.
Taliesin: Yeah!
Liam: That's your jam.
Laura: I'm going to try this fancy little dice here.
Matt: You're going to have to roll crazy high.
Liam: Nope!
Marisha: Shut up!
Travis: No, that's a seven, right?
Laura: This is a one. I'm going to blame it on Matt Abernathy. Thanks for that opal dice.
Marisha: Is it the opal dice again?!
Laura: Yeah!
Marisha: What the fuck?!
Laura: He got opal dice and it-- okay. That's okay.
Matt: We love you, Abernathy, don't listen to her.
Laura: 13 perception.
Matt: But you rolled a natural one.
Liam: Automatic failure. Sorry, Charlie.
Laura: Damn it.
Matt: As he begins telling you about the wind trajectory, and the direction of its travel and the hypotenuse, and he goes in this long series of various--
Laura: I zone in and I notice that I accidentally puked a little bit on Percy's head. And that completely distracts me.
Matt: Just focusing on the one bit of his hair. The little clump right there.
Laura: That's got a tiny bit of puke on the top of his head, and I feel so bad I can't focus on what you're saying.
Taliesin: Because of that, we've done about 350. Have we done 350? Where are we now, 80, 90 feet ahead?
Laura: And I throw up again because it's so gross to see.
Matt: This time, thankfully, you have the mind to pull out of the way a little bit. However, after about ten minutes of conversation, and you unable to focus again: it's lost. You have no idea where that javelin is.
Liam: I would like to think you could feel my grinning from way down below.
Laura: You were so smart with your math and I--
Taliesin: No, sometimes math is not enough.
Sam: 20 and a one.
Taliesin: Let's go fly down.
Laura: Someone is going to find a really expensive weapon.
Matt: Someone's going to find some pauper impaled on a wall somewhere.
Laura: Oh no! No, I hope not! And the mystery, it will just be unsolved mysteries, they'll never know.
Matt: Three month investigation, no answers.
Laura: They're going have a documentary on Making a Murderer.
Travis: It'll be one dude impaled against the wall and some poor bastard that grabbed it and then got fucking electrocuted. There's two corpses.
Matt: As you guys fly back down, gather the rest of your party, the javelin lost.
Laura: Sorry, Percy, I'm so sorry.
Taliesin: It's all right. It wasn't my javelin.
Laura: No, but it was your hair that I threw up on.
Taliesin: You threw up on my hair?!
Laura: I mean! And I take some--
Taliesin: Oh god.
Laura: You know, if you hadn't thrown up to begin with, this would have never happened.
Taliesin: I wasn't aware that was going to be a thing that could happen. My hair is very absorbent, that's going to take some time.
Matt: So as you guys take a moment to gather your next stage in your endeavor for the day, we're going to take a quick bathroom break. Back here in a few minutes guys; hold tight. We'll continue this adventure here in just a moment.
Laura: Man, I rolled a one! [break]
Matt: Hello guys, welcome back! So, finished our break, Vox Machina have exited the Cerulean Palace. Apparently revealed to J'mon Sa Ord that they were capable, and in doing so, J'mon Sa Ord revealed that so is the leader of the city. So one javelin down, unfortunately. You are now getting to the later evening of your time here in Ank'Harel.
Laura: What time is it?
Matt: What is your plan?
Sam: Is it sundown yet?
Matt: It's pretty close. The sun's about 30 minutes from dusk.
Liam: Is it spice o'clock?
Laura: I'm going to use another spell and heal myself some more.
Sam: Oh yeah. Can we take a short rest somewhere? And hit dice it up or something?
Matt: Yeah, totally. Go ahead and take a short rest out there on the steps of the Cerulean Palace.
Sam: Take a knee.
Marisha: A little therapeutic massages all the way around.
Taliesin: Is Grit recovery a short rest or a long rest? I can't remember.
Matt: What do you mean?
Taliesin: Grit recovery.
Matt: It's a short rest.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Matt: And don't forget, Scanlan, you have an ability that helps everyone who's using hit dice gets a bonus.
Laura: You do?
Marisha: Really?
Sam: It's not very much but yes! Yes, I do.
Taliesin: It's even less if you don't do it.
Sam: I've never used it because it's so weak. But yeah, sure.
Taliesin: He doesn't like us.
Sam: Yeah. I do. I'm trying to find where--
Matt: Song of Rest.
Sam: Song of Rest. It's only a d10? What is it?
Taliesin: Yeah. 1d10.
Laura: That's still. That's potentially ten extra hit points.
Marisha: Between all of us.
Matt: Every person, as soon as you finish your short rest to heal. You heal an additional 1d10 hit points at the end of it.
Sam: All right. I will sing us a Song of Rest.
Marisha: Oh, I rolled a ten! Oh wait, do I roll or you roll?
Matt: You roll.
Marisha: We roll? Cool!
Sam: I'll sing. (singing) I believe you can kill. I believe that you really will. Think about it every night and day. Sharpen your blades because it's time to play. I believe! Okay, it's time to go get some spice! (laughter)
Matt: You finish your short rest. As the night takes the sky, the streets of Ank'Harel do not grow any calmer. The bazaar lights begin to glow in the distance as you see the lanterns and various magical light sources of the city spark to life and the lamps light themselves. But the city still seems to be bustling with all the energy and buzz of the day before. What would you like to do?
Taliesin: There's a casino if I recall.
Travis: Yeah, that's where we're going.
Liam: Do you gamble?
Taliesin: I don't know. I mean, I do, but I never gamble for fun.
Liam: I don't mean with lives.
Taliesin: No, I do not gamble.
Marisha: I enjoy the gambling game. That's fun!
Taliesin: That's right! We did play cards with you. That went really well.
Sam: Guys. If we're going to this casino, I have a deal to make. I value your friendship. I value the backup you will provide, but I need you to stay far away. Be inconspicuous. And by the gods, do not help me in any way! Unless I say some sort of a codeword.
Laura: What's the codeword?
Taliesin: Help me. Help me. Oh God, help me?
Sam: That's a good one. Let's make it that! Help me. Help me. Oh God, help me!
Laura: I have a question.
Sam: Yes?
Laura: Do you really think this is a smart move, considering that a brass dragon just gave us our aid and asked us not to fuck anything up?
Marisha: Also, what exactly are you doing?
Travis: (loudly) Your drug deal?
Sam: Keep it down, dude! Chill! Just chill!
Laura: All right. We're cool, Scanlan. We're cool.
Sam: We are not cool.
Laura: We're so cool.
Marisha: We're so cool.
Taliesin: So cool.
Travis: So cool.
Taliesin: I'm cool enough to know that, perhaps, you should hand off that necklace that he gave you.
Sam: Not at all.
Taliesin: They're going to think you're a narc.
Laura: Oh, they are! What if they find it on you?
Taliesin: You're wearing a police badge basically.
Laura: Give it to us. If anyone comes and tries to take you away, we'll present it and say that we're higher rank.
Marisha: That's true.
Travis: Are you supposed to do anything to set up for this deal?
Sam: Set up? I have to change into my red shirt.
Liam: And also, are you sure you really don't want us nearby? My sister and I can be unseen.
Sam: Nearby is fine. Nearby is fine but keep your distance and do not do anything including if it looks like I'm in trouble.
Liam: I mean I'm ready for the show, man. It's fine.
Laura: We've seen you turn into a triceratops and fuck things up. We trust you, Scanlan.
Liam: Oh, we didn't see that.
Laura: Well, we know it happened.
Sam: I had it commissioned as art.
Laura: Seen the tale throughout the mansion.
Travis: Can I ask for one other codeword if you don't want us to step in? What if you want us to create a distraction?
Sam: Okay, okay. What would that codeword be?
Travis: Kill everything.
Sam: Well, we are being honest on this trip, right? "Kill everything," means make a distraction, right? But "Help, help, oh god, help," means I need help.
Travis: How about "tomato paste" to create a distraction?
Sam: Tomato paste?
Travis: Yeah, because I'll cover the walls in tomato paste. But from people.
Marisha: I feel like we need something that he could use in a sentence very easily.
Liam: What about "Love-a the spice?"
Laura: "Love-a the spice," huh?
Sam: Let's stick with tomato paste. I feel like that's easier to work into a sentence than "Love-a the spice."
Liam: I don't doubt you could fit it in, Scanlan. Let's be real, please.
Sam: Really nervous, guys. I've never done a drug deal-- (whispers) a drug deal before.
Laura: Are you sure this is even a drug?
Sam: Yes, of course! I said, "Spice. Spice. Spice," And shady people came around. That means it's a drug, right?
Laura: Did you say what the spice was?
Taliesin: Oregano.
Sam: I told them. They seemed illicit about it. I'm very excited!
Laura: All right. You'll do a wonderful job. You're so cool.
Travis: How far away is the casino?
Sam: Where is the casino? I wrote it down.
Travis: The north end?
Sam: It's where the Ravenites are. Nope! That's a different page.
Laura: Should we get in fancy casino clothes? Because I feel like we'd dress up for it.
Sam: It's not The Debt's Respite. It is just The Casino, right? Does it have a name?
Matt: It's called the Luck's Run and you feel like you passed it when you first entered the Suncut Bazaar here in the city. You didn't pay much mind to it at the time.
Laura: Is it shaped like a pyramid with a giant light coming out the top? No?
Marisha: Does it have a shitty roller coaster attached?
Matt: We'll find out.
Sam: All right. I'm heading to the casino. Would you all like to join me? And you can entertain yourselves with some games while I--
Laura: I cannot wait.
Taliesin: I am very excited by this!
Marisha: I really enjoy the gambling!
Taliesin: I enjoy watching her gamble.
Marisha: Yes. But we are cool. We are chill.
Travis: Should we wear costumes? Should I wear my big pointy hat?
Sam: Yes!
Taliesin: Yes!
Travis: I put the pointy hat on.
Matt: Looks fancy! And pointy!
Taliesin: We're going to get changed for the evening.
Laura: Yes, can we get changed? Do we have enough time?
Matt: You guys have your room in the Debt's Respite, which is maybe like a 20-minute walk from--
Laura: Awesome clothes! For casino.
Marisha: Look, it's a night out in Vegas, man.
Travis: Didn't bring any extra clothes.
Laura: We are hitting the club!
Travis: We are adventurers.
Laura: We're making it hail!
Taliesin: This is not an animated series. We have more than one pair of pants. Except for you.
Sam: I wear the same exact thing every day.
Liam: 20 of it?
Matt: So Scanlan, you're wearing your normal clothes?
Sam: I'm putting my red shirt on.
Matt: Yes, you are. Okay. So you guys go back to The Debt's Respite. You get prepared for the evening, dressed up in your finest attire at your disposal, and walk your way back to where you believe this casino was when you first entered the city.
Marisha: I Druidcraft a little frost on the edge of my armor. So that I'm cool.
Sam: Just going to melt? Or does it--?
Travis: That will be soggy. It will be soggy in five minutes.
Laura: Now it looks like you've been sweating a lot.
Marisha: Guys, just tell me I look cool.
Laura: You look so cool, Keyleth.
Taliesin: I think I do know a way to make the frost hold. I could science it. I could frost-hold it.
Matt: What would you like to do?
Taliesin: Add about 15% sawdust ratio to it and it should hold its form even at a high temperature.
Liam: Well, can't she keep the cantrip going for about--
Marisha: For a little bit. It is a cantrip. I'm kind of badass now.
Travis: Put that shit down! Put it down!
Sam: What, Travis? What is that?
Travis: Put that damn mug down! I'll tear that sticker.
Sam: What is it?
Travis: How dare you! I'm going to ruin this transaction for you now.
Matt: All right. So the frost maintains itself as a high-level druid. This is a simple glamor-based cantrip to maintain.
Marisha: Fuck yeah, it is!
Laura: Can you glamor me to not look like I have a giant slash through my chest anymore?
Marisha: Or totally, I do, like a little, give her a little bit of concealer. A little bit of foundation, a little powder.
Matt: Easy enough. You guys look rather fancy as a traveling group. Do you travel together?
Laura: No.
Taliesin: I'm with Keyleth.
Liam: I'm babysitting Scanlan at a distance.
Laura: Well, I guess I'm walking by myself.
Taliesin: You can be with us.
Travis: I'm very rich, wealthy. I'm alone.
Sam: You're a high-roller?
Laura: Oh, Percy, do you want to look like you have ladies?
Marisha: Oh yeah.
Laura: So rich. All right.
Travis: I walk around double-fisting both bottles of the sandkheg.
Sam: Oh, yeah!
Liam: That went from terrible to great.
Travis: Just rolling in. Rolling in deep.
Sam: Wait. Have you even tasted it yet?
Travis: Nope. (laughter)
Laura: And then me and Keyleth are on Percy's arms.
Marisha: Yes. We are.
Taliesin: We are Vegas-ing.
Matt: You stealth.
Liam: Yeah.
Laura: Wow!
Liam: Natural 20.
Sam: Wow!
Travis: What?
Laura: Stealthing like a motherfucker.
Liam: So that's a 35.
Matt: You somehow are no longer in the narrative. You stealth out of the story.
Taliesin: You've been retconned, even.
Matt: Vax was never there.
Liam: Got you, Scan-man.
Sam: Who said that?
Matt: You guys approach the outskirts of the building you saw on the way in. What you see before you, with the little bit of light that dapples the edge of the Suncut Bazaar reflects across metallic framing on the sides of the building. The walls appear to be dark wood leafed with brass and gold, a beacon of precious metal at many points throughout the structure. It looks to be three stories in its entirety. A half-dozen armed guards not adorned in the guise of the Hands of Ord stand at each entrance, probably privately owned by the establishment, and you hear loud music and cheering bursting from within. You catch a chiseled signed across each doorway arch that read "Drensala Quan: Luck's Run."
Laura: What does that mean?
Marisha: Ren-sa-la quan?
Matt: Drensala Quan, which is the Marquesian speak for "Luck's Run" with the Common translation beneath it.
Laura: Okay, I understand.
Matt: So as you at your own paces walk through the front doors, the scents of sweat, perfumes, and tobacco immediately hit your nostrils, as the lively melodies of two musical groups compete from across the establishment, forming a strange discordant sound towards the center of the main room. Large square tables draped in crimson cloth fill the space from one end to the other, different shapes and sizes, crowds of different numbers huddled around each. You see three dozen patrons of all walks of life tending to their various games of chance. Card tables, dice games, even a small contained race table in the far corner stir cheers and anguish. You see servants--
Marisha: No, wait, what are they racing? I go over to there.
Laura: Already? I'm looking for craps.
Matt: Servants dressed in uniformed long shirts of dark gray and gold to match the building's exterior rush drinks, food, and coin between tables as you begin to push through the crowd. You come upon, Keyleth, first, as you push past, to the far room there is a long table with a series of curved, almost miniature maze-like paths and there are five paths that all run alongside each other. As you glance over the crowd, you see five desert lizards about that long that are all being held in cages at one end. And you see a bunch of individuals that are currently in the process of setting bets down on the central table with a number of colored squares around it. They're putting different amounts stacked up on the side, and they're all speaking in a language you don't understand. As you approach and glance over, some of them stop and glance over their shoulder at you, and then go back about their business, not paying attention.
Marisha: They're doing their own thing? Okay. How far away am I from the lizards?
Matt: About seven feet?
Marisha: Can I go up to them? Or are they behind a gate?
Matt: They're all in these very well-crafted cages side-by-side at the far end of a table, right next to where all the bets are being placed. And there look to be two guards flanking them and one man at the very end of the table that currently looks to have his hand on a single doorway that is at the front of these cages and is in the process of currently counting up and keeping track of all the best that are being placed.
Marisha: Okay. I'm going to go up to the guy.
Matt: Okay. You walk up to him. (speaking in Marquesian)
Taliesin: We'll keep a couple feet behind.
Matt: He's writing little notes, checking on the lizards, making little notes, and as you walk up he looks at you. "Yes, may I help you?"
Marisha: Yes, be pleased.
Matt: "Be pleased."
Marisha: What are these magnificent creatures you're racing?
Matt: "Have you not played this before?"
Marisha: No, I'm a tourist, so I'm brand new.
Matt: "This is my surprised face. This is Quan a Drensal, or The Run of Luck. It is a traditional old Marquet game of chance. It's what the casino is partially named after. It was founded on this particular sport, if you will. People bet on which lizard reaches the end first. Then the people who choose correctly make a profit. The second makes half back what was bet. The rest lose all to the house."
Marisha: Is it possible for me to get a closer look at the specimens you are racing?
Matt: "Why?"
Marisha: I'm a purveyor of fabulous beasts and I just want to see these fabulous creatures you're raising and racing.
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Marisha: God damn it; this is not what I'm good at.
Taliesin: Nope.
Marisha: Ten!
Matt: He goes, "If you wish to put down enough money to make it worth my while to inspect your investment then perhaps we can talk. However tourists I keep away from the money making."
Marisha: How does 200 gold sound?
Sam: Well, shit.
Matt: "Well, that is higher than the 25 gold minimum buy-in, so yes. Which of the lizards would you like to bet on? We have Rul, Sonpa, Thordak, Wendis, and Devo'ssa."
Marisha: What did you just say? Sorry, what was the third name that you said?
Matt: "Thordak."
Marisha: Did you say Thordak?
Matt: "Yes."
Marisha: What a fascinating name. Where did that one come from?
Matt: "It came from the stupid bastard that attacked this city hundreds of years ago."
Marisha: Oh, wow, yeah. No, I was just wondering if there was any correlation.
Sam: Always bid on Thordak.
Matt: "Because it's a tiny, puny piece of shit lizard. Of course it is."
Marisha: Can I get a closer look at them?
Matt: "Which one are you betting on?"
Marisha: I would like to get a closer look at them before I decide on where to put my well-earned money.
Matt: He stands back and the two guards muscle a little closer as he goes, "Have a look." And you lean forward and glance across the front of the cages. They all have this reddish-yellow sand-type scaled exterior; darker at the top and lighter on the underbelly. And they're all pretty much the same size; age may differ; you can't really tell which ones are healthy or not from this distance. What are you looking for?
Marisha: How close are the guys to me?
Matt: To you? There a like foot from you maybe. They're both being very careful. They're watching you very closely.
Taliesin: I'm going to engage the man in a bit of conversation. So is it a straight bet across or are there competing numbers based on historical averages for these creatures at this point? Where is the money going, at the moment?
Matt: "The money right now, we have currently a total of 750 gold pieces placed in total on the Rul who has apparently been doing very well for the day. Sonpa has been failing miserably but it might be the underdog, who knows; they're all in equal health. And the variations can be plenty. Wendis is okay; Thordak has characteristically no votes. De'vossa has a decent amount. It is up to you. What do you wish?"
Marisha: While they're having this conversation, I'm going to lean into the lizards and cast Speak with Animals.
Matt: All right, go ahead and make a sleight of hand check.
Marisha: Very under my breath.
Sam: Getting tossed from the casino.
Marisha: Here we go again!
Matt: Well, let's have a look at Speak with Animals. Let's see exactly what components it requires.
Marisha: Oh no.
Matt: Because this is going to largely--
Marisha: Very discreetly.
Matt: Verbal and somatic so yeah. Sleight of hand.
Sam: What is that?
Taliesin: That's a one.
Laura: Is that a one?
Taliesin: Of course it's a one.
Laura: Oh no! Keyleth, don't get arrested again!
Travis: You're like the biggest felon of our group.
Matt: Not even two minutes in the Luck's Front Casino, you lean forward and begin muttering beneath your breath the various druidic incantations and as your fingers begin to manipulate the spectrums of divine energies in your hand, a giant, meaty arm claps down on your hand and pulls you to the side, and the guard pulls you off your feet at his face. "Excuse me, are you trying to do funny business?"
Marisha: I'm very bad at funny. You talk to other people in our group for funny.
Taliesin: I'm ignoring this.
Matt: "You are out of the Run." And the other gentleman grabs your shoulder and they begin pushing you out, towards the exit of the Luck's Run.
Marisha: Oh, don't, come on, man. Look--
Matt: Anybody do anything?
Travis: Nope.
Matt: All right. As you're conversing with this gentleman, you watch as Keyleth gets pushed very forcefully towards the back door on the opposite side of the chamber and kicked out onto the street; like full on boot-to-the-ass, about a three foot arc before slamming onto the dark red cobblestone streets of the Suncut Bazaar.
Marisha: You guys. I just got kicked out of a casino! I'm so cool! I'm cool, Scanlan, I'm cool!
Matt: By the way, you lost your concentration and currently the shoulders are now dampered.
Marisha: Guys, I'm a little soggy, but I'm so cool!
Laura: That was really cool, Keyleth.
Taliesin: I think I'll put 25 on Thordak.
Marisha: Yeah, can I forward my bet?
Taliesin: Let's put 25 on Thordak.
Laura: I'm not putting any money on Thordak.
Matt: You never actually put your money down.
Marisha: Oh good, I didn't lose 200 gold.
Taliesin: I'm going to put 25 on Thordak.
Laura: I'm going to put 25 on the second one that doesn't have any bets.
Matt: Okay, let's see here; we have 25 on Thordak and then we have--
Laura: The one that you said hasn't--
Matt: Which is Sonpa.
Liam: If it's any consolation, that was totally adorable. Just wait outside for us; we'll be out in a bit.
Matt: And how much money you put down?
Laura: 25 gold as well. All right, no, I don't want to look like I'm putting down the minimum; that's pathetic.
Taliesin: No, we're learning the game. No one's going to give you anything. We're learning the game. We don't have to be big spenders here.
Laura: 25 gold. You've got to spend big to make big, Percy.
Taliesin: Yeah, but you've got to learn the game.
Matt: 25 gold buy-in for two of you on two different lizards. 25 on Thordak, 25 on Sonpa. The rest of the bets come in, they're marked down, the coins are put on the table in corresponding colors, you guys place them completely incorrectly, and they correct them for you and glare. You watch as the gentleman who's running the event goes, (Marquesian). He lifts up the front of the gates, and all the lizards start scurrying out rapidly. Everyone comes in real fast and begins cheering and cheering and chanting the different names of the people they put money on. All right, as we come around, we are rolling for each individual lizard for the entirety of this endeavor. Yeah, I have rolls for all the different lizards.
Laura: Oh, that's adorable. Go underdog!
Matt: All right, so. Rul. Be prepared. All right.
Sam: He's just rolling once to see--
Laura: Natural one.
Matt: It's 2d4 for each one to see how well they do.
Sam: 2d4! It's your rules, you could do anything! It could be 1d8! Why does it have to be 2d4?
Taliesin: What a good excuse to finally order a d9 and have the d9 only for this game.
Marisha: (giggles) Only for lizard racing.
Sam: Makes no sense!
Matt: And with that, you watch as they curve around each corner, skittering forward and past. They come around the far end and they come rushing back on the opposite side of the table. People are shouting. One gentleman to the left of you, Vex, seems to have some large cigar-type thing and is blustering out smoke in your vicinity, making you cough a bit, but you're still focused on this. You watch as Rul pulls ahead; Thordak pulls ahead and pulls back. Sonpa pushes forward, and Wendis is falling behind. De'vossa gets close and barely scoots past, and De'vossa is the winner.
Laura: Do I get anything for second place?
Matt: Second place, you get back half of what you bet so you get 13 gold pieces back. You lose your bet. A few other gentlemen seem to be happy and collect their winnings, and far more seem to be disappointed with the outcome. Some leave; a few more fill the spaces and come back around. The Run of Luck is complete.
Liam: What's it like outside?
Marisha: (whispers) What's it like outside?
Matt: It's dark, but beautiful with the various lanterns that are now lit. There's carts being pulled by. Some folks are leaving for the evening, some folks are bringing things into the bazaar. They prefer to actually shop during the evening, whatever their wares may be, you don't know. But it seems lively.
Marisha: It's dark, and I'm in a shady alleyway, and I'm alone. It's great.
Liam: You know, maybe go out to the front where the people are. You don't need to be in the back with the dumpster.
Marisha: Yeah, no, I guess so. But it's so pretty.
Matt: All right, so?
Laura: It takes everything in my power not to keep betting, but we should probably walk away.
Taliesin: Let's try another game; I'm not feeling this one. I don't like betting on live little--
Laura: As we walk around, we keep an eye out for Scanlan's red shirt.
Sam: I'm trying to wander away from them as best I can.
Matt: Right. So you keep your way wandering through the casino, looking over different games and such. You come across a card game. This one you've actually heard of it though you haven't actually seen it played before. It's called the Gambit of Ord. It's a competitive card game between a group of card players at a table. That actually has a buy in, but can raise per round back and forth based on who drops out and who doesn't. There is a dice game called Avandra's Favor that involves you actually rolling 2d6 and if you get either a seven or a 12, you win, but you can double the bet to add an additional d6 to try and get either a seven or a 12 if the numbers don't quite meet one or the other.
Sam: Go there.
Taliesin: We're going there.
Matt: So you go to the dice game.
Laura: Yeah!
Matt: So you go to the Avandra's Favor tables.
Laura: I want to use my gold dice.
Matt: So you have to wait a moment as there is a small line of people queued up to go ahead and place their bets for the dice. Each person is betting on each individual as they go in, whether or not they're going to make it. You wait for about 15 or so minutes before you watch a couple folks lose horribly and walk away very sorrowful about how much they lost in trying to push their luck as they step away and it's finally your turn. And the woman who's currently helping this table goes, "And you, miss, you are here to play?"
Laura: This game.
Matt: "Yes, Avandra's Favor?"
Laura: Yes, that!
Matt: "All right! So what is your initial bet, my dear?"
Laura: I can't actually remember what you said the rules were, so what's the minimum bet?
Matt: "25 gold pieces."
Laura: Okay.
Taliesin: How much for the extended bet?
Matt: How much do you want?
Taliesin: To get the third die?
Sam: I think you roll first--
Laura: And then you add, you can double your bet to add--
Matt: To add an additional die.
Laura: Okay. Then I'm going to put 25 down, just to see how it goes.
Matt: "25 gold pieces, please."
Laura: Okay, here we go.
Matt: Mark that off.
Laura: Oh, I'm marking.
Matt: She slides it into your square. "All right, now, roll the dice, and may Avandra be with you."
Laura: Okay, what am I rolling?
Matt: 2d6.
Laura: 2d6. You got it. Where's my other?
Sam: This is the most important roll--
Laura: Of my life. They're gold dice, they're the gold dice. Eight.
Matt: "Eight? Ah."
Laura: Oh god! This is a hard game! You lose really easily!
Matt: "Beyond seven, very close! Now, I could take the coin, or you could double your bet and add one more die."
Laura: To get to 12?
Taliesin: To get to 12, or any combination of seven of two, or all three must be 12.
Laura: All right, I'm going to double my bet and I'm going to throw one more dice in the --
Matt: "50 gold."
Laura: 50 gold, yes.
Matt: She takes the rest. All right, go ahead and add one more dice. Eight plus--?
Laura: Aw, it was almost a four! It was a five.
Matt: "Avandra is not by your side this moment. I am so sorry."
Laura: No, it's fine, it's really super-duper fun!
Taliesin: I need to take a round of this as well. All right, I'm going in as well.
Matt: "All right, 25 gold?"
Taliesin: 25 gold from my wonderful--
Matt: "Now, roll the dice, and may Avandra be with you."
Marisha: Percy luck!
Liam: Does it only work with 20s?
Laura: He didn't even look.
Sam: Seven. (cheering)
Matt: "First at the table! Avandra has kissed upon your forehead! Please, take your winnings." And she gives you 50 gold back.
Laura: Ooh, 50 gold back? You should try it again. You've made money now.
Sam: This is a streak at this point.
Taliesin: I'll put 25 more in.
Matt: "25 gold? Oh, but you've already proven that this has been conquerable. Are you sure 25 is all you wish to pay?"
Marisha: She's good.
Matt: "The goddess watches over you this moment. How long she may last, we do not know!"
Taliesin: 25 is fine. I don't believe in luck.
Matt: "Hmm."
Laura: You should.
Matt: "Roll your dice."
Taliesin: Six.
Matt: "Mm, unfortunate."
Taliesin: I'll put in the 25 for one more die.
Matt: "All right, a bet of 50. Roll your one more die."
Taliesin: No.
Matt: "The goddess left you. Sorry."
Taliesin: It was a wonderful thrill. Good evening.
Matt: "Good evening to you as well."
Laura: I tip her two extra gold, because that's what you're supposed to do.
Matt: "Thank you kindly. Next up!" And another gentleman muscles past and throws down his coin. "My turn!" He sits down, and other folks come in and begin to watch his next turn go. As this is happening, you're making your way through the casino.
Taliesin: Let's find the cheap drinks.
Sam: Yeah, I've forgotten, Matt, did they say to meet in a specific spot, or was it they'll know you from your red shirt?
Matt: They'll know you from your red shirt.
Sam: Okay, so then I am going up to, I'm walking past some of the higher rollers that I see, and as I walk past I'm going, (clears throat) I'm the guy. I'm the guy. (clears throat) It's me. (clears throat, whispers) I'm the guy. And keep walking if they don't--
Matt: About 20 minutes of this as you're watching over, and some folks look down, expecting to see a child, are spooked by it. In your time here, you've only really come across maybe two other gnomes. They're not very prominent here in Ank'Harel as a people, so some folks give you an odd look to the side, a sideways glance as you step around. At one point you do feel one hand clasp onto your shoulder. You glance up and you see a nice, billowing, dark blue silk shirt across a half-orc gentleman with his hair slicked back, short, over the edge of his scalp. He has a really well-trimmed goatee and a very big hoop gold earring in one ear. His hand is wrapped around your shoulder and he goes, "So. Verdaven said we are to speak, yes?"
Sam: Maybe.
Matt: "Well, then. Follow me to more private quarters where we can have a conversation."
Sam: Lead the way.
Matt: He releases your shoulder and begins walking up the stairs to the second floor.
Sam: I'll join him.
Matt: All right.
Laura: Did we see him walking up the stairs?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Taliesin: I'll join in that perception check.
Matt: You kept your eye the whole time, that was your goal, so you see this happen.
Marisha: Guys, get me a drink!
Taliesin: 21.
Laura: 15.
Matt: Okay. So yeah, Percy, Vax, and Vex, all three of you see Scanlan led upstairs, trailing behind this well-dressed half-orc individual.
Marisha: If they have a Chardonnay?
Taliesin: I was going to go red.
Marisha: That works. A Shiraz would be phenomenal.
Matt: You guys following, or are you staying where you are?
Liam: These stairs are peopled? Or are they empty other than Scanlan and this other guy?
Matt: Occasional foot traffic up and down. There does appear to be one of the various hired ruffians to keep the peace around this vicinity at the landing, up where the stairs stop and then head further up.
Laura: Is the gambling only at the first level, or is it up higher levels as well?
Matt: You haven't been to the second floor.
Laura: I think I'll, after a little bit, grab a drink and then--
Taliesin: Drunkenly head up.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. So you guys head to get a drink.
Liam: Can I ride my 20 up the stairs?
Matt: I'd say at this point, because you're no longer hiding in a corner, you're actually entering a social place, you'll have to go ahead and roll another stealth check.
Liam: That's fine, 31.
Matt: Okay. So as opposed to just being out of sight, you are trained in the idea of blending in, making various subtle movements to not catch anyone's attention, and to match the energy of the room about you so as to not stand out amongst the crowd. You adjust some of your clothing to match some of the shoulder-tossed shawls that some of the folks in here wear, and you naturally fall into the general atmosphere of the casino.
Liam: I'm still wearing the fancy whites that Percival put over me the other day.
Matt: Not a worry. You follow up the stairs and up top you do see there are a couple more tables in a center room, and six doors on each side of this long run, before another staircase heads up to the third floor of this establishment. The half-orc walks to the fourth door on the left, pulls out a key, pulls the door open, glances over his shoulder for a second, and enters the room.
Sam: I will gladly follow.
Matt: As you turn the corner and enter the room, there is a singular table. There are two chairs facing each other. There appears to be some small-- (mooing in music track)
Taliesin: There's an ox in the corner.
Liam: You can do anything you want in this place.
Taliesin: How much for ten minutes with the ox? Be fair.
Matt: As you enter the room, you see there are a few tables on the far side. There is a window that looks out that is currently closed, and the half-orc is now standing on the opposite side of the table.
Sam: (clears throat) So what have you got for me?
Matt: You enter and sit down?
Sam: Oh, yes, I enter and sit down.
Matt: Okay, you sit down. As you sit down, the door closes behind you and you see the half-elf that you had met earlier in the alleyway was behind the door, walks around and leaves the room, closing the door behind him. You hear (lock clicking). The half-orc has sat down and goes, "So you were asking about spice."
Sam: Again, maybe.
Matt: "Specifically, if I am to understand, 200 gold worth of fusaka?"
Sam: Maybe more, if it's of a higher quality.
Matt: "Well. Let it be known that I brought, just in case, twice the amount." He reaches off to the side and opens one of the small cupboards that's part of the table arrangement on that side of the room, and pulls out two satchels that are about that big around each, and lifts them both, one after the other, onto the table. They are tied at the very top. It's a high-quality burlap-type material on the outside, only the weave is much tighter so it's not liable to leak or stumble out. "So it is difficult to acquire this. I would say one for 250, or both for 400 gold."
Sam: How do I know it's of a quality I'm accustomed to, from my homeland?
Matt: "Because I have a reputation to uphold. If you wish not to have any, perhaps you find business with less viable options."
Sam: Forgive me, I'm not from around here. I don't know of your reputation. Could I possibly have a sample to see?
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Liam: While he's doing that, I'm pretending to sort of drunkenly lean on the wall outside that door.
Taliesin: Did that just happen?
Laura: What was it?
Sam: 20. (yelling)
Matt: All right. As you glance and look around the side, you can see a tan-skinned half-elf in robes waiting impatiently with his back against the door that you barely saw Scanlan disappear into after he walked out. He gives you a look over. "Should you wish, but be careful not to inhale too deeply." Then he takes the rope and unfurls and unties it, takes the satchel, and pushes it over towards you.
Sam: The whole satchel?
Matt: The entire satchel.
Travis: Do you know if it's a powder, or a plant?
Liam: It's the cinnamon challenge.
Laura: What does it look like?
Sam: Yeah, what does it look like?
Matt: Well, it's halfway across the table. You go ahead and pull it towards you?
Sam: Oh, I'll pull it towards me, yeah.
Matt: It's a little heavier than you expected. It's not a light thing, it's a very heavy material. As you pull it forward, it looks like very, very finely mulched bark almost, or shavings, and it has this pungent smell like dried cheese with a hint of cedar.
Sam: What is this shit! It's not a fine powder, it's chunky?
Matt: It's chunky to an extent, and as you're looking over it, he goes, "It requires additional refining for use, of course."
Sam: Of course. This isn't my first rodeo, friend.
Travis: Put it in your lip, put it in your lip!
Sam: Being that I play stringed instruments, I have long nails, so I'll take my pinky and sort of dip down and get a little on the end of my pinky, smell it a bit, on my gums a little bit.
Taliesin: Sweet Christmas.
Laura: The cedar wood chips.
Matt: The smell is strong, and the taste is stronger. It is not pleasant to the tongue. The aftertaste does have a unique zest to it. There is a slight numbness, and while the initial flavor is awful, the lingering flavor is actually quite nice, like a spiced meat almost. It catches you off guard.
Sam: Spiced meat. Am I feeling high at all?
Matt: Make a constitution check.
Marisha: How fast is your metabolism?
Sam: Constitution check? I've never checked my constitution --
Matt: Saving throw.
Sam: Saving throw. Well, either way it's 16.
Matt: 16, okay. Best you can tell there's no immediate effect. You don't know what it's supposed to do. It doesn't seem to be having an effect on you at the moment.
Sam: I'll do a little bit more. Get it on my tongue.
Travis: Up the nose?
Sam: (sniffing) Just a little bit more to see if it's doing anything.
Matt: Make another constitution saving throw.
Sam: 16.
Matt: Still seemingly no effect, and you can see the half-orc is starting to get a little impatient and frustrated. "So you have tried of the wares. Are you satisfied?"
Sam: I'm not dead. I guess that's good. You know, where I'm from sometimes we burn it and inhale it that way. Is that done? What methods do you guys use here?
Matt: His head pulls back a bit and he goes, "You may do as you wish with it upon purchasing. That is up to you. I am a little worried that you may not be regulating your intake."
Sam: Don't worry about me, friend, all right? My mom and dad, that's their job, all right? All right. I guess I'll take it. Your reputation and the seeming good quality makes me believe that this is of a fine caliber, quality, how that's-- ugh. Stings a little in the eyes, that's all.
Matt: "That it would."
Sam: For two satchels like this, why don't we say 300?
Matt: His immediate eager lean forward slips back into an arms-crossed. "400 was already a discount."
Sam: Fair enough. 400 it is.
Matt: "400." He takes the other satchel and is about to push it forward and is seemingly waiting.
Sam: For me to pay him? Sure, I'll drop four hundred large.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Four hundred thousand dollars.
Matt: As you both wait a moment and pause, you both shove it across at the same time, and he catches the coin pouch after watching you count it across the table. Both your satchels are at your disposal. He goes, "It has been a pleasure doing business with you. If it's not too much to ask, in case you require further assistance, what shall I call you?"
Sam: You can call me The Meat Man. (snorting and giggling)
Matt: "The Meat Man. I hope to do more business with you in the future, Meat Man."
Sam: And what shall I call you?
Matt: "I have a few titles, but in these circles, you may call me Rutur."
Sam: Rutur?
Matt: "Rutur."
Sam: Rutur. And so I'm clear here, this is a drug, right?
Matt: "Of course it is."
Sam: Oh! Really? I'm not feeling it yet, do I need to do more of it, is that the thing?
Matt: "It does not affect you immediately."
Sam: Oh. It doesn't?
All: Oh, shit.
Sam: All right, great, thanks, bye!
Matt: He takes his coin, gets up, walks around the table, knocks on the door, a couple knocks. It opens, the half-elf peers through. The door opens completely. He stops as you say that.
Sam: Sorry. I've got two big bags of drugs. Could you give me a backpack or something to put this in? I mean, I can't walk out of the casino holding this.
Matt: The half-orc rolls his eyes, looks over to the half-elf and goes, (speaking Marquesian). The other one turns. (sighs) "I'll be right back." And he goes to one of the other rooms. In 30 seconds, he comes back with some sort of a backpack-type ensemble and tosses it to you. You catch it. "Now, should you need more, just ask around the bazaar." And they both quickly head down the stairs past you.
Sam: As they go, I say to them, remember, we met, but you did not meet the Meat Man.
Matt: They both stop on their step and look at each other and keep walking. They exit the casino and you have your satchel.
Sam: Okay. (breathing heavily) I hyperventilate for a second. I don't know what's going on. Where are you guys? Where are you guys?
Liam: I place my hand right on his shoulder.
Sam: (yells in surprise) It's not me, it's not, they're not mine! And I throw it across the room.
Liam: I catch it! Grab him by the scruff of the shirt and start leading him back down the stairs. What the fuck is wrong with you?
Sam: Don't say anything. I've got lots of drugs.
Liam: Why are your eyes all bloodshot? What's the matter with you?
Sam: I don't know what I did.
Liam: Is it this?
Sam: Maybe! It hasn't affected me yet!
Taliesin: No! No! What are you doing?
Matt: Make a constitution saving throw.
Laura: Oh, you rolled really well.
Liam: I rolled good, yeah, 19.
Matt: Seemingly no effect, little bit of numbness in the gum where you placed it.
Liam: That tastes terrible.
Sam: I know! I don't know what it's supposed to do!
Liam: Do I do more?
Sam: I think so!
Matt: As time passes, the after flavor does get better, actually, surprisingly.
Liam: That's good. Maybe I'll do more.
Sam: Yeah, just one more.
Matt: (chuckling) Make another constitution saving throw.
Liam: Aw, 15.
Matt: Aftertaste is quite nice.
Liam: I've wanted to get high with you for so long! This is so cool!
Sam: One more.
Liam: You're right. We're in a casino, life is so fucking hard these days, why not? Both of us together, right?
Sam: Yeah!
Liam: All right, here we go.
Matt: You guys make a constitution saving throw.
Liam: Two.
Sam: 13.
Travis: Chew on it.
Matt: The aftertaste is nice.
Laura: It's a spice.
Travis: Chew on it!
Liam: This is so boring.
Sam: We'll talk to some locals and figure out how we're really supposed to do it.
Liam: I'm going to get Kiki some fucking elven wine. Come on. And I yank him down the stairs.
Taliesin: We've already been waiting in line for the most colorful, ridiculous drink that we can get. Something with whatever's the local version of an umbrella.
Matt: For the cost of two gold pieces amongst the three of you, or four of you, if you're a part of this as well, Grog--
Marisha: The slushy margaritas.
Travis: No, I'm hitting on ladies.
Sam: Yeah!
Matt: With a simple shoulder tap and an introduction, they turn with a smile and stare directly into the rhino-like helmet on your forehead, seem confused, and lose interest very quickly.
Travis: You clearly do not know how rich I am as the Countess of Febreze. I own many magnificent horses.
Matt: Make a deception check.
Travis: 15.
Matt: Now, the third woman you've come across in here turns around. She's maybe early forties, graying sides to her hair, pulled up tight, but impeccable makeup, beautiful jeweled earrings. She turns and gives you a glance. "Oh, well, my apologies for not recognizing greatness in my presence. So why do you bother me?"
Travis: Well, I am looking for a companion for the evening. I've had a great victory and I was hoping I might celebrate it with a fine lass like yourself.
Matt: "I do not mean to blush in the presence of such greatness, ha. I need to speak to my compatriot first. Honey?" And this gentleman turns around, in fairly nice attire, dark blacks, jeweled necklaces, dark skin, square jaw, rather well-built, a human. Turns and goes, "Yes, my dear?" "This fine fellow here is asking to spend the night with me, if that's all right with you." And he goes, (chuckles) "What, this one?"
Travis: Yes, yes, I am the magister of Sh'breeze, and I have many steeds. A night with me would truly honor your lady fair.
Matt: They both share a glance and look back at you, and he goes, "Piss off, half-born putz."
Laura: Oh, shit.
Matt: "Piss off." And he takes her arm by his side and pulls her close to him.
Travis: I reach out and I grab his shoulder. I say: I'm so sorry, this amazing decorative piece on my head sometimes impedes my hearing. I take the hat off. What was it you called me?
Matt: Make an intimidation check.
Marisha: Oh shit! Casino fight!
Laura: Oh no!
Sam: Two people thrown out of the club!
Marisha: Let's all get thrown out! Yeah! Natural one buddies! Grog and Keyleth, on fire tonight!
Matt: As you lean in, he leans back and goes, "Oh, well, I'm sorry, I did not realize that was not part of your actual forehead." You feel, now, several hands meet your shoulders as it appears about five of the various guards of the establishment have encircled you, grabbed you, and are now pulling you away from the group.
Travis: Oh, I asked for a woman, not dudes, no really, I just wanted one lady.
Matt: They're grabbing you by the arms, now, and they're pulling you toward the entrance.
Travis: Now, I'm not going to pay for this, really, I'm not. I'm very important!
Matt: And it takes all five of them, but they do manage to (grunt) heave-ho you out onto your face across the cobblestones, where Keyleth is there waiting, watching this happen.
Marisha: Grog!
Travis: Kiki!
Marisha: Hey buddy!
Taliesin: Are we at the bar?
Matt: You guys have just gotten your drinks, which are --
Taliesin: Do they have to-go cups? We'll take four. Just one of every color. Just one of every color.
Matt: The guy at the front goes, "Well, certainly. That would be an additional gold piece per drink."
Marisha: Percy, get me the flashy cup!
Laura: I'm going to down mine really fast and then take another one to go, thanks.
Taliesin: I'll put down for the four cups.
Marisha: I want the one that's in the shape of the tower of Ord.
Matt: "Six gold, please."
Sam: That's a yard glass.
Matt: All right, you have your drinks.
Taliesin: I take them outside and begin distributing them.
Matt: The cups themselves probably cost about three copper each.
Taliesin: God I hope so. It's about the memory.
Matt: You all are a bunch of out-of-towners being taken for a ride by every one of these patrons who comes across you.
Liam: This is so much fusaka. What is Jarett or anybody going to do with this?
Laura: Let's go back to the rooms.
Sam: We need to find out if it's real. Should we go back and ask those guys who sold this to me?
Liam: I took three hits of this, and it has done nothing.
Laura: Come on, let's go back to the room and do some experiments on it. Yes? Grog?
Travis: Thank you. (belches)
Marisha: Did you guys bring me a drink?
Taliesin: We did, yep, there's that. I give her the most colorful, most ridiculous thing I can find, in the most ridiculous cup they have.
Laura: We head back to the hotel, to the inn.
Marisha: (giggling) I love this city!
Matt: So you head back to the Debt's Respite, you go back to your respective rooms, finish your drinks along the way. You have your Luck's Run collectible to-go cups that you bought off the barkeep because, sure.
Taliesin: It's not like I've never bought a ridiculous plastic dragon necklace with the flashing LEDs before.
Liam: I disappointedly drop the backpack in Scanlan's lap and say: Here's your fucking cinnamon, you idiot.
Sam: Are you sure it's not real?
Marisha: What'd you guys get? What's it look like?
Sam: It looks like nothing. Hey, can you nature check this? You're a nature person.
Marisha: I can try.
Matt: Yeah, make a nature check.
Laura: Let's set it on fire and see what happens.
Marisha: Okay, but first I'm going to nature check it.
Taliesin: The phrase "Let's set it on fire and see what happens" usually doesn't work out well.
Travis: That's a good idea.
Laura: It looks like wood.
Marisha: 14.
Matt: 14. I mean, it resembles a few things in your past that you've come across, when cut down and processed, but you're not familiar with this one, unfortunately.
Marisha: But it does seem plant-based?
Matt: Yeah, it is definitely natural.
Marisha: I take a little finger-dippie.
Travis: What are you doing with it?
Matt: There's a brief bit of numbness that comes to your gums. The flavor is awful, and then it fades into a pleasant, smoky flavor.
Laura: Does it taste like it would be good on a sandwich?
Marisha: It'd be great on a rack of lamb.
Travis: Are you high?
Marisha: Am I high?
Matt: Make a constitution check.
Liam: It's got to be a natural one.
Matt: Constitution saving throw, at least.
Marisha: Saving throw? 19.
Matt: 19. You seem to be fine.
Travis: Aw, fuck it. I take a big old wad out of the thing and I stick a big old chunk in my lip.
Taliesin: Only because everybody's being an idiot, can I recommend that we perhaps try grinding it up into a tea, or something?
Travis: 16.
Sam: He's fine.
Matt: I mean, the initial taste is not bad. You've eaten far worse. And the lingering flavor is quite delicious.
Travis: This is really nice. Should I swallow it?
Sam: Yeah, I guess.
Laura: I don't know, Grog.
Travis: All right, I swallow it.
Matt: (gulping sound) No effect. A few minutes go by, your stomach gets a little upset, but then it passes. Yeah, a little bit, but then it passes.
Marisha: I take a little bit in my hands and I light it with my flame hands to see what happens.
Taliesin: Oh no.
Matt: Okay. The flame takes it, leaving behind this burning ember. The smoke emanates off of it. It gives this little plume of grayish brown.
Marisha: I waft it a little bit.
Matt: Smells really nice.
Liam: It is hilarious how badly we all want this to be heroin, and it's not.
Travis: Can we free-base this shit?
Matt: It smells like a very fancy kitchen.
Laura: Can I walk downstairs and find the innkeeper?
Matt: Yeah, yeah. As you head downstairs --
Taliesin: I'm going to take a little bit, I'm going to mortar and pestle a little bit, and make a tea.
Matt: Eventually you find Treev is down there, watching over the counter.
Laura: Hey, Treev. Hi.
Matt: "Oi, hi, how do you do."
Laura: I'm looking for a meal. I'm a little homesick. I'm hoping you have a meal that maybe has some fusaka in it?
Matt: "Oh, we got a bit over here. It's a bit pricey."
Laura: Oh, it is a pricey spice, yeah.
Matt: "A bit, at least, for what it's worth. You only want to use bits and pieces in the meats."
Laura: Right.
Matt: "Use too much and it spoils the flavor."
Laura: Of course. It wouldn't do anything to your body if you had too much of it, would it?
Matt: "You'd probably get sick a bit, I imagine."
Laura: Probably. Right.
Sam: I'm upstairs trying to take it anally. (laughter)
Sam: Come on, this'll work! This will work!
Travis: Trainspotting. This is Trainspotting.
Laura: Tell you what, I'm going to save the money. I think I'll hold off on the fusaka for tonight, but maybe later. Thank you.
Taliesin: I've ground and powdered a tea, and placed it in the room and walked away.
Liam: I'm sorry to say that I am watching Scanlan, fascinated.
Taliesin: I'm not. My head is turned around. I'm sketching things.
Sam: No one lies to the Meat Man. I want to go back to that place and get my revenge. Are you with me, Vax?
Liam: Vex, Vax? Which of us?
Sam: Vax!
Liam: Yeah, sure, buddy.
Marisha: Why do you need revenge? You got the product you bought, right?
Travis: How's your butt feeling?
Sam: It feels a little tingly, but overall just fine.
Matt: It does itch.
Taliesin: Does he have to make another constitution check at this point?
Matt: No, you've pretty much figured out at this point that it is just a flavoring spice.
Laura: Here's the thing, he said it's an expensive spice. Maybe it was worth however much you spent on it. Tell me how much you spent on this.
Sam: Like, 50.
Laura: Oh, 50 gold, that's a lot, but I think it should be fine.
Taliesin: You spent 50 gold on this? Good god! (laughter)
Laura: You can make 50 gold back betting in the casino later.
Taliesin: It was 50 gold as a fine lesson, though. Real worth it.
Liam: If you really want to go get revenge, I will get revenge with you, but I think we should call it a loss. 50 gold is a piddly thing. Is that a word? No.
Taliesin: If it were any more, I'd feel bad, but it's only 50 gold. I'd feel like an idiot.
Liam: You are upset.
Taliesin: I think he's just had too much spice.
Travis: He's foreseeing the Washington Redskins season.
Laura: They said it could make your stomach upset if you've had too much. Have you had too much?
Sam: He lied to me.
Liam: Let me get you a drink. You want me to go down and get you a drink?
Sam: Don't spend any money on it.
Taliesin: I've got a great idea. I'm going to get a little bit of the wine, of the ridiculous wine that we got. I'm going to pour a little bit into my new collector cup that I got, and I'm going to sprinkle it with some of the powdered spice.
Sam: Maybe it has to activate that way!
Taliesin: Here, there you are! Down that, that'll go quite well.
Laura: Oh, he drank the whole thing!
Matt: Those flavors didn't mingle too well. You feel a little queasy.
Laura: Is that the wine that was like--
Travis: Yes.
Laura: Grog's wine?
Matt: Oh wait. Oh, this was the sandkheg?
Taliesin: Yeah, just a little bit of the sandkheg.
Matt: Make a constitution saving throw.
Sam: 17.
Matt: 17, okay. Beneath your nose, you can't feel anything. And right now, yeah, from here down. You guys watch as his tongue is hanging out, and you watch as drool is now pouring down the side of his chin.
Laura: Scanlan?
Sam: (thickly) Huh? That's good shit.
Taliesin: I'm going to very gently try and take the gold medal that he got today away from him while he's numb. Just try and pickpocket him.
Matt: Make a sleight of hand check.
Taliesin: Okay.
Sam: (more inarticulate noises)
Marisha: Oh my god. It's the night of all the natural ones.
Laura: Oh no.
Matt: Heh. Out of the corner of your eye, you see Percy pulling a shiny object from around your shoulders.
Taliesin: Ugh! No slapping! No, don't slap!
Liam: I walk over to Scanlan and I squat down and I start play-doh'ing his face in all different shapes, pulling the cheeks out really wide, pulling the nose up as--
Laura: We should get him to bed.
Liam: If only I had scotch tape.
Travis: So like, should we sleep? Because I know we still wanted to see Headmaster James Kryon at the Crystal Chateau.
Taliesin: Yes, let's get an evening's sleep.
Liam: Yeah, and we need to fix Scanlan before--
Travis: Maybe he needs to be slapped sober.
Laura: We're still waiting to hear back on Mistress Asharru?
Taliesin: Yes, we are still waiting on that.
Laura: Yes. So we can't leave here.
Travis: Mister Ashad?
Laura: The one with the cloak.
Taliesin: And we have several magical items that could use a little bit of jiggery-pokery, so let's sleep this off, perhaps, and be excited that we're bringing a friend a taste of home at the bargain of 50 gold.
Laura: But I have to say, I'm glad Jarett didn't send us on a mission to get drugs. It's quite out of character.
Taliesin: I mean, you know.
Sam: (inarticulate noise)
Liam: I've got my pinkies in the sides of Scanlan's mouth.
Laura: Leave him alone. He's pathetic enough as it is, really.
Sam: (sobbing)
Travis: All right, I'm going to bed.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: All right, you guys find yourselves to your respective rooms.
Sam: (thickly) Be pleased.
Matt: You all have a full night's rest, back to full hit points. You get half your maximum hit dice back if you've spent any more than half of them. Scanlan, you wake up, quite a pounding headache in your head, but the rest of your body has its feeling back as you come to consciousness.
Sam: Maybe I can package it into smaller amounts and sell it on the street to recoup some of the money. Do we have an afternoon to kill?
Travis: Are you talking to yourself?
Sam: Yes. Damn it, what did I do? I should have insight checked him, or I could've dominated, there are so many things I could have done to him to find out! I flew too close to the sun. (laughter)
Sam: (sighs) Next time. Next time I'll do things differently. Next time I will find drugs. That's the lesson to be taken from this, look harder. Look harder. The Meat Man never gives up.
Taliesin: I believe in you, Walter White. I believe in you.
Matt: And another persona of Scanlan was born. All righty, so what are your plans for the day? As you stumble down into the main tavern area, you can see Treev's barely conscious himself and a few other patrons are waiting eagerly for their food as a few of the various barkeep assistants are bringing out breakfasts and meals. "You'll want food on your way out, then?"
Laura: Yes, please.
Taliesin: And whatever you have for a hangover for our friend who'll be down in, oh, never quite possibly.
Matt: "Hair of the dog, it is."
Taliesin: I think he may have had the whole dog.
Travis: We thought we might be going to the Crystal Chateau today. Anything to know about heading that direction? (cricket sounds)
Travis: Crickets in this tavern.
Matt: "Ah, get rid of them. Well, other than the fact that they're a bunch of stuffy folk and generally not really considered classic traditional Ank'harel, I mean good luck getting a right answer out of anyone."
Travis: They snobs? Or are they like shifty?
Matt: "Snobs of the highest order! At least from what I've seen. Allegiance of All-Sight and all that."
Taliesin: I love snobs. I'm excited.
Laura: Any word back from Mistress Asharru?
Matt: "Nope. No word. Who knows how long it'll take. She might not even like it. You may never hear back from her. In which case, if you wait long enough, I can see if I can hire someone else for you."
Laura: Yeah, thank you.
Taliesin: We have business, we can see to it. Let's take everything that we need. We have several objects, if I recall.
Travis: Yep, shall we?
Laura: Scarf down the breakfast!
Matt: You get your food in your system.
Taliesin: We're going to actually need a Scanlan.
Laura: How you doing, Scan?
Sam: I wander down, (sighs) good morning all! I hope you slept nicely. My jaw seems to work! Thank you for not nursing me at all last night, I would've done the same to you.
Taliesin: (loudly) How are you feeling?
Sam: Aw, fuck you! (laughter)
Liam: Aw, I feel so bad. I walk up behind him and I start doing like a scalp massage, around the temples. You'll be all right, eat something, okay.
Sam: All right. Something with meat, I need to use this spice.
Marisha: I make a little bit of my glissfoil hangover tonic. Give it to him.
Matt: It helps. The next 15 minutes or so of you finishing your breakfast, the headache fades for the most part. The pounding subsides.
Sam: The innkeeper knew of the spice, correct? Can I talk to the innkeeper really quick?
Matt: Sure, you walk up to Treev, who's right now sitting there reading a book, has like a rather thick pair of glasses that look rather hilarious against the small dragonborn eyes, focus against the really rough and tumble exterior.
Sam: Oy, Treev? That fusaka spice, how much does it go for usually for a bag? Big bag, sack?
Matt: "How big a bag are you talking?"
Sam: Hog's head, right?
Taliesin: Yeah, it's a hog's head.
Matt: "Hog's head bag. It depends on where you're buying it. Ten gold?" (groaning and laughter)
Matt: "But you could probably barter most down from there, if you're getting it in bulk."
Sam: That hurts. I thought you people said it was expensive?
Matt: "For spice, yeah! Mostly dealing with coppers and silvers for mere poison food flavor."
Sam: What if it's really high quality fusaka?
Matt: "12? Fusaka's fusaka and you don't find many folks that're asking for its flavor except for particular dishes, so I only keep maybe a small flagon of it at any times. In fact, last night is the first time someone asked for it in about three months."
Laura: What does it normally look like?
Marisha: No one even fucking wants it!
Laura: I mean when you're using it in food.
Matt: "Well, it comes--" and he goes through like a small spice rack on the side of the kitchen, comes back out and pulls out a small glass container. He uncorks the top and inside you can see it's a very fine dark brown powder. He says, "It comes in bits but you grind it down and then you sprinkle it over, cook it proper, usually with slow roasts, and it's quite nice."
Sam: Thanks, Treev.
Matt: "No worries."
Sam: All right, I'm good.
Liam: Enjoy that allspice.
Sam: Let's go on our journey.
Travis: We buying more drugs today?
Sam: No, I think my kingpin days are over.
Liam: That is sad to hear.
Travis: Off to the Crystal Chateau, then?
Taliesin: Off to the Crystal Chateau.
Matt: Who's leading the charge to the Crystal Chateau?
Marisha: We ask Treev first  where is the Crystal Chateau?
Matt: He thinks for a second, "Ain't been around those areas for a bit. Those'll be over in the Sigil District, and that's right down in the southeastern side of Ank'harel. Look for the raised landmass where it's carved off at the top. That's where most of all the bastards live and most of the training's done by the Allegiance folk."
Liam: The bastards live, you said?
Travis: Yeah, they're snobby.
Laura: Thank you.
Matt: "My pleasure."
Taliesin: Be back in a bit.
Travis: Meep-meep.
Taliesin: I'll lead the charge.
Matt: All right. Make an investigation check.
Taliesin: Oh, for the love of god.
Laura: Are you finding anything, Percy?
Taliesin: No. Six.
Matt: Six. What'd you roll?
Taliesin: Two.
Matt: At least it's not a one. It takes you about four hours of wandering the city to finally get the proper directions to lead you towards the Sigil District to the Crystal Chateau. As you ascend through these streets, the red cobblestone that you've seen through most of the streets of Ank'harel gives way to this slightly opalescent surface where the light itself almost dances across the surface of the stones. It shifts in the outskirts of where the large hillside comes to an end, and the buildings here give way to an open space where you see a large, open square, but in the center of the square, there are ropes around some sort of large hole in the ground, probably a good 150 feet across. It is a circular chasm off to the eastern side of this large open square. There are maybe a half dozen individuals standing around the lip of it. A few of them are armed and armored, and a few of them seem to be dressed in long, relatively nice robes and light clothing. You see a number of longhouses with high steepled roofs with a yellowish-tan tint to them. These buildings are very nice. They look constructed in a type of architecture that's more reminiscent of Tal'Dorei or other civilizations than you've seen most of Ank'Harel's construction, so you figure these buildings are probably newer or at least this district seems to have a little different cultural flavor to it than the rest of the city. To the southern side of it you do see a large multi-tiered structure that is made of a smoky quartz mixed with white marble in places. This, with an immediate glance, you'd probably gather is the Crystal Chateau.
Taliesin: Does the opalescent stone have any similarity to the stones of Whitestone?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Marisha: Don't use the opalite dice. Opalite hates us.
Taliesin: There we go. 23.
Matt: You take a moment, glance down closely, and look at it. It looks like the cobblestones of this particular district, and it's only really towards the top of this hill, where all the rest of these buildings are constructed, has a very faint trace of ground-in whitestone particles that had been part of the construct of these floors. A large portion of whitestone, over time, has been exported to this location for the construction of the top of this hill.
Taliesin: Good to know.
Laura: Can I wander over to the big hole in the ground and ask one of the guards: Oi! What's in there?
Matt: As soon as you walk up, two of the guards give you a keen look and put their hands on the sides of their sheathed weapons.
Laura: No worries. I'm from out of town. I just was very curious.
Matt: They look at each other and some of the more-- for lack of a better term, more academic looking individuals-- shy away from this seemingly growing possible confrontation, from their perspective. They begin to pull back and walk down this slightly descending, spiral-like path, that's about ten feet off the inside of this carving into the floor. They begin to descend down into it. One of the guards says, "This is where the Allegiance is currently excavating."
Laura: Oh. And the Allegiance is the people who live here? No?
Matt: "The Allegiance runs all of the schools here."
Laura: Of course, yes, the schools for magic.
Matt: "You are not from here?"
Laura: I am not, at all.
Matt: "Well, please be on your way."
Laura: Right. Thank you for all of your helpfuw information. Helpfuw? Helpful.
Matt: As you walk and turn away, they keep a close eye as you step back into the open area of the square.
Laura: There's a big hole in the ground.
Taliesin: I was noticing. That's odd.
Laura: They're esc-excavating something. I don't know what's happening to my brain!
Taliesin: Had a little bit of spice, have we?
Marisha: Does it look like a similar excavation site to the ziggurat in Whitestone?
Matt: The ziggurat is a subterranean chamber that was found through a long series of tunnels that were carved beneath a long swath of land, underneath Whitestone Castle, to the actual city of Whitestone. This appears to be just a large, strip mine-like cylinder that descends deep into the earth. You haven't been able to get close enough to look down toward the bottom of it.
Taliesin: How wide again, approximately?
Matt: About 150 feet across. You're estimating from this distance.
Taliesin: And it looks excavated, and not just like something opened up and then they kept digging?
Matt: Correct. You can see there is actually a pattern to the carving of the earth. It looks like it's been carved in, layer after layer after layer, much like a small-scale strip mine.
Taliesin: Do the stones look like they broke the ground, or does it look like the stones were actually built around this? Has this been here since the construction of this area? Or does it seem like perhaps in the last 20 years or such, they've just gone down?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Taliesin: No. It's a hole!
Matt: Yeah. It's hard to tell. For all your training in Whitestone, you haven't really been too keen on reading about the various details and specifications behind paving roads.
Marisha: Percy?
Taliesin: Yes?
Marisha: Is there whitestone located outside of Whitestone?
Taliesin: Not really, that I'm aware of. It rests beneath the tree, in the hills, in the mines to the north, and that's pretty much it that I'm aware of.
Liam: And you would know about any dealings that Whitestone would have?
Taliesin: Well, I would if I had paid attention to such things, but it wasn't something that I was-- I was very young the last time I was there. I don't really know where anything went, but I can assume that this came from Whitestone.
Travis: I bet they got this from Whitestone!
Liam: That's a bit of a stretch, Grog.
Taliesin: This is interesting. How did you come to that conclusion?
Travis: I don't know, I just felt a little brain snap and then things danced between my ears and then it hit my mouth.
Taliesin: You should write that down.
Marisha: I Druidcraft a little gold star for him out of bark, and I say: Here you go, Grog! Good job! You have a gold star for the day!
Travis: What do I do with this?
Marisha: Just stick it right on your forehead!
Liam: Or eat it.
Matt: You hear a crunching between his pearly white, larger-than-average goliath teeth.
Taliesin: This is good news, if it is whitestone. It means that we at least have some leverage here. Let's find a big door, the biggest door we can find, and attack it!
Matt: That's always worked out well for you guys in the past. You make your way south of the square to the Crystal Chateau. There is a large white iron gate that surrounds the premises. And from where the cobblestone ends beyond that gate it is a fairly beautiful, well-kept, fenced-off garden, where you see some trees popping up, green grass. Looks to be a small stream that runs through, there's a bridge off the main path that leads to the chateau that goes over it. The water seems to butt up against the chateau and vanish beneath it, to continue within the actual structure. As you head to the front gate you see the door there, and there are two small handles on the outside. You go to pull and it doesn't open.
Taliesin: I knock.
Matt: It's that iron-like vibration of a heavy gate. You wait a few moments, and in the distance, you see the large two doors to the chateau, one peeks open slightly and a little head peeks through.
Taliesin: Hello.
Matt: It's about, maybe, 50 feet from you at this distance, and he disappears back behind the door.
Laura: Scanlan, hold up that necklace.
Sam: Yes, sorry. Distracted. Here.
Taliesin: We're here on official business. Matters of trade and of research.
Matt: The door still remains ajar, but the figure has pulled back in. Are you shouting this at a distance?
Taliesin: Yes, I am. It will be very worth your while, and someone will definitely wish to speak with us. We've traveled from Tal'Dorei.
Sam: Can we just walk up to the door?
Matt: The head peeks out again and you get a better look at it this time. It's short, oval to the side almost? The head has this very wide, short, stocky, very pointed nose and a very pointed chin. No facial hair, however. Bald on top and what you see as a bit of grey hair that's frizzed on the sides. As it steps outside, you see its stature is similar to Scanlan's. This appears to be a gnomish individual. Pale skin, paler than most of you and definitely most people you've seen here in Ank'Harel and as it steps out, it has white robes with gray streaks across the front and back that fall into this cape in the back and with its arms placed within its robes. Its small footfalls comes across the path, over the bridge, up to the front of the gate and is now facing you guys on the other side of the gate. Up close, it is a very old gnome. Those of you who have known gnome longevity, that's many years. Strangely adorable, the eyes are tiny and beady, the eyebrows are furrowed. There's a slight smile and this elderly sweetness to him as he approaches with his arms in his robe.
Liam: Hello there, grandfather.
Matt: "Yes?"
Liam: We are looking for a bit of help. We've been told that your knowledge is great and we have some items that defy description.
Laura: Are you Headmaster James Kryon?
Matt: "No, I am not. I am Grymond Trog."
Liam: One more time, grandfather.
Matt: "Grymond Trog."
Liam: Grymond Trog. It's a pleasure to meet you.
Matt: "You, as well, and well met, whoever you are."
Laura: Be pleased.
Matt: "You don't have to do that here."
Laura: Could we meet with Headmaster James Kryon? We've been sent by someone very important. J'mon Sa Ord.
Taliesin: From across the continent.
Sam: I flash the thing again and say, in Gnomish He'll want to talk to us. We've come a great distance to meet him.
Matt: And he responds in Gnomish to you, "Very well. I will go and see if the Headmaster is available. I cannot promise anything, but I will return." You guys see this exchange in Gnomish. It sounds like (fast twittering).
Laura: I've never heard you speak Gnomish before, Scanlan.
Travis: What'd you say?
Sam: (sighs) I said  Someone loan me 350 gold.
Laura: 350 gold? Why 350 gold?
Liam: That's a very specific number.
Taliesin: That's a very interesting number.
Matt: The gnome spins around and darts back into little footfalls, coasting a strange little zig-zag back to the original doors and disappears. The doors don't close; they remain ajar.
Liam: He's way faster than you.
Laura: Why don't you walk that fast, Scanlan?
Sam: I'm carrying two giant sacks of spice. It weighs me down.
Travis: Do you want to put those in the bag of holding?
Sam: No! They're mine.
Travis: Your cross to bear. Got it.
Matt: You wait about 15 minutes before the gnome, Grymond, pops his head out once more. "Just a minute." Pops back in.
Liam: I like that little guy.
Taliesin: I know; he's quite pleasing.
Matt: Pops back out about ten minutes later. Darts over to the edge. "My apologies for keeping you waiting. The headmaster is unable to see visitors at the moment."
Laura: Oh no. Why?
Matt: "Perhaps try next week."
Laura: Oh no, that's such a long time. We have a very short amount of time; we're on a crunch.
Marisha: Yes, is there a standby list we can get on?
Matt: "Is there something I can help you with?"
Liam: We are sort of trying to save--
Marisha: The world.
Matt: "That's very sweet."
Laura: Can I insight check him?
Marisha: Time is of the essence.
Laura: 20.
Matt: 20?
Sam: Loot Crate, ladies and gentlemen. I'm wearing one of the shirts right now. It came in this month's Loot Box! Loot Crate, I think it's called, actually, not a Loot Box.
Liam: I hear it comes with a gram of spice in every box.
Sam: Yeah, that alone makes it worth about $500. Every box. In some circles. Oh boy, Travis is looking! (laughter)
Laura: Look, we're in a bit of a rush. This is very important business. The fate of the world rests on your shoulders.
Matt: Persuasion check.
Sam: Persuasion check. She's the best at those!
Laura: I'm not terrible at it. 20.
Sam: That's good.
Matt: His eyes blink. Sigh. "Just a moment." Turns around and disappears back up the walkway to the building. You wait another 30 minutes.
Laura: Fucking little gnome on a power trip.
Liam: Worth it.
Sam: What are we asking when we get in, by the way?
Matt: You wait another ten minutes, and right as your frustration is beginning to mount and you're ready to start rattling that gate, you see a figure, much taller, step out from the open door to the front of the Crystal Chateau.
Liam: Eyes up!
Matt: Much slower and deliberate walk. This taller humanoid, as it approaches, you see the same white robes with the same silver grey band that goes over the shoulders, the mantle pointing out past the shoulders, as it passes back into a cloak that drifts behind. The train of the robe's dragging just a few inches past the back. They seem longer than should be for a normal traveling person; they're almost ceremonial. As the humanoid approaches, you can see silver, almost purple-colored hair, that just falls back and trails past, without a stray hair in place, long past the shoulders, almost like a secondary cloak and flows with each step, just like the cloak does. The face is pure elven, skin pale white, the eyes white with a very faint gold iris. No pupil. Seems young, though the graying hair does lead you to believe that there is some age to this elven individual. Approaches, hands together in front. Eventually comes to the edge of the gate. "My apologies for the delay. Apparently, you have both the assistance of the soul of the jeweled city at your disposal, and you've convinced my clerk that you have important business. Well, you have ten minutes of my time. What can I do for you?"
Taliesin: May we speak in private for that ten minutes? It is sensitive.
Matt: "Very well." He snaps his fingers and utters this incantation under his mouth. Suddenly you have this crackling blue wall appear above you, and you all are encased inside this cube-like box, it's about 25 by 25 feet, you hear this slight vibration crackling around you.
Laura: Is the fence still between us?
Matt: The fence is still between us, but it's enclosed. It closed all of you into this box, including himself. And all the breeze that was blowing through has been halted. You hear none of the surrounding sounds of the city around you. This appears to be a fairly private place. (laughs) For at least the time he's willing to give you.
Taliesin: Do you know of the news of Tal'Dorei and Emon?
Matt: "I don't really pay attention to matters that far from where we are. I have important things to tend to."
Taliesin: Foreign affairs, obviously. But I can see that there are aspects of this place that are foreign, that you have brought culture here. And I pull out one of my guns, pull it out to show him the hiltwork, which is all embedded with actual whitestone. I cannot speak the name of where we come from, but I know how this place was built, and I know that perhaps we have a connection because of it. And I'm going to--
Sam: Shoot him in the head. (laughter)
Taliesin: Dragons-- There's no secret to it. Dragons are ravaging the continent. A chromatic conclave of dragons, unlike we've ever seen before, have decimated the cultures of the other end of the earth. Dragons we have never seen before, but you have. And I'm going to Minor Illusion in my hand an image of the red dragon with the ruby in his chest sitting atop. I'm creating a little visual of it.
Matt: It's rudimentary.
Taliesin: It's rudimentary, but it's there. It's obviously an illusion; it's not meant to look real. It's fuzzy.
Matt: It's a Princess Leia, froze, coming out of R2D2 in A Lost Hope. Takes a look at it, seemingly unmoved, and goes, "And?"
Taliesin: They will come here. They will come here and they will ravage. We've been given the opportunity and the hope of stopping them before they reach your shores.
Liam: We have ended two of them, and we want to end them all before they come anywhere near these shores.
Matt: "That sounds like an absolutely remarkable endeavor and I wish you the best of luck."
Taliesin: If we could just have a bit of help, identifying a few objects of magical power, and hopefully finding a few more keys to stopping them, it would ingratiate us to you so much that I would be delighted to speak of a future of hopefully making sure that more of this beautiful whitestone that you use everywhere in this beautiful palace is available and deeply indebted.
Matt: As you do say whitestone, his eyes for the first time do lock into yours.
Marisha: (whispering) Tell him who you are, Percy!
Taliesin: I cannot tell him who I am.
Matt: "Well. You now have six more minutes of my time. If you are here for simple identification purposes, I can aid you in this. What would you like me to see for you?"
Taliesin: They are not simple. We are not starting with the jug.
Liam: Step up, Grog. Show him the gloves.
Travis: Oh, yes. I got these Titanstone Knuckles off my uncle. They make me bigger and stronger, but I'm not sure what else they do.
Matt: He leans forward and places his hands through the gate openings on the sides of where the various bars are and touches them, and his eyes flare with a flash of sudden arcane energy. His hands just tense for a moment, and he lets go. "Indeed they are. A Vestige! I have not seen one in person. Congratulations. That is a very worthy find. There are museums and collectors that would pay quite a penny for such an item."
Travis: No, I'm not interested in selling it.
Marisha: But you have heard of these Vestiges before?
Matt: "I have come across them in my research, yes."
Liam: We have three of them.
Marisha: Have you heard of one called Cabal's Ruin?
Matt: "I've heard of it."
Marisha: It's a cloak.
Matt: "A cloak? Yes. Yes, I have come across it in my papers before, but that was quite some time ago and that's the extent of my knowledge, I fear. Sorry."
Taliesin: Show him your bow.
Laura: Our second Vestige.
Matt: Leans forward, this time with one hand and touches the edge of it. As he touches the edge, it curls against the tip of his finger and he pulls back, a little bit creeped out by it.
Laura: Fenthras.
Matt: "Fenthras." And his eyes flash again. The bow seems to stop moving for a second and then relax back into its slow, organic movement. "This is also quite a find. A powerful weapon. Fey in nature. It seems to extend sight and grow that which it slays." He gives you information on each of these Vestiges as part of his Identify spell, and there is no additional information beyond what you already know about the item.
Liam: I misspoke. We have four. Scanlan, show him your blade.
Sam: (French accent) Mythcarver!
Matt: (French accent) "Mythcarver?"
Sam: Is how some would say it.
Matt: He takes it. His eyes flash again as he glances over the blade. "One of the non divine-based Vestiges. Here you are. Much like those knuckles."
Travis: Non-divine?
Matt: "Some were created in the sphere of some deity's influence. Some were created by powerful practitioners of the arcane. Remember, the Calamity, the battle that sparked the Divergence itself, was a battle against the gods, against wayward arcane magics, and the division between the societal belief in both."
Laura: Did anyone in the Allegiance create these items?
Matt: "No, the Allegiance has only been around for about 80, 90 years. But some of us have come across information about these, as scattered as they are."
Taliesin: We have the tea set, as well? Do we have anything else?
Sam: Can you tell me anything more about the blade?
Matt: "It resonates with sound and speech and song." He gives you basically the information you have about the Mythcarver.
Liam: Probably overkill, but I draw back the white that I'm wearing. What of this armor? Can you tell me anything about it?
Matt: He reaches forward and touches the armor. Eyes flash again. He gives you a full, detailed description of the armor you're holding. He says, "This has been awakened. Interesting, yes. It's rare that artifacts have an awakening. Interesting."
Liam: Is that something that any of these would do?
Matt: "I do not know. This is my first time actually handling any Vestiges. For the record, you carrying this many puts quite a target on your back from anyone who's interested in selling them or making them their own. I would recommend not telling anyone what you have in your possession."
Taliesin: You are the only one that we've told.
Matt: "Good, keep it that way."
Taliesin: Just a few more things.
Laura: I pull out the tea set that has LM engraved on it, that we got in--
Matt: "Unfortunately, you've expended most of my identification this day."
Taliesin: Less of a magical investigation, then. I pull out a piece of the green elemental shard from Whitestone and show it to him.
Matt: "Might I have a look at that?" He takes it, reaches into his robes, pulls out a very well-crafted glass jeweler's piece, glances over it for a second. He clicks a small button on the side of it. Each time he does, you see the lens change color on the end of it. "I have not seen anything like this. Not of condensed, purified whitestone."
Taliesin: Yes. I take it back.
Matt: As you take it, he gives a little resistance, "The possibilities of such a substance is intriguing."
Marisha: Can I do an insight check on him?
Matt: Go for it.
Marisha: 19.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Can we ask him how he got his purple hair? Because I want some purple hair.
Travis: Make sure to visit the Geek and Sundry store for all of our new merch items!
Liam: Espionage nail wraps!
Travis: We've got these new bitching bracelets!
Sam: But these have Critical Role themes to them!
Laura: Look, Sam, we have a Critical Role mug!
Sam: No way, that's really available? I want one! How much are they? $50, $100? Just $20?
Taliesin: Think of all the spice you could get!
Matt: "Should you have any more that you do not require, I am sure I could convince the Allegiance to pay quite a hefty sum."
Taliesin: Money doesn't interest us at this point. We are under siege. But cooperation and help in our endeavor certainly does. The process is known to my people and a closely guarded secret, obviously. We would be happy to restore normal relations once we are no longer in danger. Excited for normal relations, and proper trade. We are a city in need.
Matt: "If I may have your name, then, sir?"
Taliesin: I do not give him my name, but I put together a quick piece of paper with the royal seal.
Matt: Okay. He takes it.
Taliesin: It's enough that you need not have any paper proof of who I am, other than the fact that if this place was built, then that should be very useful to you. If this place was built the way we expect. If we survive, and especially with your cooperation and help, we will be back to this city, and we will be grateful.
Marisha: We can always come back with more of this condensed whitestone in tow.
Taliesin: It's very expensive and very rare, sadly.
Matt: "I look forward to your return once this wyrm intrusion is completed, and we can discuss business."
Taliesin: Worm intrusion? Oh, the wyrm. I thought you were talking about the hole out front. Is that anything we can help with? We're quite adept.
Matt: "No, we're good, but thank you."
Liam: I hate to wear out our welcome, but you said you were spent. Is it possible your friend who scuttled off could have a look at my sister's tea set?
Laura: Oh, really, they are so smart and magical--
Matt: "You are asking us to spend this last minute of time that I've promised to you to retrieve my clerk to see what your tea set does?"
Liam: I was asking that, yes.
Matt: "Very well."
Travis: Well, I have a question. Would you ever engage in matters outside of this stupid-ass place?
Matt: "Referring to what?"
Travis: You know, other countries, people in danger, dragons. You seem to be a powerful magician of some sort. Would you ever help?
Matt: "I do not, nor does the Allegiance, get involved in political matters. We are simply a collection of scholars and we attempt to keep it that."
Laura: In your scholarly knowledge, do you know how to kill a red dragon?
Taliesin: With no heart?
Matt: "I would say that is probably a bit beyond my capability. But if, indeed, that little bauble that your tiny friend carries is to believe true, I think you've already found favors and allies far beyond anything we could provide."
Taliesin: We need everything we can get, and we are down several libraries on our continent. They do enjoy watching the knowledge of the ages burn.
Matt: "Well, perhaps you should get on seeing them felled fairly soon, then."
Marisha: Hopefully, take this as the fair warning that it was meant to be.
Matt: "The city has seen quite a few aggressors, and not one has made it farther than the outside walls."
Marisha: So I have heard.
Laura: But this isn't one. This is several.
Taliesin: And that is why they have given us their favors, because they understand that this threat is greater.
Matt: "And yet you have already felled a few yourselves. I am certain you will be successful in the rest of your endeavor."
Marisha: One last note. You mentioned Cabal's Ruin? Have you heard of the Den of Druja?
Matt: "Druja? Yes, that was naught but 60 years ago. There was a bit of an incursion, an uprising, of a guild that was getting a bit big for its britches and was muscling its way through most of the Suncut Bazaar. Some sort of a conflict arose, and the streets were lined with bodies at certain moments. However, it seems that they were dealt with rather quickly, succinctly. One of our wayward mages that had apparently been helping helm this endeavor was brought to justice with a blade to his throat."
Marisha: Really? What was the name of this sorcerer? Magician? Mage?
Matt: "I mean no disrespect to you, but it is a place of particular sourness and shame within the Allegiance, and we wish to move on from it."
Marisha: Sure. But isn't knowledge like this best known so that history does not repeat itself?
Matt: "We know it well, and it will not be repeated. I do not know you, yet you ask us questions deep within our history that we do not wish to discuss for our own reasons."
Travis: Lot of answers we got here. Lot of answers.
Sam: Maybe we just asked the wrong questions.
Travis: Maybe I should just ask him to identify this.
Taliesin: I think you've already burned the charge on that one for the day.
Matt: As you put your finger up, he puts up three fingers. "And that is your ten minutes. Thank you so much for your time. Please, do make sure the Allegiance knows once you've completed your journey up in wherever these dragons are and return. I think there are many things we could discuss, to the benefit of both you and us. Now, I have things to attend to. I wish you good day."
Taliesin: Good day to you, sir.
Laura: You ruined your business deal. Have fun.
Travis: He counted ten like this! I thought they were learned.
Matt: And with that, he exits back and the door closes shut.
Laura: That guy was a dick.
Taliesin: Yes, he was, but we did learn some things.
Sam: To be fair, we were asking him favors for no benefit.
Laura: This is true, but he was a snob.
Taliesin: There was plenty of benefit to him.
Marisha: We don't do well with snobbery.
Sam: Do you want me to burn down his house?
Travis: Triceratops! Triceratops! All right, easy, killer, easy.
Marisha: All right, so, we know a little bit more.
Sam: Nothing.
Laura: No, a little bit more. We need to find out who this mage was.
Marisha: The Den of Druja was a guild. 60 years ago, though. That's quite a long time.
Sam: We need to reach out to this woman, right?
Laura: Maybe she's really old.
Sam: We do know where she lives.
Taliesin: You could go and check, and we could hang back.
Sam: I have contacts in the underworld here.
Laura: They respect you.
Travis: The name of the Meat Man goes a long way.
Marisha: What time is it right now?
Matt: This time, the four hours lost since waking, you're probably pushing 2:00 in the afternoon.
Sam: Should we go pay a visit to what's-her-butt? What's our play here? We need her?
Laura: We need Cabal's Ruin. But we don't want to cause too much of a ruckus, because I don't want to put ourselves at odds with J'mon Sa Ord.
Marisha: Maybe we should find out more about this Den of Druja. It sounds like there was quite a civil war that happened back in the day.
Sam: Did we make a mistake here? Should we have said something else? But what information could this person have given us?
Laura: Access to a library?
Travis: If we had more of that stuff from Percy's place, he'd be more willing to share.
Sam: Percy, can you give him that piece?
Taliesin: I don't trust him with it.
Travis: I can't imagine why.
Marisha: He was definitely very interested in it.
Sam: We could sneak in.
Taliesin: No. How?
Sam: We could just go down the hole. See what's there. Kiki and I could be dragonflies and just buzz on down.
Travis: That's true, you're little drones!
Laura: This is an entire area of mages! You don't think they'll notice when you use Polymorph?
Marisha: Well, mine's beast shape. Mine's natural. I'm au naturel.
Matt: Magical effect, just so you know.
Taliesin: It's just organic.
Marisha: It's organically natural.
Matt: Free-range magic.
Sam: So our options are go down the hole, get caught; go find the girl with the cloak--
Marisha: Get caught.
Sam: Or all bum rush my friends at the casino, and get revenge. Maybe they know something more about things!
Taliesin: It's just 50 gold. I don't see why you're getting so uptight about it.
Sam: It was my lucky gold piece that I got.
Taliesin: Why would you spend your lucky gold piece?
Sam: It was buried in with the rest. I didn't notice it.
Taliesin: Well, maybe if you just ask them to give it back--
Liam: You are really uptight about this!
Sam: I need a nap, that's all. I need a nap.
Travis: How about we go up to the woman, then, if the hole sounds like a bad idea?
Laura: Yeah, let's make our way over that way.
Travis: Come on, sneaky sneaker.
Liam: Well, I can take us there. Do we want to be genuine and knock on the door? I can't think that it's going to be useful to go sneaking in.
Laura: Maybe she's taken the cloak off and we can take it.
Sam: You know, there's also one other. We've heard that there's shady people at the-- Wait, have we been to the Debt's Respite?
Laura: That's where we're staying.
Marisha: That's our hotel, Scanlan.
Travis: He drank a bit last night.
Laura: Scanlan, do you need to go find a house of lady favors?
Marisha: The Hilton by the airport, not downtown.
Liam: We got a full night's sleep, right?
Matt: Yeah, you did.
Travis: Vax, do you feel like we should be door-knockers instead of sneakers?
Liam: I feel like door-knocker.
Sam: Let's knock on Mistress Asharru's door.
Marisha: Hang on, we're just going to go knock and say what?
Laura: "Hey can we have your Vestige that's super valuable?"
Sam: Maybe we could trade her one!
Liam: What's your idea?
Laura: I have no idea. Maybe wait until she comes to find us?
Sam: We could do some recon on her place.
Laura: Yeah, let's do that.
Taliesin: Let's take a look.
Matt: Okay. You guys all heading there?
Liam: I don't think we should do that. So that Grog doesn't knock over a whole cart.
Taliesin: We are going to definitely hang about a block back.
Liam: I think you and I should go.
Laura: Me?
Liam: Yeah. We're good at it.
Sam: I could go up to the front door and pretend to be a FedEx delivery guy or something.
Liam: I pick up Scanlan like a football and walk off with my sister.
Matt: All right. So the three of you guys make your way, remembering the path that you very carefully marked in your memory, to where you followed the messenger through the other day. You guys follow Vax back to the outside of the Debt's Respite and trace the path in which he followed that silent messenger that Treev had sent off when you first made your request of the mistress. Heading through alleyways, diving over from upper to lower levels through long hallways, beneath buildings, to small side roads, until eventually you find your way into this small area that's nestled in between two large warehouses. There appears to be some crates. There's some barrels around this small building that reads, on the sign above the door, A Kingly Home. The door is closed. There appears to be a window right next to the door. There is the series of barrels, and there's the one barrel you saw where the individual moved it and placed the actual request that you guys made through a small slot in the wall.
Laura: Are there any other people around?
Matt: You can see-- actually, everyone roll a stealth check, who's coming through. Yeah, you guys are behind, so the three of you guys.
Sam: 14.
Liam: 25.
Travis: 14.
Matt: Not you, Grog. You're not going.
Laura: 16.
Matt: Okay. You guys make your way through the hallway. As you turn the corner, there is one person turning around the corner the opposite direction, who's carrying a bundle of various large, nut-like fruits. He turns and bumps into you and almost drops it and catches it, "Be more careful," then just continues walking past. You guys look into the main area where the home is, and it's right there before you. Other than that person who just passed by, it's pretty quiet here. This part of the city doesn't see a lot of foot traffic, which is probably why it makes for a nice home for an individual that does shady work.
Liam: And nobody's hiding?
Matt: You can make a perception check.
Liam: 27.
Sam: Nothing.
Laura: 32.
Matt: You guys take the next few minutes quietly off in the shadows, looking about the upper and lower regions of this small alcove where the house is. About four or five minutes into that, you're pretty certain that nobody here is hidden and you are alone other than the home, at least for the time being.
Sam: Should I just go knock on the front door?
Liam: That was my suggestion, but I thought we came here to watch for a bit. I say to Scanlan, sitting on my shoulders.
Laura: Should we go peek in the window, maybe? Maybe you, since you're sneaky? Oh yeah, or that. Scanlan, you can turn into a bug or something.
Sam: Whatever you want.
Laura: Ooh, I can use-- wait, does this have to be--
Liam: I think bug.
Sam: Bug? You want bug?
Laura: This doesn't have to be attuned. I have, from a long fucking time ago, the cloak of the scuttling rat.
Sam: I don't even know what that is.
Matt: Does it require attunement?
Laura: It doesn't say.
Matt: Do you have a cloak attuned to you right now?
Laura: No, I don't have a cloak attuned to me because--
Matt: That's correct, you do not. So yeah, you could put that on if you want.
Liam: This says five minutes of rat form. Scanlan can go all night long.
Sam: You know why they call her Vex the Rat?
Liam: Do you know why they call her that?
Sam: Do you want me to do a bug? Be a bug? All right, I'll be a beautiful dragonfly.
Matt: (buzzing) Scanlan becomes this dragonfly with gorgeous, rainbow-like color and a tiny little beret. What do you want to do, Scanlan?
Sam: Look for any openings in the windows or vents--
Matt: You (tink) against the glass. The window is closed.
Laura: Is there a fireplace?
Matt: The door is actually pretty flush with the ground.
Sam: Chimneys? Air intakes?
Matt: You glance over the top of the roof. There actually is no chimney.
Sam: Right, so then I'll just hang out by a window for a little bit and look.
Laura: What about the little thing where the note got slipped in?
Sam: I don't know anything about that.
Matt: You guys watch the dragonfly (tink)
Sam: Do I see anyone in any of the windows?
Matt: It's dark inside. The drapes are drawn except for a little bit of a sliver where the light would get through. You see a little peek of a wooden floor, but there's no light from the inside.
Sam: Okay. Just going to go all the way around the house, high and low, looking for a way in. Do I find it?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Sam: A lot. 24.
Matt: 24. After coming around, you begin to slink around by the barrels and you can see, in the stonework that has been built, the masonry that forms the exterior of the building, there appears to be a very small hole, about cork-size, hidden behind one of the barrels in the front. There's just enough space between the wall where you can barely squeeze in and poke through. It's big enough where your wings will hit, so you have to attach to it and crawl through before coming out the other side. As you come out the other side, you're now inside the house. Dark interior. Make a perception check.
Sam: One.
Matt: You're inside the building, but it is very dark. All you see is the one little beam of light coming through the window that is facing where the sun currently is in the sky and is creating the one beam on the ground and the little bit of wood that's there. That's as much as you can make out at the moment.
Sam: I will fly around and see if I knock into anything.
Matt: You knock into a shelf unit. (buzzing) You knock into another shelf unit. (buzzing) You stop on the top of a chair that's off in a far corner. Go over it. You glance over and a little bit of light is bouncing off the sunbeam. You can see, beneath the opening where you came in, the rolled-up scroll, that was placed inside the small case that held your guys' message, is still resting right beneath the opening, untouched.
Marisha: Wow, they haven't even opened it? Assholes.
Laura: Maybe she hasn't been home.
Sam: Am I in a room that's closed off? Can I keep going through the house?
Matt: Yeah, you can keep going through the house. There's a big part of the house you haven't explored yet.
Sam: All right, I'll see if I can make my way.
Matt: Make another perception check.
Sam: Five.
Matt: All right. It's fairly dark in here. Let me check one thing in the monster manual. I'm just going to see if there's some possibility--
Sam: I doubt dragonflies are even in the monster manual.
Matt: No, but I'm looking for--
Travis: The thing that's about to eat you.
Sam: Look for dragon perception.
Taliesin: A dire dragonfly.
Matt: Honestly, thinking about it here, you probably might have blindsight from a lot of different insects.
Taliesin: They've got the big prismatic hoo-ha.
Matt: I'm not an expert on insect biology. As you putter around to the opposite side of the room, you can see there is a small table. There is a very simple bed on the side. There is a carpet that has been pulled and half-folded over. There is an opening on the floor on the opposite corner, a staircase that descends below, and a trapdoor that is left open.
Sam: Ooh! I go outside immediately.
Matt: All right. You find the opening, pull through, and then come through on the opposite side.
Sam: I bamf out. There's a trapdoor. We've got to go down the trapdoor. No one's in the house! We can just go in, snickety-snack! Let's go in, go down the trapdoor, see what it is.
Liam: There are three of us running in after--
Sam: No, we don't need them. Let's just go. They'll make noise! You, me, and you, we're the stealthy ones.
Liam: That is true, but we don't know what is in here.
Sam: Yeah, you're right. We should totally tell the others.
Taliesin: Hello, everyone. What's going on? Are things going on? Hello?
Liam: Scanlan is still grappling with some sort of depression.
Sam: I've got a bipolar thing going on, manic-depressive episode.
Taliesin: I don't know what any of that means.
Marisha: Is it the spice? Are you having a rough morning from the spice?
Sam: Anyway. There's a trapdoor. We should go down it.
Travis: Trapdoor?
Laura: Did you see any sign of life inside the house?
Sam: Yeah, I did. I saw the sign that someone had opened a trapdoor and gone down it.
Taliesin: They could be hurt.
Marisha: They could just have a basement.
Laura: We could be breaking into somebody's home for nothing.
Liam: We either sit on our asses waiting for this woman, or we go make shit happen.
Laura: We're on a time crunch. Let's make shit happen.
Taliesin: An entire city may die if we take too long.
Laura: Can we look around? Is anyone around? Can we pick this lock without anybody knowing?
Liam: Give my sister and I a minute and then join us. Oh, we left them way behind.
Marisha: Do we have time to go get more slushy beverages?
Travis: No, Keyleth. No.
Liam: You work on the lock. I'm going to go get the rest. I'm going to head back.
Matt: So Vax, you head back. You get the rest of the party. Vex?
Laura: Do I see anyone around?
Matt: You actually see a couple folks walk by. You take Scanlan and you guys step into the shadows. You wait a minute for them to just pass by, and as soon as they're out of earshot, you head back.
Laura: Can I check for traps?
Matt: You may. Make an investigation check.
Laura: Oh, well. That investigation was a 12, there.
Matt: Doesn't appear to be trapped.
Laura: Okay, I'm going to try to pick this lock, Scanlan.
Travis: Can we look around the streets?
Laura: Yeah, I totally checked already. I'm going to try and pick this lock. I'm going to try real hard. What do I roll?
Matt: Oh, this would be a sleight of hand. Not sleight of hand. No, this is a lock-pick tool, a thieves' tools check. So you add your proficiency bonus and your dexterity bonus.
Laura: Add my proficiency bonus? I don't understand.
Liam: Thieves' tools.
Laura: I have thieves' tools!
Matt: Your proficiency bonus is five, right? And what's your dexterity bonus?
Laura: Oh, my dexterity is another five.
Matt: So add ten to your d20 roll.
Laura: I think that's a 14 that I rolled.
Matt: Okay, so plus ten, 24. Oh, four plus ten? You put your lock pick inside. As simple as it looks from the outside, it's a very intricate lock. You spend about five minutes with it. You're not getting any of the tumblers.
Laura: Just go inside, unlock it from the inside. But don't tell my brother I couldn't unlock this, okay?
Sam: Wait, first I'm going to try to pick the lock.
Laura: Do you have thieves' tools? Then go fuck yourself. You can't.
Matt: Just roll a d20 and add your dexterity modifier.
Sam: Four. All right, I'll just go in there.
Matt: He pulls out a couple of barely unfurled pieces of wire, puts them in there for a second, and they both break inside of it.
Sam: All right, I will Dimension Door inside.
Matt: Okay, you're now inside. As you go back to the door, you can see there is a heavy latch and some sort of a padlock on it.
Sam: Goddamn it. On the inside?
Liam: Have I gotten back to the rest?
Matt: You have gotten back pretty quick, full speed. You guys, over the next two minutes or so, the rest of the party gets there. You can go ahead and make another shot. The DC is going to increase, though.
Laura: I try it again. Natural 20!
Matt: Very difficult because it is not only a difficult lock, with the interior padlock, but Scanlan broke off pieces of wire in it that are in danger of permanently breaking the lock and making it unusable. You, however, thankfully manage to maneuver the tools to remove the pieces of wayward wire, finish the lock, and as soon as you finish unlocking the padlock on the inside with a curved piece, the door opens, and there's a slight flash. Nothing.
Laura: Oh no. It's an alarm. We need to get the fuck out of here.
Matt: No noise. Make a perception check.
Marisha: Did we forget to check for traps again?
Laura: No, I did. I checked! 16?
Matt: 16? Ah, as Scanlan from the inside and you on the outside, you take a quick glance inside, just scanning around. You can see bed on the far side, the trapdoor that's open, the stairs that lead down. What catches your eye is right around the outside of the entrance to the basement, you see these dark spots across the ground that generally fade as they reach the door that you're at. These are familiar spots. These are tiny little spatters of viscera, blood. Dried.
Laura: (gasps) Leading from the door to the trapdoor?
Matt: Leading from the trapdoor to the door, dissipating as it comes to your door.
Marisha: Wait, and it's dried?
Matt: It looks like it's been there for a while, yeah.
Laura: Oh shit. So the trap could've done something to somebody before?
Sam: No, more blood toward the trapdoor and then it fades, so someone came out of the trapdoor--
Marisha: And tried to haul ass out.
Travis: What was the flash?
Sam: An alarm.
Laura: Do I see footprints around?
Matt: As you get close and look down, you can see, in a couple of the dried blood smears, there appear to be footprints in them that are heading out.
Sam: I go over to the trapdoor and inspect it for traps.
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Sam: It being a trapdoor, it should have a trap. 17.
Matt: The trapdoor is still open. It's left open and the stairs that descend. There is no trap in the vicinity. Looks like it's been untouched for a while. You guys are just now starting to approach the outside of the house. As you get there, you see the door is partially ajar, and it is open, and you can vaguely see movement on the inside of Vex and Scanlan looking about.
Liam: Nice job, ace. What's going on?
Laura: There was a trap. I think there was a trap on it and I didn't know. But I looked for traps! There was a flash. Does that sound familiar?
Travis: Is anyone new on the streets or on the roofs above us?
Matt: Perception check.
Marisha: Can I look down the road, because I'm down a bit, see if anyone looks like they're coming this way?
Travis: 16.
Taliesin: 26.
Marisha: 18.
Matt: Okay. The three of you looking about. There are some people in the distance that pass by three alleys down, but there's nobody paying attention to or immediately in the vicinity of this little alcove. Nothing unusual.
Liam: Scanlan's by the open trapdoor inside?
Taliesin: I'm going to nonchalantly walk in, open the door, and just we'll all come in and shut the door behind us.
Laura: Is there any blood on the inside of the door?
Matt: If you look on the inside of the door, there is actually a hand print in blood against the top of it.
Laura: Does it look like it was trying to open the door? Does it look like it got the door open, or it was stuck inside?
Matt: No, it looks like, as it wraps around the top, it looks like somebody had lifted it up.
Laura: Oh, the trapdoor.
Taliesin: Is there blood on the handle? Is there blood on the door itself?
Matt: Looking at the inside handle, there are very faint traces of dried blood.
Marisha: Can I do a check on the outside threshold of the door to see if I can see the blood go outward?
Matt: Sure, make an investigation check.
Laura: I go and grab our note that we sent and take it.
Matt: Okay, you put it away.
Marisha: Nothing, no.
Taliesin: I will check for that, too.
Matt: You guys are out in the open right now, slowly inspecting the ground in the middle of this alley.
Taliesin: 11. I'm at the door looking out.
Liam: I'm going down the trapdoor carefully.
Marisha: Okay, we're all inside, right?
Matt: Yeah, you're all inside. Vax is vanishing down the trapdoor.
Taliesin: I'm doing a quick, gentle sweep of the room, looking for any invisible bodies in the corner. Just moving my hand around.
Matt: Okay. As you guys are scanning this, Vax, you head down into the bottom. Beneath this small hovel in this trapdoor, the stairs stop and to the left of you there is another door that is partially left open into another chamber that is beneath.
Liam: I want to look for traps on the door.
Matt: The door is open, but yeah.
Liam: Okay, but there could still be. Okay, investigation, right? 19.
Matt: Does not appear to be trapped.
Liam: So I'm still stealthed? I'm going to gently open the door and peer in.
Matt: You pull it open, look inside. This is a larger chamber with a much better set of furniture. It looks like the woman that you had hired probably lived here more than above. You see what would be weapons racks, but have been cleaned out. You see a couple of lanterns that are placed upon a table in the corner that have since burned out. One of them has actually fallen over, and it appears the glass is broken on the ground. Make a perception check.
Liam: 25.
Matt: Glancing across the room, you can see more of the thicker blood spatters with other footprints in them. Multiple footprints. You see a body, still, on the other side of the room.
Laura: Oh, somebody else got the Vestige.
Matt: You come up to the body, and it appears to be a female form. You see black hair with white streaks throughout. Ornate scale mail armor of black and purple. As you pull her over, the face appears to be in her mid to late forties. Her left eye is ruined and sealed closed with a scar. There is a very large pool of drying, coagulated blood sitting beneath her. Giving a moment to inspect her, she is indeed dead and has been for the better part of a week. Her wounds involve several severe puncture wounds throughout her torso. Multiple stabs, one in her throat.
Sam: Can anyone talk to her?
Marisha: Pike's not here.
Matt: Are the rest of you guys coming down to see this?
Taliesin: I'm heading down if everybody else is.
Laura: I look around. Any evidence left behind of who it was that attacked her?
Matt: Investigation checks for the guys who are checking the room. What are you guys checking?
Liam: I'm going to check her further.
Matt: Investigation check on the body. Investigation check on the room.
Marisha: I want to see if they've turned the room.
Laura: I want to see if I can find something left behind by the killers.
Sam: I'm looking for other exits.
Liam: 21 on her form.
Travis: I'm looking for treasures.
Marisha: 21 as well, looking at the house.
Taliesin: Trying to get a sense of the situation of the murder, how many people there were. Investigation? 13.
Matt: There's a lot of foot movements, some more heavy than others. It looks like there was a scuffle here, but it's hard to tell how many people were involved. Definitely more than two. What'd you roll? 21? 15? You're having a hard time finding anything that really specifically represents that scuffle.
Laura: I bring Trinket out and have him sniff around.
Matt: Okay. Trinket begins sniffing around the room. Keyleth, you find a series of puncture marks in the walls themselves, in some of the dirt and stone parts of the wall, some small stab puncture wounds across the wall in different places.
Taliesin: Just to be safe, I'm going to close the trap door.
Marisha: Is it dark down here?
Matt: It is pitch dark. Percy, for the most part, you don't have any sort of sight--
Marisha: Is it safe for me to throw out a Daylight spell? I throw up a Daylight.
Matt: The room now illuminates, and you all have a very clear perspective on this. You, inspecting the body, the puncture wounds that are in the front have corresponding puncture wounds in the back as well. You can see clasps on the shoulders where a cloak would be affixed, but the clasps have been broken off and there is no cloak there.
Travis: Any treasures in the room?
Matt: What'd you roll for an investigation check?
Travis: 18.
Matt: 18? Most of the room has been completely ransacked. It looks like there were places where some things might have been useful, but they have been taken. You find a couple of discarded jewel boxes or lockboxes that have since been broken open and left with a couple scattered gold coins here and there, but this place has been completely cleaned out.
Sam: I was looking for other exits and entrances to the building all around, and I rolled a 29.
Matt: There looks to be one hidden passage behind this one cabinet, where all the drawers have been pulled out and left on the ground empty, but behind that there is a small tunnel that exits outward.
Sam: To the street?
Matt: You don't know. As you're inspecting it, you're seeing more and more of these, each one of these puncture marks that hit the front, also correspond to the back. It's a clear wound through each way and it appears to be a burn around the outside of each one of these punctures.
Taliesin: Well, I haven't looked at them yet, and there's no reason to look until someone, yeah.
Liam: Percival, come here.
Laura: Can I have Trinket sniff around for anything that doesn't smell like her? For other people?
Liam: Perce? This looks like your work.
Laura: Advantage on smell.
Taliesin: I take a look at the body.
Matt: You are very familiar with these type of wounds. Corresponding to the punctures you've seen in the wall behind, you go back, check, and begin to pry in, and you pull out small, iron balls.
Marisha: I pull it out, and I hand it to Percy.
Taliesin: Well, that was quick.
Marisha: I'm sorry. I guess our girl is back in our narrative.
Taliesin: That's the best case scenario.
Marisha: So hang on. Which hand is Ripley missing? Right hand? What hand print is on the trapdoor? Is it a left hand?
Matt: It's a left hand.
Travis: How did she even know about this?
Marisha: She's been doing a lot of research, and she's been following our exploits.
Taliesin: She's probably spying on me.
Marisha: We know she's a huge fan of Percy.
Taliesin: Waiting for me to build something.
Sam: Single Whitestone Female?
Laura: Maybe Mistress Asharru wasn't wearing the cloak. Maybe she happened to hide it down the tunnel.
Sam: I found a secret exit that someone could have used to come in and kill, or exit after, or maybe not at all.
Taliesin: Are there exit wounds on the back of the body as well?
Matt: There are, yes. Corresponding exit wounds.
Liam: I'll walk over to Scanlan. I'm going in.
Matt: Okay. You guys follow this tunnel. It's a very small tunnel, and it continues on for a very intense period of time.
Liam: Trap check! That is a 24.
Matt: Okay. Keeping your eyes up as you continue along, you do not find any traps. Eventually it comes up and stops. There above, you can see there's a small series of hand platforms or grooves in the wall that lead up to this cylinder and above you can see a grate.
Liam: Start climbing up it.
Matt: You climb up and push off there. You come out. Just glancing up very carefully over the side, you see an opening into the Suncut Bazaar, just outside of an alleyway that opens up into the rest of the chaos.
Taliesin: We need to get the word out and quickly. We need to find her before she figures out a way to return.
Marisha: Get the word out about what?
Taliesin: She's still in this city.
Laura: It was over a week ago potentially. She could be long gone.
Marisha: The leader of one of the largest criminal masterminds is now dead in the city. We have to find the murderer. What do we say?
Sam: How long has the body been here? A week? I'll talk to my contacts in the underworld.
Marisha: If it's a week, Ripley could be anywhere.
Laura: Did Trinket smell anything?
Matt: Trinket did not, actually. Trinket had a rough time trying to just get the bearings and find anything specific.
Liam: I hippety-hop back down.
Matt: Okay, you head back and join the group.
Sam: We could at least ask around and see if anyone has-- But she disguises her appearance, doesn't she?
Taliesin: She's got a missing arm, though.
Marisha: Yeah, but she was able to hide that before.
Laura: The guard at that one place. I feel like it was her.
Taliesin: It's not Ripley.
Matt: As you guys sit here and contemplate the various possibilities as to who is responsible for this, where they may be, why, and if they indeed have this Vestige in their grasp, we'll end tonight's session there and pick this up next week.
Sam: It's a murder mystery now!
Marisha: Hold onto those bullets. I might be able to track her down, because they belonged to her.
Travis: Nice job, Matt!
Sam: Nice job creating an entire casino, including brand new games!
Laura: I want to play more!
Taliesin: I've figured out how to strategize! Your dice game has a base strategy, which is only double down on a six.
Marisha: He's actually right. Then you have a one in three chance of actually hitting.
Laura: Oh, I rolled a seven!
Travis: All right, okay, it's not real.
Laura: I know, but I want to play this game all the time. I just rolled a seven. I'm counting as a win.
Sam: We should really go back to this casino and ask around for Ripley, maybe.
Laura: Yeah and then just gamble.
Sam: Maybe. Just to win favor with the locals.
Marisha: I suck with cops. I get thrown out everywhere I go. It's great.
Laura: Yeah, you lawyered her out of jail before. Thanks, Loot Crate! Don't forget about the awesome stuff that's in the store!
Marisha: Thanks, Espionage!
Taliesin: Oh my god, Espionage, thank you so much!
Marisha: Thank you, nail wraps!
Matt: And thank you guys for tuning in and watching our silly game as it gets more chaotic. Have a wonderful week, a wonderful weekend, and is it Thursday yet? See you guys soon. [end of captions]

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello, everyone, and welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors play Dungeons and Dragons and occasionally leave sobbing messes. Tonight's going to be a very interesting episode. Before we get into that, let's go ahead and coast through our announcements so we can get to the actual game at hand. First and foremost, we want to thank our sponsor for many weeks still going, Loot Crate!
All: Loot Crate!
Matt: Thank you so much. Sam, did you have something prepared?
Sam: I don't really have anything prepared this week, guys. Instead, I thought I'd tell you a little story about something that happened to a friend of mine. Her name is Jessie. We grew up together in a small town. When she went away to college, she didn't want to go because she was a homebody. Her parents said, just go, have fun, you'll love it. She got to college. A couple of weeks into it, she and her roommate went out at night. She came home. She fell asleep. They were a little tipsy. She woke up in the middle of the night to this scratching sound and she couldn't figure out what it was. She just went back to sleep. Got up again, heard another scratching sound. What was it? She couldn't figure it out. She went back to sleep. The next morning, she woke up. Her roommate, the skin had been ripped off of her body, and the cat that they shared had also been turned essentially inside out. And on the wall in the blood of her roommate was written: Use code criticalrole for $3 off.
Travis: That's a lot of blood.
Sam: That's a lot of blood, and it's a lot of savings for the new Loot Crate, whose theme is horror. Channel your best Final Girl with items from The Walking Dead, Nightmare on Elm Street, Friday the 13th, Texas Chainsaw Massacre, Halloween, and the story I just told. Hey, should we open them up, guys?
Travis: Yeah! Now, I think this is September's theme.
Sam: This is definitely horror. Let's open them and see what horror items we have?
Liam: Whoa, look at this scary car!
Laura: Whoa!
Laura: Look at this scary keychain of Batman!
Matt: Scary Stark Industries.
Travis: Stark Motor Racing.
Taliesin: The scariest Stark Industries.
Sam: Look, it's Dark Knight.
Laura: No, it's Gone in Sixty Seconds.
Marisha: Nicolas Cage was scary in Gone in Sixty Seconds, just throwing it out there.
Matt: I forgot he was in that movie.
Laura: Ashley, do you want this?
Sam: What's the pin? The pin says Loot Year. Oh, it's like Goodyear.
Travis: Is this really a hood ornament?
Marisha: Yeah.
Laura: That's pretty sick.
Sam: But in all seriousness, Loot Crate is a big supporter of the show, so we want to support them. Go online, go to lootcrate.com/criticalrole. Sign up, get subscriptions for all of your friends and all of your dead friends who died tragically in a horror.
Laura: (laughter) In a horror.
Travis: I used to break those off of the front of people's cars when I was a kid because I was an asshole.
Matt: Yeah, you were. (laughs) Great! Thank you, Sam. Next up on the list, I will actually be down in San Diego tomorrow for the first day of TwitchCon. I have a panel in room FrankerZ. It's at 6:30 to 7:30pm about GMing roleplaying games on Twitch. It's going to be me, Adam Koebel, Chris Perkins, a bunch of great people that run a lot of great RPG programming on Twitch. We're going to be talking about our experiences running it, answering questions, all that fun stuff, so if you're already down there or you're in the San Diego area, come tomorrow and say hi at the panel at 6:30. It'll be awesome.
Laura: 6 30am.
Matt: Oh, totally. No, never. 6 30pm in FrankerZ, I think is the room, unless I'm reading the emails wrong. That's the only room information I was given. FrankerZ is the guy who's sending me the emails.
Sam: (stage whispering) They're our fucking sponsors! Leave the box on the goddamn table!
Travis: I got it!
Matt: Anyway, speaking of fun news, Laura, you wanted to mention something about some things up on the store?
Laura: Yes, this is exciting!
Sam: Is it about your friend who went to college?
Laura: Her face was ripped off, but when her body was discovered, she was wearing one of these How Do You Want to Do This? hoodies. These sweatshirts that have been available before and then we took them away. But guess what, guys? They're back!
Travis: We made more!
Laura: For two weeks of preorder, you can get these comfy, cozy hoodies.
Travis: What is that voice you're doing? (laughter)
Laura: There's other things in the store too, like our beautiful mug that I don't have on the table today that Ashley used in Blindspot!
Marisha: Yes. And Christmas is right around the corner, you guys!
Travis: Yeah, it's getting cold, so make sure you bundle up nice and warm.
Matt: It is, no joke, the most comfortable hoodie I've ever owned.
Laura: You'll be wearing it all the time.
Liam: Soft as hell.
Matt: I was a little worried when we started doing actual wearable merch, I was like, it's going to end up being that chintzy stuff that we don't want to hawk, but I'm actually really happy that it came out pretty high-quality.
Marisha: I miss school relay races.
Matt: What?
Marisha: Sorry, go ahead. Nothing. Don't worry about it. Keep going.
Matt: Anyway, anything else you want to talk about? Nope, then let's go ahead and get into tonight's episode of Critical Role! [dramatic music]
Matt: Welcome back. Before we begin, real fast, I have been notified that Twitch is having some audio sync issues. Recommendation has been said to try and switch between the Flash player or the HTML5 player on Twitch. That seems to be fixing the issues for a lot of people out there. So if you're having issues with that, reloading or trying that switchover should fix the audio sync issues if you're having any. Without further ado, last we picked up, Vox Machina, who had been traveling to collect the Vestiges of Divergence, artifacts from an old ancient time to gain enough power to combat the Chroma Conclave, a group of chromatic dragons that assailed-- (burps) pardon-- Tal'Dorei, led by Thordak the Cinder King. When you get nervous, you get the burps. I feel like Robert Durst.
Travis: Robert Kraft, the owner of the Patriots.
Matt: Different guy. You, in searching these artifacts, found that one in the city of Ank'Harel had been taken out from under your nose by a long-forgotten NPC named Ripley.
Marisha: Well, she wasn't forgotten.
Matt: You know what I mean. You gave chase down to the Glintshore Island of the Hespet Archipelago, and upon storming the beaches, destroying her ship, you walked into the jungle, where an ambush turned into folly. You charged into what appeared to be a couple of illusions. As the floor detonated beneath you, setting you across the ground and starting an encounter with snipers in position, at half-health and below for most of you. You gave a very good fight and still managed to push through. Unfortunately, Dr. Ripley, with the reveal that she has now bound herself to Orthax, the shadow demon that once plagued Percy's inspiration and nightmares, bent on vengeance, managed to take him, slay him, and leave him cold on the ground. As a group, you did manage to dissect Dr. Ripley very aggressively and get vengeance back for your friend. But where we left off, you'd just let the adrenaline and the shock of the moment hit you as Ripley's breath expends and a tiny tree begins to try and break and grow from her corpse on this parched land. So. What do you want to do?
Sam: (chuckles) We have no idea.
Laura: Oh no.
Sam: Yeah.
Travis: Wait, did she originally take Percy's gun? Was that what she was using?
Sam: I don't think so. She took his designs.
Marisha: He threw Percy's gun into the pool of acid.
Travis: Should we collect her gun now?
Sam: We're all extremely emotional, but we need to move quickly if we're going to do anything. We need to collect all the guns.
Marisha: We should collect her guns. We need her other hand, and we need the Vestiges off of her fucking body.
Travis: Well, let's collect those. Quickly.
Marisha: Grog?
Travis: Yes?
Marisha: Will you do the honors of taking her other hand?
Travis: I would love to use my teeth for that. No, I'll use the axe.
Matt: All right. With a heavy thud sound, her hand is jettisoned from the wrist, her left hand, as it scatters across the broken glass floor of the center of the jungle here in Glintshore.
Travis: This one, right?
Sam: There's only one, so yes, that's the one.
Travis: Bag of Colding.
Matt: Fair enough. Kynan is still standing there, the adrenaline wearing off of him. And he's at a good 15, 20-foot distance from all of you just standing.
Travis: I forgot, are we killing him?
Liam: Hold on a second. I walk over. Do you have the blade?
Matt: (stammers) He looks down and he seems to have dropped it after everything that transpired. And he picks it up and holds it.
Liam: I've come a long way for that.
Matt: "Take it." He throws it to your feet and it spins and scatters and comes to a halt at the tip of your boot
Liam: Wait here a moment, please. I bend down, I take the knife, and I walk it over to Keyleth and put it in her hands. And I walk back to him. How?
Matt: "I didn't mean for any of this to happen."
Liam: How? There are people behind me who want you dead, and I cannot blame them. How?
Matt: "I wouldn't blame them, either. Look, after we met, I was hurt. I was angry. I knew I could be someone, despite what you told me, and I could prove it, prove that I was worth your attention. And I left Emon and my home to seek that destiny and I'm sure many of you did the same."
Liam: Do you know what shape Emon is in right now? And this is what you choose to do with your time?
Matt: "You don't know what I've been through!"
Liam: What has that man done to you? What has she done to you? What have any of them, except for me, done to you? And what have I done except be an asshole?
Matt: "Look, when she picked me up in Kymal, she taught me a lot. I learned a lot. She also told me that you weren't who I thought you were. When everything went down in Emon, with the dragons. She said you did that!"
Liam: Summoned the dragons?
Matt: "You were responsible for it. She had me listen in to a conversation where you admitted that it was your fault."
Liam: I'd like to make an insight check.
Matt: Go for it.
Liam: (sighs) No.
Matt: He seems emotionally on the brim of a complete nervous breakdown, but he's holding his ground. His hands are shaking in place as he stands staring at you with the look of a man on the precipice.
Liam: Kynan, what am I to do with you?
Laura: We'll deal with him later.
Liam: I ought to cut the heart from your ribs. I ought to cut out my own! Is there anyone else here, now? Is that it?
Matt: "Well, we went back to the cavern to set up, but you got here too quickly--"
Liam: How long have you been here?
Matt: "Only a few hours."
Liam: A few hours was all it took for that? Are there more of you?
Matt: "We have a few people on the ship."
Travis: Not anymore.
Liam: Listen to me. I don't know what's going to happen in the next 24 hours for you, but the best thing you can do right now is help us. When anyone asks you to do something, you do it.
Matt: "Well, I would ask for a chance to redeem myself, but I am also beginning to understand what I've done. And I accept whatever judgment you see fit. Just know that-- just know that I've been very confused."
Liam: Look at me. Kynan, look at me. You help right now. Put all that out of your mind. Right now, you help. Can you do that?
Matt: (whispering) "How can I help?"
Liam: Just do whatever we ask.
Matt: "Whatever you want me to tell you. I know a little bit. Anything, just let me know."
Liam: We're going to table this. Just be Johnny-on-the-spot right now, all right?
Matt: "Okay."
Laura: (tearfully) Grog? Can you pick him up? Percy?
Travis: Yeah. Where am I taking him?
Marisha: I have nothing left. I have no way to get us out of here quickly right now.
Travis: Can I ask, is Orthax still here? That's who that was, right?
Liam: Yes.
Marisha: Orthax could have his soul, for all we know.
Laura: Do we sense him? Is Orthax around? Can you sense evil?
Liam: Yeah, I could, yes.
Matt: Okay, so you sense as part of your paladin ability. Divine Sense, I believe it was?
Liam: Yeah. 60 feet  demons, celestials, devils.
Matt: Yeah, as you guys are going through Ripley's things, you do sense there is a pulse of fiendish energy emanating from somewhere near Ripley's body.
Marisha: Near Ripley's body?
Laura: How do we destroy him?
Sam: I don't think we can. He's just a shadow, isn't he?
Liam: We have to go to him.
Travis: Oh, I was going to ask the question of could he help us with Percy.
Sam: Orthax?
Travis: Yeah.
Marisha: Honestly, right now I think-- it sounds crazy that I'm saying this, but we have mutual interests with him. It might not be the worst idea.
Matt: Who's inspecting Ripley's body?
Laura: I will, I guess.
Matt: A few things you find as you rummage through. You find about 1,051 gold pieces. Two weeks of rations, some of which appear to have been dampened and will probably be gone soon. You do find the cloak. The dagger that Kynan used still lays to the ground. No, it was handed to you, so you have it right now. There is what appears to be a small polished grey stone with a couple of runic symbols carved into it. You also find what appears to be a small leather case, a long thin case about that long, that is latched shut. And her gun. Which is similar to Percy's Pepperbox, but thinner, longer, more refined. It's a deep gunmetal gray color with brass sections and what appear to be portions of whitestone built into it. As she pulls the gun out, you immediately know that that's the direct source of the fiendish energy.
Liam: Put that down. Please. Put it on the ground.
Sam: It's in the gun?
Liam: It's in the gun.
Marisha: Just like last time.
Laura: So we drop it in acid again?
Sam: Well, that didn't kill it, did it? Just got it out of the gun.
Marisha: And what if he has Percy?
Laura: No!
Travis: Well, let's try and get him back first before we get upset about it.
Laura: How do we get him to Whitestone?
Travis: Yeah. How do we move?
Sam: We have an airship.
Travis: That'll be too slow.
Sam: Maybe it can take us somewhere with trees.
Laura: Somewhere with a tree.
Marisha: I need to rest.
Travis: How long?
Marisha: I need to sleep.
Liam: This tree is stunted that's coming out of Ripley's body?
Matt: Yeah. It's a slow-growing tree. It's only about six feet tall. It wouldn't be large enough to use her spell through it. This is the remnants of a Fenthras death. There are a few large jungle trees, like I mentioned before, that have managed to find root and grow in this jungle. It'd be like one healthy tree for every 50 that are burnt, charred, and petrified. There are trees available in this jungle that in theory could be used for that spell, if you had it available to you.
Travis: I don't remember, do we have a way to call Pike?
Laura: We have the stone.
Sam: Wait, does that send one of us back to her?
Laura: Potentially.
Sam: One living soul holding a dead soul?
Travis: Or can we bring her to us?
Marisha: I could try and scry her. Let me see, actually.
Laura: I could try putting Percy in the necklace and--
Sam: Going through? Yes.
Marisha: But what if you can't get him back out? Living and willing, right?
Laura: Yes.
Marisha: We don't want him to get stuck.
Travis: Is that correct?
Sam: No disrespect, he's an object right now. So if one of used the stone, holding him, it'd be carrying him like a sword. He'd go through.
Matt: Make an intelligence check. With plus two because of your Jack of All Trades. Add your intelligence modifier plus two.
Sam: Okay. 16, 18.
Matt: 18? That might not work for most spells. (laughter)
Sam: Shame, intelligence check.
Matt: He's still considered a creature. It's just a dead creature.
Laura: So we rest and then we go to Whitestone in the morning.
Liam: Can you do the mansion, Scanlan? Are you tapped out?
Sam: I could, but--
Marisha: I can't believe that there's nothing we can do right now.
Liam: We could stay here.
Laura: I still bring Trinket out of the necklace, and I cast Cure Wounds on him.
Matt: Okay, yeah. As Trinket emerges from the necklace, his unconscious form hits the ground, laying on the side. As you walk up and place your hand, still breathing, and your warm touch presses across his fur and the breathing inflates into one deep breath and then (bear noises) the head leans up and begins licking your hand as you finish the casting of the spell. Go ahead and roll hit points for Trinket.
Liam: I'm also going to give him a butt scratch and do Lay on Hands and give him another five hit points.
Laura: Nine whole points. Plus five.
Matt: You also do notice, Vex, on the gun, it has across the handle, the bottom of the handle, the name of the weapon, which is named Animus.
Laura: Animus?
Matt: And across the barrels you now see there are three empty barrels and three that still have names.
Laura: Can I read the names?
Matt: The names are  Rictor Wells, Oz Grud, and King Bertrand Dwendal.
Sam: Oh my god.
Matt: Rictor Wells, Oz Grud, and King Bertrand Dwendal. Apparently all people that Ripley in some way, shape, or form felt vengeful towards.
Liam: I'm going to walk over and pick up the false arm that I hacked off. Will you put this in the bag?
Travis: Which one? Oh, regular bag.
Liam: This big, old arm here.
Travis: Can I see the little stone with the runes on it?
Sam: Why don't we ask Kynan what it is? Maybe he's seen her use it.
Travis: Kynan, what is this?
Matt: "That's what she used to listen in on you guys."
Marisha: Ugh. Hang on, wait let me see it. Does it look like the other Scrying Stone that we have?
Matt: No. It's a very different enchantment. This one looks a little simpler, and upon looking at it there's no magic left in it. You did disenchant the other side of the enchantment, of her old gun.
Travis: What about the little latch box that's closed?
Sam: Yeah, open that little box. TRAVIS. I open the latch box. Or she opens the latch box.
Sam: I open the latch box.
Laura: Just rip everything out of my hands. Go for it.
Sam: We all simultaneously tear it open.
Matt: Okay, as you open the cap on the edge of this leather casing, you pull it open. You see it's essentially a side scroll case. On the inside, there is a single tightly wound piece of parchment. The smell immediately is very musty and old with a hint of burnt wood. And yeah, there's some sort of parchment that is tightly coiled in there.
Sam: Should I take it out and take a look?
Travis: Read that.
Laura: Have you seen her messing with that, Kynan?
Matt: "That was something we found in the cave when we got here. But she quickly grabbed it and put it away and wouldn't tell us what it was."
Liam: What is this cave?
Matt: "I only got to the outside of it. I was standing guard."
Travis: So you haven't been inside?
Matt: "No."
Liam: How far off?
Matt: "Maybe a couple of miles. It's at the base of the mountain."
Travis: What if that was her escape route? What if there's a way out?
Sam: Yeah, could be. I'll open it and look it over.
Matt: Okay. Make an arcana check.
Marisha: Be careful, Scanlan.
Sam: Not good. Do I add Jack of All Trades? Is that a thing now? 16.
Matt: Well, you add it to all ability checks and skills you're not proficient in.
Sam: I am proficient in this. 14.
Matt: 14. That's fine. That's enough. Yes, it is a Scroll of Gate.
Sam: A Gate scroll.
Travis: Good thing?
Marisha: Oh, we just got our ticket out of here!
Sam: The scroll allows an arcane caster to use an action to cast the 9th-level spell Gate.
Laura: Do we have an arcane caster? Is that you? Scanlan?
Sam: Am I an arcane caster?
Matt: Yeah, you are an arcane caster. Consider this is an extremely powerful spell that has a lot of various uses, so consider. Just so you know what it's capable of, I'm going to read you some of the spell here.
Sam: Also, I might not be able to do it because it says level nine. If the spell is higher than the level the caster can use, then they must make a spellcasting ability check to succeed.
Travis: Okay, so just cut off your foot as a tithe.
Matt: So Gate, just so you know  You conjure a portal linking an unoccupied space you can see within range to a precise location on a different (or the same) plane of existence. The portal is a circular opening which you can make five to 20 feet in diameter. It lasts for up to a minute. The portal has a front and back on each plane where it appears. It would be between planes essentially. I would say if you wanted to use it as just a teleportation circle, you could, but it's a waste of a 9th-level spell.
Sam: But it's a waste of a 9th-level spell?
Matt: Comparatively to what she can do with Tree Stride and other things like that.
Marisha: We might want to save it.
Liam: Is it different from Plane Shift?
Matt: Deities and other Planar Rulers can prevent portals created by this from opening in their presence. When you cast the spell, you can speak the name of a specific creature. A pseudonym, title, or nickname doesn't work. Specific name of a creature. If the creature is on a plane other than the one you're on, the portal opens and pulls them through to you. So it has a lot of various uses.
Laura: We could bring the rakshasa through.
Marisha: We could. If we knew its name.
Travis: We stow it.
Matt: You can bring a lot of things through on that, instantly, for better or for worse.
Liam: Hotis, Orthax.
Marisha: That is how it's different from Plane Shift.
Sam: Or we could use this to go save our friend.
Laura: What do we know about these healing spells?
Travis: What healing spells?
Laura: Well, what we need to do to Percy. How long do we have? To get him to someone?
Marisha: I have a feeling the longer we wait, the harder it will be.
Travis: Then we rest now, yeah? Hard choices, but we have to help ourselves if we plan to help him.
Marisha: But like you said, the Gate spell could theoretically bring Orthax back, if we might need to. Who knows?
Sam: Or it could bring a healer to us right now.
Travis: I say save it and rest. That's my vote.
Marisha: How long has Percy been dead?
Matt: At this point, maybe 20, 25 minutes.
Travis: Voice your opinions now. Do it.
Sam: I don't know how death magic works.
Laura: I don't, either.
Sam: I don't know if eight hours makes this huge difference.
Marisha: It depends on what you're trying to do. I have one ability I could use. You have to do it within ten days. But I'm not necessarily comfortable doing it, regardless. I don't know, I've never done it before, and I don't know the ramifications. I'd prefer to get him to Pike.
Travis: Then let's summon the mansion and do this.
Sam: All right. But we have to collect things first. We need all the guns. Even the broken ones. If any one finds any of these, they could be retrofitted or used for evil in the future and that's something that Percy would not want. Ever.
Travis: I'll go get them, because I'm still doing pretty dandy and I'll absorb all the glass shards from walking around.
Sam: I need to go find our dog. He probably won't be able to be found, but he could be somewhere. And I feel like we should look in this cavern, don't you think?
Liam: We could go.
Marisha: I'll stay with Percy.
Sam: Someone has to stay with him.
Travis: Okay. If you two want to go check the cavern, I'll collect all the guns and check the bodies of the people that are down.
Laura: Can we have taken a short rest to heal a bit before we do anything?
Matt: You could do that. Just half an hour to an hour. You can do that. So you guys take a short rest now to use any of your hit dice to go ahead and heal up. And Scanlan's giving Song of Rest, so you get an additional--
Sam: 1d12.
Matt: 1d12 to each one of you guys on top of whatever you're healing.
Marisha: Keyleth takes Percy's body and I drag him over to the table and I lay him out and I start cleaning him and cleaning his wounds as best as I can.
Matt: He's a bloody mess. But at the same time, there is a strange look of peace on his face. It both comforts and upsets you. And you have a hard time concentrating on the face. You're just focusing on the body as you clean him and make him look as good as you possibly can using Druidcraft and other spells at your disposal.
Travis: Guns and bodies.
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Travis: Nice. Oh, minus two. 15.
Matt: 15. All right, you find, let's see... you find 620 gold pieces total across all the bodies. You find two pistols, two rifles. There is also a long-barreled Bad News-like rifle that was discarded across the battlefield by Ripley earlier in the fight. It's busted. There is a greatsword and a set of full plate that were on the goliath that you battled.
Travis: Full plate?
Matt: Full plate, yes. You find a total of 185 rounds of small ammunition.
Travis: Okay. For the pistols?
Matt: And about 26 rounds of large ammunition for the rifles.
Travis: Got it. 26 rounds.
Matt: You find a potion of superior healing on the smashed corpse of the wizard that didn't get a chance to use it before it fell to its horrible death. That's a really good one. A set of Bracers of Defense, plus two, which I think you've encountered previously.
Travis: I have.
Matt: So you can write that down. And yeah, that's all you find on the corpses.
Travis: Those Bracers of Defense need to be attuned?
Matt: It's a plus two. They do need to be attuned, I'm pretty sure. Let me double check. I'm pretty sure they do. Yeah. And you have the cloak, and you have the dagger at your disposal, and the gun. If you wanted to take the time to inspect them during the short rest.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: Okay. So. While he's doing that, you guys go off to the cave?
Liam: Yes. And I'm going to look for traps the entire way there.
Laura: And I'm going to ride my broom there so I don't get any damage walking on the glass.
Matt: Okay. Is Kynan staying behind with you guys?
Sam: I can keep him, and he can help me look for the dog.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and make an investigation check.
Sam: Does he make one, too?
Matt: He does, yeah.
Sam: 30.
Matt: It takes you the better part of 30 minutes or so, but the needle in the haystack was not as hard a search as you thought, and you find it wedged between two branches back in its hard onyx form. Unscathed, seemingly, from the explosion.
Sam: Just scratch him behind his ear. Sorry! Maybe we'll do more next time.
Matt: All right. You guys, because you're going to check for traps as you go? Go ahead and roll an investigation check.
Liam: 18.
Matt: Okay. Making your way through, there don't appear to be any traps in your way. And as you wind through the path, and there is a walked path following the tracks of the people who had set up the ambush for you and heading towards the mountain where Kynan had pointed earlier. You do eventually, and also watching your sister above, and you can see the entrance to this. There is a large volcanic-mouthed cavern at the bottom of the mountain before it meets the edge of the jungle. You get to it, and it's about 40 feet by 20 feet initially. And it quickly funnels down. All the rock in here, by the way, is very dark, broken, porous volcanic texture. It looks like this mountain at one point in time may have been volcanically active, or at least, may still be, and there isn't sign of any recent activity. There's no smoke. There is a heavy sulfurous smell as you get close and actually begin to enter the front of the cave. Do you guys continue forward into the cavern?
Laura: Is it dark in there?
Matt: Yeah. There's no light source. You guys can still see up to a certain distance okay without light.
Laura: Could I--
Liam: I'll check for traps again. I'll pull out the flame tongue dagger to get a little more light.
Matt: Little bit of torch light.
Laura: I set fire to the tip of an arrow and shoot it using Oracle Shot into the cave.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and make your investigation check.
Liam: One.
Matt: Okay. As you instead are distracted by the flaming side of the arrow, her lobbing it, and suddenly her eyes just glazing over white. It catches you off guard, the first time really seeing this happen, and so you weren't even paying attention to the rest of the cavern. You all of a sudden are having an immediate first-person of the very tip of the arrow coasting through darkness. The fire itself crackling around you like you're wreathed in flame. You can hear the flame licking past your ears almost as you pass through the wind of this still tunnel air. Eventually, coming down, you can see the tunnel condenses and then turns sharply right and you scatter against the rock, fall to the side. We'll see where it lands, actually. Okay. You hit the ground and ahead you can see with a little light that the tunnel splits into two, but there is... There's detail to the walls that doesn't look natural. There is some idea of construction here. There is structure. Someone has refined elements of the interior of this tunnel. That's the best you can make out with the arrow's placement.
Liam: You all right?
Laura: That was cool. It's a fucking tunnel. There's maybe something in there. (tearfully) I don't know what we're doing. I don't know what purpose it serves.
Liam: (voice breaking) I'm so sorry. I walk in.
Matt: Okay. As you guys continue following the path that the arrow did, the tunnel winds back and forth a bit. It pinches and then curves quickly to the right, where you find the arrow still lying there.
Liam: Stealth, please?
Matt: Roll a stealth check.
Laura: Can I check for anything that looks out of place, any danger or anything? Traps, if you will.
Matt: Make an investigation check, while you're stealthing.
Liam: 25.
Laura: Terrible investigation.11.
Matt: It seems safe.
Laura: It seems so safe.
Matt: Are you stealthing, as well?
Laura: Sure. 20.
Matt: Okay. The two of you pushing forward, the cavern divides to the right and left eventually. To the right was what you got the glimpse at. To the left, it just continues, the same kind of porous rock. And it's like a volcanic tube, that general erosion built a floor that's a little less wide than the walls, which are spherical in shape.
Liam: So, on the right, it's natural, and on the left it's more altered.
Matt: Other way.
Liam: Other way. So one is natural, one is touched.
Matt: To the right, where the tunnel curves off, you can see what appear to be smoothed-over walls, where it's been just either ground down. They're not perfectly flat but there has been some amount of effort put in making it a smooth-walled structure. That same burnt sulfur smell is stronger the deeper into the mountain you go, but not to the point where it's forcing you to cough. You do feel a little bit of burning in the lungs from proximity.
Laura: Are there tracks at all in the cave?
Matt: There are a few footfalls going through the dust. Very hastily. They're like jogging-paced footfalls. And even just from some of the tracking you've done previously in the day, some of these footfalls are of the people that you encountered earlier, including Ripley.
Laura: I feel like they've already been in here, and she took what she found.
Liam: Let's be sure. I'll take point. I start walking down the altered path.
Laura: Following the path that we see her footsteps in.
Matt: Okay. And carefully stepping forward for the next ten minutes or so, it goes from a slightly curved and bunched rock formation into a singular long tunnel that has been pushed into the mountain itself. And it abruptly comes to an end. In here, the soft, ashy dust that once formed the floor has given way to crunching of thousands and thousands of tiny bone shards. And you see before you what appears to be a cluster of hundreds of skulls that are built up into one altar-like platform. Everything here is burnt. And elements of this look like a large fiery event transpired in here that destroyed much of what once was a more structured interior. And this altar, while it remains in place, it look like it suffered severe damage in the past. The skulls and rocks that are there, most of them are broken, cracked and thrown against the walls. This looks very old. It looks like this place hasn't been touched in a very long time.
Laura: Anything that looks like a teleportation circle or anything?
Matt: Investigation check.
Laura: (sighs) Natural one.
Liam: I got an 18. No, I got a 20.
Matt: You don't find anything that resembles a teleportation circle. What you do find is in the altar. It appears that there was a compartment that has since been opened up that is left vacuous and empty. It appears to have been recently disturbed.
Laura: Okay. This is what Ripley took. This is where she found the scroll.
Matt: And once you do that, looking at the little bit of ashy soot that was on the outside of the scroll, you do get the sense that that was probably what was taken from this altar.
Liam: Do we waste our time with the other passage, or do we go back?
Laura: (tearfully) Let's go back.
Matt: Eventually, you guys make your way back to the rest of the camp. You've cleaned up Percy to the best of your ability. You've gathered all the materials from all the other corpses around the battlefield. You and Kynan return with your onyx dog. What are you going to do?
Sam: We sleep.
Laura: Super restful, just the most restful sleep.
Sam: Yeah, it's going to be a great night. We'll hang out, tell stories about Percy, cry a bunch.
Travis: Not yet!
Sam: Yeah, you're right. All right. What time is it? How long have we been awake? Should we let the airship know so they don't keep hovering?
Laura: Yes. I'll fly over to them.
Sam: We have flares.
Laura: Yeah, but they might not understand what it means. I'll fly over to them and tell them, what, they can go?
Sam: But we don't-- I guess. Is there anything we need from them? They can bring the arm back to Ank'Harel. Weren't we supposed to bring her arm back to Ank'Harel?
Laura: Yeah, but there wasn't a time limit on that.
Sam: We'll mail it?
Liam: We'll just hold onto it for now.
Sam: Okay.
Laura: I'll fly up to the airship.
Matt: Okay. It's a little ways south of the island, but it was at the ready. All of its various arbalest setups are still ready for war. They're basically just waiting for your guys' order to come and attack. As you come to the edge, you see Captain Damon immediately rush up and goes, "We saw some sort of explosion on the island. Is everyone all right?" Immediately his expression drops, and he steps on to the back of his heels and drops his hands in front of him in a very business-type setup. "I'm sorry."
Laura: We're going to find another way back home. You can take the airship back to Ank'Harel if you want.
Matt: "Where are you going?"
Laura: Somewhere with... clerics. I don't know.
Matt: "Very good. I guess, if you need me and my crew, come find us in Ank'Harel."
Laura: Of course. Thank you.
Matt: "Safe travels. Crew!" And he starts shouting out to the rest of everyone on the deck. As you coast off, you hear him shouting at a distance over the wind, "We're going home. Whatever that is these days." You hear the flare of various magical crystals. The vibration creaks. They glow a brighter blue as the ship turns around.
Laura: Oh shit. I go back. (laughter)
Marisha: Did you leave your purse?
Laura: Oh, my wallet! No, but I go back up and I say to Captain Damon: Are you willing to join a fight?
Matt: "Explain."
Laura: Those dragons destroyed our home. We could use an airship in the fight against them.
Matt: "We're outfitted to take down relatively dangerous prey, but--"
Laura: You wouldn't be fighting alone.
Matt: "I mean no offense here, and the honorable goal is fantastic, but I also have a crew to feed."
Laura: Of course. There's a lot of gold there. A lot of riches.
Matt: Make a persuasion roll.
Laura: I've been rolling so well tonight.
Liam: This is the one.
Laura: 20?
Matt: "We'll learn the details later, but I'm happy to help. Convincing them will take some coin, but where would you like us to go?"
Laura: (quietly) Oh shit. Should I?
Sam: We're not there.
Laura: (sighs) Do you know where Whitestone is?
Matt: "I've not been there, but I can figure it out."
Laura: It's in the mountains.
Matt: He looks over, and you can see Teera, who is the halfling with the rotted teeth, comes up and goes, "I know that's by the Alabaster Sierras. I can get us there."
Laura: I'm trusting you with that location.
Matt: "All right." She bows her head and backs away, uncomfortable with the tension of the situation. Captain Damon goes, "We'll meet you in Whitestone."
Laura: Thank you.
Matt: "Safe travels."
Laura: You, as well.
Matt: The ship continues making its way southward, turning around slowly to start turning more northeast direction. You guys watch as you see the ship go overhead from the island, heading in the opposite direction of Ank'Harel. Eventually, Vex makes her way back to your location on the island.
Sam: How'd it go with Damon?
Laura: We're getting married. It's wonderful.
Sam: I knew it!
Laura: They're heading to Whitestone.
Sam: Aren't we not supposed to tell anybody about Whitestone? Didn't we have some blood pact, don't ever say the word Whitestone?
Laura: We did.
Sam: Also, isn't it invisible?
Laura: It is.
Sam: Great. All right, well, maybe they'll find it, anyway.
Travis: Shall we?
Liam: Can you do the thing, Scan-man?
Sam: Sure. I'll house it up.
Matt: Okay. As you summon Scanlan's Magnificent Mansion, you all come to a familiar space, spectral servants waiting to wait on you. But the somber atmosphere still remains. You find your way to your respective rooms, and if there's anything you'd like to do before the evening's rest, now's the time to speak up.
Liam: Hey, just an idea. Everybody remembers when they were kids putting blankets out in the living room and sleeping. I don't really want to go back to my room. Want to camp out in the den together?
Marisha: Yeah, we can make a blanket fort.
Sam: Sounds good.
Laura: Didn't you ever have blanket forts, Grog?
Travis: I didn't have blankets.
Laura: We'll show you how it's done.
Travis: Fine.
Liam: Where do we put Percival?
Travis: With us.
Sam: Yeah. We're still a team.
Marisha: That sounds a little weird, you guys.
Sam: Well, we're not going to let him sleep alone. We'll put him on a table, and we'll all sleep around him on the floor. It'll be super weird.
Travis: I reach into the bag of holding, and I take out one of the ten expensive-ass bottles of wine. I take out two of them. I de-cork two. I hand one to Vex and one to Keyleth and say: It'll be a hard night, but you both have to sleep. Drink this, and we will attempt to remedy this when we wake. The best thing you can do for your friend now is to sleep, so do that. Save your tears for later.
Marisha: Keyleth also pulls a Vex.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: I take out the dagger and I hand it to Vex-- to Vax, sorry.
Laura: Thank you, you already said it. You said it's mine. It's mine. I take one of the blankets, and I cover up Percy.
Matt: You take that and cover him up and put him currently to rest on the ground. Kynan is still by the door.
Liam: Come here. Two things. One, there's blue people all over the place in here. Don't pay them any mind.
Matt: "Yeah."
Liam: Stay in the room, but give us a little bit of space.
Matt: "Of course."
Liam: Hey. We'll work it out. Have faith.
Matt: He doesn't say anything.
Liam: I go back to the group.
Travis: And we sleep.
Marisha: I Druidcraft little fireflies above us. Make it all pretty, and sleep, too.
Matt: You guys take an evening's rest within the mansion. You recover half of your hit die. Whatever your maximum hit die is, you recover half that for the evening's rest. You're at full hit points, and your spells are returned to you.
Travis: What?
Laura: We're normal again.
Liam: Well, that's debatable.
Matt: Grog is at level 15, so you would get back eight of your hit dice that you've spent.
Laura: (sing-song) Morning comes.
Matt: All right. What's the plan?
Sam: Well, we're recovered. How'd you guys sleep? Everyone sleep okay? Not great.
Laura: Can we Tree Stride, Keyleth? Can we go?
Marisha: Yes, let's go.
Matt: As you guys make your way to the front door, you see Kynan is leaning against the wall of the front, his knees pushed to his chest. He hasn't slept. He has big bags under his eyes. He's just staring at the floor.
Travis: Kynan, is it? Do me a favor. Sulk around this group a little bit later. Otherwise, I might kill you right now. So fall in line and pick your chin up.
Matt: He's not reacting.
Laura: I give him some water.
Matt: He acknowledges as you place it down. He doesn't drink any of it.
Laura: You should get up. We're leaving.
Marisha: Are we bringing him with us?
Laura: Yes.
Liam: Yes.
Matt: He stands up slowly and just follows you like a ghost right now. What's the plan?
Sam: Got to find a tree.
Laura: Go to tree. Go to Sun Tree.
Sam: Where we going?
Laura: Whitestone.
Travis: Whitestone.
Sam: Okay.
Marisha: Closest, biggest, fattest tree.
Matt: It doesn't take you long. You've seen a few that'll work in your initial travel into the jungle here. You find one thick jungle tree that's probably 35 feet up, slightly curving at the top, one of the few living trees in this forest. It's a nice wide solid trunk, so it's perfect for you to do this. As you all gather around, making sure you have everything you need, Keyleth, you reach out, touch, and mark the space where the doorway is to open. As you finish the casting of your spell, the bark of this striated palm tree-type structure falls away into the entrance. On the other side, you can see that brief, hazy glimmer of a cloud-covered day at Whitestone. You all quickly rush through, one after another. Portal closes behind as you all stand now leaping outside of the Sun Tree in the center of the main town square in Whitestone. It is getting close to... The sun is setting. It's later in the afternoon, evening.
Laura: Do we see anyone around? We get Pike. We go to Pike.
Marisha: Pike immediately.
Matt: All right. There is still that faint shimmer on the sky above you.
Travis: I have Percy over my shoulders, fireman carry.
Matt: As you guys arrive, a number of people who live in Whitestone--
Laura: What?
Travis: Yeah, around my shoulders. Yeah. No. Fireman carry.
Matt: As you guys begin walking away from the Sun Tree, you can see a bunch of townsfolk and some guards begin to walk up to greet you, and be like, "You've returned--" Immediately, the energy is felt and everyone steps away and gives you space as people begin to see the limp body of Percival being held over Grog's shoulder.
Laura: Someone should get Cassandra.
Marisha: Immediately. Tell them we're coming. To prepare quarters.
Matt: "Right away." The guard rushes off up towards the Castle Whitestone. Are you guys walking towards the Castle Whitestone, as well?
Sam: That's where Pike is, right?
Laura: Is she building a temple here?
Matt: There is a temple being built here, yes.
Sam: In the castle?
Matt: No. The temple would be within the city itself.
Sam: And that's where she was last seen?
Laura: Can we try the earrings? Does Pike have her earring?
Marisha: Yeah, she's got to have her earring, right?
Laura: Pike, can you hear us?
Matt: Pike, you who have been suffering a very sleepless night, feeling some amorphous heartbreak that you haven't been able to define yet that has prevented you from closing eyes without spells of sudden anxiety and sadness, hear the voice come peeking through, and the immediacy of Vex's tone is both comforting and immediately confirming a terrible fright that you've had lingering at the back of your mind.
Ashley: Vex?
Laura: Where are you, darling?
Ashley: I'm in the temple. Where are you? I know something's wrong.
Laura: (tearfully) We're coming to find you.
Ashley: Okay.
Marisha: To Sarenrae's temple.
Matt: You guys beeline there. The temple is still under construction, and construction's been slow due to the scenario that currently exists on Tal'Dorei. Many folks instead are putting a lot of energy toward defenses and training in case anything bad happens in Whitestone. There are a few worshipers that have converted to Sarenrae and are helping, but Pike is still the central place of what is a basic stone structure that is slowly being outfitted. As you approach, it's pretty much a hovel, but is making its way. As you approach, you can see the front door open, and there Pike's form, long silver- and gold-colored evening wear, her hair tousled around her face, the little bit of wind that's blowing through causing it to tumble against one chin. She looks out the rest of you with sadness across her eyes.
Ashley: I knew something was wrong. Where is he?
Laura: We bring him inside.
Matt: You all make your way into this room. There are two other people that are helping around. They're general townsfolk. They're not heavy into any specific use aside from cleaning and helping construct. But they bring a large table out, and you guys set Percy on top of it.
Laura: Pike, can you do something? Can you help him?
Ashley: I'm going to try.
Travis: We're here with you, Pike.
Marisha: Whatever we can do to help. We just knew we couldn't do this without you.
Ashley: Okay, I'm going to cast Resurrection on him.
Sam: Resurrection? What does that do? Does it just bring him back?
Laura: Does Resurrection just bring him back?
Matt: There are two spells at your disposal. There is Resurrection, which is a 7th-level spell. It costs a diamond worth 1,000 gold, which the spell consumes. Or there is Raise Dead, which is a 5th-level spell, which consumes a diamond worth 500 gold pieces, but the target has to have been dead no longer than ten days.
Laura: Okay, so we could do that. What does Resurrection do?
Matt: The same thing, but the person could have been dead for up to a century.
Marisha: Is there a better chance with Resurrection?
Matt: I would say, being a 7th-level spell, I would give a very faint modifier, depending.
Sam: I don't know, Vex. We could save 500 gold.
Laura: I bring out the best diamond I have.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: I got a whole 40-pound bag of gems.
Sam: What was that, Ash?
Ashley: With Raise Dead, is there-- (sighs) what is my question? How whole does he come back?
Matt: Whole. With both spells, he comes back whole. If it works.
Ashley: Well, we could save a little money. (laughter)
Sam: No, Pike, no!
Travis: Oh, how grief does strange things to people!
Sam: Or we could buy him a better tombstone if we had the extra money!
Laura: That's terrible, Scanlan!
Ashley: His glasses are broken. We could fix his glasses.
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: This is Percival Fredrickstein Von Musel Klossowski de Rolo III. He needs a large-ass diamond. Pull out the biggest one you've got.
Laura: I've got a thousand-dollar diamond. It's actually listed in my items. A thousand-gold diamond.
Ashley: Let's do it. He's a de Rolo. He deserves the best.
Matt: Okay. Pike, you begin to set the stage for the ritual. You begin to pull out the sage. This temple, as simple as it is, but simple is the nature of Sarenrae, one who does not have much worshiping influence in this world. You know that she requires just enough, and the faith is stronger than the presentation, but you pull out the best you can all the offerings that are necessary. You scrawl out the various divine runic symbols that represent healing, that represent connection to one's divine entity, that represent stalwartness and strength of heart, that represent love and family, everything you can think of that really binds this ritual to the moment. As you guys are sitting around to prepare, you begin the incantation of the ritual. The first stage allows you to reach out and make contact with the spirit wherever it is. After five minutes of searching, you have no way of locating it. The spirit, currently-- something is blocking it.
Laura: Is it Orthax?
Matt: You know it's out there. You can sense that there is an essence of Percival, but it's like it's blurred and there's something blocking it. The ritual's unable to reach out.
Ashley: How do I find out what it is?
Laura: Is there a way to find out what it is that's blocking it?
Matt: You may have to think about it.
Ashley: Insight check, or can I--
Liam: Religion. It's Orthax.
Marisha: I pull out Ripley's gun, and I hand it to Pike while she's still in her ritual, and see if that has any effect.
Matt: As Keyleth hands you the gun, that strange blockage becomes crystalline. What was once a dark spot that was preventing you from clarifying your vision is now a clear patch of shadow. Having seen this once before, Orthax is indeed blocking the ritual and is currently hungrily feasting on the soul of Percival.
Sam: In the gun?
Laura: How do we draw him out?
Marisha: Do we try and destroy the gun again? Do we do this again?
Travis: What if we carve his name back onto the barrel?
Liam: What if we use that scroll to go to him now?
Sam: Go to Percy?
Travis: Or go to Orthax.
Laura: We can pull Orthax through the gate.
Liam: Or kill him on his home turf and kill him for real.
Marisha: He's a shadow fiend. Does that mean we have to kill him on his own turf? Do we know?
Matt: I would say, Pike, make a religion check, and make an intelligence check, Scanlan.
Liam: Can I make a religion check?
Matt: Actually, yes, you can, as well.
Sam: Check? Just a check?
Ashley: 21.
Sam: 11.
Matt: Holding this, the essence of Orthax, a shadow demon like this. Orthax was not destroyed and sent back to his plane. Orthax cannot be sent back to its plane when it's bound to whatever its crux is. Whatever object that Orthax has used as its focus holds it in this plane and it cannot be destroyed on its plane while it's attached to that object. The gun right now is essentially the anchor that Orthax is using.
Laura: We need to destroy the gun.
Matt: Destroy the gun or find a way to break the connection.
Travis: Didn't you detach Craven Edge from me? Didn't you sever a thread? Didn't that happen?
Laura: Can you reach out? Can you do that?
Travis: Yeah!
Marisha: Pike did that, right?
Sam: How'd you do that, Pikey?
Ashley: I'm trying to remember!
Travis: I don't even remember, and it happened to me.
Sam: Well, you were dead, weren't you?
Travis: No excuse.
Marisha: Wasn't it a something-evil spell?
Sam: Could we throw the gun into the little hole under Whitestone Castle?
Liam: There also still acid.
Laura: Yeah! What if we brought the gun in front of the circle? It cancels out the magic of it.
Marisha: Throw it in the circle?
Laura: Or just bring in there.
Marisha: Is it an arcane magic like that?
Laura: I don't know. We could try.
Sam: There is acid. We could do the same exact thing.
Liam: And repeat history, Scanlan.
Ashley: I think it was Greater Restoration.
Travis: That was right. That's what severed it.
Matt: You want to try a Greater Restoration spell, is that what you're saying?
Sam: On what?
Travis: On the gun.
Sam: Can you do that to an object?
Matt: Yeah, that's what she did for--
Travis: She could see a thread that was connecting us.
Matt: What are you doing, Pike?
Ashley: To the gun? Is that even going to make any sense?
Marisha: Pike, I can try Greater Restoration, if you want to save your healing magic. Do you want me to try it?
Ashley: I mean, in case this doesn't work--
Marisha: I'll try to recreate what Pike did to Grog.
Matt: You take Animus from her, the pepperbox, and even holding it there is this dark weight to it. It feels like lead and cold in your hands. As you concentrate, channeling the divine druidic energies that currently you're focusing into it, your vision comes to a similar dark, shadowy mass that Pike had seen during the attempt at the resurrection ritual. You can see there is indeed a connection, there is a tangible gateway between this weapon and Orthax, the shadow demon. There, enveloped in the darkness, you can sense in your heart of hearts: that's where Percy lies. As you begin to focus on Greater Restoration, you begin to feel the nature of the curse that binds him to it. And you reach out in this space. You guys watch as Keyleth reaches out into the air of nothing, but within your sight and your vision, you can see that thread, and you grasp it. As you hold it with your fingers, you feel it fight. You watch as Keyleth's hand bolts around with nothing in her grasp. You hear the voice whisper, "No! No, I finally have him. I finally--" And with that, you snap with your fist. The shadow screams and vanishes and there you see a brief glimmer of light, the remaining spirit of Percival as it drifts off into the Astral Sea.
Marisha: I scream  Percy!
Matt: The spell finishes. The gun itself, you guys see a flash of shadow around it, and it dulls. All the names on the side vanish as well. The barrels are now clean.
Marisha: Pike, do it!
Ashley: I continue working on the Resurrection spell.
Matt: Okay. As you go back into this ritual, that blockage is gone now, and you can see, clear, the somewhat tattered-around-the-edges, but whole and existing soul of Percival. The ritual makes connection, and with that, that coldness becomes a warmth and a familiarity as you reach out and implore the spirit to take your attention and come back. Now, who wants to aid in this resurrection ritual? Who has something to offer as a part of this skill challenge?
Sam: I would like to inspire her, at least. Is that something that will help?
Matt: Inspiring whoever wants to be part of the ritual, yeah. You can go ahead and inspire.
Laura: Can I reach forward and look in Percy's coat for that condensed whitestone that he carries?
Matt: Sure. Go ahead and make an investigation check.
Marisha: Hey, Vex, will you look for that raven skull that I gave him while you're at it?
Laura: Sure. 25.
Matt: 25. You start rummaging through his coat and you find his gun, Retort. You find a bunch of random bullet casings and bullets. You find a cluster of papers and notes that are folded up in a small book, and what appears to be a partially sealed letter with no name on it.
Laura: Nothing else?
Matt: You eventually find some of the whitestone glass, the green glass that you guys had flashed around in Ank'Harel.
Marisha: Does he still have the raven skull on him that I gave him?
Matt: The raven skull is still on him. It hangs around his neck, yeah.
Travis: What is that?
Laura: He says it's supposed to amplify magic. Right?
Sam: I think.
Laura: So I put it on his chest.
Matt: All right. What do you want to offer to the skill challenge for this event? Something that you as an individual bring to this and bring to the connection to Percy to try and--
Laura: (shakily) I say  Percy, I don't know if you can hear me, but that day in Syngorn was one of the best moments of my life. And not because of what you think. It wasn't because of my father or the title. It was because of Whitestone. It was because of you. You allowed me to be a part of the thing that you hold dearest. And I was so proud. But I don't want to be here if you're not. Whitestone still needs you, darling. I still need you here. And I lean down and I kiss him, and I say, I should have told you: it's yours.
Matt: Make a persuasion roll.
Laura: Natural 20!
Matt: I trust you. Okay. Who else wants to add something to this ritual?
Sam: Matt, would I inspire Pike or Percy?
Matt: If you want to inspire Pike, Pike could attempt to bring something to the ritual and then could use your inspiration die on top of what her check is.
Sam: I see. All right. I'll inspire Pike, then. I assume she's going to bring something to the ritual, right? I assume?
Ashley: Okay.
Matt: So how do you inspire?
Sam: I inspire her the only way I know how, which is being an ass. So I'll inspire her with a shitty limerick. I know a gunman with a white coif-a Who acted evil and had a bad cough-a. He learned that someone Had possessed his big gun, So I threw that shit in the lava. (laughter)
Matt: All right. You have a d12 inspiration die, Pike. What do you want to try and bring to the ritual on top of your casting the spell to draw him back? What do you want to bring to the ritual?
Ashley: I don't know. I mean, the love that we have for him? I don't know. (tearfully) This is so stressful.
Matt: I know. You being the pious woman you are, what you've used in the past, religion has been optional. Your connection with Sarenrae in this is important. If there are other skills you can think of that you'd want to bring to this, as well, that you're good at that would fit this circumstance. You can try anything. How well it fits will depend on how high the difficulty class is.
Ashley: Right. I think, clearly, I would hope that Sarenrae would come in and step in and help in this.
Laura: Can you sing? Can you sing, Pike, like you did for that little boy? Percy joined you then.
Ashley: I could.
Sam: Didn't you have that thing that brings your god to help once a day?
Laura: Divine intervention?
Ashley: Can I use that along with this?
Matt: I'll let you, yeah.
Ashley: Well, heck yes.
Matt: All right. Roll a d10. Let me know what you roll first.
Ashley: Okay.
Matt: What'd you roll?
Ashley: I rolled a three.
Matt: Okay. Sarenrae is with you, but the intervention, the Divine Gate that separates the gods from the Prime Material Plane still stands. She's lending what energy she can in this moment. Imploring to her and the connection you do have through the Divine Gate, I want you to go ahead and make a religion check. Roll a d20 and add your religion modifier.
Ashley: Come on. 18?
Matt: Okay. Do you want to add your d12 inspiration from Scanlan?
Ashley: Yes. That's ten. An extra ten, so what did I say? 28.
Matt: All right, gotcha. One final skill challenge check to make. Who wishes to add to this?
Liam: I have a notion, but you are very close to him.
Marisha: I grab the skull from around his neck that I gave him. I say: Percy, we had many conversations about life and death, and in many ways, you were my total opposite. But you are also my best friend. Even though I told you that day that I gave you this that we're all going to die and that you can still be saved from yourself, it was clear the journey was far from over, and it still isn't. And then I'm going to cast Conjure Woodland Beings, and I'm going to have a barrage of crows come from around me. I'm going to tell him: As much as you might think your journey is over, just because yours might be, ours isn't. And we need you. And I need you.
Liam: I kneel at his head and shoot out the wings and lend them to Percival like the crow he is. Like a cloak.
Matt: I'm going to say between the two of you on that, I need you to make a charisma ability check. With advantage because of Vax helping you. This is in particular a challenge for you because persuasion's already been used. You as your point of leadership and strength of character, you're piercing through the veil and through the ritual to appeal to him as a person to another through sheer force of charismatic persuasion. With advantage. Adding your charisma bonus.
Marisha: Use the gold die. Percy. 19.
Matt: 19. You feel, Pike, the ritual begin to culminate. The divine energies lent to you by Sarenrae fill your form, and you watch as Pike's physical form now seems to overlap her divine form you've had at a distance. She is this radiant golden image of herself, the same golden wings flaring up around her. You watch as Percy's body begins to rise off the table, the arms and legs limply hanging underneath, the chest rising up. The light from Pike begins to create a small well of divine energy that spirals down into his chest and blasts through him and the table. The table itself cracks beneath him, yet he still remains aloft as the energy hits. The energy fades. The ritual completes. The room grows still and cold and dark once more. Pike's divine form disperses into golden feathers that drift and disappear across the wooden floor. Percy's body slowly lands onto the table. Stillness. Stillness. (inhalation) Breaths begin to fill his chest once more. Unconscious as he is, life is slowly returning to Percival, as is color. His pale skin pale as it's ever been, but now slowly stirring.
Ashley: (sighs with relief)
Laura: (laughs) Pike!
Matt: I'll take a picture of that just so everyone knows.
Laura: Taliesin, get your butt in here!
Sam: He's so quiet. We should just let him sleep.
Ashley: This is too fucking much, man.
Sam: Pike, you're in a temple! Don't curse.
Ashley: I don't care.
Laura: Percy?
Marisha: You said he's still unconscious?
Matt: Still unconscious.
Liam: Oh. Well, I cast Lay on Hands and take him out of that, right away. Ten hit points.
Matt: Percival! Get back in your chair.
Travis: Get your monkey ass back in that chair!
Sam: But--
Taliesin: I've been watching South Park. I don't know about the rest of you.
Liam: No Hamlet death for you!
Matt: Let me tweet out the photo real fast.
Laura: I feel like we need to take a break. Can we take our break? I'm going to throw up.
Matt: Actually, this would be a great time to go ahead and take a break. We're going to go ahead and go take a quick break.
Laura: Good job, Ashley!
Sam: Ashley, you did it! You have one job, Ashley! One job!
Taliesin: Two jobs.
Matt: Those were some good rolls, man, and apparently a convincing-- I was literally waiting for a text from Taliesin to let me know, based on how the ritual went, whether or not Percival felt it was enough to bring him back, even if it would have succeeded.
Taliesin: You guys could have fucked it up so bad. It would have been great.
Matt: We'll be back here in a number of minutes.
Marisha: (hoarsely) Did we say the right thing? Clearly?
Taliesin: I'll tell you when the camera's off.
Liam: Listen, all we know is half the audience is going to be furious. (laughter)
Matt: All right, guys. We'll see you here in a few minutes. [break]
Matt: Welcome back, everyone. So. Diving right back in. Percival, freshly breathing on the table in the partially constructed small temple to Sarenrae in the city of Whitestone, apparently successful, his spirit restored. You come to consciousness as a tiny hand is smacking you in the face.
Sam: It's like that little doll hand on SNL.
Taliesin: Can I use my missile grab again?
Matt: Yes, you can.
Taliesin: I do not open my eyes.
Sam: He's awake! He's alive! Ow!
Taliesin: And I slap him in the face.
Marisha: His reflexes are working. His reflexes are working great.
Taliesin: (gasping)
Laura: Welcome back.
Taliesin: (hoarsely) Where are we?
Sam: Your home. Our home.
Laura: Oh shit. Can you see? Are his glasses broken?
Matt: His glasses are cracked.
Taliesin: But I can see fine. I'm nearsighted. I don't feel well.
Liam: You want to feel better?
Taliesin: Yes.
Liam: Ripley is dead.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Sam: Deader than dead. She's torn asunder. We have parts of her.
Taliesin: That's good news. There's only one part we need. Well, two.
Sam: Two?
Taliesin: Did we keep both her hands?
Laura: We did!
Sam: I thought one was a fake.
Taliesin: I'd like to see it.
Sam: Okay. All right. That's a weird request when you just wake up.
Taliesin: Not now.
Liam: Yeah, your sister's going to be running up in here very soon.
Taliesin: Oh god, no. I'm going to lie back down.
Matt: At which point, the door slams open and Cassandra's there with what appears to be Seeker Asum and a couple of the guards from Whitestone. "Where is he? Is he all right?"
Taliesin: I'm going to throw up.
Matt: "Oh, he's all right." (laughter)
Matt: "You scared me. I heard he was--"
Laura: Everything's fine, dear.
Matt: She walks up to you at the table and leans over and, "Stop getting into trouble, brother. Please?"
Taliesin: Well, just a few more dragons and I'll take a break. It'll be fine. I'm tired.
Matt: She runs her fingers through your hair a couple of times and looks down. Her stern expression melts into a warmth and appreciation. And she feels the coldness of the body and goes-- You can see her putting together the setup, the ritual, your emotional state and the damp cheeks. She looks over towards you, Pike, and nods and says, "Thank you."
Ashley: You're welcome.
Taliesin: (sighs heavily)
Matt: "Get some food in you and stop being so bloody useless," and slaps you upside the face and turns around and leaves the temple.
Taliesin: If everybody had just slapped my face while I was dead, that would have been so much more convenient.
Laura: Who says we didn't?
Liam: That wasn't the worst of it.
Taliesin: No, it was really not. I am very tired.
Sam: Well, you spent last night on a table, which is much beneath a man of your station.
Marisha: Percy, you were gone for quite a while.
Taliesin: How long?
Laura: A day.
Taliesin: Only a day?
Sam: Yeah.
Marisha: How long did it feel?
Taliesin: I don't know.
Travis: What do you remember?
Taliesin: Nothing worth repeating.
Marisha: I beg to differ.
Sam: I wanted to use a Gate spell to save you instantly, but everyone else in the group said no. They wanted to save it for something else. (laughter)
Sam: I stood up for you when you were down, and they turned their backs on you. I give him a big hug, and I say: I think that entitles me to one of the guns that we found. Just one of them. The smallest one. You can teach me how to use it on weekends.
Taliesin: We'll discuss this.
Sam: It's a hard yes I'm expecting. (laughter)
Liam: Laughter. Laughter's back.
Taliesin: It was not pleasant. Thank you. Thank you for what you did.
Marisha: What?
Taliesin: I saw what you did.
Marisha: What do you mean you saw what I did?
Taliesin: It was the only thing I saw.
Marisha: Did you hear me yell for you?
Taliesin: No, but I saw your hand. Thank you. (sighs)
Marisha: Percy.
Taliesin: Yes? I'm glad that that's not waiting for me any more.
Marisha: Are you sure?
Laura: Is he gone?
Marisha: Do you still feel him?
Taliesin: I haven't felt him in a long time. I stopped feeling him after you did what you did. And then there was nothing, and then I was here. But in between, I did feel him, quite a bit. I'd rather not think about it at the moment.
Marisha: You should rest and get better.
Taliesin: I think I'm going to rest.
Liam: Bedtime, Percy.
Taliesin: Hello, Pike!
Ashley: Hi!
Taliesin: I don't suppose you've had time to read any of those books.
Ashley: I've read all of them. Just all of them. I've had lots of time on my hands.
Travis: I want to insight-check Pike. (laughter)
Matt: Roll an insight check. Pike, roll a deception check.
Ashley: Yes! Here we go!
Matt: What'd you roll?
Travis: 11.
Ashley: All right.
Matt: Pike, what'd you roll a deception check?
Ashley: (laughs) Four. (laughter)
Matt: She's lying through her fucking teeth, Grog.
Travis: Pike!
Ashley: Hey, it was a joke! Trying to make everyone laugh?
Taliesin: You just lied to me. I'm so proud of you.
Ashley: I'm learning.
Taliesin: I'm so proud of you.
Travis: That was very clever, Pike.
Taliesin: You should do that more often.
Ashley: I give Percy a big hug.
Taliesin: (groans)
Ashley: Please don't do that again?
Taliesin: I can make no promises. Oh, that hurts. Hi.
Travis: Did you thank her for the necklace?
Taliesin: Thank you for the necklace. That was--
Ashley: Not enough?
Taliesin: No, apparently just enough, because here we are, and she's been dealt with. So it was just enough. (sighs) I'm very tired.
Marisha: You should sleep, and we'll talk more tomorrow.
Taliesin: I'm going to not sleep in here, wherever this is.
Marisha: No, this is still a construction zone.
Taliesin: Is this what you've been building?
Ashley: Yes. I know, it still needs some work. It's not very cozy yet, but it's coming around.
Taliesin: I don't know if cozy is really the point. I'm going to lie down somewhere soft.
Travis: We should all go back to the castle, then.
Marisha: I'll go dump a few healing spells and stuff into him. Let's get you to lie down first.
Matt: So you go and heal him up. You guys make your way back to the castle. The guards are there waiting. As you enter, you can see there, sitting in the foyer, talking and discussing, is Jarett and Gilmore, who both look a little nervous and intense about apparently recently hearing what happened. As soon as you enter, Gilmore turns. "I take that as a good sign. He's standing."
Taliesin: I am literally using my gun as a crutch.
Matt: "Oh, come here, you white-haired fool!" Then he runs forward and lifts you up with a hug that hurts so much. He holds you up for a second and sets you back down. "I know that hurt." (laughter)
Matt: "And what did we learn? Don't get killed again!"
Taliesin: Third time's the charm, in theory. Should we show them what we got?
Sam: What do we have?
Marisha: You heal 48 hit points, by the way.
Taliesin: Thank you. I don't even know what hit point level I'm at.
Matt: You'd be at one.
Taliesin: I'm at 49.
Laura: What do we have to show them?
Travis: We have two Vestiges to show them.
Laura: Oh shit, I haven't even looked at the cloak. I tucked it away.
Taliesin: We have two Vestiges.
Laura: I pull out the cloak.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Get it identified.
Matt: Gilmore goes, "I see you've also been prolific. Here, let me have a look." He takes the cloak and folding it over his hands, you see the sparkle of energy through the blue inside of it. He's like, "Very interesting." He puts his hand over it, and his eyes flare with arcane energy. "This is indeed Cabal's Ruin, one of the Vestiges of Divergence. Well, to be specific about this: once attuned to whoever's wearing it, you have advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects, which is pretty badass, if I do say so myself. Also, when you're hit by some sort of asshole's spell out there, you can use your reaction to have the cloak swallow part of it. You halve the damage you take from the spell, if there's any damage to be taken, and the cloak gains a number of charges equal to the spell level of the triggering spell."
Liam: All this arcane terminology is fascinating.
Matt: It's the filter of game rules. You don't get a Vestige now! You get Whisper, Keyleth. (laughter)
Matt: Essentially, what this does is you can use your reaction to swallow a spell if you're hurt by one. Even if you're not hurt by it, you can still swallow a spell. You can only use it once per short rest. But it does half damage to you and-- (static from Ashley's microphone)
Liam: Excuse you.
Matt: It gains a number of charges equal to the spell level that you absorb. Up to a maximum of six charges can be stored in the cloak. So, six charges. If you have the cloak on and you hit with an attack, you can expend any number of charges from the cloak to deal an additional 1d6 lightning damage per charge.
Laura: So you could do an additional 6d6 lightning damage?
Matt: Yeah, onto an attack that you deal with the cloak. That's what Cabal's Ruin does.
Sam: Does it have to be a magic user to wear it?
Matt: No. In fact, it doesn't channel through spells. It channels through physical attacks.
Marisha: Oh, melee attacks.
Matt: Melee weapon attacks is how the enchantment works.
Sam: Groggy? Percy?
Laura: Grog in a cloak?
Liam: Percy, you'd look pretty swag in that.
Taliesin: I would.
Sam: But you already have a Vestige.
Taliesin: I do?
Sam: No, Groggy. So does this go to Percy?
Liam: Yeah, this is going to David Bowie you up. You should wear that.
Marisha: It was worn by the woman who tried to kill you. And succeeded.
Sam: That's pretty cool.
Travis: What about the other Vestige?
Sam: Whisper.
Laura: Whisper.
Marisha: Whisper.
Liam: How are you doing, Shaun?
Matt: "What do you mean? I'm doing fantastic."
Liam: How are you holding up?
Matt: "It's a little rough, but it's okay." (chuckles) "I'm doing my job just as you are. I mean, you all look tired, exhausted, and emotionally drained. So do I! So I think we're all doing our part."
Marisha: Your parents are lovely, by the way.
Matt: (chuckles) "Ah, yes."
Marisha: Thank you so much again.
Travis: We gave them a bunch of water.
Sam: Didn't he give us something to give to them? Did we do that? Yes, we gave them what you told us to.
Laura: The locket.
Matt: "Thank you. I appreciate that."
Marisha: We told them you're doing great and we told them you were doing fantastic and wonderful and successful.
Matt: "Well, thank you. When all this is done, I should go visit. It's been a while."
Liam: They seem very proud of you.
Matt: "Taken a while."
Sam: They told us you weren't potty-trained until you were six. Is that true?
Matt: "Give me your dagger." He takes it, runs his fingers on the blade. The slight curvature to it out there to the point. He does his Identify. Forged with a mercurial metal pulled from the Far Realm. Light dances and shifts across this curved blade. It has a plus three bonus to attack and damage rolls made with the dagger. It also deals an additional 1d8 psychic damage on a hit. Whenever Whisper is thrown, you can choose to transform into shadow and merge with the blade, teleporting instantly to wherever the blade impacts. Which means you can teleport as far as you can throw the dagger, which is the max range of the dagger. Yeah, so 60 feet, you go wherever it throws to. If the target is a creature, you emerge adjacent to the target in a space of your choice around the creature. Whenever you critically hit a creature with an attack with Whisper, the target has to make a wisdom saving throw against a DC 18 or become frightened of you for one minute.
Liam: Well, it's either Pike or me. (laughter)
Laura: What about Keyleth?
Matt: It's up to you guys.
Liam: You're going to fight with a little-- you want it?
Marisha: I've been practicing my juggling, to be fair. I could use it in my knife juggling. Yeah. No. What am I going to do with it?
Travis: I honestly would like to make a case for it. Just consider one thing: I chase people around the battlefield. And I really have a hard time getting to them sometimes. It'd be really great to travel 50 feet, then throw another 60, and then be right on their fucking asses.
Marisha: Do they happen in the same turn? They happen in the same turn, yeah?
Matt: Yeah. The minute you throw and hit something, it immediately teleports you if you choose. It doesn't have to happen. You could throw it, and then it hits the ground and you stay where you are if you want to, but if you choose, you can travel with the blade and essentially appear Nightcrawler-style in shadow next to whatever you hit.
Liam: This knife is so sexy, though, and you are so invulnerable to everything.
Travis: I'm just saying, for consideration. Obviously, daggers are your bag, baby.
Liam: What if--
Sam: You arm wrestle for it.
Liam: No. What, give him this? I'm considering giving you my cloak instead.
Sam: Haste? No.
Laura: Your armor?
Liam: No! My cloak.
Sam: Which one's that?
Liam: Displacer cloak.
Sam: What does that do?
Taliesin: Makes you very hard to hit.
Laura: Yeah, but Grog doesn't need that.
Liam: He doesn't need anything. He's got a thousand hit points.
Travis: Do I need to be attuned to Whisper?
Liam: Yeah, all of these.
Matt: You have to be attuned to Whisper, yeah.
Travis: Somebody else can have it.
Matt: "If there was anything else you need me to look at, I still have a full score of simple tricks."
Travis: Simple tricks?
Matt: "Is there anything else you want me to look at before I go to bed, because it's late."
Liam: What time is it, Shaun?
Matt: At this point now, the sun has gone down. It's, I'd say, nine in the evening.
Liam: Nine. Percival, you should go to bed.
Laura: Wait, I have an old music box. Can you look at it and see if it's magical?
Travis: An old wooden music box?
Matt: He takes the music box. Eyes flare up. "No, it's an impressive music box."
Laura: Just a music box? Lovely.
Sam: Hey, you read Marquesan. The language of Marquet.
Matt: Marquesian, but yeah.
Sam: Marquesian. I got this book, found this book in this shitty casino office. It's written in Marquesian.
Matt: "Don't pronounce it, please. It's offensive. Huh. Well." He blushes a little and closes it. "I think it found the right owner."
Sam: Oh. It's a porno.
Matt: "It's an instructional guide. You might learn something."
Laura: It's an instructional guide?
Sam: I can't read it, though. How will I learn?
Matt: "Maybe you start taking classes in Marquesian."
Laura: Are there any illustrations?
Liam: Yeah, pictures. You like pictures, Scanlan.
Sam: Are there?
Matt: (chuckles) You scan through real fast, and yeah. You only got a little ways into the book when you first looked at it. In the center, there's probably a good 30 pages of really beautiful old-- it's essentially the Kama Sutra. (laughter)
Taliesin: I think that one folds out. That's quite nice.
Sam: Oh, ooh?
Liam: Oh, it's a pop-up book. (laughter)
Travis: Scanlan, isn't there anything else you need to deliver to one of these two fine gentlemen?
Sam: I don't think so.
Travis: No, I believe there is something you acquired for one of these two gents.
Sam: Ix-nay on the ice-spay. There are authorities around.
Travis: Why are you calling spice "ice-spay?"
Sam: Grog, if someone hears you talking about this shit, you could be in deep trouble.
Taliesin: I literally am the law here. I am literally the living embodiment of law and justice.
Sam: Jarett.
Matt: "Yes? I'm glad to hear everyone is doing okay, and it's good to see you here in one piece. How was your journey?"
Sam: It was great! (quietly) Do you spice?
Matt: "Right!"
Sam: We had a great time! (quietly) Do you spice, boss? Do you want to spice something?
Matt: "If you brought some, yes."
Sam: I like the way you look. (laughter)
Sam: All right. I give him one bag of spice.
Matt: "That is a lot of fusaka. Thank you very much. That lasts a long time."
Laura: He spent 50 gold on it.
Matt: "You paid 50 gold for this?!"
Sam: For the pair.
Matt: "Oh, you got swindled, my friend!" (laughter)
Matt: "But I appreciate it. It's very thoughtful."
Sam: It was worth it to see the smile on your face.
Matt: "Well, thank you."
Sam: I'll keep this bag, if that's all right with you. I've grown quite accustomed to the stuff. It's really quite lovely.
Matt: "Great! I'll give you some tips on how to prepare it, but you know what? I'll cook a classic Marquesian feast in the coming days for all of us in thank you for the spice."
Laura: Thank you.
Liam: Oh, Jarett.
Matt: "Yes?"
Liam: This is Kynan.
Matt: Who's been ghosting you guys the whole time, looking extremely nervous.
Liam: Kynan has been telling me that he wanted to help protect Whitestone. He hasn't anywhere to live. He needs something to do with his time, and he has a fire in his belly and wants to serve.
Matt: "All right. A friend of you is a friend of ours. You are able-bodied?" Kynan is taken aback by the whole thing. His eyes are wide, still staring at you. Slowly, he starts talking out the side of his mouth to Jarett. "Yes. Anything. Whatever I can do." Jarett walks up and puts his hand on his shoulder and goes, "Well, first off, you need to be more assertive. You are talking like a sniveling coward. You need to project your chest, shoulders back, and when you speak, you speak with intent and-- ah, it's late. We'll work on it tomorrow."
Taliesin: I may have a thought for the boy later.
Matt: "Oh! Before I forget, this came for you, Keyleth."
Marisha: What now?
Laura: A letter?
Sam: (singing) Letters! We got letters!
Matt: "Traders came in. A parcel in your name. Don't know who it's from."
Marisha: What did they look like?
Sam: How did they get through the invisible wall?
Marisha: How do they know my name?
Matt: "I don't know. They were sent from Westruun, I think it was."
Travis: Oh shit. Open that.
Laura: What is it?
Marisha: It's got something thick in it, which isn't--
Sam: Could be a seal.
Matt: Read the letter first.
Marisha: Read the letter first?
Sam: It's in Marquesian.
Marisha: It's long.
Patrick rothfuss: (offscreen) Keyleth, I write to let you and your companions know that the repair of Westruun is proceeding well. I will not bore you with the details. Suffice to say that our children are well-fed and safe, our elderly and infirm are cared for and comfortable. Without the help of you and yours, this would not be the case. The folk in charge argue constantly, but that is to be expected, and it is no bad thing. They all want the same good things in different ways. I listen, mostly, and do what I can to make sure that they listen to each other. Without listening, nothing good can happen. The town-- when I say the repair is going well, it is a hard thing for me to talk about. I am not a particularly clever man, and much of this is new to me. When you make a mistake with metal, you can melt things down and start afresh. It is irritating, and it costs in time and soot and sweat, but it can be done. There is a comfort in iron, knowing that a fresh start is always possible. But a city is not a sword. It is a living thing, and living things defy simple fixing. Roots cannot be reforged. They scar, and broken branches must be cut and sealed with tar, and this makes me angry, as it always has, and my anger has no place to go. It was easier when I was young. I could use my anger like a hammer against the world. I was so sure of myself and my friends and my rightness. I would hammer at the world, and breaking felt like making to me, and I was good at it. And while I was not wrong, neither was I entirely right. Nothing is simple. I do not work in wood. I am not brave enough for that. There is a comfort in iron, a promise of safety, a second chance if mistakes are made. But a city is more a forest than a sword. No, it needs more tending than that. Perhaps a city is like a garden, then. So these days, it seems I have become a gardener. I dig foundations in the earth. I sow rows of houses. I plan and plant. I watch the skies for rain and ruin. I cannot help but think that you would be better at this, but circumstance has put both of us in our own odd place. You are forced to be a hammer in the world, and my ungentle hands are learning how to tend a plot of land. We must do what we can do. Did you know that there are some seeds that cannot sprout unless they are first burned? A friend once told me that. She was-- she was a bookish sort. I think of gardening constantly these days. I wear your gift, and I think of you, and I think it is interesting that there are some living things that need to pass through fire before they flourish. I ramble. You have the heart of a gardener, and because of this, you think of consequence, and your current path pains you. I am not wise, and I do not give advice, but I have come to know a few things: sometimes breaking is making, even iron can start again, and there are many things that move through fire and find themselves much better for it afterward. I have enclosed a gift. Once it was a sword, but it has changed. It is a small thing, and silly. Please forgive an old man for his foolishness. Still, I hope it brings you some small comfort. Kindly, Kerr.
Marisha: (hoarsely) Holy shit.
Sam: What's the thing?
Marisha: I don't know what to say.
Liam: Are you all right?
Marisha: It was Kerr.
Laura: Is he proposing to you? (laughter)
Marisha: It's got branches on it.
Taliesin: It's quite beautiful.
Sam: Does it say something?
Marisha: I have passed through fire.
Laura: Wow. Motherfucker, that's cool.
Marisha: This is a lot to deal with right now. We have friends. I have a friend.
Laura: You're becoming a wonderful leader, Keyleth.
Marisha: And as kind as his letter was, I think something was wrong, and I think there's more to his message. Vex, maybe you? He scribbled out some words.
Laura: Let me see.
Marisha: And speaks vaguely in areas around them.
Laura: Can't tell.
Liam: Those are called words, Grog.
Laura: I don't know. Maybe he just didn't like what he wrote.
Matt: Make an insight check, Vex.
Laura: Natural 20!
Matt: Looking at handwriting and the way it's scribbled out, the scribble is hastily, and little bits of text that come through, it appears that they are just thoughts that he may have felt uncomfortable putting in the letter after writing them out, and then scratched them out. There doesn't appear to be any serious agency or danger around them.
Laura: I think it's fine, Keyleth.
Marisha: You sure? I worry.
Laura: I think he perhaps bared his heart a little too much.
Marisha: What do you mean?
Laura: Maybe he said things he thought better of.
Marisha: I don't know what to say. It's really comforting to know that not everyone hates us.
Laura: Speaking of, I did have Captain Damon bring his airship here. Is that stupid?
Taliesin: No. No, that's not a bad idea. We need a better way of communicating with them. And I'm rethinking. Did you collect everything from the battle?
Sam: Yes.
Taliesin: Good. That is a discussion we should have in private downstairs. Perhaps in the morning? Bring everything downstairs and have a discussion with Cassandra and anybody we trust.
Laura: Yes. We should sleep. You should. You look very tired.
Travis: What time of the day is it right now?
Matt: It's getting later in the evening, close to 10pm, comparably, even though you guys woke up maybe three hours ago.
Laura: Jetlag, man. It'll get you. I don't know what to do.
Taliesin: We can have this conversation tonight. I'm going to feel miserable for a while.
Marisha: I don't think it's a wise idea.
Travis: Yeah, we could certainly let you sleep.
Sam: We do have to start planning for the next leg of our journey.
Liam: It's true, but Percy needs to go the fuck to sleep, seriously.
Taliesin: I will admit I fear sleep at the moment.
Laura: How about some coffee, then?
Liam: Jack him up first?
Taliesin: How am I physically, at the moment?
Matt: Physically, you're sore and you're drained. The essence of the ritual and the following healing spells-- you're physically whole, but there is a very physical toll on you from the ritual as well.
Taliesin: So I'm not filled with holes or anything.
Matt: No, but you feel like a walking bruise, and every movement of your body is fraught with such physical exhaustion that you haven't felt, and only time is going to take care of that. You're effectively at minus four to any d20 rolls you make until you rest. Then it becomes a minus three, then another night's rest becomes a minus two. So you're in a rough spot for the next few days, unless you're resting consistently.
Taliesin: (sighs) We do have to have a conversation about all that. We either have it now or later.
Travis: Take a fucking nap, man! We'll convene in the morning!
Liam: You're outvoted, Percy. Go to bed.
Marisha: You literally just rose from the dead.
Taliesin: I'm going to need new clothes.
Liam: Nobody wants to talk to you right now. We want you to go to sleep. We're going to go have a drink and have a fabulous time. We'll see you in the morning.
Taliesin: Right. I'll see you in the morning. I'm going to go up to my room and pass out.
Matt: For the brief moment you have consciousness as you enter the room, it is a wondrous, welcoming sight. You have just enough time to get that thought across before you facedown in your bed and right to sleep. Clothes still on, facedown from the corner of the bed. It's a terrible sight, but you don't care. The rest of you, what do you wish to do?
Laura: I give Pike a huge hug.
Travis: Yeah!
Ashley: I give everybody a big hug!
Travis: Yeah, little Pike!
Ashley: With my gauntlets on, so a big bear hug!
Matt: It hurts a little, and you're proud of her for it.
Ashley: (growls)
Travis: Yeah, I give her a fist bump with the gauntlets, and the knuckles.
Matt: It actually causes this strange collision shockwave. It pushes you back a second because there's too much strength in one fistbump!
Travis: Oh, Pike, you're getting too strong for your own good!
Ashley: (laughs) Hey! (laughter)
Ashley: Oh man. Should we all have a drink or something?
Liam: Jarett, Shaun, can you get away?
Matt: Shaun goes, "For a moment, maybe. I should probably rest, as well. Jarett?" Jarett goes, "You know what? Yes. Drink sounds nice. It's been a while. Good company."
Liam: Kynan, come on.
Matt: Kynan's still in shock and nods and slinks-- as he walks behind you, he walks with his head low and you can see he averts his gaze towards the ground, watching where he's going to be walking. Gilmore individually gives you all a brief hug or handshake. "I'm sure we'll talk more tomorrow. I'm going to go join Percy's plan of action."
Travis: Can I walk over to Vax? So I'm assuming you're taking this little chick under your wing.
Liam: Well, I'm not taking him with us to Draconia or anywhere, no.
Travis: No, but you're sure he's clean?
Liam: I might like to have Pike take a look at him in the morning, but I think so.
Travis: He's pretty spaced out.
Laura: Why doesn't Pike look at him now? Are you tapped, Pike?
Ashley: No. Who is this guy?
Matt: You recognize him, Pike, as you say that, looking at him, though much more harrowed, a little more built than you last saw him, but this is the young man who was waiting for you guys outside of Greyskull Keep a few months back, asking to join, who was bright-eyed and inexperienced.
Liam: And I clocked him.
Ashley: Oh yeah. Hi, again.
Matt: "Hi." It's one of the things where he's always looking down, but you step into his field of vision, already being shorter than him. As you're looking up at him with your gauntlets there at your side, he's looking at you, but he's also not wanting to look you in the eyes a little bit. "Hello, Pike. It's good to see you."
Ashley: Good to see you.
Travis: Pike, do us a favor and give him a once-over. Make sure there's no funk on him.
Laura: He was traveling with Ripley, Pike.
Ashley: He was probably what?
Laura: He was traveling with Ripley. Oh no.
Sam: She froze, she froze in a weird position. (laughter)
Matt: Welcome back. We had a bit of a technical difficulty there, but apparently, we're back up and streaming and everything's good, so we're going to jump right back into the story where we were.
Sam: I am currently holding Gilmore's severed head in my hands, right? Blood spilled, dripping--
Matt: Just gouts of it, anime-style like Fist of the North Star, spraying.
Laura: And Percy's dead again.
Sam: Percy died, yeah. Percy died.
Marisha: Yeah, he's gone. I've cried eight more times.
Laura: My bad, sorry.
Sam: We need to resurrect him. Ready? One, two, three. (yelling)
Marisha: Thanks, Vesh!
Travis: We're having Pike check--
Matt: So having Pike check Kynan. Kynan's looking at you, Pike. What are you going to do?
Ashley: I'm going to Detect Evil.
Matt: Okay. Looking over and you finish the spell, there is no sense of evil from him. Make an insight check. I'll say with advantage because of the nature of the spell, because why not? (laughter)
Laura: Because you are all powerful and you can do that.
Matt: Because he is a broken man standing before you.
Ashley: Okay. 28!
Matt: You don't sense any evil in the sense of what the spell would gather. You do sense from looking at his expression, his reaction, and what bit of information you have, this is a person that's been heavily brainwashed, and their idea of what the world was, or as it was, has been broken, probably many times. Kynan's in a rough spot, and the guilt is weighing so heavily on him right now that it's probably best that somebody keep an eye on him.
Ashley: I put my hand on his shoulder and I say Kynan, you look like a man who feels like he's made a mistake, and you just need to turn that frown upside down. (laughter)
Sam: Wise.
Matt: Looking down at your smiling blue gnomish eyes, this broken boy of a man does mutter a slight chuckle in reaction, then catches himself and nods. "I have a lot to think about. I have a lot of penance to deal with. Thank you."
Ashley: You're welcome.
Matt: "Maybe a drink would help."
Ashley: Of course. That always helps.
Matt: Jarett smacks him on the shoulder. "All right, then. Let's get this pup trashed. Follow me." He leads you down to one of the two taverns. The one that had been destroyed as part of the initial battle here in Whitestone has been constructed. The roof's still mostly missing, but they have a covering over it. It doesn't appear to be a rainy evening, so it should be fine. There's a handful of folk in there having drinks. Jarett treats you all to a round of finer ale of Whitestone brand. They don't have a large selection of rare imported drinks here, but it's enough to at least get the job done. Anything you guys want to do specifically while you're all having drinks tonight?
Travis: Wait, Jarett! While we were in your hood, I acquired this delicious little bit. And I pull out the sandkheg bottle. This is called Seraph's Swine Swallow. And I pour a little into a glass and I hand it to him.
Matt: He goes, "I am not familiar with this. You say this is from Ank'Harel?"
Travis: Yeah, and it's all in one. Hit the back of the throat and swallow it all in one.
Matt: "To friends?"
Travis: Yes. To friends, and to health.
Matt: "And to survival."
Travis: And to fukasa. Sukasa. Mi casa. (laughter)
Matt: Make a deception check.
Travis: 14.
Matt: He gives you a keen look, looks to Vex, nods. "To friends and trust."
Liam: It's so worth it.
Travis: I take his cup. I pour a little, and I'm like, can't let him take this ride by himself. I pound it, as well.
Matt: Make a constitution saving throw.
Laura: Oh no!
Travis: Not great. 13.
Matt: The fiery rumble in your stomach is matched directly behind by the heavy flow of numbness that fills the entirety of your chest, jaw, and tongue. Jarett goes, (heavily slurred) "That was quite strong."
Travis: (slurred) I think so, too.
Matt: (slurred) "You fucker." (laughter)
Matt: Slams the glass down. (slurred) "Well, I'm not going to have any conversation for a while." (laughter)
Travis: (slurred) You're talking really funny. Let's braid each other's hair.
Matt: "Please don't. I think that I have far more than you do, and it's too short, anyway. Be a waste of your time." He became Castilian, suddenly.
Liam: I get three drinks at the bar and I walk past Keyleth and leave one on the table by her and go and sit down by Kynan. I want to show you something. I bought these months ago. And I root around in my pack and I pull out the three finely made daggers that I bought.
Laura: They were expensive!
Liam: She's right. They were expensive. I'm actually not going to give them to you tonight because you're worrying me a little bit, but in a day or two, these are yours. I bought these for you months ago. I looked for you. I visited the butcher shop, and I missed you. I'm very sorry about that. I wish that this had not... I wish this had not played out the way it had.
Matt: "Me, too."
Liam: You can atone. It is not too late. I see the look in your eye. It is not too late.
Matt: He keeps looking over at Keyleth, and you see every time he sees her, he has that spike of guilt in his heart.
Marisha: Yeah. You better, motherfucker.
Liam: You fucked up, clearly. Big time. And you can either curl in on yourself and rot in a ball, or you can make up for it. You know what's going on in Tal'Dorei. You know what's going on. I spent too much time looking inward. It's pointless. Be of use.
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Liam: I'm going to use Luck. That is a 17.
Matt: Most of this conversation, his eyes have been darting away from connecting with yours. The evasion has been persistent, but as soon as those words finish, his eyes finally lock with yours and stay with you. He takes a beat and goes, "I know what I've done. And there's no way I can express how sorry I am. The woman I followed, she was confident, she was persuasive, and she picked up what others wouldn't, and I bought into that. And that shows once again that I was never ready to begin with, like you said, and I appreciate that wisdom in hindsight."
Liam: I was kind of a dick.
Matt: "You were kind of a dick. But still. I'll do my best. I can't make any promises, but I'll do my best."
Liam: That's all any of us can do.
Matt: "Yeah."
Liam: You're battered. You're not broken. Do better.
Matt: "Okay."
Liam: Drink up.
Matt: You guys share a silent drink.
Marisha: I shoot him daggers whenever his eyes meet mine at one point.
Matt: And he immediately goes back to his drink and takes another sip.
All: Oh no!
Matt: We're living in the broken future of technology. Thank you for your patience. So as Kynan's avoiding eye contact with Keyleth and getting progressively drunk as the evening goes on, occasionally, you see him smile hearing other bits of conversation. The positive presence, at least, of you guys being somewhat forgiving in the moment and the fact that Percy did come back alleviated some of his guilt. He's doing better than he was earlier, definitely, but he's still very inward. Jarett is having hilarious conversation with Grog as it progresses. (slurred) "It is great to have all of you back, and I hope my hometown was very kind to all of you. I do miss it, and perhaps when all this is said and done and I can get a proper-- maybe a writ of approval from you folks here at Whitestone. Maybe they can absolve me of a couple of things on the books I would like to say goodbye to."
Travis: (slurred) I can't understand what you're saying.
Matt: (slurred) "I can't understand what I'm saying. Where did you get this?"
Travis: (slurred) It is the best!
Matt: (slurred) "It's pretty great."
Ashley: What is it?
Laura: Oh, Pike!
Marisha: Pike, you have to try some!
Travis: (slurred) Pike, do you want a little bit?
Matt: (slurred) "You have to have some. It's not very tasty, I'll tell you that, but let me tell you, what it will do is this."
Ashley: That's okay. You don't drink alcohol for the taste.
Travis: That's my monster! And I pour her a little glass.
Matt: All right. Do you down the shot, Pike?
Ashley: Well, yeah! (laughter)
Matt: Make a constitution saving throw!
Ashley: I came to party!
Matt: Go ahead and roll a constitution saving throw, Pike.
Ashley: Oh boy. Here we go.
Liam: (singing) Turn down for Pike! (singing)
Travis: That was the whitest drop-in beat ever.
Ashley: 15.
Matt: 15? Pike downs it. It burns in her stomach, and she takes it.
Travis: What?!
Laura: Seriously? Pike, you're such a badass!
Travis: (slurred) How do you feel, Pike?
Ashley: I feel like it didn't taste any different than what I usually have. Throw me off another one!
Travis: I pour her another one.
Matt: All right. Make another saving throw, Pike.
Ashley: Oh shit. (laughs) I just rolled a one! (laughter)
Matt: So Pike takes the second shot, slams the drink down on the table. You feel the numbness hit your lips, Pike, and you feel a little strange, a little sparkly and numb for a second. Your tongue isn't quite functioning as you would hope as everyone's looking towards you. (slurred) "A second shot? That is obviously very brave of you, Pike."
Travis: (slurred) Yes, she's got quite the tolerance.
Ashley: Well, I thought it-- I don't even know... (garbled speech) (laughter)
Matt: And with that, Pike faceplants onto the ground and passes the fuck out. (laughter)
Laura: Oh no, Pike!
Travis: (slurred) Pike? Pike.
Ashley: I got too cocky.
Travis: Can I try to pick her up by her collar and try to hold her up? Is she just limp?
Matt: She's limp in your grasp, man. She's snoring loudly, too.
Travis: (slurred) Well, that's one way to go for the night.
Matt: (slurred) "I think this is an important lesson for all of us-- at least the two of us-- no more of that."
Travis: Yeah, no. I put it in the bag of holding. (slurred) Did you know that it comes from a venomous part of a big animal?
Matt: (slurred) "You should have prefaced that before we had a drink."
Travis: (slurred) Didn't I say that? That was my fault.
Matt: (slurred) "It's fine. Too late now."
Travis: I go lay Pike in a booth or something.
Matt: She's slumped over. (laughter)
Matt: Anything else you guys wish to accomplish while drinking? Or do you want to call it a night?
Sam: Do we need to talk about our plans, or are we waiting for Percy for that?
Liam: Wait for the brain.
Laura: I know, right?
Travis: I'm over here.
Sam: I'll pull Jarett aside real quick, if that's all right.
Laura: Can I check out that letter that I found on Percy's--
Taliesin: I'm going to fucking kill you.
Sam: Well, while she reads, I pull Jarett aside and I say: Listen, I know you've had legal troubles before in your homeland, but we're buddy-buddy with the leader now. In fact, I have this symbol. They gave me this symbol.
Matt: (slurred) "Look, Scanlan, I've known you long enough to know that you are a master of tall tales."
Sam: This is the gods' honest truth, man. This is a real deal. This is diplomatic immunity, man. I can get you off!
Matt: (slurred) "I honestly don't even know if you're real right now. I am so fucked up on this."
Travis: (slurred) Jarett, I'd listen to him. It's not very often he offers to get people off.
Matt: (slurred) "You're telling me that you've made friends with J'mon Sa Ord."
Sam: We met them in their palace, and we're pretty tight now, so I bet I could get you free and clear.
Matt: (slurred) "Then please do." (laughter)
Sam: Will you do something for me?
Matt: (slurred) "If it is within my ability, as your employee, of course."
Sam: You're a man who knows things, knows how to get things.
Matt: (slurred) "Depending, maybe."
Sam: I was a little disappointed with the samplings in your home. I was wondering if around here, you couldn't find me a little something-something.
Matt: (slurred) "What?"
Sam: A little pick-me-up? A little ride? A little dipsy doodle? (laughter)
Sam: Drugs, man. Drugs. I want drugs. I want you to go find me drugs. Listen, I've had a really rough time. I saw my friend die. We found the body of another friend.
Matt: (slurred) "I understand that. I don't really deal with these things."
Sam: But you know people who know people.
Matt: (slurred) "Not here in Whitestone!"
Sam: I'm going to get you cleared of murder, man!
Matt: (slurred) "Look, if you want to get some suude, go down to the Turst Fields, or maybe over in Kymal."
Sam: What were those words? The thirst feels?
Matt: (slurred) "The Turst Fields! South of the Alabaster Sierras."
Sam: There's way too many S's in what you just said!
Matt: (slurred) "Looking for drugs, yes?"
Sam: Yes.
Matt: (slurred) "Get some suude!"
Sam: Some thuude?
Matt: (slurred) "Suude!"
Sam: I don't know what you're saying! Spell it!
Matt: (slurred) "S-U-U-D-E. Suude."
Sam: Suude.
Matt: (slurred) "Yeah, suude!" (laughter)
Sam: What is that? Is that place? Is that a person?
Matt: (slurred) "No, it's a drug!" (laughter)
Matt: (slurred) "What did-- do you even know what you're asking me for?"
Sam: I don't! I don't know it at all!
Matt: (slurred) "You confuse me, gnome."
Sam: I am confused, too!
Matt: (slurred) "Look, as your employee, this is a very uncomfortable conversation to have."
Sam: This will not affect our professional relationship one bit. You have my word.
Matt: (slurred) "I can send a courier, maybe, but that's very highly illegal stuff. Mind you, to be fair, the prison where they put you is currently being sat on by a giant red dragon, so if there was a time to buy, this would be it."
Sam: There you go!
Matt: (slurred) "Look, I'm in charge, of well, that!" And you look over. Kynan's face-down on the table, trashed. (slurred) "In charge of that, now, apparently. Still training, along with Kash, a bunch of people. I cannot do this myself. It would not behoove our current state here in Whitestone. I could ask around, maybe send somebody. It'll be a while. I can't get you suude here in Whitestone!"
Sam: It's okay. Just try your best.
Matt: "All right."
Sam: I believe in you.
Matt: (slurred) "Thanks." (laughter)
Sam: (lisping) You're the best.
Matt: (slurred) "Now you're just making fun of me."
Sam: No. I'm going to clear your name, man. I'm your ticket to freedom.
Matt: (slurred) "I'll go and get you some suude."
Sam: Thank you.
Matt: "You're welcome."
Sam: That would make me so happy.
Matt: (slurred) "That's all I want. Be pleased." (laughter)
Liam: Vax paid attention to that entire conversation.
Matt: Eventually, Jarett (slurred) "All right, I need to sleep this off, whatever this is. Good night, everyone. See you in the morning."
Laura: Good night.
Matt: He stumbles his way out the door frame into the Whitestone night. Anything else you guys wish to accomplish tonight, or are you going to go ahead and get some sleep?
Marisha: I was looking anxiously over at Vex when she was--
Laura: Oh, this? Oh. Well, I suppose I'm a horrible person, so you might as well be, too.
Travis: What, you read it?
Laura: This?
Travis: Yep.
Liam: What is it?
Laura: It's a letter. It's a goodbye letter from Percy to us.
Travis: A what?
Laura: I feel like it's a bit of an invasion. I probably shouldn't have done that.
Sam: It's weirdly Patrick Rothfuss's voice, though. (laughter)
Sam: (Rothfuss voice) Dear Vox Machina, it's me, Percy.
Travis: Are we all reading it, or just you two pricks?
Matt: Just read it out loud at that point.
Taliesin: Only those of you who don't care about my privacy.
Liam: Taliesin, would you like this to be in your voice?
Taliesin: No! It was never supposed to be in my voice.
Liam: "My friends, I have just taken an audience with the Raven Queen, who has snuffed any hope of my redemption, for which I am truly grateful. With new clarity, I can finally see my life as a series of compounding poor choices. There was nothing I could have done to save my family, yet I still sold my soul in search of vengeance. Later, I allowed Ripley to leave, knowing full well she was a greater threat to the world than the Briarwoods would ever be. I traded the world's safety for the belief that I could murder my way to peace, that if I could be a greater horror, it would bring my family back. Once this lie was shattered, I scrambled to find a solution, to make a deal, to undo my mistakes and balance the scales. I now understand that there are no scales. There is no redemption, and no ledger that judges me good or evil. I am free to simply be myself and live with the terrible mistakes I've made. Tomorrow, I start upon a new path beyond the gods and demons who have tormented me, and it's your friendship that makes this possible. Though a shadow lingers, the need for vengeance is gone. I will try and do my best for you all. I will strive to buy the future more time free of my legacy. I will stand against the children of my madness in hope, rather than in anger. And if you are reading this, then my travels on this path have come to an end. Scanlan, thank you for destroying my gun. Do not let the weight of life's consequences crush your bravado. It is your greatest weapon. Grog, remember that your compassion has brought you this far, not just strength. For the record, I would have wiped the floor with you that time. Vax, you often remind me of myself, and yes, I know that that is a bit of an insult. Stop indulging your desire to sacrifice and try being the man that these two women seem to think you are. They may actually need you one day. Vex, you often remind me of myself, and that is the highest of compliments." Oh, true to form, Percival, true to form. "I hope you free yourself of whatever voices haunt you. Also, since I'm gone, you're the clever one now." Still the clever one. "Keyleth, don't let the world break you. Learn to forgive it for not living up to your standards. We promise to try harder."
Marisha: (chuckles) Smartass.
Liam: "Pike, it is wonderful to have you home. You bring everyone closer to their best selves, and I can only imagine what a burden that must be." Oh, she's out. "Allow yourself some vice and failure. Done and done. They'll still love you just the same. All true. As to what must be done, I'd be content to be left in a ditch, my weapons and notes burnt and broken." Fucker. "But I imagine that would upset Cass. If you can, take me home. If you can't, I understand. She knows where to find the rest of my instructions. Times being what they are, burn my work or bring it home in the hopes of aiding in the defense of Whitestone. I leave this judgment in your capable hands. Please find Ripley before she does too many terrible things and erase my legacy wherever you find it. That silence would be the greatest eulogy I could ever hope for." Oh dear. "With eternal gratitude, Percival of Vox Machina."
Travis: I'm going to kick his fucking ass.
Sam: Why? He didn't mention you, did he?
Travis: Yeah, he did! He said he could have wiped the floor with me!
Sam: Well, I'm sure it was a joke, friend.
Liam: Yeah, that's a very highbrow kind of humor. It's hilarious. I promise it's hilarious.
Travis: Highbrowed?
Liam: Yeah. It means stuffy. Boring. Boring humor.
Ashley: Am I still out?
Matt: You're still out. You're done for the night. (laughter)
Matt: Actually, you know what? Roll a perception check. With disadvantage.
Sam: Well, you should not have taken that note.
Laura: Well, I know. I was searching for something important.
Matt: 12? You're passed out. You don't hear anything.
Laura: I just realized I still had it, is all.
Travis: So do we plan to act like we didn't read it, or are you going to try and slip it back in his pocket without him noticing?
Laura: What do you guys think?
Liam: That's a good point. I balance a tray on top of Pike's prone form and put some cups on top of it.
Laura: Should I pretend I didn't read it? Should I pretend I didn't take it?
Travis: Was it sealed or anything?
Laura: No, it's just folded.
Travis: Yeah. Try and sneak it in.
Laura: All right.
Liam: I put a tray on top of the cups on top of the first tray.
Marisha: But now we go forward with the knowledge that we know Percy was anticipating dying?
Sam: Well, aren't we all anticipating dying?
Laura: Technically, we should all write these letters.
Liam: That's Percival up and down. There's nothing really that surprising in the letter, really.
Travis: Don't know if we all need to write.
Laura: Grog, you can draw some pictures for us.
Liam: More cups on top of the second tray.
Sam: The fact is, we all might die at any point, and it would be terrible, and we should enjoy every day that we have together.
Liam: That's right. Third tray.
Matt: Make a dexterity check, Vax.
Liam: No problem. 24.
Matt: 24. The stack is beautifully balanced. It's rotating a little bit.
Laura: You better hope she doesn't move.
Liam: I stand and admire my own work.
Travis: I walk up and shove Vax into the tray of glasses.
Matt: As he's admiring it, you get a sudden push forward and clacking. All the trays and glasses fall and hit the ground. You hear the metal and the brass (clanging).
Laura: Did it wake her up?
Matt: Pike stirs. You wake up, still trashed, Pike, and your lips numb as ever, but you're back to consciousness now, hearing all this clattering around you.
Liam: Hey! Did you know that I'm--
Ashley: I just tried to stealth!
Liam: What?
Ashley: Too loud.
Liam: You are drunk! You are very drunk!
Ashley: Oh!
Laura: We should head back to the castle.
Liam: Yeah. Grog, you want to pick up Pickle and let's go get some sleep?
Travis: Pike, what did you do to all these cups and trays?
Ashley: Did I do that?
Travis: Yes! I'm very disappointed. You should apologize to the owner.
Ashley: I'm sorry, owner. (laughter)
Matt: The older woman over in the corner who owns the bar is like, "It's fine."
Travis: I flip her a gold coin.
Matt: She watches it hit the ground and goes, "Thanks."
Travis: Welcome. All right, let's go home! I pick up Pikey.
Matt: All right. You guys find your way back to Whitestone Castle to your respective rooms.
Laura: No. I sneak into Percy's room.
Matt: Okay. Make a stealth check.
Liam: Turn down for what.
Laura: (sings) Shit, why? I'm sorry!
Sam: (continue singing)
Laura: (continue singing)
Laura: 29.
Matt: 29. Yeah, no. Percy does not seem to notice you. He's snoring loudly face down in his still-set bed, (snoring) in the bed itself. The room is dark, but you can still see fine.
Laura: I'm not going to shove it in his butt, all right? Can I try to reach under and get it into the pocket in the coat?
Matt: Yeah, go ahead and make a sleight of hand check.
Sam: Reaching around? (laughter)
Taliesin: I love you all so much.
Laura: Sleight of hand? Seven plus 15 is--
Matt: 22. Percival, I need you to roll a perception check with disadvantage.
Taliesin: Full disadvantage, or the new disadvantage?
Sam: You're dead. You're essentially a dead person.
Matt: You are in the sleep of the dead right now, so you're rolling with disadvantage, and whatever you roll, minus four.
Taliesin: Minus four. Perception?
Matt: Yes.
Taliesin: 13.
Matt: A couple moments of snoring, and you stop and you wait for the breathing to continue, and you find the coat pocket where you found it, gently slip the letter in with the notes that you found it with, close it, step away.
Laura: I tell him  I'm glad you're back. And I leave the room.
Matt: Okay. You gently close the door. No issue.
Liam: Cucumber sandwiches...
Laura: Oh, so this is yours. Here, I don't need it any more. (laughter)
Matt: All right. As you guys go to rest for the evening, sleep takes you eventually, some of you longer than others, because you woke up not too long before. Sunrise comes in Castle Whitestone once again. The previously somewhat cloudy day is now a very gray sky day. There is a slight mist in the air. Looking out over the forest from the windows, you can see that the forest itself has a very thick, low fog and mist that does cover portions of it. It's a cold, cold morning and it's a brisk way to wake up. As you guys all begin to come down to eat your meal for the morning as the guards go about business within the castle, Seeker Asum comes into the room with you guys and goes, "I am sorry to intrude. There is some new information while you were gone that I would like to discuss with you. When you finish eating, we'll meet in the war room. I'll be waiting for you." He leaves, looking a little spooked.
Sam: That's ominous.
Liam: Let's throw it back and go.
Sam: Yeah, let's chug and go.
Matt: Okay. You guys finish your meal as fast as you can. You head up and meet in the war room.
Laura: The war room down by the orb?
Matt: No, this is actually a meeting room in the castle that has been converted into a war room for planning and such. This is where you met with Cassandra and Allura and people in the past to discuss about important matters. You come into the room. There's the big window facing out across Whitestone on the second floor for this room. There's the table in the center, and Asum is sitting there, fingers steepled, looking at the table. "Thank you. Please, come in. Close the door behind you. I think we should have some privacy for this."
Marisha: Very foreboding, Asum.
Matt: "This is an important conversation."
Laura: Should we have this downstairs, then?
Matt: "I'd prefer to have it here, in private."
Liam: Out with it.
Matt: Asum stands up for a second and goes, "Thank you for coming. I think it's time we discuss something of extreme importance."
Laura: I want to insight.
Marisha: I agree.
Matt: Go for it. Insight checks.
Sam: He hasn't even said anything yet.
Laura: I don't care.
Marisha: He's being really shifty.
Laura: 27.
Sam: Ooh, whispers.
Marisha: Also 27.
Laura: Ooh!
Liam: Ooh!
Taliesin: Look at the big brain on Brad.
Sam: Hello. I am Loot Crate. Please buy me. Oh, hold on, Matt's coming behind.
Taliesin: That just got really awkward and really weird.
Laura: Don't you think? Ashley, I think we should go down to the orb.
Sam: Ashley, I think you should move to Los Angeles.
Laura: Ashley, come home.
Sam: Ashley, we all died. It's just you now. You versus the dragons.
Matt: Asum stands up, hands on the table.
Marisha: Asum, I'm sorry. I don't mean to be insistent here, but if this is as private of information as you seem to be making it out to be, maybe we should go to the room where we know cannot be spied upon.
Matt: "I assure you, this room is safe. It's going to be a brief discussion."
Laura: I would feel more comfortable downstairs. We talked about this.
Matt: "Before I continue, hear my words. Think before you act. I implore you. Understand that not all is what it seems, and I come to you as an ally."
Taliesin: All right.
Matt: Asum's eyes flash a vibrant green for a second and then become yellowish reptilian orbs. You see a hint of green scales curl across the face. "Now please, let us talk. Violence will not end in your favor. You have no plan, no trap. I am smarter, more prepared, and more powerful than all of you. I know of Whitestone. I know your tricks, and I know your weaknesses. If I wished you destroyed right now, I could have done it a thousandfold already. So consider the fact that we're even having this conversation is me putting forth a lot of effort and intent to have this discussion. No rash actions."
Taliesin: Noted.
Matt: "Now, let us put our cards on the table, shall we? I, as I'm sure you've noticed, am Raishan. It is a pleasure to meet you in person, slayers of the Hope Devourer and the Iron Storm. I need your help. I wish to kill the Cinder King." And that's where we'll end tonight's session! (screaming)
Liam: You fucking Machiavelli!
Travis: You came into our home with that shit?!
Marisha: Fucking you come into our house!
Liam: Wow. Look at that little boy smile. He's so pleased.
Matt: And on time, 10 05.
Liam: Wow!
Travis: Are you fucking kidding?
Laura: Wow.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: There were a few holes in Asum's story when he first got here nobody picked up on. Yeah.
Travis: He's been this way the whole time?!
Matt: The whole time since he arrived in Whitestone.
Marisha: She's been posing as Seeker Asum.
Laura: It's when he showed up and he's like-- you said something about transporting somewhere--
Matt: Yeah, there is no teleportation sigil to Whitestone. That's why you guys had to travel there on foot.
Liam: We're so smart.
Taliesin: We're so smart.
Sam: We're like seven detectives.
Travis: I knew that. I don't know if the rest of you did.
Sam: He was just playing to his character's intelligence.
Marisha: But I also put a bracelet on the actual Seeker Asum, so I should be able to scry on that guy. Find out where he is.
Matt: If you wish to, you can.
Marisha: Hopefully, he's not dead.
Matt: Well, I guess we'll find out in the future. Maybe we'll find out in the future.
Travis: Thank you to Loot Crate.
Laura: Hey, thanks, Loot Crate.
Matt: Thanks, Loot Crate. You guys are awesome!
Laura: Thanks, Ashley!
Matt: Thank you, Ashley, for coming! You're amazing!
Travis: We set a crazy new record tonight.
Matt: Apparently. A lot of you guys came tonight to watch the show. Thank you so much for coming and watching.
Marisha: And thank you to Patrick Rothfuss.
Matt: He's been planning that for a couple of months with me.
Marisha: Miss you, Kerr-bear.
Matt: Thank you guys for your patience with the technical difficulties in the latter half of the show. Hopefully we didn't miss anything on that. We tried to make sure we got everything up to speed with you guys. Thank you for being so supportive of the show. We love you guys very much. We'll see you in a week, and is it Thursday yet? Have a good night, guys. [end of captions]

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello everyone, and welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voi-- (gibberish) voice actors. It's been a long year, a lot of us voice actors-- Look, there's very high nerves in the studio right now 'cause tonight's going to be crazy. A bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play Dungeons & Dragons. Tonight's going to be an intense episode but before we get to that, let's go ahead and get through our announcements for the evening. First and foremost, we have an amazing sponsor tonight. We have Backblaze. (cheering)
Laura: We love you, Yev!
Matt: Our final episode of the year. So Sam, you have a few words on that?
Sam: Yeah well, you know Backblaze is unlimited cloud backup for Macs and PCs for just $5 a month. You can go to backblaze.com/criticalrole for a full 15-day free trial, and I was going through my library. You know I have a whole library?
Matt: It's pretty impressive, actually.
Sam: Yeah and I dug up an old poetry book and buried inside there was a very curious poem by a young Dr. Seuss.
Travis: Oh really?
Sam: Yeah.
Matt: That's worth a lot of money.
Sam: I know, I know. I thought I would read it for you all today.
Travis: Doesn't even look yellowed or anything.
Sam: He printed it on his laser printer.
Travis: Oh good. (laughter)
Sam: But it happens to concern Backblaze. The drive did not spin. It just clacked and it clicked. I rebooted and prayed and gave it a swift kick. But my data was gone, poof, every byte and bit. And I cried, "How I wish I had backed up my shit!" But who should appear in a car that he revved? A zingity zangity furry red Yev. The Yev jumped through my window, he pounced on my mouse and said, "You must have wished Backblaze to your house." But I looked at him cross, shouting, "What do you mean? My files are corrupt. This is one dead machine." He just laughed and said, "You daft binkle blot, Backblaze works whether you remember or not. Your pics of your kids and the food that they eated, all stored on the cloud. Nothing's ever deleted. Your docs, Firefox, alarm clocks, and your socks will all be restored from our miracle box." The Yev yelled, "Don't worry from midnight to morn, we save all your stuff, your taxes and porn. Your music and apps are safe on Backblaze." And with that, the Yev tipped his hat, "Good day." So remember, go visit backblaze.com and find the red Yev sing-singing his song. Let them take care of you heart and soul and tell him you're sent there by Critical Role.
Travis: Damn! Man, I don't know if that was Dr. Seuss or Lin-Manuel but that was great.
Liam: It was sweet and offensive. By the way, Sam, that's a very handsome hoodie you're wearing. I can't wait to open you up like an advent calendar later.
Sam: Oh! There's nothing offensive to Matt Mercer under this shirt. It's just another shirt progression to inspire us. This one goes four deep. (yelling)
Laura: It looks like your tiny little weenus is--
Travis: You're shirt-cocking your own mouth!
Matt: I am so happy!
Sam: It's to inspire us in our final fights. It might be the last time I'm ever on this show, so I wanted it to be five of me.
Matt: For the power of five Sams. Thank you, Sam, and thank you, Backblaze, for being our awesome sponsor for our episode tonight. You guys are awesome. We have a great video for you to watch from them at the break.
Laura: Wait. Can I say, Yev, about the stuff? All the little pictures you see in the different videos, he's giving some of those away tonight? Giving some away! If you sign up for Backblaze or if you have signed up for Backblaze already, you're entered into the competition. And then you can win them, and we've signed them, and it's wonderful. Did I say it right?
Sam: Yep, you did great.
Laura: Okay. Cool.
Matt: It was pretty bad. As a quick addendum, while they're not officially sponsoring the show tonight, our friends at Loot Crate, who sponsored us for a large portion of the year as well, wanted us to give you a heads up about their current Halo Legendary crate. It's filled with a bunch of exclusive Halo figures, collectibles and in-game items. If you're a Halo fan, this has some exclusive stuff that comes through Loot Crate in that specific crate. You can go to lootcrate.com/LDNHalo to check it out. You can use the code "LDNHalo," all one word, for a discount to that. The cutoff for orders is tonight, so if you plan to do that, you might want to check it out in the next couple of hours. Now's your chance to do it, go. Do it, it's awesome. Right. That's our sponsorship. Couple of other things to mention. We will be returning January 5th, will be our returning episode in 2017. The new year. We'll pick up wherever tonight leaves off.
Liam: Those characters are going to be awesome.
Matt: You have so much faith in yourselves! It's very possible. No. So yeah, we'll be back January 5th. We wish you guys a very very merry holiday, in all your celebrations, and your families, and your New Year's, and all that crazy stuff. We'll have more of that at the end of the episode, but we'll see you back then. We have a merch shout-out, actually. Laura, if you want to talk about what we have up on the store for them?
Laura: That's a good question. I have no idea what's in the store tonight. I have no sheet in front of me, and I have no idea what's there. I think there's some hats left, I know there are some hats--
Travis: The dice got restocked.
Laura: No, they did not. No, the dice did not get restocked, the dice are coming back in, like, January, so there's a lot more coming in January, so that's good. I have no idea what else is in the store though. A hat? There's a hat.
Matt: There you go.
Laura: Shit, I got nothing.
Sam: You are the best.
Laura: You guys, I'm focused on spells, and I'm focused on arrows, and hit points and-- (gasps) And the patches! And our mugs!
Matt: If you go to the Geek and Sundry store under Critical Role, you'll see merch! That's our announcement for the evening!
Laura: There's still patches left, you guys! That's pretty cool! Yeah, the hats are still there. There's only a few left, though! There's only a few hats left, I know that for sure.
Marisha: Only a few hats left.
Marisha: And they're gone.
Taliesin: And they're gone.
Laura: Sorry. I'm stressed!
Marisha: Yes, tomorrow we have a last-minute special edition Signal Boost episode that is a stocking stuffer edition. Yeah, coming out tomorrow, and it's got, like, coupons in it, so you should watch it. And also: everyone likes coupons!
Taliesin: That's true.
Marisha: End of statement. Also, there was a playlist that we put out that is a collection of all of the artists that we have boosted over the year.
Taliesin: Except one.
Marisha: Except for one because they're not on Spotify and it's not my fault. But yeah, go check it out and I also wrote a little thing giving some insight into the background of the show.
Matt: It's a great write-up, I recommend you guys check it out. Even if you haven't watched Signal Boost, it's a great write-up. I recommend it. Thank you, Marisha.
Marisha: You're welcome. I'll be here all week. Yeah, not really, it's Christmas time.
Matt: This is a pretty cool announcement. After a back and forth for the past year, we just got approval from Blizzard Entertainment to incorporate their music from their game projects into our Critical Role soundtrack.
Sam: For the final fight?
Matt: I've incorporated a few tracks for tonight's battle, as well as a couple of community-made tracks that have been submitted over time, so we'll have some fresh tracks for the evening. But, Blizzard, thank you so much, thank you to Woody Day, and a bunch of the guys who have helped out over there to make this happen. We're excited to include those amazing soundtracks into our atmospheric background tracks in future episodes.
Liam: I was not prepared. Oh! I'm fired, aren't I?
Matt: Yeah, you are. Anything else anyone wants to mention real fast?
Brian: (distantly) Critmas!
Matt: Oh yes. (laughing) Thank you, disembodied voice of Brian Wayne Foster, ghost of Christmas Tuesday. Next Tuesday we have a special Critmas episode of Talks Machina. A bunch of us are opening your awesome Critmas presents, and we'll be showing the videos the community submitted about what Critical Role means to them, to you, and to us! So check it out next Tuesday in the usual spot. I think that's it. All right, cool! Then let us go ahead and bring the tension up as you guys wander into the flaming core of Emon to show down with Thordak, the Cinder King, on tonight's episode of Critical Role. [dramatic music]
Matt: Welcome back. So! Last we left off, Vox Machina, after spending the better part of a number of months traversing the Prime Material Plane and planes beyond in search of ancient relics known as the Vestiges of Divergence, they finally increased their abilities, they've made allies, and they've begun their trek to tear down the collection of evil chromatic dragons known as the Chroma Conclave that destroyed your city of Emon and took over most of the continent of Tal'Dorei and beyond. You've defeated and you've slain three members of the Conclave, allied with a fourth, and you've made your way, along with an army combined with the powers of Fort Daxio and Syngorn, to the central city of Emon. Utilizing aid from the Ashari people to cover the skies as the armies began to assault the outer walls, you, along with Zahra, Kashaw, Jarett, Gilmore, the whole party, everyone's there, Kima--
Travis: Britney Spears, NSYNC--
Sam: My other brother.
Matt: Drake's staying back with the army to help them with the assault. You guys made your way underneath through the sewer system, made a brief alliance with some wayward Clasp who led you to the center of town where the volcanic essence of Thordak's mutated draconic form has been pulling volcanic activity up beneath the city. You climbed out on top and there, at the walled gates to the central Cloudtop District, which Thordak now calls his home and his lair, you saw two fire giants guarding the entrance. Kashaw and Zahra, in a heroic display, bound the giants to place and decided to take care of them while you rushed into the fray, bursting through the door due to the strength of your Titanstone Gauntlets. You rushed into the cloud, smoke, and ember-filled Cloudtop District ruins, jumping from ruined building to wreck of rubble and stone. The air itself is dense and black with dark fume and it's hard to see anything. You all carefully, gingerly, stealthily made your way into the alcove of one ruined building, where across the way, you see a giant raised central cavern, a hole, a burrow, if you will, that is close to 40 feet across. Apparently, your approach was somewhat sensed by the red dragon himself, as you watch Thordak emerge from this burrow and climb out saying to itself, "It appears we have visitors." (sound of liquid pouring)
Sam: I'm really nervous. (laughter)
Matt: So, as Ashley unfortunately can not be with us, Pike's control and duty will be taken care of by the twins for the evening. You guys will be dual cleric-ing tonight.
Laura: We're Jaegering.
Matt: Indeed. At this point in time, you guys are all keeping as still and as quiet as you can while figuring out your circumstances. You can hear the low growling voice of Thordak as he begins to scan the vicinity. (growling)
Marisha: Potions! Potions!
Sam: Oh, good idea, good idea.
Laura: I take fire resistance.
Matt: Fire resistance? Fire resistance, fire resistance--
Liam: Am I able to make a jello shot of invulnerability and haste at the same time?
Laura: But you know they only last for one minute each. Just wait for like a second. Just wait. Fire resistance lasts for a while, I passed them out, so if you've got them, take them.
Matt: Okay, so we have Scanlan, Keyleth, Vex, Grog, all with fire resistance? And Percy? All right. That's pretty much everyone but you, I believe, right?
Laura: Oh, but he's got the armor--
Matt: So yeah, the entire party, thank god, is set to resist fire. That may help your chances here. As you all guys quietly begin to drink and figure out your circumstances--
Travis: Why are you laughing? Why'd you laugh?
Matt: Because I was rolling Thordak's perception check to see if he noticed any of your presences as you were drinking the potions. I got a natural one.
Laura: Wow, just drinking a potion would make him notice us?
Liam: "I guess I'll go back to sleep now."
Matt: He's still scanning, and he's still like, "We can sense you here. Where are you?" And you hear (heavy footsteps).
Sam: Should I cause a distraction?
Laura: I cast Pass Without a Trace on all of us.
Matt: Okay. What are the components of that spell? Let's take a look here.
Laura: It can't be vocal because it's Pass Without a Trace-- oh no, it's verbal.
Matt: Yep!
Laura: No, I don't do that! I don't know what those things mean!
Travis: You better get your shit in gear.
Laura: It's a whisper. Tell me it's a one! Tell me it's a one!
Matt: That was not a one.
Travis: I mean, let's be clear, what are we really going to hide from? Look where his fucking head is. He's like the sun. We ain't hiding from that shit.
Laura: He may have heard us, but now we've got plus ten stealth.
Matt: So, as you guys are all quietly huddled over in this broken space there, Vex'ahlia begins to do her incantation beneath her breath and as you feel the shadows cling to you, you hear in the distance, "Ah. There you are."
Travis: I just want to pee on myself and run.
Matt: He has currently moved out to this area, and began to asses the scenery. I need all of you to roll initiative. (screaming)
Laura: Already!? Take your potions!
Liam: I can't, we're into initiative, right? It's too late for potions.
Matt: You took your fire resistance potions. That's all you had time to do.
Marisha: That's not too bad, not too bad.
Taliesin: That will do.
Laura: Who's rolling for Pike?
Liam: I'll do it. I got 11, plus what?
Laura: I don't think she has anything, so--
Matt: Pike has no bonus.
Travis: 14. Oh wait, you ask them, in order.
Laura: I'm freaking out, shit, I'm sorry, I thought I was helping.
Matt: Vex, what did you get?
Laura: 13.
Matt: 13 for you? All right.
Liam: 12, and Pike got 11.
Taliesin: Pretty good for Pike.
Laura: That is pretty good for Pike.
Marisha: That is pretty good for Pike.
Matt: Keyleth?
Marisha: 17.
Laura: Good.
Marisha: Yeah, it's pretty good for Keyleth. Oh god.
Matt: Percy?
Taliesin: 25. Fast, fast.
Sam: Eight. I'll be bringing up the rear. That's how I like it anyway.
Liam: While we're cowering here, Pike says, "Guys, I think I could really help you out if you wait a second. Okay?"
Laura: Oh, Pike didn't even get a chance to--
Travis: Were we supposed to have a Heroes' Feast?
Laura: We did, we did have a Heroes' Feast.
Travis: I'm so glad, I was totally here last week.
Laura: We're all immune to fear and poison still, we all have advantage on wisdom.
Matt: You do indeed.
Taliesin: And extra hit points.
Matt: All righty. So! With that, beginning of the round, at the very top: Percival. You glance around the corner and you see sifting through the large columns of smoke that are billowing off each one of these destroyed, burning buildings, you see the gargantuan form of Thordak (heavy footsteps) and looks right over. You see all of a sudden as his eyes pass in your direction, almost like a cat caught in a light beam, as his eyes flare up with bright white light as it sees your presence.
Taliesin: Okay.
Travis: What do you see?
Taliesin: It's coming. Is there room, can I get even vaguely a shot in that room?
Matt: From here, at his size, you could get a shot if you moved a little bit.
Taliesin: I'll move a little bit.
Matt: Jump between these folks there.
Taliesin: I have Spider Climb on right now, so actually I'll climb up on the wall and then climb back down when I'm done.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: I'm going to-- Ignore that, I've been drinking. First of all, I'm going to cast Hex on him. Because that's really going to make a difference.
Travis: No, it is! Stay positive!
Taliesin: What kind of checks should I-- I'm going to down him for--
Marisha: I feel like he's real good at everything.
Laura: Like, wisdom, or something.
Taliesin: I'm going to give him a disadvantage on dexterity checks. Because fuck it. All right, I'm going to take out Bad News, and I'm going to take two shots, which is my way, with Hex and Bad News, and hopefully everything's going to go just fine. I'm going to use Sharpshooter, and I'm going to use Deadeye on the first one. I'm going to drop a point on Deadeye. So, Deadeye roll-- That should have counted, damn it, I shouldn't have picked it up. Oh, thank god. That's-- sorry, I'm blanking. 26 to hit.
Matt: That hits.
Travis: That's a good sign.
Taliesin: Yeah, let's not start saying that now. And that's-- wow, I'm nervous!
Sam: Wow!
Taliesin: That's actually really good. First shot is 21, 37 points of damage plus five points of necrotic damage.
Matt: In addition to 37? That's nice.
Taliesin: That's really nice. I rolled really high, and I have Sharpshooter running.
Matt: Good opening shot.
Taliesin: Next one, I'm going to shoot Sharpshooter, but no Deadshot. Is an 18 to hit?
Matt: Nope.
Taliesin: Okay, second one misses. I'm going to crawl back and hide again and get a little bit of-- yeah, I got up on top, took two shots, and crawled back down to hide.
Matt: All right, as you climb up to the top, you slam Bad News over the top of the stonework, and as soon as the barrel catches a little bit of the light through the smoke, you watch as Thordak's face whips over in your direction. (gunshot) The first shot smashes across the crest on the front of the dragon's face. You see sparks fly, and bits of flame, red crystal get shattered in the distance. The head spins back towards you, and immediately you start shaking, and you fire the second shot and it ricochets off of its angry, thick hide. You immediately duck back behind the wall.
Taliesin: I'm regretting so many things right now! Not you! Oh god! I shouldn't avoid my family. It leads to dragons.
Matt: In all of your focus, and all of your attention into the arrival, and the crawl into this, and Thordak, none of you noticed that Larkin is not with you.
Laura: No surprise there.
Matt: Keyleth, you're up.
Laura: Piece of shit.
Marisha: Piece of shit. Okay, I don't know what to do here? What are we trying to do? Do we have a plan? Should I try and burn a big spell?
Sam: Do whatever you do! We've been practicing for this our whole lives.
Marisha: Okay, before I do something crazy, based off of Percy saying that, I turn to Vex and I go, by the way, I've been meaning to ask you about that, if he ever followed through, so stay alive, we can talk later! Okay! And I pop over the corner and I'm going to cast Tsunami?
Sam: I've never heard you say those words.
Liam: No, it's not.
Matt: So you're casting Tsunami.
Liam: She did this once and wrecked our enemies.
Marisha: That was Tidal Wave, this is like a big daddy version of that.
Liam: It's worse than that?
Marisha: This is my 8th-level spell. So I create a wall 300 feet high, 300 feet long, and 50 feet thick of water.
Matt: You watch as the smoke is instantly replaced with steam in the vicinity, completely filling the area with fog, as this giant wall of water is conjured out of the broken, cracked, dry earth and begins curling over towards Thordak's front side. All right, so, strength saving throw-- Wait, any Huge or smaller creature.
Laura: Is he bigger than Huge?
Matt: He is bigger than Huge.
Laura: So it doesn't have any effect on him? Is he bigger than 300 feet?
Marisha: Yeah, he's not bigger than 300 feet, is he?
Matt: It's big, but the sheer mass size-- You watch as the tidal wave smashes into Thordak and splits and falls around him, no effect. His form is too big--
Marisha: None at all?
Matt: The water crashes against him, he's too big for it to actually have an impact on him.
Liam: Are there any fires left burning in the vicinity?
Matt: Actually, this fire is out now, this fire goes out, and water spills down into the tunnel and you watch a bunch of steam (whoosh) rise out of it.
Marisha: Well, it's also a six-round spell, and he's supposed to get stuck in it. Nothing? No.
Matt: He's too big.
Laura: He doesn't even get damaged at all, though?
Travis: Does he question his choices in life?
Marisha: Because I'm questioning mine.
Matt: It says any Huge or smaller creature inside the wall has to make a saving throw or take damage, creature caught in the wall can move, but yeah, it only seems to have an effect on--
Sam: Well, that was a valiant effort.
Matt: I was with you. But, hey, 8th-level spell!
Sam: You got tons of 8th-level spells, you'll be fine.
Marisha: "But, hey, 8th-level spell?" Did you just say that to me?
Matt: Sorry! I'm sorry! I didn't mean to.
Marisha: Holy fuck.
Sam: No problem.
Taliesin: I would get back behind the wall if I were you.
Matt: So Keyleth, do you want to use the rest of your movement?
Sam: Don't get back behind the fucking wall, don't get back behind the wall, we're all bunched up. Go somewhere else.
Travis: Scatter.
Laura: I know how painful this is right now, Keyleth, but it looked really cool. Just run.
Liam: Our pores are cleared-- the steam--
Taliesin: The wall will at least take some damage at this point, most things he's going to do are going to be a giant area effect anyway that you're not going to be able to outrun, you might as well have cover--
Matt: Oh, wait, hold on--
Sam: Judges weighing in.
Matt: Sorry, I scrolled past that part there-- Each creature has to make a saving throw, so it does affect him the first round. It does.
Marisha: Just on the first round, though?
Laura: Still, that's something!
Matt: Each turn after that-- so, yeah, basically as it gets smaller it affects less and less creatures. Sorry, I scrolled past that one.
Marisha: So it just doesn't keep him restrained?
Matt: That is a 21.
Sam: What's your spell DC?
Marisha: 20.
Matt: So it takes half-- so roll 6d10 and it takes half damage.
Sam: Oh, that's something!
Laura: That's better than zero!
Marisha: It's better than-- yay, 8th-level spell, to quote Matt Mercer.
Taliesin: That will be our next t-shirt, "Yay, 8th-level spell."
Matt: It's fine. keep digging. This is my battle against you guys.
Marisha: I'm not digging!
Laura: No, no, not at all! We're very happy with that!
Marisha: 26, 35, halved.
Matt: Okay, half of the 35--
Marisha: But it's not going to do anything to him on subsequent rounds?
Sam: 17 points, that's something!
Laura: Is there water all over the ground, though?
Matt: It says here that at the start of each of your turns after the wall appears, the wall along with any creatures in it move 50 feet away from you. So it will move him 50 feet back, unless he gets out of it.
Marisha: Yeah, it says any Huge or smaller creatures must make a strength saving throw in order to move.
Matt: Correct. He can move through it fine, he's too big now, he doesn't take the additional damage in following rounds.
Marisha: So he gets to move out of it no problem? Is that essentially the deal?
Taliesin: But he is picked up for 50 feet, though.
Marisha: Yeah, but is he moved back?
Matt: It still has to try and make an athletics check against your spell DC to move at all, but it doesn't take any additional damage.
Marisha: All right, I'll take that.
Matt: It's her first time using this spell, guys, so be patient, we're figuring this out as we go.
Taliesin: I would say also just because Pike was going to do a thing, so come back for Pike's thing that she was going to do.
Marisha: Pike's going to do a thing?
Liam: So is he.
Laura: I feel like, run, Marisha, 'cause the thing that Pike's going to do is--
Marisha: Is that an AOE thing that she's going to do?
Laura: Yeah, but just go.
Marisha: All right, here's what I'm going to do, I'm going to move in this area over here. Kind of poke into this building?
Matt: That's as far as you can get with your full movement.
Marisha: No, no, I don't want to go that way, I want to go behind-- sorry, this isn't very--
Matt: Over here?
Marisha: Yes, that way. Thank you.
Matt: That right there is as far as you can get with your full movement.
Marisha: Yeah, sure. Yeah.
Sam: It's going to be great.
Marisha: It's going to be so great, it's going to be great.
Matt: All right, that ends Keyleth's turn. Jarett is going to go ahead and rush around here. Pulling out his heavy crossbow, he's going to go ahead, as he runs past, releasing a bolt towards Thordak-- two bolts, actually, that is a-- nope, that misses. That also misses. Well, they both hit, but they both splinter across his hide. All right, Jarett's going to make the full move behind this wall and begin loading another bolt. "It's all right, we got this!"
Sam: He's dead.
Matt: It is now Gilmore's turn.
Sam: Shaun Gilmore!
Laura: I'm sorry. I don't know how I just stole two pencils.
Liam: I do.
Matt: Gilmore is going to-- As he watches Jarett rush off and Keyleth rush back around the wall, watching the wall of water crash past the dragon, goes, "All right. It's been a while since I've had to do this." And he points his finger up towards the dragon's head, and you watch as this green spark shoots this single green beam in the direction of the dragon's face.
Travis: Please hit his face. Please hit his face. Please hit his face.
Laura: Hit him, Gilmore!
Matt: Let's see if it makes its dexterity saving throw. That is-- yeah, he succeeds. Against the spell DC, yeah, he succeeds with a 19. He goes and fires and you watch as Thordak sees the beam glimmer out of the fingers and he ducks down and it fires past, dodging between the side of the head and the beam goes casting out that way, no effect.
Travis: Shit hammer.
Laura: What level spell was that, Gilmore?
Matt: "6th."
Marisha: I look at him and I go, yeah, 8th, I feel you, man.
Matt: "It's okay, we've got this."
Marisha: Fucking sucks, bro, all right, let's do this.
Matt: And he's going to go ahead and--
Liam: I don't understand all this arcane terminology.
Matt: "Scatter, right?" He pushes past and goes running this way. All right, that's going to end his turn. Grog!
Travis: Yeah, I see Gilmore take off running, and being there's a giant T-Rex on the map, I'm going to go, "Must go faster, must go faster--" And I would like to run as fast as balls this way towards this cover as far as I can for 50 feet.
Matt: Okay. You get right about there, as Thordak has the same initiative as you.
Travis: Oh!
Matt: Thordak, who has dodged the beam, and is seeing the ants begin to scatter in front, goes, "Moving targets--"
Travis: Glad I joined Gilmore!
Matt: "We love moving targets." And he's going to step forward--
Laura: No! Don't move!
Matt: --and is going to rear back and (inhales) (whoosh) and unleash Flame Breath.
Sam: Oh, Kiki, you're okay!
Laura: You made it!
Matt: I need Vex, Percy, Vax, Pike, Scanlan, Trinket, Grog, and Gilmore to all make dexterity saving throws. Hold on to that number.
Taliesin: Does partial cover help at all?
Matt: No. The flame is like napalm.
Taliesin: I'm rerolling that.
Matt: Kima fails. Gilmore rolls a one! Are you serious?
Laura: Did you roll for Pike?
Taliesin: That's a little better.
Sam: Can I Cutting Words to do anything?
Travis: The Ancient Dragon?
Matt: Cutting Words actually can reduce the damage.
Sam: Just the damage, not his attack?
Travis: We'll take the damage reduction.
Sam: Will it reduce the damage for everybody?
Matt: I'm double-checking that. I'm pretty sure it does.
Sam: If so, I will do that.
Taliesin: I just had to use a Resolve.
Laura: What did you roll?
Taliesin: A one. So I had to burn a Resolve, which I have done.
Matt: Yeah, so you can reduce the damage by a certain amount for everybody.
Sam: It won't be much, but I'll do it.
Taliesin: It'll help.
Laura: And then he's got disadvantage on something next, doesn't he? After you use Cutting Words?
Matt: Yes.
Sam: Yes.
Matt: All right, so--
Sam: So as he goes, I will yell at him, oi! What sexual position makes the ugliest children? I don't know, ask your mama! (laughter)
Matt: Wow. That's a thing.
Liam: I like to think of all of Vox Machina nervously laughing.
Matt: She has advantage on her saving throw-- Kima does make her saving throw! All right, so! Go ahead and roll your d12 and it will reduce the damage.
Sam: Guys, you can reduce that damage by five.
Laura: Sweet.
Sam: So instead of 150, it's 145.
Matt: No, instead of 99 points of fire damage, it is 94.
Sam: 94!
Matt: 94 points of fire damage.
Laura: 9d4?
Matt: It was 99, now it's 94.
Taliesin: Does the five get subtracted before we halve it, or after?
Matt: It reduces the damage of the attack.
Laura: And then if we have fire resistance, then it-- But what if we rolled 28, did we make our save?
Matt: Grog, what was your--?
Travis: 17.
Matt: Nope.
Laura: 28?
Matt: Yes.
Liam: 24.
Matt: 24--
Sam: Oh shit. He has to look?
Matt: You just make it.
Taliesin: 24 is a "just made it?"
Liam: So I take zero, because I'm using Evasion.
Matt: Yes you do.
Marisha: I didn't have to roll.
Taliesin: 18.
Matt: 18, nope.
Sam: 21.
Matt: 21, nope.
Laura: And Trinket and Pike both fail as well.
Matt: Okay. Thankfully, that's half damage. So that would be, at half of 94, 37-- I'm sorry, no, 47. 47 points of fire damage to Grog, to Percy, to Scanlan--
Laura: Pike and Trinket.
Matt: Well, Trinket does not take half.
Sam: Wait, I thought you said I didn't save.
Laura: Takes the full 90-- Trinket is in my necklace. Again, already.
Matt: Trinket goes right into your necklace.
Sam: Wait, wait, so I get 94 or 47?
Matt: You didn't succeed, so you would take 94, but because you have fire resistance, you take 47.
Sam: Oh, okay! That's not bad!
Matt: You take half of 47, because you have fire resistance and you made the save.
Laura: So 23. 24.
Travis: Tell me he has only one of those per day.
Matt: Nope, that regenerates.
Laura: 23 or 24?
Matt: It would be 23.
Sam: And Matthew DM, do our temporary hit points go away first? Or last?
Taliesin: They're technically not temporary, it's actually your max increases, so they can come back.
Matt: Correct, they can come back, yeah.
Taliesin: You can heal into them.
Travis: Did somebody get temporary hit points?
Sam: We all did. 17, from our feast.
Laura: Oh, that's right, Pike has-- I need to--
Taliesin: You're 17 up. You can go 17 up even if you lose them.
Travis: Right, well I'm going to add them now.
Taliesin: Your max is now much higher.
Travis: Oh, thank you, that's much better.
Matt: Okay. Kima's doing okay, but Gilmore is looking rough. As the flames burn through, hyper white, red, orange, blazing fire, you haven't felt heat like this before. You instinctively close your eyes, but it doesn't seem to help. As the flames pass by you, Keyleth, you can even feel the impact from here, singeing your eyebrows, and you have to cover your face for fear of being disfigured by the proximity. As the fire eventually burns away, Gilmore is like stumbling right now, burned all around. The rest of the party is already smoking, bits of your outfits and edges of clothing are now actually curling up and burning. That was bad. So that ends Thordak's go. Grog?
Travis: Well, being that my run was so rudely interrupted by shit-chest over there, can I change course seeing that he's going to barf fire at all of us and run straight at him in a rage?
Matt: Yes, you may.
Travis: Yeah, can we go ahead and see how we do here, and I will go Reckless Attack, Great Weapon Master.
Matt: Sure.
Laura: Doesn't that mean he gets advantage on his attacks against you?
Travis: Yeah, I mean, let's buy the ticket and take the train, right? Who fucking knows. One! Better. 19.
Matt: 19 misses.
Travis: Shit. Roll better. That's better.
Laura: He's so big, though!
Matt: But his armor is hard.
Travis: That is a 25.
Matt: 25 hits. So the second attack hits. Are you doing--?
Travis: Reckless and Great Weapon.
Matt: Right, but I mean are you doing your frenzy for the third attack? Or are you going regular?
Travis: Yeah, I'm going frenzied!
Matt: All right.
Travis: 21.
Matt: 21 misses. But you did get a hit in.
Travis: I do.
Laura: Oh my god. What was the second attack?
Travis: 25. So somewhere between 21 and 25. Which one is the d12? This one. 11. Two points of necrotic and 36 total.
Matt: 36, nice! As the flames subside from the dragon breath, the flames part and you see, rushing out, flames curling off the edges of the fur, this angry raging goliath (yells) runs and takes one swing. It skids across the scales of the front of Thordak's chest, gleaning past the giant scar in the center. No damage. Thordak (laughs). You look up into the beaming star-like eyes and angrily (yells). This time, the axe sinks in and the laughter stops. You see the slight twinge of pain in the right eye of the dragon as you pull back for a third one, brings its claw up and swings down to try and crush you. As you swing for your attack, you instinctually realize it's probably best to let this go and you duck out of the way in time as the claw (slam) into the ground in front of you.
Travis: Yeah! Yeah! Fuck. That ends my turn.
Matt: Vex! Your turn!
Laura: Cool! I click my Boots of Haste!
Matt: You feel, for the first time, the adrenaline surge through you and you suddenly go, "My brother's been hoarding this this whole time?!" Everything slows down around you ever so slightly, and for a second, your mind's racing faster than it normally does.
Laura: With my full movement, can I get behind the wall up where Keyleth was headed?
Matt: You can move 60 feet.
Laura: I want to stop in a place where I can attack before I finish my move.
Matt: You'll go over there and as you're rushing past, Keyleth--
Liam: As she rushes past, she hears  (slowly) Those are just a loaner!
Laura: (slowly) Go fuck yourself! Okay. All right. I'm going to cast Hunter's Mark. Then, for my first attack, I'm going to try a Bramble Shot.
Matt: Percy, by the way, I need you to make a concentration check. It's a constitution saving throw.
Laura: Yes! 30 on the first.
Matt: That hits.
Taliesin: Ten.
Matt: Your Hex fades.
Laura: I took the bracers off, right? Yes, I did. Okay. 15 plus two lightning damage plus two sneak attack and a Hunter's Mark. Ooh! 12 plus 4d8 for the Bramble Shot.
Matt: Nice! So already at 29 damage plus--?
Laura: 15. No. 13. 17.
Matt: Plus 17. All right! 46 points of damage on the first strike! What's the DC on the strength saving throw?
Laura: Oh. 16.
Matt: Yeah. He makes it.
Laura: That would have been amazing.
Matt: Ten plus 12. That would have been amazing. As you run past and fire the first arrow, it sinks in and jams into the side of where the plates of the chest armor meet the scar. As it hits, you watch it cause a spurt of dragon blood, knowing exactly where the weak points of the armor are, being a person that studied dragons.
Laura: Oh! That's right! And an additional d6 because he's a dragon, right? 2d6?
Matt: You should have the additional damage, I think it was plus two damage against creatures that are--
Laura: Oh, just plus two.
Travis: 2d20 of damage.
Laura: I thought it was a d6. Sorry. You're right, I think.
Matt: Do you want to go look it up?
Laura: No, it's fine. I'll look it up between. My next attack, I want to try one of my poisoned arrows.
Matt: You see the brambles extend out from the arrow and the dragon leans forward, already focused on Grog as you're slamming him in the side. As his body flexes, the brambles shatter.
Laura: 27!
Matt: 27 hits.
Laura: Okay! 14 plus four lightning damage. Plus Hunter's Mark is another four. What is the poison? Do I do anything for the poison? MATT I am going to go ahead and roll a constitution saving throw for him. Which succeeds. So, yeah, he just resists the poison effects of the arrows.
Laura: Okay, and then I'm going to do a third attack, right? Because I am hasted.
Matt: Yep.
Laura: And that hits too! That's 31!
Travis: Damn, girl.
Laura: 16 plus another four lightning damage! Plus Hunter's Mark, plus two plus two, because he is a dragon. But I didn't do plus two on the second one because I--
Matt: So 24 damage that final strike. Nice! You did almost 100 points of damage in a single round. (cheering)
Laura: And then I finish my round of movement and I keep running behind the building. Yeah. Right there. I know.
Matt: As you rush past, looking up into the face of the creature that you know for certain, seeing it there, that this is the creature that brought your mother to her end and half the city of Byroden to the south. And as that anger swells into you and mixes with the surge of adrenaline in your body and you don't even feel the momentum, your hands instinctively go through all training, all the years that have gone by, as each arrow gets loosed, there is just kind of this fuzz, this kind of numbness, around as your hatred is focused so clear on this dragon's head. And then the air rushes back into your lungs and you slam your back into the wall, preparing for your next round. All right, that finishes Vex's go. Vax and Lady Kima go at the same time. What do you want to do?
Liam: I am going to down the potion of healing with a bonus action.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: And then now I have two actions because of the potion--
Matt: The potion of healing?
Liam: No, no. Haste. So that's bonus action, now I have two actions? Because of the potion.
Matt: Correct.
Liam: Second action's used to pump out the wings.
Matt: Okay. Wings are up.
Liam: Then I am going to fly directly towards Thordak's face to-- you don't need that-- to ten feet away from him to his face. you can just hold it for a second, and cast Vow of Enmity at him.
Matt: All righty.
Liam: And then I am going to barrel roll back, fly, and land hard right down next to my sister where she's hiding.
Matt: Okay. At a non-hasted fly speed.
Liam: 120, hasted.
Matt: Oh, because you are hasted with the potion. So yeah, not a problem. Land right next to your sister.
Sam: So you prayed at him? Good job!
Matt: You swoop up, right in front, you cast the Vow of Enmity.
Liam: He could have taken a swipe at me. I'm just glad he didn't.
Matt: Oh, but we are going to get there. As you swoop up within ten feet of his face and cast the Vow, focusing on him, the dragon grins, and as you pull out of his attack space, because he has a reach of 15 feet with his bite, he is going to take a bite attack at you. That is a 32 to hit.
Liam: Can I Uncanny Dodge this?
Matt: You can.
Liam: Yeah. I have to.
Travis: 32 to hit?
Laura: We're fucked.
Matt: That's actually a bad roll. 17 points of piercing damage plus--
Liam: I knew it was going to happen.
Matt: Plus 16 points of fire damage reduced to half.
Liam: No, 17 plus 16 total.
Matt: Well, because you have fire resistance that is reduced.
Liam: Okay. So eight and 17. 25.
Matt: Yes, 25 points of damage to you.
Liam: Gives me advantage on every attack.
Laura: Oh, that's great.
Liam: I will get sneak attack on every attack whether there's someone next to him or not.
Laura: That's good.
Taliesin: Good! That's really good.
Matt: Kima is going to--
Sam: Who that? Who that? Is that Kima?
Matt: That's Kima. Kima can't do too much at this distance, unfortunately. She is going to cast Aura of Vitality on herself.
Sam: On herself?
Matt: Correct. What that does is allows her to heal people as a bonus action for as long as it lasts. Which is pretty damn helpful, right now. Let me pull it up real fast. Let's see, Aura of Vitality. She can use a bonus action to cause a creature in the aura, including herself, to regain hit points. She's doing okay. She looks over at Gilmore, who's hurt on the ground, staggering over in flames. As she rushes up, casts the spell on herself, holding her holy symbol of Bahamut to her chest, she looks up at the dragon. "Remember me?" Without even losing her vision, she puts her hand out like this, and you watch as a beam of divine energy streaks out, slams into Gilmore's side. He almost doubles over as it swirls around his body and heals his wounds for 2d6.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: So he heals four hit points.
Sam: He's looking better.
Matt: All right, that is going to end Kima's turn. Pike's turn.
Sam: By committee.
Laura: Okay, we're going to move to the corner of the building that she's standing in.
Liam: Inside. Squished into the corner.
Matt: Okay. Ten feet of movement to get there.
Laura: Yes. She's going to, as a bonus action, cast Spiritual Weapon. At fifth level.
Liam: Okay. I'll mark that off.
Taliesin: Go nuts with it, yeah.
Matt: What else is she doing this round?
Laura: And then she's also going to cast Beacon of Hope.
Matt: Beacon of Hope is a 3rd-level spell. If you are casting a 3rd-level or higher spell as an action, you can only do a 2nd-level spell as a bonus action. So you can either do Beacon of Hope and then a 2nd-level Spiritual Weapon or--
Laura: So we should do Beacon of Hope and not do Spiritual Weapon because we want to do a higher Spiritual Weapon later?
Liam: So anyone within 30 feet of her is getting some nice things.
Laura: So anybody within 30 feet gets advantage on wisdom, which you already have, but you get advantage on death saving throws as well.
Liam: And the best part--
Laura: --is any time you're healed, you're automatically healed to the max possible amount.
Sam: What do you mean any time you're healed?
Liam: When someone heals you, you don't roll. You calculate the maximum amount you could possibly roll.
Laura: And that's what you're healed for.
Taliesin: So, if it's 3d4, you just get 12. That's amazing!
Sam: Do we get any healing from this as well?
Laura: No, this is a prep spell. This is something that probably we should have done before Thordak started attacking us.
Sam: Yeah, well, you're not Pike. You don't know.
Liam: So, DM. Who all gets that? Looks like Grog is just out of reach of it?
Matt: Within 30 feet of her? Grog is just out of the radius. Gilmore, Kima.
Laura: Should we have run around the corner? If we had run around the corner, would Grog get?
Matt: If you run to there? Okay, yeah. That would get Grog, Gilmore, Scanlan, Percy, Keyleth. It does not get either of you.
Laura: Well, that's fine.
Marisha: This looks bad, but I feel okay about this.
Matt: So that's your action?
Laura: And that gets Pike in that as well.
Sam: You get a bonus action.
Laura: Bonus action?
Sam: You can do a Healing Word.
Laura: Oh, that's right, Healing Word!
Matt: You can do up to a level two.
Laura: Okay, so she should do a Healing Word. Is Healing Word a level two?
Taliesin: You can do it at any level you like.
Liam: Percy needs it? Grog needs it?
Laura: Grog needs it?
Travis: Yeah. I took like 40 points of damage.
Laura: I feel like he's okay still, so Percy?
Taliesin: One of the two of us, I would say.
Marisha: I didn't get hit. I'm good.
Taliesin: Oh, I'll take it. How much do I get back?
Laura: At a level two, that's 2d4.
Matt: 2d4 plus five.
Taliesin: 13.
Marisha: Is that for everybody or just for her?
Laura: Everybody.
Matt: Anyone who is affected by the spell, all healing is maximum. For as long as it lasts, and it's concentration. Okay, that ends Pike's turn. Pike can technically move five more feet from where she is.
Laura: But she can't hide, though.
Matt: No. She's out in the open right now. Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: I'll move ten feet towards that way, still ducking behind that stone there. I will inspire Percy. Wait, should I heal or inspire? I'll inspire Percy. I'll sing him a lovely Christmas song, (singing) You know Raishan and Vorugal, the Frigid Doom, Brimscythe and Umbrasyl, we killed in his room. But do you recall the most fucked-up dragon of all? Thordak the Cinder King had a very shiny gem. And if you ever saw it, run the fuck away from him.
Matt: Take your d12 inspiration die.
Taliesin: All right. d12 is awesome.
Matt: Bards are great. All right, that's your bonus action.
Sam: And for the move, I guess I'll attack him? I don't do that very well. I'll do Bigby's Hand. (sings) Bigby's Hand! At level seven.
Marisha: Oh, shit!
Matt: 7th-level Bigby's Hand!
Taliesin: We're just going to spray-paint Matt's hand purple and he's going to sit there, punch things.
Liam: Check out the big hand on Scan.
Matt: Where do you want Bigby's Hand to appear? Within 120 feet.
Sam: I guess keep it low. Just go for the ball shot, yeah.
Matt: All right, so what are you having the hand do?
Sam: Punch. Just punch.
Matt: So Clenched Fist, and that is with plus 2d6 for each. Sorry, plus 2d8 for each slot above fifth. That is an additional 4d8. That is 8d8. If it hits. Go ahead and roll your spell attack.
Sam: 18.
Matt: 18, no. The fist gleans off of Thordak's chin. The dragon just kind of grins (growls). "Is this all you've got?"
Sam: Actually, yes. That is my biggest thing, so yes.
Matt: "Good." All right. That brings us back to the top of the order. Now at the top of this round, we're going to start doing lair actions.
Laura: No!
Taliesin: Lair actions are the worst.
Matt: It happens after Percy's turn, though.
Taliesin: Oh, good.
Matt: So, Percy, your go.
Taliesin: Fine.
Laura: Make sure he dies before he gets anything else.
Liam: Pull out your dragon gun.
Taliesin: My dragon gun?
Marisha: We're going to be real disappointed if you can't take this all on your own.
Sam: Wait a second, Matt! Doesn't he get a disadvantage on his save because of my Cutting Words?
Matt: That wasn't a save, that was your attack.
Sam: Yeah. That's what I meant.
Matt: On the next saving throw he has to make, he has a disadvantage. Yes.
Sam: Making sure you guys know how spells work.
Travis: Yep, thank you. I was confused.
Sam: Jesus, Sam #3, why didn't you tell me that?!
Matt: Percy, what are you doing?
Taliesin: I'm going to take a deep breath and shoot directly north, or I suppose to you it would be south, down the map towards that building on the far corner. I'm just going to run in that direction.
Matt: As far as you can get with your full move?
Taliesin: That's as far as I can get with my full movement? And he has to recharge his fire probably before he can do that again?
Matt: Yeah, when it comes back to his turn I have to roll to see if he gets it that round.
Taliesin: Okay, that's fine. I'm going to take two shots while I'm running. I'm going to, just because I'm not feeling lucky right now, I'm going to burn another Deadeye on my first run, so let's do that.
Marisha: Are you feeling lucky?
Taliesin: No, no, I am really not. So less so that I'm not even going to do sharpshooter. That's awesome! I take that back.
Marisha: Percy! You should have done it.
Taliesin: It's okay. Actually, that doesn't affect the crit at all. Sharpshooter isn't affected by a crit. I critted, by the way. Sorry. That's nice. So, hey! I get that Deadeye back. That's cool.
Travis: You should have said that first and we'd all go, yay!
Taliesin: This is like bad college theater. No one knows when to applaud. Excellent. That's-- oh my god, that's kind of nice. 1d12, 2d12, 3d12, 4d12.
Liam: Nice. Actually not bad. Pretty good. This makes me happy. This is going to be funny.
Taliesin: Pretty good. That's not great, but it'll do. 24 points of damage. And I'm going to take another shot. You know what? Screw it. Let's put a sharpshooter on this. Actually, no. Never mind. Yes! I'm going to put a sharpshooter on this. I am so nervous. I'm putting a sharpshooter on it. Which is good because I rolled--
Sam: You have an inspiration.
Taliesin: 17, 18, 19, 26.
Matt: 26 hits.
Taliesin: Yay. And that's 2d12. Yay. Boo, but that's okay. 30 points of damage.
Matt: Nice. So both shots as you are running past, you watch as it slams into the sides, causing a little (explosion) out of the side of Thordak's armor, the scales slip for a second. The second shot smashes a small hole in one of the wings, but you watch as the leather seems to be largely unaffected by the impact. It's already tattered at the bottom anyway, but well done.
Taliesin: (high-pitched noises) Okay.
Matt: So, there you are. At the end of your turn, Thordak's going to go ahead and use one of his legendary actions to do a tail attack against Grog right now, because you're within range.
Travis: Yeah, test your might. Oh no, please don't! (sobs)
Matt: That's going to be a 25 to hit.
Travis: It hits.
Matt: Yep. You take 22 points of bludgeoning damage, reduced to half, so 11 points of bludgeoning damage to you, Grog.
Travis: Yeah, it's good.
Matt: All right. That ends that. At this point now, you watch as through the clouds this winged figure comes and (crashing) lands on this distant building, the flames flickering out.
Laura: Moment of truth. Moment of truth.
Matt: As the impact happens, you watch as Thordak turns and grins. "There you are. Oh, you're going to taste so good." Raishan grins from the side. "Not to worry, my king."
Sam: Oh shit. That doesn't sound good.
Laura: I can't tell what she's going to do.
Sam: Is she lying? She's a deceitful one.
Matt: At this point, she will-- let me pull it up. Oh there you go, there's the spell sheet. She's going to go ahead and move right there. Gets right up onto the building that you guys are hiding behind as you feel the rubble and rock tumble around you, you look up and you can see the giant green leathery wings unfurl. She inhales, her chest expanding. (cheering)
Matt: Releasing a giant cloud of poisonous gas in the direction of Thordak. Into his face. Suprise, motherfucker!
Sam: We have the best friends.
Matt: Does not make his-- wait, this is a poison, oh, it's constitution. He does make that. He takes 38 points of poison.
Travis: 38?
Matt: 38 points of poison damage on that one. As Thordak rears from the attack. "Oh, you'll die especially painfully."
Liam: Is Thordy La Forge poisoned there?
Matt: No, he just takes poison damage.
Liam: No disadvantage. I really just wanted to say Thordy La Forge.
Taliesin: Of course you did.
Matt: All righty. So, that ends Raishan's turn. Raishan's like, "Now, get in, circle and finish this!"
Marisha: Wait, Raishan said that?
Matt: Yes.
Travis: No, that was Lady Kima's voice. (laughter)
Liam: Clarota, is that you? On a flying steed.
Marisha: I turn to Raishan and say, I don't take orders from you, I'm only doing this because it's a good plan. And then I run in. If I run my full movement, can I get into touch range with him?
Matt: You can, yes.
Marisha: Okay, angry at what happened before and realizing that not a lot is probably going to work unless I get ballsy, I run in guns blazing, and I am going to do Contagion on him.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: I'm going to attempt Slimy Doom.
All: Ooh.
Marisha: In honor of Zahra! And her teaching us about hentai!
Travis: Yup. I saw that hentai.
Sam: We hear Zahra in the distance, "I'm still alive!"
Matt: Okay. So make a melee spell attack against him. So roll a d20, add your spell attack bonus.
Marisha: I know, I'm picking the right one.
Laura: It should probably be like a black or a green or something that's like slimy.
Marisha: I'll do a green one. Green's good.
Travis: Or just any dice.
Marisha: Shut up, Travis. Ooh, that's not too bad. That's not too bad, plus 12? So that's 28!
Matt: 28 hits.
Marisha: (laughs) Redemption!
Liam: Keyleth is on The Price is Right.
Matt: Contagion, we'll put that blue there. So at the end of each of the target's turns it has to make a constitution saving throw. After failing three, the disease takes effect.
Sam: After failing three?
Marisha: He has to fail three.
Matt: So as you're rushing up, running past the tumbling rocks and boulders of the barely standing ceiling that Raishan's stepping on, you rush towards Thordak, and getting closer you see the immense size towering above you. And getting this close, there is a heated presence around him, like an aura of superheated air that burns you as you get close enough to touch him. You reach out and grab as you cast the spell under your breath. And as you touch the edge of his scales, it's like touching a hot iron (sizzles). Your fingers singe upon contact, but you feel the burst of druidic energy pierce through the scales and you watch as a little bit of black power seeps into the body and curls in between the scales and has taken root.
Travis: (whispered) Yes.
Marisha: That's all I got, right? I'm going to turn. Grog, you're still down, right?
Travis: (weakly) Yeah.
Marisha: I'm going to do a bonus Healing Word on Grog. I'm going to go ahead and do it at third--
Matt: Can't do third level because you cast a 5th-level spell.
Marisha: Second level.
Matt: All right. So 2d4 plus six.
Marisha: But it's max. Eight plus six.
Matt: 14. You heal 14.
Travis: Woohoo! 14 points. 194.
Matt: All right. At the end of your turn, Thordak's going to go ahead and use his next two legendary actions to use his wing attack. Thordak, now being surrounded by everything, goes (wing flapping). He begins beating his wings. You watch as the flames on the ground begin to curl up into these small tornadoes in the presence from the sheer vacuum of wind up under the wings. I need Grog and Keyleth and Raishan to make dexterity saving throws.
Travis: I think I have advantage on those, (singing) because I got Danger Sense!
Marisha: 12.
Travis: Natural 20.
All: Ooh.
Matt: So you stay put, hunkering down for this. Keyleth, you suffer 13 points of bludgeoning damage. 13 points of bludgeoning damage and six points of fire damage.
Marisha: To three, so 16 total.
Matt: Yes, and you are knocked prone as the wind blows you to the ground. And the dragon can move up to half its movement speed. So it's going to pull back to there.
Sam: Do you get an attack, Grog?
Matt: You do. As you get hit by that, by the way, you can do retaliation or you can do your attack of opportunity, either works right now.
Travis: Yeah, yeah. Reckless and Great Weapon Master.
Matt: Go for it.
Travis: Eight and that's a natural 20.
Matt: Go ahead and roll your brutal damage there.
Sam: Wow. That's a hit.
Travis: 19, 20, plus ten is 30 points of damage, including the one point of necrotic, and then I double that?
Liam: Double all the dice.
Travis: Double all the dice. Right so, 60.
Laura: No. Double the dice.
Travis: Oh, sorry. Okay. 12, so 25, 35, 37.
Matt: 37, nice.
Travis: Thanks. Two points necrotic.
Matt: Yes. Okay. So, as the wind beats up and the dragon begins to back up--
Laura: Did you add your plus ten, because it was Reckless?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: --hovering off the ground, you strike out with the-- technically, yeah, it was Reckless, you cannot do Great Weapon Master on the-- well, I guess you can on any attack you make. I'll double check on that real fast. So we'll say that's right there.
Travis: Yeah, if it's a reaction I'm not quite sure.
Matt: I'm going to double check just to make sure.
Travis: That could have been better.
Laura: That's okay, that was a six.
Matt: On your turn, so no, you cannot do that, so 26, yes.
Sam: That's great! That's extra! That's just bonus.
Matt: You reach out with the axe amongst the heat and the wind blowing in your face (wind blows) and strike across the front of Thordak's chest as he begins to swing back with his wings beating out. All right, at the end of that turn, as Thordak does that, at the end of that turn, Raishan's going to use two legendary actions to cast Blight on Thordak.
Travis: There's some shit going down on this map.
Laura: Oh my God, Matt. I'm impressed and terrified of you for having to keep track of this.
Liam: They should really just do it already.
Laura: I honestly had no idea what my hands were going to do.
Matt: Constitution saving throw from Thordak.
Sam: At disadvantage!
Matt: At disadvantage. That's a natural one. He is going to use one of his legendary resistances.
Laura: Get rid of them.
Marisha: Burn it, burn it! Burn that shit.
Sam: He might have five of those.
Taliesin: Yeah and now he's got four.
Marisha: He has three, right?
Laura: He's probably got more than three. He's Thordak.
Taliesin: Thordak, he's got like 12.
Matt: He takes 18 points of necrotic damage. All right. And because I initially forgot it, lair action!
Sam: Oh shit. Lair action.
Matt: Lair action, indeed.
Laura: Isn't that like if you forget to move or something, you don't get to do it later, if you forgot about it?
Sam: Everyone with knees dies.
Matt: For that, we're going to choose--
Laura: No no no no, I was just joshing you!
Taliesin: Don't make him look things up, it's always going to be worse.
Matt: The two twins that have currently ducked around the way, you feel the ground nearby begin to shake, and down below you the earth cracks open and a giant column of magma (explosion) shoots out and sprays in the vicinity.
Liam: Evasion!
Matt: You've already used Evasion.
Liam: On this round? It's once a round. This is a whole new round.
Matt: Actually, you're right, you're right. You haven't gone since then. All right. Dexterity saving throw from both of you.
Liam: Okay. At advantage, because of those boots, man!
Laura: That's good. (whispers) Okay, that's good, that's good.
Liam: 23.
Laura: 27.
Matt: Okay. You both take--
Liam: Did we fail the save?
Matt: You succeeded on the save.
Liam: So I take zero.
Matt: So you take zero. You, however, take what would be 12 points of fire damage reduced to half, so six.
Sam: (scoffs) You call this a lair?
Matt: All right. That ends Keyleth's go, it's now Jarett. Jarett, who's loaded up his crossbow, is going to go ahead and spin around, take two shots at Thordak. That's a cocked die. That's good. 18 plus seven hits, and the second one just barely hits, actually. There's two hits on him. Five points. Two ones in a row for damage, are you serious? Okay.
Marisha: Goddamn it, Jarett.
Laura: It's okay, I'm happy that he's here.
Liam: Happens to everybody.
Matt: And then he is going to try and move back this way to keep everyone scattered and use the space to his advantage. That's going to end Jarett's turn.
Taliesin: Is there a little hole in the ground where the magma came out or no?
Matt: No, it burst and then it cooled and covered the space. All righty. That brings us to Gilmore's turn. Gilmore, who's in a bad place, is going to go ahead and take his superior healing potion.
Taliesin: Gets max healing, because he was in the spell.
Matt: That's true. Yeah, so he takes 16, 20, 24 plus eight is 32. Nice.
Marisha: That's awesome! Good spell!
Liam: Thanks Pike. We're so glad you're here.
Matt: Gilmore, who currently drinks the potion. "This is already not the best start to this, but let's see what else I can do here."
Liam: Come on, Shaun.
Matt: He's going to try a Hold Monster. From where he is right there. That's a wisdom saving throw for Thordak. Yeah, that succeeds. That's a nine plus-- but he tried.
Sam: And looked good doing it.
Laura: That's right. Those robes are fabulous, Gilmore!
Matt: "Thank you!" He goes darting behind the other building off the opposite side. Yeah, that actually doesn't help in this circumstance. That ends his turn. Grog.
Travis: Yes?
Matt: It's you and the dragon's go.
Travis: (giggles) Now, who's going first this time?
Matt: You both are going at the same time, so what are you going to do?
Travis: Ah, you want to know what I'm going to do, do you? Intimidated by my presence, eh? Whack the Titanstone Knuckles!
Sam: You're now 1/16 his size.
Travis: Yeah, yeah. I now come up to his ankle bone. Life is a thrill.
Matt: Basically.
Travis: Can I use my full-- oh, he's far away. Shit.
Matt: Yeah, he moved away from you.
Travis: Balls and ass. I would like to run straight forward and then veer off to this side, I'm flanking him.
Matt: This side over here?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: Yeah. You can get over to there.
Travis: Great. Am I now within striking range?
Matt: You are.
Travis: I would like to make all three attack Great Weapon Master, Reckless!
Matt: Go for it.
Travis: 12, oh, so close. Damn it, covering up the wrong page. That's, damn it, 19.
Matt: 19. The first strike, you slam the axe as your form grows, rushing up next to the dragon, grinning, feeling the foam gathering at the corner of your mouth. You swing with the axe and carves a small line, but doesn't actually penetrate the armor of Thordak.
Travis: (Scottish accent) Great. That's better. That is a 26.
Matt: That hits.
Travis: Good.
Taliesin: You beat the Scottish into him.
Travis: 27 minus five is 22.
Matt: 22 misses.
Taliesin: Good to know. We're learning. 22 misses.
Matt: Roll damage on that strike.
Travis: I got to get rid of that fucking Great Weapon Master, that thing's killing me.
Laura: Oh yeah.
Liam: His AC is high, so ditch the handicap.
Travis: Hey, that's a six! Six points of necrotic for a total of 36 points of damage.
Matt: 36 points of damage. Nice. So, as two blows are deflected from the armor, one does sink in pretty hard, carving a piece of dragon flesh that's dangling off now in the torso region. Thordak's like (snarls).
Travis: 'Ello, poppet.
Matt: "Insect."
Travis: Sect?
Matt: Is that your turn?
Travis: Oh, insect. Yeah, that's my turn.
Matt: Yeah, okay. Thordak begins laughing, (deep laugh).
Laura: Oh no, this is the laughter we heard about. It drives you crazy. I cover my ears!
Matt: The fire breath does not come back, it's a two.
Sam: Oh, whew.
Travis: The fire breath does not recharge?
Matt: Nope.
Marisha: That's good, that's good.
Matt: However, he does make a full multiattack and that's four attacks against you.
Travis: On me? I'm trying to keep him warm! Like, I'm trying to give him a little touch, little feel, let him know that we love him.
Matt: And it's with advantage against you?
Travis: Yeah, that's right.
Matt: Okay, that's a 34.
Travis: I think that'll hit.
Matt: Natural one and a 15, that is a 32. Natural 20.
Sam: On the last one, I'm going to Cutting Words.
Travis: There's three. There's one more.
Sam: Then on the last one.
Matt: Okay. Natural 20! (laughs)
Sam: Well then, maybe that won't help.
Travis: (singing) Happy trails to... shit.
Matt: Okay, so a bite, two claw attacks, and a tail attack against you, as its tail swings down and whips towards you. So, first, the bite attack. You suffer 16 plus a 12. 28 points of piercing damage reduced to 14 as well as--
Marisha: Come on, this is what you're built for. This is why we trained you.
Matt: 19 points of fire damage, reduced that to nine.
Travis: Cool.
Matt: So that's the first, that's the bite attack. The two claw attacks against you. That is 18 points of slashing damage reduced to nine. And then the critical on the claw attack. That is--
Travis: Was there no fire damage on the second one?
Matt: No, that's just the bite attack. That is 32 points of slashing damage, reduced to 16. And the tail attack, that is also a crit. 24. 36 points of bludgeoning damage.
Sam: Can I Cutting Words that?
Matt: You can, yes.
Sam: So I yell at him, "You're so ugly, you scared the shit out of an outhouse!"
Matt: Go ahead and roll your d12. 36.
Sam: Make that a 33.
Matt: So 16 points of bludgeoning damage. And as part of his multiattack, he also uses his Frightful Presence, so everyone, as you see it clawing at Grog, it's like (roars), the tail whips down and slams the ground. The entire ground quakes and you feel all the flames grow brighter in the vicinity. While Thordak is large in this moment, it's like staring at a fire god. I need everybody--
Taliesin: Who is not immune to fear?
Laura: We're all immune to fear.
Matt: Everyone, yeah, all of you are immune to fear.
Laura: Yeah. Except for Jarett.
Matt: Except for Jarett. Jarett does not succeed! Jarett is pissing himself right now behind. He almost ran into the wall and is like, "Oh, this is not good!" (yells)
Liam: Hey, Thordy, eat a dick.
Matt: Raishan does make her save.
Sam: Does not?
Matt: Does.
Laura: Oh, good.
Travis: Legendary? Did he do his legendary thingy? Or he just made it?
Marisha: Yeah, he also has to save against my Contagion.
Matt: His turn's not done yet. Raishan uses her legendary resistance to resist the-- Oh sorry, she doesn't have to because she made it. From the shaking and the quaking you watch as the flames that brighten up leap out of the sides in the form of two fire elementals.
Laura: Damn it!
Matt: That leap out of the sides of the cavern.
Laura: Can they fly?
Travis: Can we bring all the alcohol on set right now?
Taliesin: There's a lot of alcohol on the set right now. A lot of it's hiding.
Liam: How about acknowledge it?
Taliesin: There's a mini fridge built into Trinket.
Liam: Ancient dragon wasn't enough, huh, Matt?
Matt: Thordak is going to move around Grog to this side.
Travis: Yeah, move around me, bitch. I'm going to get my insults in while I'm still breathing.
Marisha: He accidentally stepped on one of his elemental friends.
Matt: He moved around it. It's fine. The elementals are now going the same turn as Thordak. 50 feet. Ten, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50. This elemental. 35, 40, 45, 50. Right there. They're going to rush up and get into base to base with you guys, and up to Keyleth, who's currently on the ground prone as the elemental (roar) and comes up against you. You hear the familiar sound of the flickering flame of its elemental form rush up towards you.
Marisha: I feel like I saw you, in like the fire plane! 'Sup, man?
Matt: All righty. At this time, you also hear a distant sound in the sky. A (sharp whooshes), but you make no visual. Everyone roll a perception check.
Sam: 21.
Marisha: 24.
Taliesin: 12.
Laura: Do I get advantage because it's dragon-related?
Matt: This is not dragon-related.
Liam: 25.
Travis: Six.
Laura: 16.
Matt: All right. Scanlan, you rolled a 21, you said?
Sam: 21.
Matt: So, Scanlan, Keyleth, and Vax. You guys see a shape in the darkness of clouds and the smoke ahead. In between the sounds of thunder and lightning in the distance, you see the bow of the skyship Deera.
Laura: Yes, the skyship!
Taliesin: Fucking Teddy Ruxpin.
Matt: (laughs) Vex, it's your turn.
Laura: Me? Okay. Where can I go to where I can hit him?
Travis: Pretty much anywhere.
Matt: With your bow, you have quite a few options. So you'd have to move around this way or this way.
Laura: Is the fire elemental right next to me?
Matt: It is. It'll get a swipe at you if you try to move away from it.
Laura: Asshole. If I'm a third level rogue, do I get disengage?
Matt: As a bonus action, yeah.
Laura: Okay, so for my bonus action I'll disengage. And then I'll move so I can hit Thordak. So can I move towards-- back towards the very back building? Can I get all the way there?
Matt: With Haste, yes, you can.
Laura: Okay. So then I'm going to shoot him! Before I duck in around a corner or whatever. And I want to-- oh, that's 18.
Matt: 18 does not hit. So you rush past, disengaging. You hit up against the edge of the wall with your arrow out (arrow whoosh). It arcs past and misses.
Laura: Yeah, it's pretty far. Okay. This next one. I'm going to use another poison arrow. Oh my God, I miss him again. Dice jail!
Matt: That one hits the hide but ricochets off.
Laura: Okay okay. Third attack. 25.
Matt: 25 hits.
Laura: Yay! One, that's one lightning, at 17 plus, Grog is standing next to him? Yeah, it's good. That's nine, 13. Plus 13.
Sam: Hey, that's many points.
Matt: So a total of--?
Laura: 14, 15, 16, 17 plus 13.
Matt: So 30. Nice. All righty. So the final arrow releases and (whoosh) gets stuck up under one of the scales on the side of where its shoulder and body hits and the dragon, Thordak, turns and (roars and laughs).
Laura: Oh no, I hide behind that building.
Sam: Oh, God. What was that?
Travis: Those faces are-- wow!
Taliesin: Yeah, way too many emotions happening there.
Matt: You hear the voice ring out, "Don't worry, we'll take them down. All of them. Each and every one."
Laura: He's crazy as fuck.
Sam: He's straight-up crazy.
Taliesin: No, he's not.
Matt: That ends your turn, Vex?
Laura: I guess so, I mean, I don't know what else I can do.
Matt: All right. Vax and Kima.
Sam: When I was younger, I had an imaginary friend, too.
Liam: Should I go, or should Kima go?
Matt: (chuckles) Kima, frustratingly so, being a short-ranged lady that she is, is first off going to glance over and see Keyleth on the ground. How are you doing, Keyleth?
Marisha: I'm okay. I'm on the ground, but I'm not super low. I'm still full on hit points. Well.
Matt: Yeah, she's going to go full double move on this one. She wants to get into the fray and is so frustrated that she's too far out of the way. Kima is going to go ahead and rush out and do a 2d6 heal to Gilmore again. So that's seven to Gilmore.
Sam: No, well he gets full healing.
Matt: Oh that's right. 2d6, so it's a full 12.
Taliesin: That's so clutch. We should do that every time from now on.
Matt: Kima is now taking a full 50 foot move. 50. Okay, she's charging in. "We've done this before and we can do it again!" as she has her Holy Avenger arcing over her shoulder, running screaming. (yells) Vax, what are you doing?
Liam: Bonus action, I'm taking the potion of invulnerability.
Sam: Oh, shit.
Travis: Time to get crunk.
Liam: Next action, I cast Hunter's Mark on Thordak.
Laura: Yeah!
Matt: Okay.
Sam: You can do that?
Liam: Then I fly at Thordak's face and strike at him with the dragon-slayer sword. (cheering)
Liam: Face. Face.
Matt: Right, so you're up in the air now.
Liam: At advantage. Good. 26 hits.
Matt: Yes, it does.
Liam: So this is dragon-slayer sword plus Sneak Attack, I'm going to Smite and Hunter's Mark.
Sam: That's all the attacks.
Liam: Yes, all the attacks.
Taliesin: Every die.
Liam: Okay, nine plus six is 17, plus-- 18, 19, 21, balls. 21, okay plus the Sneak Attack. 27, 29, 33, 39, 40, 42, 44, plus the Hunter's Mark, 45 total.
Matt: That includes the Smite damage as well?
Liam: No, no.
Matt: It's 2d8.
Liam: Now we're at 50.
Sam: What about the dragon sword? Did you do that?
Liam: That's done. So I don't know exactly how far it was to his face and I know I'm all out of moves and I'm open to getting bitten again, but I want to fly away from his face as far as I can and land opposite everybody. Maybe near the lip. No, behind the building behind him.
Matt: I'm currently working out how much movement you've done, because you're crazy.
Liam: 120 feet of movement.
Matt: It's about 65 to get up to his face.
Laura: Oh, sweet.
Matt: All right, and you're going to pull back from him?
Liam: Curve over his, oh, no-- sword's in his head? My friends are going to fucking kill you today, you fuck! Arc over his head.
Matt: The blade, which has jammed itself right in the cheekbone under the eye of the dragon, as you draw it out, there's a streak of dragon blood (roar, unhinged laughter). You arc over. As you do, he reaches up with his face, his jaws (snarl) reach out to try and bite you. That is a 21 to hit.
Liam: No.
Matt: The jaws snap in the air, just as you coast through with your wings.
Liam: I'll slam down, if I can, behind the building behind his big fat ass.
Matt: Sure.
Laura: I whisper on the earring, that was my brother! That was my brother.
Matt: You are going to have an attack of opportunity from-- oh, no, you disengaged from the--
Liam: I didn't disengage.
Matt: Oh, sorry, so the Fire Elemental actually would have gotten an attack of opportunity on you as you ran past.
Laura: Before all that, he knocks you unconscious.
Matt: That's a 20-- yeah, misses.
Taliesin: Vax, it might be worth taking a peek in that crater when you get a second.
Liam: Working on it, working on it.
Matt: All righty, that ends your turn, Kima's turn. Pike's up. However! At the end of Vax's turn, Thordak is going to go ahead and use a tail attack against Grog.
Marisha: Did he ever make that save, by the way?
Sam: Not yet.
Matt: Disadvantage, which is good because it was a natural 20. And a six, plus 16, 22. Makes it.
Laura: 22. He's got to roll under a four or lower to get--
Sam: There's no way, it's not going to happen.
Laura: It's possible! It's possible!
Marisha: It keeps going. It still goes.
Matt: It keeps going. It lasts for seven days.
Marisha: Yeah, it's a seven-day thing.
Travis: After we're all dead, he'll get very sick.
Taliesin: If we die today, he's going to get the flu later in his life.
Travis: Let's reason with him! You can die now, wait for later--
Liam: "That doesn't look normal."
Travis: "Why does it burn when I pee?"
Matt: However, it lasts for seven days, but remember, that's if the spell succeeds. If he succeeds three saving throws, it goes away.
Marisha: If he succeeds three?
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: I thought he just had to fail.
Matt: Fail three to take effect, succeed three to just get rid of the disease.
Liam: Just dish out damage.
Laura: These damn spells.
Taliesin: He has disadvantage.
Matt: So, anyway, that brings us to Pike. Oh, he was doing the tail attack to you. So, using one of the Legendary Actions to make a tail strike against--
Liam: So Legendaries can fall whenever they want?
Matt: At the end of someone else's turn.
Travis: This is against me.
Matt: Yeah, because you're right there. With advantage. That would be 31. So yeah, that hits you.
Taliesin: I pray for a single-digit number.
Travis: Almost double my AC.
Matt: 20 points of bludgeoning damage, reduced to ten.
Taliesin: Man, you are a tank.
Travis: Not much longer.
Taliesin: We're working on it.
Matt: All righty. So, Pike, what's Pike doing?
Laura: Okay, Pike is going to run forward--
Liam: "Oh, Grog!"
Laura: "Oh, Grog!" And she runs as far forward as she can.
Matt: That's as far as she can get.
Laura: We're trying to get a little diagonal, she wants to be 60 feet away from him.
Matt: He's within 60 feet.
Laura: Okay. Can she be at a diagonal so she's not lined up with Keyleth and Bigby?
Matt: I mean, that's as far as she can get.
Laura: Okay. Then she casts Heal on Grog, which gives him 70 hit points, automatically healed.
Travis: That's amazing!
Matt: Yeah. So you're up 70 hit points, Grog.
Laura: And that's a 6th-level spell, so she's going to cast Spiritual Weapon as a 5th-level spell as her bonus action.
Matt: She can't, because she already cast a 6th-level spell. If you do a spell that's higher than 2nd-level, you can only do a 2nd-level spell as your bonus action.
Laura: Oh, that's how it works. I thought it just had to be lower than--
Matt: Technically, rules as written, you can't do that, but as we've been playing, for the sake of having so many players, I allow bonus action spells as long as they're level two or lower.
Laura: Should we just do it?
Taliesin: No, no.
Laura: If she does it at a 2nd-level, then--
Liam: And it'll keep going.
Laura: Yeah.
Taliesin: But what happens if you do it at a higher level?
Marisha: More damage.
Laura: Well yeah, but she's always going to be at a higher level than 2nd-level spells, so it doesn't matter.
Taliesin: Well, I mean, like, next round though, if she does that at a 5th-level, just the damage it'll add will be more than double the damage it'll do now.
Liam: I say wait, because she's doing her job. She's keeping Grog alive.
Marisha: So you might want to do that at a lower spell level, and keep the higher levels for healing.
Laura: Okay, okay, okay. Wait-- okay, she can also do Mass Healing Word as a bonus action at-- never mind, that's a 3rd-level spell, so fuck it.
Matt: Yeah, sorry.
Laura: She can do Healing Word, though! At second level.
Matt: She can.
Laura: Should we do that? Who needs healing?
Sam: I mean, everybody.
Laura: She's going to do Healing Word on Grog again.
Liam: At max.
Matt: Okay. So at second level, that means that's 2d4 plus five. So 13, you heal 13 hit points.
Travis: Nice!
Taliesin: Which is like another attack you absorb. That's great. It's like one more attack to absorb.
Matt: All right, that ends Pike's turn, then. Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: I'm up?
Matt: Yes.
Sam: For my attack, I will punch the fire elemental currently menacing Kiki with my fist of fury.
Matt: All righty, go ahead and roll a spell attack.
Sam: Okay, 24.
Matt: That hits.
Liam: It would have hit the fucking dragon.
Matt: It would've. So 8d8 points of damage to the fire elemental.
Sam: 8d8. I need all the d8s.
Travis: All the d8s.
Marisha: Here, I've got d8s, how many do you need?
Laura: Hey, Scanlan. (mimes playing a flute)
Taliesin: That's seven.
Sam: Four... I need one more. That's a d12. (laughs) Oh man, these are all good, though.
Taliesin: So you want one more, though.
Sam: I do. Oh my God! Okay. 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 30, 41.
Matt: 41 points of damage, nice! It slams into his form and you watch as his body kind of tears open for a second, the flames dissipating and then form back in, but they're starting to flicker.
Sam: He's not dead?
Matt: No.
Sam: As my bonus action, I'll punch him again.
Matt: No bonus.
Sam: That was my action, as a bonus action, I can do something else with Bigby, no?
Matt: Let me double check.
Sam: Every subsequent action I can do something as a bonus action, does that also negate the action?
Matt: When you cast a spell as a bonus action, it says here you can move the hand and cause the effects. It's your bonus action to move the spell. So your action is there, I'll say-- it says specifically bonus action.
Sam: So I can't do it as my action?
Laura: So you can do something else!
Sam: So that was my bonus action, then.
Matt: Correct, to do that is your bonus.
Sam: So I can do something else, then?
Matt: I'll let you do it again if you want to.
Sam: No, no, no, I'll do something else. Oh! By the way, I can't use my movement to drink a potion, right?
Matt: No.
Sam: Okay (laughs).
Travis: (laughing) I'd like to drink a potion.
Sam: Can I lean over the wall there? And I'll Lightning Bolt the same guy.
Matt: Okay. So it would be over the edge of that wall there and (blasting noise). All right, go for it. So that's a no. That is a 12 for its dexterity saving throw, so it takes full damage.
Sam: All right, so.
Taliesin: Oh!
Sam: Oh!
Sam: Four ones in a row so far, so-- (laughter)
Sam: So I made up for some of them. 15.
Matt: 15 points of lightning damage against the fire elemental. Okay, the bolt hits it and the fire elemental goes (sizzling), not terribly damaged by the impact.
Travis: At least it didn't point and laugh at you.
Matt: Okay, do you want to stay where you are?
Sam: Yeah, absolutely.
Matt: Okay, that ends Scanlan's turn. Up to the top: Percival.
Travis: He used your full first name.
Taliesin: Yeah, okay, that's fine.
Marisha: It's like when you're in trouble.
Taliesin: I am in trouble. I have a whole bunch of your d8s over here, by the way. Feel free to pull them out whenever you like. I'm going to try a couple things. I'm going to do a piercing shot on the fire elemental, which I think I can do. I'm going to start moving in a northerly direction, so I guess I'll take like one or two steps southwest, I suppose it would be to you. Yeah, there you go.
Matt: There?
Taliesin: Yeah, that'll do it. And I'm going to do a piercing shot. That burns a grit, okay. That'll do! That's 25 to hit the elemental.
Matt: 25 hits.
Taliesin: And now I have to roll again for Thordak?
Matt: Well, you have to decide whether your-- if it's a piercing shot affecting also Kima or Grog. Because it's a straight line, and it hits-- depending on how you angle it, you're either hitting Kima or you're hitting Grog.
Sam: Oh shit.
Taliesin: Really?
Matt: Yep.
Travis: I'm saying Kima's not actually attached to a human being, just saying.
Taliesin: Kima's not short enough that it'll go right over her head?
Matt: Nope. As per the rules as designed, no.
Travis: I totally love Kima, I got nothing against her. Just looking out for myself right now.
Matt: She's parkouring off of the damaged wall, trying to get into the fray with the dragon, and happens to catch where the bullet would be going.
Taliesin: Okay, that's happening, apparently.
Marisha: Are you shooting Kima?
Taliesin: It's either Kima or Grog. Although Grog takes half damage.
Matt: This is true.
Travis: Yeah, okay, come on.
Taliesin: You take half damage.
Travis: All right. I'll remember this later.
Matt: So Grog it is? Roll for attack against Grog.
Laura: I know, his head is so high. How are you hitting Grog?
Travis: It's in the rules.
Taliesin: It's in the rules.
Matt: In theory, from this angle, in to hit the fire elemental and Thordak, he has to aim up.
Taliesin: 20.
Matt: 20? Against Grog hits?
Travis: Yeah, it hits.
Matt: And roll against Thordak.
Taliesin: And, no. I can't have a misfire once I've already hit the first?
Matt: Correct, only the additional attack can misfire.
Taliesin: Okay. That's 15, that doesn't hit.
Sam: So you only hit Grog.
Taliesin: I only hit Grog. No, I also hit the fire elemental.
Matt: Roll damage once.
Taliesin: Yeah, I hit the fire elemental, though.
Marisha: Maybe you'll kill it.
Taliesin: Maybe I will. Maybe it's Maybelline. Where are my d12s, they seem to have all vanished.
Marisha: Kill it! Oh, jeez. Come on, man.
Taliesin: That's awful. 13 points of damage.
Matt: Okay. Grog, you take 13 points of piercing damage, halved to six. Round it down. Six.
Taliesin: Sorry! And the bullet gets lodged in you.
Matt: Yeah, basically.
Liam: It's there for 50 years.
Taliesin: Sorry! And then, is the fire elemental still standing?
Matt: Yes, it is.
Taliesin: I'm irritated. I'm burning another grit, and I'm going to do a pushback on the elemental. That's actually no save, that's just a pushback. I just have to hit. And that hits, I should have done a-- that's a 29, 32 to hit.
Matt: 32 to hit. That'll hit, go ahead and roll damage. And it just gets pushed back ten feet?
Taliesin: No, I'm saving you.
Marisha: I mean, I could have handled it.
Taliesin: 14. I want you to be able to get up without that thing on you. 20 points of damage. And it gets pushed back ten feet. Thank you.
Matt: Its form gets knocked back, coalesces again as a flickering flame creature. It's looking hurt, it's barely keeping its form together at this point, it's still standing.
Taliesin: I'm going to use my bonus action for a healing surge to add 22 points to my hit points. Then I'm going to keep running, use spider to run over that wall into that little house beneath the green dragon.
Matt: All right.
Liam: Spider-climb is cool.
Sam: Little house on the prairie, with the dragon on it.
Taliesin: There we go.
Matt: All right. That finishes your turn, Percy. Now you watch as the skyship Deera pushes through some of the clouds, and you can now see a series of small shapes as it looks like a half-dozen wyverns are currently harrying it from the sky, attacking it. You can see some sort of combat going on on the bow of the ship, but you also watch as two of its arballists are set up, and fire towards Thordak. That actually hits. That's cocked. And, yeah. A 16 and a 15. With bonus, it hits both.
Laura: That's Captain Damon, right? To the rescue!
Matt: So, they're both super-heated, they are flaming arballists, fire doesn't have an effect, but they still do piercing damage, for a total of 22 points of piercing damage. You watch these two large, thick heavy metallic piercing bolts come arcing through, slamming into Thordak's hide. The flames flicker on the edge where it impacted, though it has little effect, and Thordak is (insane growling).
Travis: Crazy motherfucker.
Laura: He's so fucking crazy.
Matt: (insane growling) (maniacal laughter)
Sam: Oh, god.
Matt: Two of the wyverns apparently, noticing the fray, and peel off, beginning to make their way down to where this struggle is happening.
Sam: No problem. (whispered) Big problem!
Liam: This is a busy battlefield.
Matt: At this point in time, I'm going to do--
Taliesin: You're having way too much fun.
Matt: Yeah. Okay.
Sam: Matt has been waiting a year for this.
Liam: Don't worry, sir, we didn't see you playing with your dolls.
Matt: (laughs) Grog and Kima. Suddenly the ground quakes beneath you, and it splits open, and a very thick, yellowish-green sulfurous gas just spills out in the vicinity, immediately filling your lungs and causing your chest to seize just from breathing the air in. I need both you and her to make a... The area is now heavily obscured, so now there is a heavy smoke all in this area right now.
Laura: Does his head peek up above that?
Matt: Yes, it does.
Laura: He's so tall.
Matt: You don't do anything yet.
Travis: Nothing yet?
Matt: You don't do anything yet.
Travis: On my turn.
Matt: On your turn, you'll do it.
Sam: Does that affect the fire elemental, too?
Matt: It may.
Laura: You don't know.
Sam: I don't. Sam Five has his theories, though.
Matt: For Raishan's turn, as smoke has filled the area, (coughing) you're having a hard time-- Raishan sees this, picks up off the ground as the wyvern begins to strike. First I'm going to see if her breath comes back. It does not. Seeing the new creatures in the fray, is going to rush up and interfere with this one immediately, and just do a full round of attacks against the wyvern.
Travis: (singing) Eat the little pterodactyl.
Matt: That'll hit. That'll hit. That'll hit. Bite and two claws. Yep. That wyvern is looking really hurt, as you watch as Raishan reaches up and just tears into its side, and claws into its belly, they're both wrestling in the air, almost in a momentary freefall, then catch themselves again. Raishan just clings on. The wyvern is already in a really, really bad place.
Sam: Oh, that's great.
Matt: That ends Raishan's turn. At the end of Raishan's turn, Thordak is going to do another wing attack.
Liam: Man, Groggy. 17 displacer beasts just appear.
Laura: Like, why would he add wyverns? For his own sake!
Matt: He's going to do another wing attack, at the cost of two of its actions. Picking up the wind around it once more, I need Grog... Kima's just out of the range, thankfully. Grog, I need you to make a dexterity saving throw.
Travis: I have advantage because of--
Matt: You do.
Laura: Would the wings disperse the gas on the ground?
Matt: Nope! But it does push it.
Laura: Damn it.
Marisha: Oh, boy.
Travis: 17.
Matt: 17, nope. You take--
Laura: Oh, no!
Matt: 16 points of bludgeoning damage, reduced to eight.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: And you take eight points of fire damage, reduced to four, from the impact, and you are knocked prone. So you are now prone on the ground. And this gets pushed ever-so-slightly this way.
Travis: Off of me?
Matt: Off of you, onto Keyleth, Pike, Kima, currently. The dragon does shift.
Taliesin: Oh! No, Grog's down, so there's no attack of opportunity.
Matt: Keyleth, you're up. Initially, I need you to make a constitution saving throw.
Marisha: Yeah, all right. Not that one, not that one. Gil! Don't fuck me, Gil. All right, that's not too bad. 19.
Matt: 19, you succeed. You manage to just hold your breath, and the poison doesn't makes its way and fit into your lungs.
Marisha: So, I still have this asshole in front of me, right?
Matt: Yes, you do.
Marisha: But he's been pushed back?
Matt: It's pushed back, yeah, so it's not in contact with you.
Taliesin: Yeah, you got to see if you can get up and walk away.
Marisha: Yeah, that's cool. I will stand up.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Rise up! This guy in front of me is almost dead, right?
Matt: He's looking pretty rough, yeah.
Sam: Focus on the dragon.
Travis: What was that?
Sam: "Focus on the dragon."
Travis: "Focus on the dragon."
Marisha: How far away is Thordak from me?
Matt: Quite a ways away. I'd say close to 65, 70 feet from you.
Marisha: Okay. I am going to-- Can I move up one square closer to Thordak, but not get near the--
Matt: Yeah, right there, you can.
Marisha: But I'm in this cloud, too! Shit.
Sam: You have resistance to poison clouds, remember?
Marisha: I don't, but that's nice. And now I'm going to--
Matt: You are immune to poison, just so you're aware.
Marisha: Am I?
Matt: Because of the Heroes' Feast.
Marisha: Oh, because of the Heroes' Feast! Oh, that's right. Oh, well, fine.
Matt: Thordak doesn't know that.
Marisha: Right. And then I'm going to cast Blight on Thordak.
Matt: Okay. Thordak's going to make a saving throw. This is constitution?
Marisha: I think so?
Matt: Success. So half damage.
Sam: Success. Half damage. Hey, you caused damage! That's great!
Marisha: I did! I did a thing! Not too bad. 11, 17, 21, 23, 25, 31, 35. 35, halved.
Matt: Half of 35, all right. As the Blight spell takes hold, you watch as the tendrils of black necrotic energy begin to carve between the scales of Thordak's body. You watch as portions of the scar in the chest split, almost like a fresh wound. A little bit of pus begins to pour forth. It's nasty.
Marisha: I take a few steps back. Can I tuck into that little broken building, a little bit? Just inside the doorway?
Matt: Sure. You are just inside the doorway right now with Percy.
Marisha: Perfect.
Matt: Actually, you can't quite get that far because you were knocked prone, so you're just barely... No, you can just get in there, so you're good.
Marisha: How are you doing?
Taliesin: I am just-- I am regretting so many things right now.
Marisha: I don't know how we got here.
Taliesin: Neither do I. I should have saved him--
Matt: Well, it is a 30-foot range.
Marisha: What?
Matt: Blight has a 30-foot range.
Marisha: Oh. Hm. Yeah.
Matt: So we're going to take that damage off.
Marisha: Okay. Well...
Sam: Can we say that she walked 30 feet closer to--
Matt: No, because she was prone at the start of her round, she can only move 15 feet.
Marisha: Okay. Well, then instead, (reverse words), take me back. I can only do 15 feet. All right. How many feet am I from the elemental?
Matt: He is 15 feet from you. Ten feet.
Sam: You could have cast it on the--
Marisha: No, I'm not going to blow a 4th-level spell on his ass. I'm going to do a 1st-level spell, though, and do a Thunderwave.
Matt: Okay. So in that right there. What level, you're going to do first level?
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. That is a, what save? Constitution?
Marisha: Yes.
Matt: That is a 17, so it does not succeed, I don't think.
Marisha: It does not. It takes 2d8. Ooh, that's good! Ten damage! Please kill it, please kill it!
Sam: Does my hand need to make a save, as well?
Matt: No, because she aimed the-- It's a cone, right?
Marisha: It's a radius.
Matt: Radius? So yeah, your hand would have to--
Marisha: Oh, no, sorry. It's a cube. It's a cube, 15-foot cube.
Matt: Yeah, so you can just go right there. You're fine. As you get up off the ground, the smoke, you slam your staff into the ground. The smoke around you dissipates momentarily as the shockwave hits the fire elemental. It just turns into ash, and vanishes.
Marisha: Got rid of that fucking asshole. All right. And that's all I can do.
Matt: You have 15 feet you can move.
Marisha: Okay, now I'll tuck into there.
Matt: Now you can tuck in, yeah. Since you did move that time. There you go.
Travis: There you go!
Marisha: There you go!
Matt: At the end of Keyleth's turn, Raishan's going to use a legendary action to make another attack against the wyvern. That will hit. And that will do it. With that, the wyvern gets its head ripped off by Raishan. The body plummets, the lizardman that was riding it ends up falling off. Slams into the ground.
Travis: Wilhelm scream!
Marisha: (half-hearted Wilhelm scream)
Taliesin: (half-hearted Wilhelm scream)
Taliesin: I've got shit to do in the morning, I'm not going to do it for real.
Travis: All right, fair enough.
Matt: Nine points of bludgeoning damage, as it hits the ground. It's still alive, but it's looking up at this green dragon. That ends Keyleth's turn. Jarett is currently afraid as shit.
Travis: (laughs) Because he rolled not very good.
Matt: He's going to reload, and look over. He has to roll with disadvantage against Thordak from that distance, can't get closer. Even with disadvantage, hits, on the first attack. With 16 and 18. Misses with the second one.
Travis: Crossbow?
Matt: Yeah, with the crossbow. Still manages to do 13 points of piercing damage. To Thordak, which is nice. Jarett is then going to finish moving out of visual sight of this, like, "Nope, nope, nope!" Behind the wall, (panting) "This is, uh. This is a terrible idea. They're not paying me enough for this."
Taliesin: He's not going to take a shot at the elemental while he's running away?
Matt: No, he was focused on Thordak. He was just like, (yells). That ends Jarett's turn. Gilmore's turn. Gilmore is dodging out of the outside of the cloud, and goes, "All right. Let's see if we can try this again." He's going to go ahead and move up into the building just outside of the radius.
Travis: Come on, buddy.
Matt: Looking behind where the window is busted open, he's going to blow his one 7th-level spell as a lower-level spell of Disintegrate once more up towards the chest, where it's kind of cracked open. That is a 24, 13 plus 11, that hits.
Travis: Boom! Nobody else is excited about this?
Laura: I am. I am very excited.
Taliesin: Once I hear a number, I'll be excited. I'm not saying anything until I hear a number. It's going to be, like, 11 points of damage.
Travis: 7th-level Disintegrate.
Matt: That's an additional 3d6 to that. That's 13d6
All: Oh!
Matt: Plus 40 points of force damage.
All: Whoa!
Laura: 13d6.
Travis: Now y'all are excited!
Taliesin: Now we're on board.
Travis: I'm with you, Gilmore, I'm a true fan, OG!
Matt: So it deals 88 points of damage to Thordak. (cheering)
Matt: You watch as the beam slams right into the side of Thordak's shoulder and torso area, the beam firing out from behind the broken wall. The wings extend as he's bearing down on Vax, and as it hits, the flesh kind of peels away and turns to dust in the vicinity. (pained roar) You can see he's just reeling from the pain, the mouth opens wide, the eyes go wide, as it begins to curl across. As it does, you see it. There's a bit of bone exposed there where the flesh once was. You can see scar removed and pulled back. You can see on the inside of the ribcage, just barely exposed, the outside of a glistening red crystal that is embedded in Thordak's chest.
Sam: He does have it.
Laura: It was just covered.
Travis: The skin's grown over it.
Laura: And it's being absorbed, so I'm not going to get it.
Matt: That is the end of Gilmore's turn. That brings us to Grog and Thordak.
Travis: Would you like to go first?
Matt: First let me see-- This roll is going to-- Yes. I would like to go first.
Laura: Oh, no.
Sam: Oh, no.
Laura: He just got his fire breath back.
Matt: After getting disintegrated, Thordak, who was focused on you, his attention keeps shifting from place to place. He's not focused in his current mental state. (enraged roar) And you watch as he heaves, you see the flames flickering brighter and brighter across him. (fwoosh)
Sam: Oh, god. No.
Matt: Or actually, he'd be right there.
Laura: No!
Sam: No!
Taliesin: No!
Matt: You do get an attack of opportunity against him.
Liam: Yeah. Sneak attack, on top of that.
Matt: Yeah, because you have advantage, if you hit. So go ahead and roll twice.
Liam: Got him, got him. That's 26 plus... is 27.
Matt: 27 hits. Go ahead and roll damage with the sneak attack.
Taliesin: Are you using the sword?
Liam: Yep. Yes, I am using the sword.
Taliesin: Yes, you are. Love it.
Liam: Yes, where is my ten-sided die? Ten plus six is 16. Plus all of this shit. 16, 17, 23, 29, 33, 34, 38, 42, plus Hunter's Mark. 43.
Laura: Plus 3d6 for your dragon.
Liam: I already did that.
Laura: No, you didn't.
Liam: Correct. 43, thank you. 49. 50. 51.
Matt: 51 points of damage as Thordak rushes away from you. (pained roar) As you cleave across his underside, you watch as the blood just spills out. (wings flapping, hard landing) Actually, no, he's not going to land, he's staying up in the air.
Laura: There's no plastic big enough to support him!
Travis: Yeah, he ate too much, he can't get up in the air!
Laura: He's too fat to fly!
Liam: Too many Krispy Kremes.
Matt: Thordak is currently up--
Laura: Oh shit, he's high.
Travis: You just hit Grog.
Matt: I did, yeah. Hold on a sec.
Travis: He does not appreciate that.
Matt: Grog will calm down.
Liam: Here's Jenga, right here, that dragon's coming down. Holy cow.
Laura: Oh, my. There's rocks, it's on the rocks.
Liam: It's like Mousetrap. Holy cow.
Laura: Oh my god. Grog!
Liam: Oh my gosh!
Laura: He's too big to fly, we told you!
Liam: We'll use the theater of the mind, Matt!
Travis: One little bump of that table, and it's falling down.
Laura: It's all coming down. It's like he's going to knock over everything when comes down.
Matt: He's going to fire breath. That's going to be Grog, Kima, Pike, and Gilmore.
Sam: And the hand.
Matt: And the hand.
Travis: I really don't want that to fall. It's going to break.
Matt: So I need Grog and Pike to roll a dexterity saving throw.
Travis: All right. Come on, come on, Gil. Yes. Even better! 21.
Matt: That's still not enough.
Laura: Pike rolled a ten.
Travis: That was a 19.
Sam: The hand rolled a nine.
Laura: Oh, wait, does she get-- Wait. No.
Matt: That's 102 points of fire damage. Halved, for both of you, so 51 points of fire damage. No, no, to both of you! So 51 points of fire damage to Grog, and Pike. Pike needs to make a constitution saving throw to try and maintain concentration.
Liam: 19.
Matt: What's her constitution save?
Liam: Her modifier, so, a total of 20.
Matt: Not enough. So-- It's half the damage you take. She had to roll a natural 20. She probably couldn't have made it, yeah. So Beacon of Hope is gone. Beacon of Hope is gone. You took 51 points.
Travis: I took the 51.
Laura: Right when she needs it the most! (shriek)
Matt: Kima rolls a natural 20 on her save, so she takes half damage, at least, so Kima's still up!
Laura: If we hadn't had that Heroes' Feast, Pike would be unconscious.
Matt: Kima does not maintain her spell, unfortunately.
Laura: Pike is way low.
Liam: Pike is going to be looking out for Pike on her next turn.
Taliesin: That's cool.
Liam: Got to have that ray of sunshine, man.
Matt: Gilmore rolls a natural 20 on his reflex save.
All: Yes!
Matt: That's awesome. And thank god, so he's still unconscious. Gilmore is down and in flames right now.
Sam: Oh, god.
Travis: Wait, Gilmore is down, and is unconscious?
Matt: Unconscious.
Sam: Oh shit. I got him.
Travis: How high is Thordak in the air?
Matt: Thordak is 50 feet up.
Travis: Sam. What are you going to do?
Sam: I'm going to not let him die?
Travis: Okay. Is somebody planning to go into the fucking tunnel, on the earring?
Laura: Wha-- why?
Travis: Because I can't hit him. He's too high.
Laura: But he's-- There's crystals in his belly.
Travis: But wasn't there a tunnel that we wanted? I attach the Bloodaxe to the Chain of Returning and I throw it at his feet.
Matt: Okay. So you stand up.
Travis: Let me move 20 feet to his right rear, over here. Just in case he decides to do the Cone of Fuck Everything again. (laughter)
Travis: Then I'll throw the axe.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Reckless! 29.
Matt: 29 hits.
Travis: Hey, that's a 12, that's great. Sorry, I'm blanking out. 25, 27, plus the 1d4 because I'm enlarged, which I didn't do last time. That's 30.
Matt: 30 points of damage. Good.
Travis: And I need to roll a DC of 14 to bring it back in, but it's strength.
Matt: Go ahead and roll.
Travis: That's too wild. That's off the wall. That's a 12. That's off the wall. God, nipples on a horse! Wait, do I have advantage?
Matt: While you're raging, you have advantage on strength rolls. Was it athletics or strength?
Travis: Strength. Advantage on strength checks, strength saves.
Matt: So, roll again.
Travis: 19.
Matt: You yank the axe back down, catch it in your hands. You did the extra 1d4 damage from being enlarged, right?
Travis: I did. It's that little tiny one.
Matt: That is going to end Thordak's turn. Now it is the elemental over here. It's going to (flame crackling) over next to Percy.
Travis: Ooh! Is the Second Wind a bonus action? Second Wind, the fighter thing?
Matt: That's a bonus action.
Travis: Can I do that?
Matt: Yeah. Go for it.
Travis: 1d10 plus fighter level, which is one.
Matt: 1d10 plus one.
Travis: Nine. Ten! Ten hit points.
Matt: Ten hit points, all right. All righty. Let's see. Vex, you're up.
Laura: Okay. I'm going to shoot him. I'm going to reach back and I'm going to get a poison arrow.
Matt: It's your third and final poison arrow?
Laura: No, I've got six poison arrows. That one missed.
Matt: It just barely misses Raishan on the way.
Laura: Sorry! Poison arrow. No, it's okay, it's good. That is a 27.
Matt: That hits.
Laura: 15 plus four lightning. Does he have anybody near him? Does he see me? Am I sneak attacking?
Travis: He's in the middle of the motherfucking sky.
Matt: You're not sneak attacking because nobody nearby can hit him.
Laura: Plus four because that's two for being a dragon. Okay, so you know. And then the poison arrow thing.
Matt: Right. He makes his save.
Laura: My last attack. I'm going to try using my last dragon-slaying arrow that I have.
Matt: Okay! This is the one you've had. This is the one you've kept this whole time, right?
Laura: It's got Thordak's name on it.
Matt: You reach back and you pull and there's two.
Laura: There's two?
Matt: There's two in there.
Liam: Do it.
Laura: Why do I have two?
Matt: You pull one out, look, and there's a small piece of paper attached to it.
Laura: Ooh! I rip it off and tuck it in my shirt. Pull. 21? No!
Matt: It arcs into the darkness, past the clouds and out of the Cloudtop.
Laura: Goddamn it.
Travis: It's okay!
Matt: You still have movement if you want to do something else.
Laura: Is the building on fire?
Matt: There's small flames here and there, but there is a wyvern up above the wall now that seems to have noticed you as you went around the corner and fired a few arrows.
Laura: Can I use my bonus to hide? From him?
Matt: You don't have anything to hide behind. It notices you over the side. You can move, if you want to, and try to do that.
Laura: The building is on fire? Can I move and try to duck into the building? I see a hole that's not on fire.
Matt: You could move around here and duck inside there.
Laura: Yeah. I'll try to hide in the building because wyverns, he's so dumb.
Matt: Go ahead and roll stealth.
Laura: How about that? That is a 14.
Matt: That's a 14? All righty. I forgot to do the fire elemental attacks against you, Percival, from earlier.
Taliesin: I had an environmental attack?
Matt: Fire elemental attack that came over there and attacked you. It was during Thordak's turn; I forgot to do that. It gets two touch attacks against you. That is 13.
Taliesin: That does not hit.
Matt: That's cocked. Natural 20.
Taliesin: That hits.
Travis: Yes! Oh. Not your natural 20.
Taliesin: Yeah, not mine.
Matt: 17 points of fire damage, halved to eight, and you are on fire.
Taliesin: Yeah, oh.
Travis: And you are on fire.
Taliesin: Does stop, drop and roll work in--
Matt: You have to use an action to get rid of it. So yes. And every turn, you'll take 1d10 fire damage until you get rid of it. All right, so, finishing Vex's turn, it is now Vax and Kima's. Kima's going to make a constitution saving throw. Kima makes it and is unaffected. Well, she's unaffected by the poison anyway because she was part of the Heroes' Feast.
Laura: Oh, right, that's poison. So she's immune.
Matt: Yeah, Kima is angrily going to rush over to Gilmore.
Sam: (pouring drink)
Marisha: It's never not weird.
Sam: (contented sigh)
Liam: It's really on Matt for there being no pee break.
Matt: It's true. It's true. Kima is going to go ahead and Lay Hands on Gilmore.
Marisha: Oh yeah, Kima.
Matt: She's going to heal him for 35. All righty, so as Kima rushes over, still staring at Thordak up in the air, (wing flapping) she hand vaults over the destroyed wall, runs over to Gilmore's unconscious burning form and, moving her hand out of the way to put the flames out, pats him down and as her hand glows and she slams onto his chest and you watch (gasping) the breath come to him. As his eyes flicker open, she goes, "It's not your time yet, buddy." Picks up her sword and angrily looks over towards Thordak again. She can move five more feet that way, that's as much as she can get this turn. But that's her action. Pike's turn.
Liam: Vax's turn.
Matt: Sorry, Vax's turn.
Liam: I'm going to fly straight at Thordak's flank. You can put me, well, don't actually put me there, because he'll topple.
Matt: Yeah, but you're up there.
Liam: But I'm going to attack twice, once with the dragonslayer sword, once with Whisper, so here's the dragonslayer sword. Natural 20! (cheering)
Liam: Sneak attack damage!
Matt: Okay. So you have the sword and Whisper both attuned?
Liam: Yeah. But this is the sword.
Matt: Yeah, go for it.
Laura: He's going to use a legendary. I can see it on his damn face.
Liam: He can't against damage, can he?
Liam: All right, well, here we go.
Matt: Can't legendary resist against damage.
Laura: You can't?
Matt: No, it's only against saving throws.
Liam: Yeah. So seven. I'll save the bonus for later. Seven plus the three.
Sam: Roll high. Roll strong.
Liam: Seven, eight, 14, 18, 18 plus all of this. And I'm smiting, by the way. 18, 21, 24, 26, 30, 32, 35, 39 plus Hunter's Mark is 42, plus Divine Smite-- 46. 48 times two is 96.
Matt: Without the bonus.
Liam: Without the bonus, so a hundred and... two.
Matt: 102 points of damage against Thordak.
Laura: On your first attack!
Liam: For the second attack-- good, this is, yeah, it hits, 16 plus, 20, 20, 25. This is Whisper, so that is one plus-- is nine plus psychic damage...
Laura: Can't you just attack twice with the dragon sword?
Liam: No.
Laura: Why not?
Liam: Hand, hand.
Laura: Oh.
Liam: 16 for Whisper.
Matt: All righty.
Liam: And I will use my last action, so that was action, bonus action-- last action to disengage and fly down and land by Kima and Gilmore, this side of the building. Closest to me.
Matt: Right here?
Liam: On the ground, even, if I can, yeah. Behind the column in the corner by Gilmore's head, I think.
Matt: Okay. So as you rush up, sword at the side, jam it to the hilt to the side of Thordak's haunch and upper torso area, using the momentum behind you, you continue to push forward and yank the blade around like a can opener. Just cutting through the scales and hide. (pained yelling) And as you tear through, the blade, it comes out the other side, cutting through the flesh as you spin around with your wings still out in front, you spin with Whisper and slam it into the open wound with the exposed crystal, hitting the crystal with the Vestige. (shattering) There's a flash of light, and you continue downward, landing off to that side. As you turn around and look up, you watch as the crystal begins to crack. (shattering) (gasping)
Sam: It's got a weak spot. Weak spot.
Marisha: Oh shit.
Liam: Pretty sure I just had an orgasm. (laughter)
Sam: In game, or right here?
Taliesin: Could be both now, actually. (laughter)
Matt: All right. That's your turn.
Sam: You've done your thing.
Liam: Take it, take it. Pike cheat sheet, here we are.
Laura: Pike cheat sheet.
Matt: All righty, that brings us to Pike's turn.
Laura: Pike.
Matt: Pike has to make-- nothing because of the poison.
Laura: Heroes' Feast?
Matt: Yeah, so, what's Pike doing?
Laura: Pike is going to cast Heal on herself at seventh level. So she's going to heal herself for 80 points.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: So she's got 84 points now.
Liam: She was low.
Laura: She was super low.
Taliesin: She can take a death, remember. She can actually take a death. But yeah.
Laura: Okay, but then she can't heal people. And then is anybody injured around her?
Sam: Everybody's injured around her.
Laura: Gilmore's still pretty low, right?
Matt: Gilmore's not too great.
Laura: Okay, then she's going to run, she's going to cast Healing Word on Gilmore.
Matt: Okay, he's within range.
Laura: At second level that she can do it at?
Matt: Right, so that's 2d4 plus five.
Laura: So that's, oh, right, because now shit's gone.
Matt: Yeah, Beacon of Hope is gone.
Laura: Ten.
Matt: All right.
Laura: And she's going to use her movement to run back into the building with Scanlan.
Matt: That's as far as she can get, right there. Okay, that ends Pike's turn. Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: Oh. I'll, through the earring, say, Grog, you want to go for a ride, or no?
Travis: Yeah.
Sam: Okay, action, I will arc around and Lightning Bolt the dragon real quick. With the hand cone, I don't know if that makes any difference. No, it doesn't. It might.
Marisha: It can't hurt. It's got to save against that shit.
Matt: Yeah, you can see it from there. It's high enough in the sky. You don't have to arc around, you can go (magic shooting noise). Okay, makes his save.
Sam: Yeah, great, so what, I still roll damage and he takes half?
Matt: Yeah. He takes half.
Sam: Okay. That's fine. 23. So, 12, 11, something like that.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Great.
Matt: 11 points of lightning damage.
Marisha: Good job, buddy. Man, good thing we gave you that flute.
Laura: I know, right, fucking A, Scanlan!
Sam: We're doing great, guys, nobody's dead yet.
Taliesin: It's so great that you did that 11 points.
Marisha: Yeah, wait until we're-- he's on the other side of the continent. It could like--
Sam: And as the bonus action-- The Hand, who is still alive. He took 102 points of damage, but is still alive.
Travis: Bigby's Hand is?
Sam: Yes, because he has my hit points. So he'll go over and lift up Grog by the scruff of his neck and go as high and mighty as he can. He can move like 120 feet, I think.
Travis: Like a fucking puppy.
Matt: You can move him up to 60 feet per turn.
Sam: What? 120! Wait.
Matt: No, the spell's range is 120. Per turn, as a bonus action, it can move at 60 feet. (laughter)
Sam: Well, knowing that, I'll just punch the dragon.
Matt: Okay. So the hand (whoosh) goes up. Punch him. Roll a spell attack.
Sam: Nope.
Matt: Whiffs.
Laura: Wait, you're close to Pike. She uses War God's Blessing to increase your attack by-- can she do that? Is it technically an attack that she could add?
Matt: Let me check real fast. Let me see here.
Laura: Was it really low?
Sam: I mean, you don't know.
Matt: Makes an attack roll.
Laura: So yeah? So, do I roll the ten, or is it just a plus ten bonus?
Matt: Plus ten bonus.
Sam: Yeah, 23.
Matt: 23 just hits. (cheering)
Sam: It does hit! 6d8.
Matt: 8d8.
Sam: No, it's usually 4d8, I think.
Matt: 4d8, and you cast it, it's usually fifth level, you cast it as a seventh level.
Sam: So it's 4d8, so now it's 6d8.
Matt: It goes up by 2d8 every level higher.
Sam: Oh, shit!
Laura: Oh my god. 4d8?
Sam: No, 8d8.
Laura: 8d8?!
Matt: Yes. Just punched the dragon in the face with Bigby's Hand.
Sam: Pike happened. Oh my god, Ashley is the MVP tonight. (laughter)
Sam: Okay. Not huge, but okay. It's okay. 36.
Laura: That's great!
Travis: That's great!
Marisha: That's better than 11.
Sam: Yeah. Hey, I just dealt 47 points of damage! That's respectable! (approving murmurs)
Travis: How's that Vestige treating you?
Matt: Top of the next round, Percy. First you take... You take ten, five points of fire damage.
Sam: (whispering) Laura.
Matt: That is terrifying. Oh my god.
Laura: Thanks for getting my attention for that. (laughter)
Matt: Goddamn it.
Sam: That will inspire you.
Liam: Somebody gets an inspiration die. (laughter)
Taliesin: I'm going to spider-climb-- I'm going to stay within striking distance, I'm not going to disengage from the jerk, but I'm going to climb up on the wall above him, if that's okay.
Matt: I'd say yeah, you can do that. The wall next to him, there's nothing above him.
Taliesin: Like, oh, I'm shooting at the television. Here.
Matt: Here? So you can move around and get on the wall.
Taliesin: Yeah, like climb up there and be sideways. I'm going to pull out Bad News, I'm going to try something new. I'm seeing that big spike, there's a big metal spike stuck in his chest right now?
Matt: No, there's no spike. There's a crack in the crystal that's exposed.
Taliesin: Is there still not a metal pole?
Matt: There's no metal pole.
Taliesin: I thought he got hit by a thing.
Matt: No, he got hit by a Vax.
Taliesin: Okay, I thought he also got hit by a thing. But that's okay. I'm going to try something weird. I'm going to spend a grit for advantage on this shot, because--
Sam: "Constructing a pole vault."
Taliesin: I'm going to add two points of Cabal's Ruin to this.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: What does that do? What? You have a thing?
Taliesin: I'm going to spend two points of Cabal's Ruin. I have a thing.
Matt: You can spend them once you roll to hit.
Taliesin: Oh, I can wait until after?
Matt: Wait until you see you hit it, then you can spend the points.
Taliesin: Well, that's even better. So first shot is a 27 to hit.
Matt: That hits.
Taliesin: So I'm going to drop two-- I've got the little thing running through my glove, I've got the wire. I'm just going to let go of the little grounding wire and see what happens. I'll hold onto the barrel and pray. Let's add 2d6 to that. Is that right? Yeah.
Liam: I really like this spider-climb guy.
Taliesin: I know, I'm digging this-- augh, it's okay. Yeah, this is okay. 22 points of damage plus two points of electrical damage.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Did you roll your Cabal's Ruin thing?
Taliesin: I did, yeah, I did, I'm going to do that again.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: I'm going to burn two more points-- Well, I'm going to wait. That's really cool, that I can wait.
Laura: That was the softest little roll.
Taliesin: I hate it when that happens. I know, that was the worst roll I've ever done. That's okay. It's 22. Just hits?
Matt: 22 misses.
Taliesin: 22 misses?! That's fine. I'm not going to burn any Cabal. So that's fine.
Matt: The first blast fires off... It impacts the side of Thordak. You watch the little charge of energy shoot through. Second shot, however, goes a little wide, as you feel the fire still burning up the front of your torso. It's enough to distract you from your actual aiming.
Taliesin: That was very cool, though.
Marisha: You can do that.
Taliesin: Once I set it up, I can arc a charge to the bullet.
Matt: Okay, that ends your turn, Percy?
Taliesin: That ends my turn. I may drop back behind-- No, I'm good, I'm good.
Matt: At this point, the ground quakes beneath--
Taliesin: That was a terrible roll. Terrible roll.
Marisha: Yes, it was.
Taliesin: Snake eyes was not cool.
Matt: No, he can't do the same twice in a row, so it's going to do another magma erupt. (laughs) Beneath where Gilmore is, the ground splits open-- (groans)
Matt: --and another burst of magma billows out from underneath. Going against Kima, Vax, that's where most of them are clustered. Kima, Vax, and Gilmore. I need you to roll a dexterity saving throw.
Liam: Yeah, evasion for me.
Taliesin: Walls hate NPCs.
Liam: With advantage. 18 for me.
Matt: 18 for you. All right, that's okay. Gilmore rolls a--
Laura: Natural 20?
Matt: 15, which is enough. Kima rolls a natural 20-- (cheering)
Matt: So half as much damage to each of you guys. You take none.
Liam: I'm sitting pretty. I mean, I'm really rough.
Laura: Don't say that out loud.
Sam: Have you taken any damage?
Matt: That's 21, that's ten points of fire damage to both Kima and Gilmore.
Taliesin: Halved?
Matt: That was halved.
Liam: I am Borishnakoffing all over this battlefield.
Taliesin: Somebody's going to dive into that hole.
Matt: As that bursts off, you also watch as the airship Deera coasts around this way and takes three shots. (cheering)
Matt: Misses. Hits! And misses. So three of them shoot past. The third one impacts for seven points of piercing damage to Thordak. You watch as two other wyverns get cut down from the edges of the ship, slamming into the ground near you. Their arms curl up, and the wings fall limply to the side. You also hear a slamming sound as from a nearby wall, you watch as a fire giant that has climbed over the edge of the wall.
Laura: Why would you bring more things onto the battlefield?!
Matt: It charges into the fray, this way.
Marisha: Wait, over what wall, over what wall?
Matt: On the outside of the side of the Cloudtop.
Sam: Is this one of the fire giants we've seen?
Marisha: Yeah, is this one that Zahra and Kash were guarding?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Marisha: Can I do it?
Matt: You barely have a view of it, so yes, you can.
Laura: Do I have a view of it?
Matt: No, you're inside the room.
Marisha: Ooh, yeah, 25.
Matt: You see it, this one does not appear to be coming from the direction they were.
Laura: That's good, that's good. That's not a damn it, that's a good.
Marisha: Means they're still alive. Hopefully?
Matt: With that, it is Raishan's turn. Raishan gets her breath back.
Travis: (singing) Girl, get your breath back.
Matt: Raishan rears back, (hissing roar) releases the same poisonous torrent toward Thordak.
Travis: Halitosis is a bitch.
Sam: We have exactly one ally dragon in this fight right now.
Travis: I will fucking-- I will pop all your knuckles.
Sam: We do! She's great.
Liam: The last thing we'll do in this fight is all turn on you.
Marisha: The last thing we do is die as we see a bronze dragon show up.
Laura: Yeah, we're all dead on the ground, and Scanlan's like, yay!
Matt: He takes half damage as the poison cloud billows up, (cough, sinister growl).
Sam: Aw, he's still crazy.
Matt: "You're still around us? That's okay. There's still time... to eat." Raishan is going to fly past and land on the top of the roof, which nearly crumbles. Nearly crumbles above you, Keyleth, you feel stones (crash) around you, and you see Raishan landing on the ceiling of this damaged building as parts of it begin to collapse.
Laura: Look how little she is.
Matt: That ends Raishan's turn. Keyleth, you're up.
Liam: Go, girl.
Marisha: So she's on top of me, more or less? I'm going to turn around and Tidal Wave this elemental behind me.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: I was going to say, if I'm caught in the corner of this, will this extinguish me?
Marisha: Extinguishes all flames.
Matt: It does. Wait, so what spell are you doing? You're doing--
Travis: Tidal Wave.
Laura: Is that one, like, still up or something? Is it like a concentration that just lasts?
Marisha: No, the other one was Tsunami. That one is like the big daddy version of this one. Yeah.
Matt: So, Percy, I need you to make a dexterity saving throw.
Taliesin: Can I autofail if I just want to be-- Oh, that's right, for half damage.
Matt: Yes.
Taliesin: All right. Dex saving throw. That's an 11.
Matt: So roll 4d8 bludgeoning damage. Percy takes, and Percy is knocked prone, but is no longer on fire.
Taliesin: I just fall on the ground, I assume.
Marisha: Sorry, Percy. I'm saving your life, man!
Matt: However, the unscathed fire elemental is turned to mist. Water pushing past and doing way too much damage for him to--
Marisha: Is this damage for Percy? 21.
Travis: Thanks, Keyleth. (laughter)
Liam: Legitimately though!
Matt: But a full health fire elemental is turned to mist and is immediately destroyed. Actually, the force of it blows out the rocks from this side of the wall. And the wall, the wall here actually gets knocked open to that side as the tidal wave pushes out. Keyleth, do you want to move or stay where you are?
Marisha: I'll pop myself out of the door a little bit.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: What's that other thing that you've been doing to him? That he has to save on every once in a while?
Laura: Oh, Contagion?
Marisha: Contagion, he has to do that at the end of his turn. Did he do it at the last...?
Matt: He did, yes. It was a 13 plus...
Marisha: So he's saved against two or one?
Matt: He's only done two, so far, since you cast it.
Marisha: He's only done-- I know about one.
Matt: No, because you didn't do it your first turn, you did it your second turn, so yeah, twice.
Laura: Yeah, he's definitely done it twice.
Marisha: And he's saved against both? Are you sure?
Matt: Yes.
Marisha: All right.
Sam: But are you sure?
Matt: Yes. (laughter)
Matt: Is that the end of your turn?
Marisha: Do I see Gilmore?
Matt: You, from your current perspective, you do not.
Marisha: Then, yeah.
Matt: Okay. Jarett, who is currently scared out of his wits.
Travis: Get your shit together, man.
Sam: Jarett, do you need some suude?
Travis: Spice?
Matt: Ha, He's like, "What? No, why would you..."
Sam: Well, you look crazy right now.
Matt: "Look at that!"
Sam: It's like a Thursday.
Matt: And he goes and takes two more shots, with disadvantage against. That's a miss. Second shot, disadvantage. Is a miss. Both shots firing off.
Travis: We'll remember this. Your annual review's coming up.
Sam: Needs improvement.
Matt: Gilmore, who's now conscious, doesn't have a whole lot else as far as attack spells go, is going to attempt to stand up. "All right, that was--" (groaning)
Liam: Matt, why would you!
Sam: He flew 30 feet.
Matt: I can count that.
Travis: No!
Taliesin: No!
Matt: Then stop giving me shit.
Liam: Why would you!
Matt: As he gets up, he leans back and backs out of the rubble, takes in his surroundings, sees the magma receding from the crack in the ground. "This is... You guys bring me to the greatest places. Oh, he's not looking too good." And releases a Lightning Bolt.
Marisha: He's not looking too good?
Matt: He's not looking too good. And he's going to release a Lightning Bolt at fifth level. A 5th-level Lightning Bolt. A 5th-level Lightning Bolt. Thordak makes his save. And that will be, come on, dice. 49. Half that will be 24 points of lightning damage against Thordak. That ends Gilmore's turn. Grog and Thordak.
Travis: Oh God. I'm going first.
Matt: All right, what are you doing?
Travis: Because it's so insignificant. I'm going to attach the Bloodaxe to the Chain of Returning and throw it at his foot.
Taliesin: You could go in the hole, just saying.
Travis: I thought we didn't care about the hole?
Taliesin: I care about the hole.
Travis: Grog loves going in holes.
Laura: Just do what you're going to do.
Travis: All right, I throw the Bloodaxe.
Sam: You can also hold your attack until he's closer or something?
Travis: Reckless! Yeah, that's not going to happen. 31.
Matt: 31.
Travis: It's not Great Weapon Master. That's a 12. That's good. Two points of necrotic for 27 and I'm enlarged! And that's another one.
Sam: Hey, 28 is great!
Travis: Hey, matzoh ball in your face.
Matt: That's awesome.
Travis: And then I've got to pull it back.
Taliesin: With advantage.
Travis: Seven plus 14, woo! Got it.
Matt: Yeah. You pull the axe back.
Sam: You got a bonus action or something?
Laura: You could attack again?
Travis: No I can't, I can only throw it once.
Matt: Thordak is going to swoop in.
Sam: You could heal or something? You've got potions and shit, don't you?
Laura: Can't you hold your other attack until he moves?
Travis: I don't have another attack.
Matt: Let's see here.
Liam: He's hesitating.
Travis: It takes my whole action. I get two attacks in an action.
Sam: He's hovering. God, he's going to his other Dungeons & Dragons game! (laughter)
Laura: He's like, welp, I'm over this.
Sam: Oh God! That's dangerously close.
Matt: I know.
Laura: Oh god.
Matt: Right there, Gilmore just behind.
Laura: Gilmore is up his butt.
Matt: Raishan right there. Lands right up next to Pike.
Laura: No!
Matt: Everyone else in that vicinity.
Laura: Oh no, that's Pike and Scanlan isn't it?
Sam: Oh boy.
Matt: Yup. And (inhales).
Laura: What? Why would you do that to Pike?!
Matt: Rolled a five on that. Because Pike keeps healing everybody. That'll be towards Jarett, Scanlan and Pike. I need you guys to make dex saves.
Sam: I'll Cutting Words this.
Matt: How many more bardic inspiration dice do you have by the way?
Sam: I have used only three. That means I have three left.
Matt: You've inspired one and you've Cutting Words twice? Correct, all right, cool. This is your fourth?
Sam: Yep. So I will Cutting Words that up with a poem I will make up on the spot. Roses are red, Violets are blue, I'm a gnome, and you're an asshole. (laughter)
Matt: Roll a d12. What was Pike's dexterity save again?
Liam: Oh no, it's this die.
Sam: Oh, you can reduce that by one point, Matt Mercer.
Matt: (laughing) Oh no. What did you get? Nah, roll your dexterity saving throw.
Sam: My dexterity saving throw. Terrible, 15.
Matt: Jarett does not make it either.
Liam: Big eight, big eight.
Matt: All right, well.
Laura: One of our Jaeger controllers did worse than our other--
Liam: You shut your pie hole! Hear me, half-elf?
Matt: Well, with the damage reduction from Scanlan that's only 100 points of fire damage.
Taliesin: Cut in half.
Matt: Cut in half, so that's 50 to each of you. Jarett is practically immolated. His unconscious body hits the ground, crisp, smoking. He's currently going into shock and is in a really bad place right now.
Sam: Where's Pike? What's Pike doing?
Laura: Pike is-- Wait, minus 50. She's at 50 minus--she's at 34 points right now.
Taliesin: In combat range of a dragon.
Travis: I never finished my turn, so can I use my movement now? Since we're on the same, can I chase him back to where he landed? 50 feet and how far does that get me?
Matt: Yeah, you can get right up behind him right there.
Laura: Can you attack him now?
Travis: Nah. Nah. Actually, my bonus action is still there and I am frenzied.
Matt: Yes, you are.
Travis: Can I attack?
Matt: Sure.
Travis: I'll do it Reckless.
Matt: I'll let you do it. It all happened at once.
Travis: 29?
Matt: 29 hits.
Travis: Yeah, not Great Weapon Master. Nine plus two, 26, 29. 29.
Matt: 29? All righty. That ends your turn.
Travis: That does.
Sam: Matt, in the interest of honor, should I roll a concentration saving throw?
Matt: Oh yes, you should. Sorry, thank you.
Sam: I rolled a-- what do I add to it?
Matt: It's a constitution saving throw, so you add your constitution save.
Sam: Constitution? So 18.
Matt: With that, Bigby's Hand fades, the spell knocked asunder. Thank you for reminding me of that. So that comes to end that turn.
Marisha: He has to roll a save.
Matt: Yes, he does. And that is a seven plus 16.
Marisha: Does he still have disadvantage on these?
Matt: No, he doesn't have disadvantage on every save, just the one. He was Cutting Words'd, you're right.
Marisha: Yeah. He has to roll under a five.
Matt: Same thing. So with that, the third save is made, Contagion.
Sam: At least it won't eat up my Cutting Words any more.
Marisha: It's resting in peace with my 8th-level spell and her dragon-slaying arrow. They're in a puddle somewhere.
Matt: It's a rough couple rounds.
Laura: Did I see where that dragon-slaying arrow sailed off to?
Matt: With the sheer amount of clouds of ash and blackness in the air, you have no idea where it went, I'm afraid. At the end of Thordak's turn, the wyvern that had seen you, it did spot you. Your stealth was not very good. It leaps down into the back of the building and (growls) coming towards you. The wyvern's going to make a multi-attack. The first is a bite attack against you. That's a natural one. Does not hit you. The stinger, however, is a natural 20. Wow! So that is for 12 points of piercing damage to you and I need you to make a constitution saving throw.
Liam: Poison immunity.
Taliesin: Poison immunity.
Matt: That's right. So no effect.
Laura: 12 points of damage.
Matt: The rider is going to swing at you with a heavy club and then a javelin. That is a 16. What's your AC?
Laura: 21.
Matt: Nope. And no. Misses you with both. You're just too quick for him. The giant sees Percy lying on the ground and goes (yells). With its giant two-handed sword, it's going to make two attacks against Percy with advantage. 19, so that's 30 for the first one.
Taliesin: Oh, that just hits.
Matt: And a 22 with the second.
Taliesin: That also just hits.
Matt: All right. So you take 28 points of slashing damage from each hit.
Taliesin: So that's 28 times two.
Laura: 56.
Taliesin: 56. All right, that's fine. I blame you for all of this.
Sam: We're getting in flute range soon.
Taliesin: I'll be hearing about it from the kitchen. It'll be great. I'll be working on my new character.
Matt: All right. That brings us to--
Sam: Raishan?
Matt: No. That brings us to Vex's turn.
Laura: I can't see anything about where I am.
Matt: You're back here right now.
Laura: Yeah, I can't see that on the screen, so I don't know.
Liam: Other side of that building.
Laura: Can I use disengage to get away from the wyvern?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: I'm going to do that and I'll run out somewhere. Where's the laser pointer?
Liam: I can't see where Vex is at all.
Laura: I just have no clue where I am.
Matt: Well, I have you right here because you actually fell and your base came off and I glued it together when you were talking.
Laura: No way! Oh, I thought you said the face.
Sam: He has crazy glue on his person?
Matt: Like any good dungeon master should. So you're inside this building right now.
Laura: If I'm hasted, does that affect my broom?
Matt: No.
Laura: So I just run out.
Matt: So you just run out this way. You have a lot of movement speed, so you're still out here at half movement.
Laura: Okay. Then I'm going to run through the building and under Raishan and shoot up at Thordak from through the building.
Liam: Ditch the broom.
Matt: Go for it. Make your shots.
Laura: Okay. Oh no, that one doesn't hit. Okay, second one. Okay, that hits. That's 29.
Matt: 29. All right.
Laura: Can I do that with a poison arrow? I should have said that before.
Matt: You should have said that before.
Laura: Never mind. 18, that's with four lightning. I do get sneak attack right now. 15 more.
Matt: Okay. That was the first roll. Second attack?
Laura: Yeah. Should I do the second dragon attack? I'm so scared to use the dragon arrow.
Travis: There is no tomorrow. There's a giant fucking dragon and a fire giant.
Liam: Pop his head off in one shot. Go.
Laura: I'm going to use my dragon arrow. My last one. Oh, good! That was so close but it definitely hit.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Oh God. Okay. 17 with one lightning.
Matt: One lightning damage. All right.
Laura: So three more. And how many do I add for the dragon arrow?
Matt: I'm looking it up right now, actually.
Sam: Ooh!
Laura: I think it's 10d6. I think.
Sam: Is it really?
Laura: Or 6d10. It's one of those two.
Sam: 10d20.
Laura: 10d20. 12d12.
Travis: 100d100s. And the universe implodes.
Matt: DC 17 constitution saving throw.
Laura: He gets to save?
Matt: Yes, he does. Which he makes. So he takes half damage. So it's 6d10.
Laura: Oh! Whoa. That's okay, I'll just roll this, 'cause this is easier.
Liam: 6d10.
Laura: Oh, that was just 6d10. 32 halved.
Matt: 32 halved. All right.
Sam: Worth it.
Matt: You release the first arrow, which goes and strikes Thordak in the upper shoulder wing area. (growls) He turns around and goes to face you, the arms and wings open angrily. As you release the dragon-slaying arrow, it goes and hits the side where the chest is currently disintegrated and exposed. As the arrow, using the power of Fenthras behind it, slams into the crystal, the crystal shatters. As it breaks, you watch as Thordak goes (crazed laughter) and the form begins to slowly shrink.
Travis: Oh shit!
Matt: (growling) He seems to be grinning and laughing through the pain as the swollen, primordial dragon form of Thordak begins to slowly wither and wither.
Sam: You have another model?
Laura: What?!
Sam: And it's even bigger.
Laura: Look at the puny little fuck.
Sam: He's a little puny baby.
Matt: That's still a pretty fucking huge dragon. (laughter)
Sam: He's so sad.
Matt: Now there are hanging folds of dragon hide skin. The form shrunk, but portions still are sagging off of it.
Laura: Can I duck around the side so I'm in the building? So I'm not in the opening. Yeah.
Marisha: Are we going to try and take Raishan out as well?
Matt: At the end of your turn, he's going to use two legendary actions to wing attack. Trying to whip the wings much faster now due to the somewhat dire circumstances. I need Pike, and currently just Pike, to make a dexterity saving throw.
Sam: Come on, Pike. For all the marbles.
Laura: 17.
Matt: Nope. Pike takes 20 points of bludgeoning damage and eight points of fire damage reduced to four.
Laura: So she's got ten points left.
Sam: She's a perfect ten. Always was.
Matt: He's going to fly up--
Sam: Does Pike get an attack of opportunity?
Travis: I do!
Laura: And Pike does!
Matt: There we go. You both do.
Travis: Has his AC changed with his different size? You don't know? Reckless, Great Weapon Master. Natural 20.
Matt: Really?
Travis: Yeah, on the first roll.
Laura: And Pike rolled a 32.
Sam: Jesus. What is she attacking with?
Laura: Her Mace of Disruption.
Sam: Yes, she is.
Matt: So go ahead and roll damage for both of them.
Travis: I also have brutal critical which at thirteenth level, you roll two additional damage dice.
Matt: Yes, you do.
Taliesin: Which you then double, don't you?
Matt: No. You add those two. So roll the damage first, and then double the dice.
Laura: And then she gets Divine Strike, right? On her attack.
Matt: Correct.
Travis: 28. So I double that?
Matt: You double the dice. Including the d4 and d6 from your weapon and your enlarged status.
Travis: Right. So that's 16 doubled, 32. So then, that's an 11. So 47.
Matt: Nice, and Pike's?
Laura: Pike rolled-- fuck. 18. 19! It was 19.
Matt: Okay. Perfect. You both strike, as the now-diminished form of Thordak begins to pull backward, eyes looking around. The piercing star-like white light of the eyes seems to have slowly recoiled into a glowing reddish-orange. And you can now see where the crystal once was in the chest, there is just a gaping hole where bits of flesh and dragon muscle are hanging out, occasionally slopping out of the wound. He's pulling back. All right.
Liam: I'm up.
Matt: Yep.
Liam: I'm going to arc up and land on his head. I'm just going to unload all three: action, action, bonus action, into his head.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: First attack probably misses, that's 17?
Matt: Misses.
Liam: Second attack hits. That's 24.
Matt: Hits.
Liam: Third attack with the dragon sword is a 22.
Matt: 22 hits.
Liam: So, with Whisper. (counting) That's 45 with Whisper. And then with the dragonslayer sword. Eight plus six plus 3d6. So 21. What did I say before that?
Laura: 45.
Travis: 45.
Liam: So 21 plus 45 is-- So 66.
Laura: It's 45 for the first attack, 21 for the second.
Matt: Yeah. Okay.
Liam: And I will stay there.
Matt: You're going to stay there? All right. So you are currently up here, in Thordak's face.
Laura: This is going to be bad if we have to take Raishan out.
Matt: Cool, so that ends Vax's turn. Kima--
Sam: Oh yeah, the wyvern.
Matt: That wyvern just can't seem to keep itself standing.
Sam: That was really good handwork, I didn't catch any of it. That I got.
Matt: She's just going to move towards Raishan. She's going to move over to this wall.
Liam: Sorry. Also, four for Hunter's Mark on the second attack as well.
Matt: Okay. That's ends Kima's turn, going over there. Pike's turn. Pike is knocked prone from the spell earlier.
Laura: She's still alive. She gets up.
Liam: Girl.
Laura: (singing) She's going to Guiding Bolt up the butt! At what level do we have left?
Liam: So many levels. All the levels. Pike cheat sheet. Five!
Laura: She's going to cast it at a five.
Liam: Plus 1d6 every level above second level. So 3d6.
Laura: 4d6. Plus 4d6. So 8d6. She has to roll the attack first, or just straight-up?
Matt: Well, she has to roll to attack with her spell bonus, her spell attack bonus.
Laura: 24.
Matt: 24 hits.
Laura: All right. So 8d6.
Liam: You can do it, Pike. All the way from New York City.
Laura: Five. Seven. Eight. Ten. 16. 18. Another two. 26.
Matt: 26? Nice. As the guiding bolt slams into the side of Thordak's side, you can see this glimmering beacon of light. The next attack against Thordak has advantage.
Laura: Oh good. And then she's going to Healing Word again? Yeah, she's pretty fucked, so she'll Healing Word at second level, that's her last 2nd-level...
Matt: So 2d4 plus five. To herself?
Laura: And that's just to one person? Yeah, so she'll... so she's going to do that to Jarett.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: She would heal Jarett over herself?
Laura: It's Pike. I'm being honest, she would heal Jarett.
Travis: I don't know why we're wasting that on Jarett.
Matt: Jarett went and got you illicit drugs, Scanlan!
Travis: I mean, he had a great accent, but fuck. You remember the cryptkeeper? Jarett's going to those auditions tomorrow.
Laura: So that's eight.
Matt: Eight? Okay, so Jarett is healed up eight points.
Liam: He is Groot.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: Where the terrible burns are, most of them seem to heal, or at least scar to a point where he comes to consciousness. He's like, "What happened?"
Laura: "Jarett, you need to get up and fight."
Matt: "Right." Grabs the crossbow to the side, leans up. So was that Pike's turn?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: All right, was that Pike's turn? Scanlan, you're up.
Taliesin: Like slap the charred skin off his face. Get back in there!
Liam: The whole face comes off.
Sam: Shit. I will use my action to pour my superior healing potion into Pike's mouth.
Liam: That's love.
Laura: "Scanlan, I can do that myself."
Sam: Oh wait. First, I aerate it. (laughter)
Laura: So that's 8d4?
Sam: I don't know. What is it?
Laura: That is 8d4. Do you do that or do I?
Sam: Do I roll it, or does she?
Matt: You roll it, that's fine.
Sam: It's just a bunch of d4s? 8d4s? Oh my god. This is so many. Six. 13. 16. 20, plus something. Plus six, 26.
Laura: Okay, that's good.
Sam: Who else can I see? Nobody. Jarett's alive, right?
Matt: Correct.
Sam: Now as my bonus action...
Travis: Whether he wants to be when he sees a mirror...
Sam: Well shit, I have an action, I can do anything. I can do anything!
Travis: Yeah, you could play the fucking flute.
Sam: What? What flute?
Liam: What are you saving it for?
Sam: I play a shawm.
Laura: We're going to have to fight Raishan in a second.
Marisha: This is far from over.
Taliesin: And whatever's in that pit. And whatever's in that pit.
Sam: What? How's she doing? Is she okay?
Laura: She's at 36.
Sam: It's not great. All right, I will attack the dragon. Bigby's Hand at level six. Why not?
Matt: So you recast Bigby's Hand?
Matt: All righty.
Liam: Give the people what they want.
Sam: That is not what they want.
Laura: Hey, he's got a hole in the middle of his chest.
Sam: I'll poke it.
Matt: Go ahead and roll a spell attack.
Sam: Nope. Did Pike help me out?
Laura: Yes! She casts her last War God's Blessing. Add a ten to that.
Matt: So plus ten to that.
Sam: 23.
Matt: 23 hits. So that would be?
Sam: 6d8. Gimme.
Liam: Here comes the gnome.
Taliesin: Here's 4d8. 5d8. 6d8.
Sam: 27.
Matt: 27? Nice.
Laura: Every time!
Matt: All right. Percival. Unless you want to move, Scanlan.
Sam: I moved to Pike to pour stuff in her. That's all. I did not mean that in any weird way.
Matt: Percival. Your turn.
Taliesin: Okay. I'm going to, for my bonus action, I'm going to down a greater, which is 4d4, I believe?
Matt: 4d4 plus four, yeah.
Laura: Did you add four to your 26 when you healed her? Or did you just roll--
Taliesin: I'm dying less. I'm going to stand up. I'm technically engaged with this bloody thing, aren't I?
Matt: Correct.
Taliesin: Okay. I'm just going to-- There's little I can do other than just say, please, somebody fix this, and I'm going to take two shots at the red dragon. First shot with Bad News. 23?
Matt: 23 hits.
Taliesin: I'm going to just throw-- forget it, I'll throw four charges of Cabal's Ruin there. Let's just do it.
Matt: That's an additional 4d6 damage.
Liam: Am I electrified, sitting on his head?
Taliesin: Technically speaking, no, the way that this works-- it's like a Tesla arc, so it wouldn't technically-- you'll feel tingly.
Matt: Your hair sticks up a little bit. Your nipples get a little pointy. (laughter)
Matt: Start shaking in the leather armor.
Liam: Do it again, Percy. (laughter)
Taliesin: Bloody fanart. Okay. And let's see what kind of damage we do with this. Eh. That sucks. Stop it! Stop it! I can't count when-- that's (counting) 21 points of damage. Stop saying that, it's 21! You don't know, it's 21.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: Second shot. Can I reroll that, 'cause he? Yeah, it misses. And now I'm going to die. You're like everything I hate about Overwatch.
Sam: You're not going to die.
Matt: One of the fingered claws of Thordak gets blasted off from the impact from Bad News, the energy arcing through the rest of his arm from Cabal's Ruin. The second shot, however, having to aim, manages to just barely miss Vax. He gets in the way of the shot, and you have to shoot wide and it misses entirely. Is that your turn?
Taliesin: Yeah. That's my turn.
Matt: At the end of Percy's turn, Thordak's going to go ahead and use his third legendary action.
Sam: To do what?
Matt: To do a tail attack against Vax. That is a 22 to hit?
Liam: No. Nope. Nope. Hasted, 23, fuck you. Not you.
Sam: 23? Jesus! Where'd you go?
Matt: All right. So that brings us to-- we're going to say this will be... all right. The ground shakes.
Sam: Oh, shit, I forgot about that. Lair actions.
Matt: A 60-foot radius around the dragon, as just the presence of Thordak, the ground just begins quaking beneath. You watch as fissures of small volcanic energy begin to break from underneath. Pretty much everybody--
Sam: Is Jarett in there?
Matt: Yep. Except for you, who's in the air. Need to make a dexterity saving throw.
Taliesin: Nope, rerolling that.
Sam: Natural 20, 25.
Taliesin: I'm rerolling, because that was awful. Oh, never mind.
Sam: Yeah, if he doesn't like it, he gets to reroll.
Matt: It's a fighter ability.
Taliesin: Nine.
Laura: 30 for me.
Matt: Pike?
Laura: Eight for Pike.
Travis: 11.
Liam: Not like this.
Matt: Grog, Keyleth, Percy, Pike, Gilmore, all get knocked prone from the ground quaking as you all fall on your back. You manage to brace yourself against the wall real fast, Vex.
Sam: Does Jarett get knocked to his feet?
Matt: (laughs) No. He just gets shaken on the ground.
Marisha: Popcorn on a trampoline.
Matt: Raishan does not get her breath back. She is, however, going to utilize Chain Lightning.
Marisha: Yeah, I want to see how this works.
Laura: She's going to hit us. No, she decides where it hits.
Sam: She's still on our side, right?
Taliesin: For another round or two.
Matt: All right. Chain Lightning. Dexterity saving throw. That's a success for Thordak. Sorry, I'm trying to get through this. Okay, so that is halved. Halved, that is 18 points of lightning damage. Vax, make a dexterity saving throw.
Liam: I'm going to use Luck. Yeah. Good time to use Luck. 26.
Matt: 26, okay. You suffer 18 points of lightning damage as the bolt of energy that strikes Thordak then arcs into you because you're right next to it.
Liam: Would this be a new round for me to use Evasion? I've lost track.
Laura: No, 'cause Thordak's already gone.
Matt: No, you've already used it. So yeah. That ends that. Going to take off and land right there next to that guy.
Laura: Who is that guy?
Matt: That's the lizardman that fell from the wyvern. Keyleth, you're up.
Laura: Dragon just landed on him, basically.
Sam: I think he's got a shot.
Matt: Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: Oh boy. Okay. I'm going to stand up. Question. Is Thordak within 30 feet of fire giant dude?
Matt: No.
Marisha: Okay. That answers my question, then. I'm going to reach up and do Blight on Thordak, 'cause I think I can, this time.
Matt: What's the range on Blight?
Marisha: 30 feet.
Matt: Nope. Thordak is 50 feet in the air.
Marisha: Fucking shit fuck balls. Okay. Then--
Laura: Maybe you can jump and then cast it.
Matt: You could climb up and cast it, if you wanted to try that.
Marisha: No. I'm in a skirt situation. It's not good.
Sam: I'm not even paying attention, so if that's your concern.
Marisha: No, it's just clumsy. Okay, I'm going to do-- everything's not ideal right now!
Laura: Climb it, climb it, Keyleth! Just do it!
Liam: It's fucking end of the world!
Taliesin: They don't know.
Marisha: You don't know! I'm not good at that. I'm bad at that thing. So I'm not a dextrous person, so instead I'm going to use my Spire of Conflux.
Sam: Oh yeah, that Vestige thing!
Marisha: Look, I haven't forgotten about it, all right?
Travis: Who are you talking to right now?
Marisha: My ancestors. And I'm going to do Chain Lightning on Thordak.
Sam: Oh! Another chain.
Matt: All righty. Thordak's save is 19.
Marisha: Fail, motherfucker!
Matt: Thordak's going to use his second legendary resistance to make it. So go ahead and roll damage.
Marisha: Fine, that's fine. It's how many damage? Like 8d10?
Matt: 8d10.
Taliesin: Want some d10s?
Marisha: Yeah, I do.
Taliesin: Here's three more. How many are you at?
Marisha: I need one more. Oh, and I get to reroll ones, right? That's actually really--
Taliesin: Whoa! Holy fuck.
Sam: Is that a one?
Marisha: No, that's a seven. So that's 29, 34, plus-- that's a seven. And then 34 plus 14 is 48.
Matt: So half that is 24 points of lightning damage.
Marisha: And there's no one else within 30 feet of him, other than Raishan?
Matt: Raishan's not even in that range.
Marisha: No one else? Well. Okay. I do that, and then I turn around and I'm going to cast a Grasping Vine as a bonus action.
Taliesin: Oh, thank you.
Marisha: Right next to me. And then I'm going to use it to whip around and grab Percy and--
Matt: You do not have visual range on Percy right now.
Marisha: I haven't used any movement. Can I shift into that house a little bit?
Matt: Sure, you move into the house?
Marisha: Uh-huh. And once again cast Grasping Vine from out of that corner and drag Percy to me.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Around the ankles.
Matt: Still prone, but better.
Marisha: Hi.
Taliesin: Hi. That was really good. Ow.
Matt: That end your turn? All right. Jarett's turn. Jarett gets up. Jarett still only has a view of the dragon and is like, "What happened to-- that's weird." Missed the whole exchange. But gets the gist of it. Disadvantage. Misses. Natural 20, disadvantage. 15, still hits. Not a critical, unfortunately. But a ten on damage, that's 13 piercing damage.
Laura: It didn't drop fear when he died?
Matt: No, I think that would instill more fear.
Laura: Okay, just checking. (laughter)
Laura: Just checking.
Matt: Logistically.
Laura: I didn't know if it was a reset when you wake up.
Matt: Right. Gilmore gets up from the ground.
Taliesin: I'm so distracted right now. There's too much happening.
Matt: So he's going to cast another 4th-level Lightning Bolt. Thordak fails his save. Is going to use his last resistance to get that, 'cause he's doing real rough.
Laura: You've got big-level spells, don't you, still?
Sam: Yeah, one.
Matt: He's rolling shit tonight. 14 points of lightning damage. No, 16. Okay. All righty. That's Gilmore's turn. It's Grog and Thordak's turn.
Travis: Oh, yes? I would like to stand up.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: How high is Thordak?
Matt: Thordak is 40 feet up.
Travis: Son of a bitch on a stick. Could I just attach the bloodaxe and throw it at his much smaller foot, now?
Matt: Sure.
Travis: Yeah, but I can only jump 20 feet in the air. 15 feet in the air.
Liam: That'll do it, won't it?
Travis: He's 40 feet in the air.
Sam: You don't know numbers. Maybe it'll work.
Travis: These hieroglyphs seem to indicate that he's too high. Yeah, 'cause I'm only like 14 feet high, right?
Matt: Right now? Yeah.
Travis: I'm reckless throwing the bushwhacker.
Laura: (gasps) He got another natural 20!
Sam: Holy shit!
Matt: You have advantage. Roll again.
Travis: Ten.
Laura: That's a really pretty die that he's got, too. Sparkly.
Marisha: She's getting ideas.
Travis: (counting) 34, 37, 38. 38 points of damage.
Matt: 38 points of damage.
Taliesin: That with your bonus? I just said that randomly, I don't actually know any of your bonuses, I just thought maybe it would jog something.
Travis: With my movement, can I run nuts towards where the fire giant is?
Matt: Sure. You can get right there.
Travis: That'll work. I need a new plaything that'll actually stay.
Matt: Thordak, who is physically falling apart at this point, sections just sloughing off, and just the whole experience has been sending his physical-- his whole physical form is wrecked right now. The word escapes me that I was looking for. He's going to go ahead and turn and go into a full flight.
Liam: I'm riding him.
Matt: You're riding him?
Liam: Yeah. Shit yeah, I'm riding him.
Marisha: Oh, no. No, Vax, no.
Taliesin: Vax is good.
Laura: No!
Matt: Dash into the dark hole within.
Taliesin: This is good.
Laura: Why is this good?
Sam: A dark hole?
Laura: Vax, be careful!
Travis: We don't care about the tunnel, huh? (laughter)
Matt: You need to go ahead and roll a strength saving throw to try and maintain grip as the dragon goes into a full dive.
Liam: I'll use my last Luck. So it's a 15.
Matt: 15. You do manage to make it inside the tunnel, but you lose your grip and then go into a full tumble, hitting the ground. It's a decline, it's a 45-degree angle downward.
Liam: So I'm in there with him.
Matt: Yes. Roll an acrobatics check to stop yourself.
Liam: That is a 25.
Matt: 25, okay. So you do tumble and come to a stop. You don't take any damage from the fall, and you stop yourself from doing a tumble, but it is still a decline into darkness below, and you just watch as the back end of Thordak's barely flying form slams into the side of the tunnel and continues swooping away.
Liam: Do I still see him with darkvision at this point?
Matt: He just begins to leave outside of your darkvision.
Liam: Are we still in the same chain of initiative?
Matt: As of right now, we are, yes. So. Finishing, that is Thordak's go. Vex, you're up.
Laura: Okay. I run after him and dive after him, because I saw that. And at the edge of my movement, I want to hop out on my broom and get ready to fly down the hole after.
Matt: Okay. So you are hasted, so you get down and you basically have just enough movement to catch up to your brother. And you get the broom out. You're both down there in the darkness by yourselves. You guys watch as the rest of them dive into the hole. Vax, you're up.
Liam: How far away from me is he?
Matt: How far does your darkvision go for?
Liam: 60 feet.
Matt: He's outside of your darkvision.
Liam: Then I am going to use my movement and go 120 feet, or until I see him.
Laura: Can I cast-- 'cause I didn't do an attack, right?
Matt: This is happening after your turn. So you begin to dart forward?
Liam: This is just my movement. 120 feet or until I'm on him.
Matt: Well, your movement is not 120 feet. You're still flying through there?
Liam: Yes, I'm flying.
Matt: Right, so your wings are still out there. Okay. Okay. So yeah, you begin to come in, you see him just begin to come into your visual range.
Liam: Still away from me?
Matt: Still away from you.
Liam: Then I'm going to use a bonus action to dash and hit his back, and land on his back.
Matt: Okay. You land on his back.
Liam: Attack, attack. First attack is a-- scheisse. 24.
Matt: I would say you have disadvantage on these strikes, as you're currently gripping onto a flying dragon underneath a cavern ripping through. You have advantage on them automatically, which means you don't have disadvantage on these strikes, but you do not get the automatic sneak attack.
Liam: I don't remember-- oh, I don't get the automatic sneak attack?
Matt: No.
Liam: But I got advantage?
Matt: No. Essentially, you would have advantage, and then trying to grip onto him and through the middle of this tunnel and slamming into him, you would have disadvantage, and so they both cancel to just a regular attack.
Liam: All right, so 24 for the first.
Matt: What was the first one?
Liam: 24.
Matt: 24 hits.
Liam: Second one is a natural 20.
Matt: Second one was a natural 20? All right.
Liam: So the first one's the dragon-slaying. Three, eight, 14, 19, plus Hunter's Mark. So there's no sneak attack on this, right, you said?
Matt: Correct.
Liam: 21 with the dragon-slayer.
Matt: 21, nice.
Liam: And then Whisper, which is a natural 20, is one plus that is nine, plus the-- six is 15, plus Hunter's Mark. 17.
Laura: Times two?
Liam: Oh. 15 times two is 30.
Laura: It's all times two, 'cause that's all-- well, 15 times two is 30.
Liam: 30 plus eight. 38.
Matt: Okay. How do you want to do this? (yelling)
Laura: In the dark. Alone.
Sam: In a dark pit.
Liam: With Whisper, I'm going to shove it in so that my hand disappears from view, so I'm up to my forearm, and stab as far in as I can reach. I hear the voice of my mother in the morning. Fuck you.
Matt: As the blade plunges into Thordak's now-sloughing and soft flesh, exposed through a series of wounds and gashes left behind by your allies, and his form just slowly shriveling into its diminutive space, the dagger cuts cleanly through, and with that force you go all the way up to the shoulder as you reach inside. As you finish saying your phrase, your eyes narrow and you clench your teeth, and as you pull back and yank, there's this strange series of low whispers that come into your ears, and as you pull back, you watch as these bits of greyish energy begin to pour out of the air, coalescing around the blade, fitting into the body where you're currently plunged within. As you yank outward, you watch as the blade almost has an extended edge about ten, 15 feet beyond Whisper's actual-- and this blade edge just leaves a giant wound on the side of Thordak's body. You don't even hear an exclamation of pain as Thordak just slowly slams into the ground of this low, barely glowing tunnel. Roll an acrobatics check with disadvantage.
Liam: 25.
Matt: 25.
Sam: Jesus.
Matt: So with the speed and impact of tumbling, you manage to reduce the damage by half, so you--
Liam: Which is also halved by the potion.
Matt: Right. That is 17 points of bludgeoning damage.
Liam: Is that the quarter?
Matt: No, that's halved. So that would bring it to 8. As you watch Thordak's form sputter, roll, and then tumble, grinding to a halt, gathering a bunch of stone, broken rock, and part of the cavern that's on the verge of collapsing from the impact of Thordak's body, now lifeless, still in the darkness, subterranean tunnel. And we're going to take a break. (yelling)
Travis: We don't even know it's happened, though, yet! It's all underground!
Taliesin: She would know.
Laura: I do know. Can I fly forward before we take the break?
Matt: You want to?
Laura: I just want to fly forward and hug my brother as he's just covered in dragon guts.
Taliesin: He's way down in there. That's a long flight.
Matt: And now we'll take a break. So we'll be back here in a few minutes.
Sam: Don't forget, Backblaze is hosting a Critical Role giveaway. Anyone who signs up for a free trial with Backblaze at backblaze.com/criticalrole through January 8th will be eligible to win items signed by the Critical Role team that killed a dragon.
Matt: Check out the video here during the break, and we'll be back in a few minutes, guys. [break]
Matt: Welcome back, everybody. First and foremost, we have our winner in the chat for the Wyrmwood dice tray. It is DetectiveKane! (cheering)
Matt: You'll receive this awesome dice tray signed by us. Half of us at the break, and the other half will sign before the night is out. But it's coming your way real soon. Congratulations, DetectiveKane! Get this out of my fucking face!
Laura: Nobody's there.
Matt: Somebody take it from me!
Sam: I don't even know that guy!
Taliesin: I think I see half a dozen people on their phones behind us.
Matt: It feels so good to be able to do that, but it feels better when it's immediate. Otherwise, it feels, like, kinda good. All right, so. Picking up where we left off. The rest of you watch as Thordak swooped into the hole that he emerged from, quickly followed by Vex and Vax. There is still on the field-- Raishan just tore into this lizard man. We have a fire giant that is unscathed currently, bearing down on the rest of the party, and a wyvern rider back around this wall section here. That being the case, they end that turn there. First up is Lady Kima. Who is pissed that she hasn't had a chance to really do anything tonight against flying dragons.
Travis: There's a big fire giant.
Matt: That's what she's going to do. Paladins that don't fly and have haste have a hard time getting around. Just so you know.
Laura: Vestige!
Matt: Watching this giant whale upon Percy pisses her off, and she cracks her neck. "You're first." And she leaps down.
Travis: Open him up!
Matt: And she's going to multi-attack against him. That is-- that hits. And the other also hits. Even with a minus five on each for her Great Weapon Master. She's also going to Divine Smite on that at a level three.
Travis: Yeah, get it!
Matt: First strike is a 14, plus ten, 24. Plus 11, 35. 42 points of damage on her first strike against the giant.
Travis: Boom!
Matt: And the second strike is 24 points of damage. So that fire giant's already had a big chunk taken out of its-- Kima rushes up and double strikes with her Holy Avenger, one cleaving off a piece of its armor, the second one cuts through, leaving a giant flash of divine energy as it bursts out the side. She looks up in the eyes and says, "Bahamut says hi." That ends Kima's turn. Pike is up now.
Sam: Oh, how's Pike doing?
Laura: Pike-- oh, Pike's turn! Jesus.
Liam: She's doing great.
Travis: Head out of ass.
Laura: I'm sorry! Okay.
Liam: She's in Manhattan.
Laura: She stands up.
Matt: Technically-- I was going to say, the giant was going on Thordak's turn order. So I technically skipped the giant's turn. That's fine. I'll do the giant's turn now.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: The giant, who has watched Percy get pulled away, steps in to get into melee range with both Kima and Grog.
Travis: That's such a mistake.
Matt: And is going to take a strike on each. Takes an attack on Kima and rolls-- that's a 20, that hits. And then roll Grog-- that is a 29.
Travis: That hits.
Matt: That's 28 points of damage to Kima and-- it's fun to roll against the players. 33 points of slashing damage against you, Grog.
Travis: So halved to, math?
Matt: 16.
Travis: Thank you. I will use my Retaliation. The old chin turned back. Reckless. Great Weapon Master. That's better. 21.
Matt: 21. That hits.
Travis: Nice. 21, that was crap. And 22. Both ones. 22 plus ten is 32.
Matt: 32 points of damage, nice. The giant already in that round of attacks and your retaliation is-- it has its giant greatsword on the ground, it's rearing up for its next round of arcing attacks. That brings us to Pike. What's Pike doing now?
Laura: Okay, Pike stands up. She's going to run forward and say, "You can't have all the fun, Grog!" And she's going to Guiding Bolt, level four, at the fire giant.
Matt: All right, go ahead and roll a melee spell attack.
Laura: Okay, okay. Okay, that's 18.
Matt: 18 just hits.
Laura: Okay. Oh, wait. 17.
Matt: Nope.
Liam: 17 sounds like 18.
Matt: It does, but it's not the same. The giant sees the flash of light as the bolt comes towards it, out the corner of its eye. As it has its blade down, it instead ducks underneath, using Grog for cover briefly as it arcs past its shoulder and shoots off through the cloud, out of sight.
Marisha: What if it was 17.99? That's basically like 18.
Matt: It's not.
Liam: Crazy Eddie prices?
Travis: Taco Bell logic right there.
Laura: She says, "So, sorry! I guess you do have all the fun. How are you on hit points, Grog? You okay?"
Travis: Yep.
Laura: Okay, then she's going to Healing Word herself at first level.
Matt: Okay. d4 plus five.
Laura: Okay, that's six points.
Matt: There you go. Six points to Pike. Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: We're fighting this fucking giant thing?
Liam: Yeah, man.
Sam: Jesus. I'm going to move out from my hidey hole. Oh god, there's a giant there. I think my Bigby's is still on the field, yeah. So I'll Bigby's Punch. Bigby Punch!
Matt: Yeah, Bigby could just get into range melee there for it.
Sam: A 24?
Matt: That hits. Go ahead and roll your 6d8.
Sam: 6d8, oh man. I only have one d8. I'll roll it six times.
Marisha: Do you want some d8s?
Sam: I'll roll it six times.
Marisha: No, that's-- oh, he's already committed.
Travis: Mad d8's. Oh, he's stroking out.
Marisha: Should we do what he does to us? 15!
Sam: That was four.
Travis: Flirted with the edge.
Laura: 15. 15.
Taliesin: 23.
Marisha: 15.
Sam: You fuckers!
Taliesin: This doesn't feel good on the other end, does it?
Sam: Oh, shit, that was a lot! It's either 33 or 34, they fucked me up. But it was a lot! It was mostly sevens and eights!
Matt: We'll go with 34 on that. Cool. So, as the giant ducks out of the way of the Guiding Bolt streaking past, it snickers and grins, says something in Giant which you hear, which is--
Travis: (gasps)
Matt: You didn't even hear what he said yet!
Travis: Oh. I will hold my reaction.
Matt: "Insolents, bow to your king!"
Travis: No.
Matt: And then, as it brings the sword up, while it saw the glimmer of the Guiding Bolt, it didn't see the purple glimmer of the shining fist as it comes up and whack right across the jaw, dislocating it briefly as the fist comes back up and is ready for another round. Still standing, but looking pretty rough. That brings us to--
Sam: That was my bonus action. As my action, I will swig a Greater Healing Potion.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: What is that, four?
Matt: Greater Healing Potion is 4d4 plus four, yeah.
Taliesin: Oh, 4d4 plus six!
Sam: Yeah, the potion doesn't do that for me, does it? Plus four? Four, three, two, one is ten, right?
Matt: Yes. So 14 hit points you heal.
Laura: When you were healing Pike with the superior, did you add--
Sam: You're right, it's two less than I thought.
Laura: Oh, okay. So she's at 40 healed points now, not 42.
Sam: I get a plus six when I cast it, because of my awesomeness.
Matt: Correct.
Sam: But not when I use a potion.
Matt: Correct.
Sam: Got it.
Matt: All righty. Scanlan, that finish your turn?
Sam: Yeah, I think I'm done.
Matt: Percival.
Taliesin: I'm going to put Bad News away, pull out Animus and take three shots at this asshole.
Matt: Okay. So are you getting up?
Taliesin: I'm getting up. Pulling out the gun, putting three sharpshooter shots in this guy.
Matt: Go for it.
Taliesin: That's a 26. That hits. I'm going to roll that one until he drops, so that I can-- 1d8 plus 1d6. 1d10 plus 1d6. That's 18, 19, 20, 21. 21 points of damage plus four points of psychic damage, so 25 points of damage.
Matt: All righty.
Taliesin: Second shot. That's 21 to hit.
Matt: Hits.
Sam: Right? Plus three plus two plus one...
Taliesin: That's... Not right now, you bastard! I hate you! That's 27 plus... 27 points of damage plus one point of psychic damage to me because I can't think!
Marisha: He needs horse blinders! Horse blinders!
Taliesin: So 27 points of damage plus one... I'm so sorry.
Sam: What goes around comes around!
Matt: So as the fist clocks him across the face, dislocating the jaw, it stands up and grabs the jaw and snaps it back into place. Looks up just in time for you to come up out of the shadow and (gunshots), turning the barrels, you fire, and the first shot hits in the side of the throat and blows open the neck. And you see as the blood begins to gout out, reaches up with a hand and it (gasps) but it's to no use as the other shot takes out the right eye, blowing out the back of the giant's head as it falls backward.
Sam: Violence, violence! Who would've thought a fire giant would be so easy?
Taliesin: I am now going to start making my way to the-- I'm going to start running my way to the pit. With what little movement I have because I got up.
Matt: Okay. All right, that ends Percy's turn. Top of the round, the lair actions do not function. However, you watch as the skyship Deera, still rotating around, there's still wyverns attacking. You hear the distant sounds of lightning cracks as well. And you hear very, very distantly what sounds like a-- sorry, internet-- a cacophony of voices. Because there's no other word to describe it. Hundreds and hundreds of voices, all shouting combat war cries simultaneously. You have no idea how far away it is, it's very, very faint, you just pick it up. You hear the sound of impacts, of crumbling stone in the distance. There is a battle happening all throughout the city that is slowly making its way towards your current location. Deera's turned around and is going to take two shots at Raishan, because it's going to fire at whatever dragons are there. Damon was not notified of anything otherwise.
Laura: You know what, if Raishan gets hit, she gets hit.
Matt: Rolled an eight, and an eight. No, it does not hit. Oh, she gets three attacks, because the--
Travis: What?
Matt: Three eights in a row. That's ridiculous. Yeah! That's not a three, that's an eight. Absurd. So yeah, (boom, boom, boom) all on the ground, and Raishan spins in place (growls), "Call off your dogs! We still have a deal!"
Travis: We literally have no power over them.
Taliesin: I'll respond. To the pit! Now!
Matt: Which, Raishan at this point is now leaping (whoosh) and disappears into the portal-- or down into the hole in the ground.
Taliesin: She was already going that way, she doesn't get into shit with that.
Laura: I want her to get hit.
Taliesin: She's not going to get-- She's going in the tunnel.
Matt: All right. At this point, full speed, that is-- 60 feet, yeah. You guys, as you're having this moment hugging each other--
Laura: Hugs!
Matt: You hear (wings flapping) (smash) The ground shakes nearby as you turn and see, you watch as Raishan skids to a halt right next to you and the currently smashed corpse of Thordak within the tunnel.
Marisha: Can I say over like a headpiece thing-- Be like, twins, if you're still alive, I think Raishan's coming in your direction.
Liam: Thanks for that.
Matt: Raishan is watching both of you as she begins to walk towards Thordak's corpse and goes, "You've done well."
Liam: Yeah, what now?
Taliesin: Every six seconds, we get to move.
Marisha: Yeah, we're heading ass-- Hauling ass that way!
Taliesin: Booking with my spider walk.
Laura: I'm heading ass-wherever!
Taliesin: Running down the ceiling upside-down.
Travis: Not me, I'm putting out that last fire on the map.
Laura: Stomp, stomp, stomp!
Sam: He's volunteer fire department, yeah.
Matt: 80 foot flying, this wyvern swoops in.
Sam: Ah, there's a fucking wyvern?
Liam: Keyleth.
Matt: The one that was left earlier, that was after you, is going to swoop in and attempt to make two strikes at Kima. Miss. And a three. Miss. And the rider's going to go ahead and make two strikes at her as well. Miss with a 17. And a two! Kima's like deflecting, getting against the wall as the spear shoots by and as the blade comes down from the rider, she strikes it with the sword and stops it mid-air, and she starts laughing in his face. That ends its go.
Travis: Trinity.
Matt: Keyleth, you're up.
Sam: Keyleth! There's a wyvern on the field. Or you can ignore and go into the hole.
Marisha: Fuck that wyvern. I say, everyone in the hole! And I head towards the hole.
Taliesin: We're going to need light down here.
Sam: (singing) Head to the hole!
Matt: Are you doing a double move?
Marisha: (singing) Black as your soul! What?
Matt: Double move? Are you doing a dash action?
Sam: You've got nothing else to do.
Marisha: Yeah, I'll dash.
Matt: Okay. So you begin to make it into the hole. That brings us to Jarett's turn. Jarett is going to turn the corner, he's like, "So it's gone? Okay, good." Loads the crossbow, sees the wyvern, and goes, "Are you-- no, are you-- seriously?" and takes his shots. Nice, 19. Yeah, two shots against the wyvern.
Laura: Nice. This is his level, this is what Jarett needs at a time.
Liam: This is the Jarett we know.
Matt: 14 points of damage. He's not the heroic individual you guys are necessarily.
Marisha: Look, he's a great security guard.
Laura: He is bad-ass.
Matt: He is, in his own field.
Liam: He caught my sister's attention, anyone that does that has got to have a lot of spunk.
Matt: All righty. So that ends his turn there, those two shots. Both sink into the wyvern, both bolt stuns (snarling). That will end his go. Gilmore, recognizing the circumstance here and everyone's rushing in there, he's going to go ahead and... okay, he'll go, "Actually, me first." And he Dimension Doors to the edge, and begins to charge in after you guys. That brings us to Grog.
Travis: I want to kill all the things that are alive.
Matt: Okay. So you move into melee with the wyvern and the rider.
Travis: Yeah. Great Weapon Master, Reckless. Eight, 15, 19.
Matt: Hits.
Marisha: Kill it real hard.
Travis: 16. 22. Ooh! 26. 36. For the first hit.
Matt: We'll say for the sake of brevity, you're going to wipe out the wyvern.
Travis: Yay!
Matt: Because you're giant Grog.
Travis: Is the lizard man left?
Matt: The lizard man is left, yes.
Travis: Can I give him the option to run?
Matt: If you want to.
Travis: Nah, fuck that. I kill him, too.
Matt: Well, all three of your attacks would be what it would take to take out the wyvern.
Travis: Hey! Oh, cool.
Matt: So as you finish cleaving the wyvern down, it falls over and the lizard man's like (snarls).
Travis: Yeah, I do this.
Matt: (reptilian whimper) It looks conflicted.
Travis: You're at a crossroads, bro. Crossroads.
Matt: Vex. It's your go.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: You have Raishan like (booming footsteps) stepping over to Thordak's body, watching you closely.
Laura: What are you doing?
Matt: "Exactly what we talked about. Learning his secret."
Laura: I'm going to keep my hand ready to attack and hold my action until anything gets aggressive with Raishan.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: What do you see down there? What's happening, what's in the room?
Laura: Thordak is dead.
Taliesin: What's in the room?
Laura: Oh, what do I see around me?
Matt: The tunnel that you're in, it's been a steady decline. It's rounded off a little bit and it begins to open up maybe 70 feet ahead of you. Actually, with your darkvision, you would just barely start to see it begin to open, it looks like there's an actual chamber ahead of all of you guys, but you haven't reached it yet.
Travis: The shitter.
Laura: Okay, I'm going to use my movement to back away from Raishan towards the chamber. But I'm going to hold my attack until I think it's aggressive.
Matt: Okay. So as you move in, you can see there's a very, very faint glow of orange and red in the room, and the whole tunnel here has a very, very, very concentrated natural burning chemical smell to it. A lot of sulfur-type, very putrid, pungent smells. And the glow you can now see, there is a lava flow that is coalescing in the center of this room, or at least is pouring through, and it looks like it's bisecting this room. You don't make out much more detail than that at this distance, but you do see this chamber does have an actual flow of liquid rock.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: Vax.
Liam: Keyleth? You tell me.
Marisha: What's going on? Whatcha doing?
Liam: You tell me.
Marisha: Just describe the scene.
Liam: Hit or wait?
Marisha: Wait till I'm there! Wait till I'm there!
Liam: What?
Marisha: Wait till I'm there!
Liam: I'm going to hold my turn until Keyleth acts.
Matt: Okay. Pike, Scanlan, you guys all follow suit?
Sam: Yeah.
Matt: Okay, at a full run you guys can get, at your tiny feet you can get up towards the edge there.
Taliesin: I'm at a full run on the roof.
Matt: Right, Percival. Yeah, you do, you get up there and inside. Raishan comes up to the body of Thordak and you see that she reaches up under one of her scales and pulls out a small leather case.
Travis: Oh shit.
Matt: Pops open the case.
Marisha: Don't let her touch him.
Matt: And sits back and pulls open a somewhat weathered scroll. And starts reading off of it. (magical language)
Laura: Oh, no, what is this?
Marisha: No no no! Don't go, don't go--
Liam: Attack. I'm attacking her. She acted, she said don't touch, I said I'll base it off of Keyleth, so I'm attacking. I'm going to interrupt that.
Travis: Don't you want to see what happens?
Liam: No.
Matt: Okay. Hold on. You say attack based on-- Because you don't see this yet.
Marisha: I said don't let her touch him.
Travis: She's reading that scroll, man.
Matt: She hasn't touched him yet. But you're attacking on your own instinct.
Liam: If I've heard don't let her touch him, and she's doing that, those two things mean the same thing to me. She's doing something. Yes.
Matt: All right. I will say, for this, go ahead and make a dexterity check.
Liam: Dexterity check? All right. And I'll use my last Luck of the day.
Sam: I thought you did that already.
Liam: I had two. So that's a 28.
Matt: 28, okay. So you can make your attack. This with the dagger?
Liam: This is everything. How far away is she from me?
Matt: She's maybe like 20 feet, so you can--
Liam: All three attacks.
Matt: Well, you held your action, which means you can only take your action, you can't move as well.
Liam: Okay. Move? I don't need to move. How far away is she, you said--
Matt: 20 feet.
Liam: 20 feet. So I can throw daggers at her, right?
Laura: Yeah, but you can't throw your sword
Liam: No, but I have lots of daggers. I still have the Flametongue Dagger, which is not attuned, it's just a lame old dagger.
Matt: That's true, you can do that, yeah. So yeah, you can do that.
Taliesin: Oh boy.
Liam: First one is a 23.
Matt: A 23?
Liam: Second one is a 19. Third one is a 29.
Matt: Okay. So it was-- 29 hits. The first one...
Liam: God. I don't remember.
Laura: A 23.
Liam: 23 sounds familiar.
Matt: Right. The 19 was the one that didn't hit.
Liam: So two of the three hit? So it was hit-miss-hit, right? I think so. All right, so the first one is Whisper. Four plus eight is 12, plus psychic damage is 15, but there's no sneak attack, because there's nobody near her, and the Hunter's Mark-- Oh! Can I move Hunter's Mark to her at this point? I have no idea.
Matt: No, because you've used all your attacks.
Liam: It's a bonus? Okay. Got it. Okay. So 15 for the first and the second one. Oh, I don't need that. Is nine.
Matt: Okay, so what was the first attack? It was--
Liam: 15 plus nine.
Matt: 15? 15 plus nine. So the first attack was 15. Okay, maintains concentration. Maintains concentration.
Liam: And I'll use my movement to move between my sister and Raishan.
Laura: You can't do movement, because you were holding your action.
Liam: Okay.
Matt: Okay. So as both daggers come, you watch as it's muttering from the scroll, not both of her eyes, but one of the eyes turns to face you.
Laura: Like a chameleon.
Matt: Yeah. And narrows. The scroll finishes and (poof) turns to ash. And similar to something you've seen before, you watch as Thordak's corpse, which is currently buried into the rock with the face to the side, the breath filters into the mouth. The body still motionless, you recognize this similar or adjacent magic to the Speak With Dead--
Liam: We've seen Pike do it.
Matt: Yes.
Sam: She's just trying to ask a question, Vax. I mean, Jesus.
Liam: You're not here.
Matt: So as soon as that finishes, Raishan-- the other eye flickers over. Now both eyes are on you. And says, "Know what you're doing."
Liam: You're not walking away from this field. You're going to die. Maybe I will too, but you are going to die.
Matt: (chuckles) Okay.
Sam: We're men of our word. We're men of honor.
Matt: Raishan is going to...
Laura: She did attack our home.
Sam: I'm not saying she's great.
Matt: Hmm. Let me check one thing real fast.
Sam: Hmm. Oh boy. You stumped the chump.
Matt: Well, I'm trying to see what her reaction's going to be. Oh, okay. She feels comfortable with that. She goes, "Well, then. Come claim me!" And just steps away from Thordak. And with one big push of the wings, turns around and coasts into the chamber beyond you.
Liam: Out of sight?
Matt: Beyond, you can see her form disappear into the darkness. There's a little bit of an orange glow in there, but given that circumstance, yeah, she disappears into the shadows of the room.
Laura: Should I have taken my shots when things got aggressive?
Marisha: So she's coming towards us.
Matt: No, she's going the opposite direction.
Laura: I mean, did that look aggressive?
Matt: She flew away from your brother. But your brother did throw three daggers into her, and then said she was going to die.
Travis: Did she ask her questions of Thordak?
Laura: It might not have been the same fucking spell. It could have been something like it.
Travis: He said it looked very similar.
Laura: Yeah, adjacent.
Liam: I'm sure she was just going to ask about cooking recipes. It's fine.
Matt: So what are you going to do, attack or not? You watched your brother throw three daggers into Raishan, and tell her that she's going to die, and then Raishan basically abandoned Thordak's body and fled.
Laura: Said, "Come and claim me," and flew toward me?
Matt: Flew over you, and past, into the chamber.
Laura: Yeah, I'm going to attack.
Matt: Go for it. Roll your attacks!
Laura: Oh no.
Travis: Do it, Tiny Toon!
Liam: Go for it.
Sam: You got this, Bailes.
Marisha: I mean, she kind of released Thordak. She's totally Little Finger.
Laura: This isn't about vengeance, though, you guys.
Sam: What is it about?
Matt: Roll your attacks.
Liam: Five, four, three, two...
Laura: I don't know. (sad noise) That one doesn't hit. Probably. 18.
Matt: Nope.
Laura: That one probably hits. 27?
Matt: Yeah. (laughter)
Sam: Saddest attack ever.
Laura: And a natural fucking one. Fenthras can sense my trepidation.
Matt: Hah, apparently! So roll damage on one arrow strike. And it is, your hand's shaking at this moment, you're trying to figure out what to do. When she flies overhead, you release one arrow, pull back and pull another, and the second one is right as she's over and above, sinks in. And the third one, you fire after, and it hits the rock ceiling.
Laura: Just 15 damage.
Matt: 15 points of damage. All righty. Raishan just swoops into the darkness of the chamber beyond. Keyleth. You just manage to catch up at this point now, at a full run, this will be your full turn, catching up to Vex and Vax. Or Vax specifically, Vex is a little beyond, aggressive stance, Raishan nowhere to be seen, Thordak's corpse ground into the dirt.
Marisha: Where is she?
Liam: Forward.
Marisha: Are we going after her? I mean--
Taliesin: I'm not there.
Liam: Yes.
Marisha: I run deeper into the hole.
Matt: Okay. Jarett and Gilmore, at this point, manage to catch up to you guys, as well. It'll take a while for Grog and Kima to catch up to you guys.
Travis: Oh, I didn't say I was leaving.
Sam: Looting the giant's body?
Travis: No, there's a lizardfolk right there.
Matt: It's true, actually, yeah.
Travis: I want to see how many licks it takes to get to the center of a Tootsie Roll Pop.
Sam: One. It takes one lick.
Matt: Well, Grog, it's staring at you, going like (growl).
Travis: I reach out and go like (head crushing sound).
Matt: Make a strength check.
Travis: I have advantage on those. (laughter)
Travis: 18. 18 plus seven. 25.
Matt: 25? There's this moment where you're grabbing its head, and it reaches up and (frantic snarl).
Travis: Can't hear you, can't hear you. (laughter)
Matt: A very Riki-oh type moment. The head just pops outward in a smear of purple gore.
Travis: Oh, no. That's the show, folks. All right. Well. Anybody see that? Who's here?
Sam: My hand is near you.
Travis: Kima's there, right?
Matt: (chuckles) Bigby's Hand claps the wall, applause. (laughter)
Travis: Ha, fuck Bigby's Hand.
Matt: You look over at Kima, and Kima's kind of spattered with it, and she goes, "Well done!"
Travis: Smooth, right? Let's join everybody else.
Matt: "All right, all right." You're going your movement, about there, full speed. Kima's a little slower behind. She'll catch up at a full double-dash speed, there. Jarett and everybody else has kind of moved in. We'll say at this point, the rest of you--
Laura: (laughs) Jarett is just like--
Matt: He can't do anything, he's having a bad day, man.
Marisha: Poor Jarett.
Matt: So you guys all charge in after?
Taliesin: I'm doing the best I can, I can't see a damn thing.
Matt: No, you guys are far behind. So it's currently you three in the lead.
Travis: Should anybody stay out here in case she wants to come back out? You want me to stay out?
Matt: Do you want to move Bigby's Hand?
Sam: Yeah, for the rest of the one minute it works for. Which is not very long?
Matt: Nah.
Taliesin: If she makes her way out, that means we're all dead. Come on in. It'll be fun. Let's all die together.
Marisha: We'll go to the spa afterwards.
Matt: So you guys kind of rush into this chamber now, and the heat in here is more immense than anything you felt on the surface. This is kind of the core of the volcanic surge that Thordak's presence was pulling upward. You see within, there's this flow of lava. I want the three of you to roll perception checks, if you can.
Sam: Who's the three, Vax, Vex, and--
Liam: 31. 31.
Laura: This is at advantage because it's a dragon-related thing?
Matt: Well, are you looking for Raishan, or are you inspecting the room for details?
Laura: I don't know, what am I rolling for?
Matt: I was rolling to see just the general vicinity of the room.
Laura: Okay, 27.
Liam: 31.
Marisha: 25.
Matt: You guys, the first thing you notice as you glance around, is there are some kind of alcoves inside this chamber where the rock formations pull inward. You see kind of set into the stone and various bits of fallen rock and earth, a handful, somewhat spread out throughout the room, a handful of large nine-foot-tall dark, deep crimson red with crystalline elements to the outside, ovoid structures. These are what appear to be larger than normal, elementally altered dragon eggs. Five of them in the chamber.
Laura: Five bebes?!
Sam: (singing) Muppet Babies...
Laura: Can I look back at Thordak? What does it look like-- I know Raishan, like, (gasps) made him do that. Does it look like there's anything around him, or is he just dead-dead still?
Matt: He's a ways back. If you want to try and move back to him, you can. But, with your high perception, you glance up and see in the ceiling portion of this chamber where there are a number of these small caverns that are pressed up to the side, you see out of the top just the slight peeking of Raishan's face, kind of looking down into the chamber above you. And you watch as the teeth, something muttering in the mouth, the teeth grin as the ceiling of the room, you watch distortion in the air above you. Almost like these small portals kind of (multiple fwooshes) open, and coming flying out of them, you see four large, flaming rocks. Rocks. These are massive, fiery, meteorite-like boulders, that come firing out of the ceiling of the room (crashing sounds). Slamming into the ground around you, exploding in a massive explosions, rocking you. All you see is white, and ringing in your ears as your bodies are thrown from explosion to explosion. I need the three of you to make dexterity saving throws.
Liam: 25.
Marisha: I rolled a natural 19, so 22.
Laura: 29.
Sam: Wow, guys! That's really good rolling!
Matt: You guys take half damage. Well, here, let's do the first part. So, there's the fire damage. Which is 20d6.
Liam: What did we have to beat?
Matt: You had to beat 22.
Liam: Zero.
Matt: Right, so you take zero damage from this. Both of you take 63 points of fire damage. Halved, to 31. And then you each take 70 points of bludgeoning damage.
Marisha: 70?
Travis: That's 130-something total points.
Matt: As these flaming arcane meteors crash into the ground, detonating and destroying a portion of the cavern floor, lava spatters everywhere, and you watch as you duck out of the way as, Keyleth, what are your hit points at?
Marisha: I'm actually still up at-- What's 101 minus 119? 18 points.
Matt: 18 points. Set your hit points to that. You watch as your sister is thrown, her body unconscious, flung in the air like a ragdoll as it scatters to one end of the cavern. You can see the volcanic activity billowing up from the recent shaking of the room, as bits of the molten rock are flung across, as the green dragon face kind of withdraws in the cave. And I think that's where we're going to pick up next year. (yelling)
Matt: It's 11 22, guys! We gotta get home!
Sam: Next year?! We have to wait a year?!
Laura: I have to find out if I'm for sure dead.
Liam: I got you, I got you.
Laura: I'm across the fucking room.
Liam: Doesn't matter, I can fly 500 feet, I got you.
Taliesin: You're going to get the conclusion of this before the next season of Westworld.
Liam: Lay on Hands, dude.
Sam: No, she's dead.
Liam: No, shut up. I will kill you in the parking lot.
Matt: We will pick this up in January.
Travis: What was that called, those four flaming rocks?
Matt: That's called Meteor Swarm. That's a 9th-level spell.
Travis: Is that a spell? What level is that?
All: 9th-level.
Liam: She just blew her wad, she's done, we got a dragon and a flute.
Laura: She's not done.
Matt: You're right. She has nothing else up her sleeve. So. On that note.
Sam: Matt Mercer.
Matt: This could possibly be a whole different encounter, I don't want to keep you guys here until 1 AM. I know Laura has to record in the morning.
Laura: I do, I have to film all day.
Sam: I have an 8 AM session.
Matt: Well. Guys. This will be interesting. (groaning)
Matt: Yeah, it's going to take a few rounds for the rest of the party to get here.
Travis: She didn't get to ask any of the questions?
Laura: She might not have even needed to ask questions.
Sam: Of course she did, she cast a big spell to do it!
Marisha: Yeah, maybe she was doing it telepathically.
Sam: What are you talking about? She read a scroll!
Laura: Maybe it was just taking his soul into herself.
Sam: Information!
Matt: Regardless. (laugh) We are out for the evening, thank you all for sticking with us for this longer episode.
Liam: We should have just let her do what she wants, summon the most powerful thing in the universe.
Travis: I like that idea.
Marisha: Team Rowdy Half-Elves, what's up!
Matt: Yeah, the half-elves are down here in this chamber, with the Thordak eggs.
Marisha: Half-elves, running in, recklessly, yeah! Like we do!
Taliesin: I've got nothin'. Yeah.
Matt: (laughs) Anyway, guys. Thank you so much for watching, thank you guys for kicking ass in that battle.
Travis: Talks Machina next week?
Matt: Talks Machina on Tuesday. It's the Critmas episode, check it out.
Laura: Check out Backblaze.
Matt: Indeed, indeed. And I guess have a wonderful New Year to all of you guys, very happy holidays to everyone. All viewers, Critters, Team Hooman, and everyone who decides to spend their Thursdays with us. We really appreciate it. Love you very much, and we'll see you in the new year. Is it 2017 yet? [music]

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Sound: (no audible dialogue)
Matt: My name is Matthew Mercer, Dungeon Master for the show. Welcome to the chaos of this evening. Before we get into our actual game story, and the thread of what has transpired in recent events, we're gonna go through our quick announcements. First and foremost, tonight's episode is sponsored by us! Sponsored by the new year. Sponsored by, hopefully, have our sponsor contracts finalized soon, and we can have an actual sponsor soon, but until then, we are sponsored by you awesome people who come and watch the show. I think Sam had prepared a bit.
Sam: What-- I, yeah, I prepared a bit. That's pretty much it. Now, I'm gonna need a little quiet, because we've gotten a lot of feedback from fans, and so, this new feature we're gonna roll out. We're gonna have a telephone number that people can call and complain to, so I just wanted to-- I think I can use this mic if everyone can be quiet. I'm gonna just record our outgoing message for the-- the new phone line that we're setting up right now. So stand by. Thank you for calling Critical Role customer support. We value from your feedback and want to improve your experience. If you're calling to argue against one of Matthew Mercer's many, many rule violations, press one. If you're calling to cry because Ashley Johnson isn't on this episode, mash your forehead into your number pad repeatedly. If you're calling to lodge a complaint about Marisha Ray or the character of Keyleth, or how nothing she ever does is cool, press three. You will be given five minutes to rant and don't worry. Your message will make Marisha feel like shit within 24 hours. Quiet, guys. If you would like to complain about the technical aspects of the Twitch stream, please hang up and call 1-800-hashtag W-E-K-N-O-W. If you are offended by something Sam Riegel said on the stream, you can go fuck yourself. Thank you for your support. Okay, that's it.
Matt: Good, good. (laughter, applause) (talking over each other)
Liam: Pick up. Can I just, on behalf on all of us? (humming)
Matt: We miss you, Ashley. We miss you.
Laura: Always, always.
Travis: Start crying before the show starts.
Marisha: I look forward to all the voicemails.
Sam: Uh-huh.
Laura: Yeah, so many.
Liam: It's already full.
Taliesin: Yeah. It's like our very own This American Life episode. -I'm so excited.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: Thank you, Sam, for that fantastic message.
Liam: Wow!
Matt: We have some-- I think, some merch updates if you want to take that, Laura.
Laura: Oh, yes, we do! So if you guys check the store right now, there should be some Strongjaw Ale shirts available. I was getting some tweets about it, that, you know, we hadn't put those in store for a long time, so, we made some more and put them in the store. Along with the Gilmore shirts, and the How do you want to do this? and the regular logo shirt. All of those things available plus there are some How do you want to do this? hoodies left from the pre-order stock that we had a long time ago, so, there's a few of those left in the store, and... (ding) I have a tweet. Sorry. Sorry about that, and we also have these new, wait, where'd I put it?
Liam: On the back of your book.
Laura: Where's my book?
Liam: This is it.
Laura: Oh, I have it out. We have vinyl stickers now, you guys. Aren't they so spiffy?
Travis: Oh, yeah, look at it.
Laura: Yeah, I'm excited about those, so those are-- Those are here. Those are in the store for you.
Sam: For sale?
Laura: For sale, Sam!
Travis: Do we get them for free, do we get them?
Laura: You get-- you get-- you want one?
Liam: Heavily discounted.
Laura: Here you go.
Liam: Heavily discounted.
Laura: Do you guys want some?
Marisha: Yeah! I'll put it on my white car. (laughter)
Laura: So, yeah, there's all that stuff.
Sam: Amazing.
Travis: Those are awesome.
Laura: Yeah. And we have more hats too. There's hats again. All these things, you guys. Just so many things.
Taliesin: Loot!
Matt: We're trying to keep up.
Laura: Yeah, we're trying to do away with, like, the whole, you know, pre-order and wait a really long time to get your stuff, so, now we're trying to keep things in stock so you can actually buy it.
Travis: Yeah, trying to get it to you sooner.
Laura: Yeah!
Matt: Alright, thank you, Laura. Also want to mention for those who want to check it out. We've been running it for a few months now, but we have our Talks Machina Critical Role after-show Tuesday nights, 7:00PM Pacific time here on Twitch. And Alpha. It's hosted by our amazing Brian Foster.
Travis: He's a dick!
Matt: He is a dick, and that's part of his charm. But yeah, so if you haven't checked it out, you can come and watch us answer your community questions or ask questions to the @TalksMachina Twitter and watch us fumble our way through trying to explain our inane actions in the dice role-playing RPG we play every week. Anyway, check that out. Anybody else have anything else they want to talk about or mention or-- or say something?
Travis: Say-- say something?
Matt: Say something?
Marisha: You guys want to say anything? You didn't say anything this time. Do you want to say how much you love everybody?
Sam: Huh?
Laura: Oh, man.
Matt: Alright, let's go ahead and get us down to tonight's episode.
Sam: Bring on the catharsis!
Matt: Of Critical Role! (yelling)
Laura: Oh God, I got to--
Sam: We're not out, we're not out.
Travis: We're not-- (screaming)  (electricity crackling) 
Matt: Hello everyone and welcome back. So, get you up to speed with what's recently happened in our game. Vox Machina, our band of adventurers, have been traveling across Tal'Dorei, continents and planes of existence beyond, in search of the Vestiges of Divergence. Magical artifacts that can help outfit them for their coming struggle against the Chroma Conclave, a group of chromatic dragons that had terrorized and conquered the Tal'Dorei countryside for quite some time now. At the end of this venture, you've all, acquiring your relics of power, your levels of experience, and the allies you've amassed through this journey, converged upon the central capitol city of Emon in hopes of finally defeating and destroying Thordak, The Cinder King. You made a tenuous relationship with a member of the Conclave, Raishan, the Diseased Deceiver, the green dragon, and after killing the other three members of the Conclave, you went in with armies at your back, Ashari in the sky, who laid siege to the city as you snuck beneath the streets of Emon, emerging on the outskirts of the Cloudtop district through the help of your two allies: Zahra and Kashaw. You managed to bypass two waiting fire giants, push straight into the center of the mostly ruined cloud topped district where you confronted Thordak, The Cinder King, in his large, swollen powerful, primordial red dragon form. (shivers)
Laura: Sorry.
Taliesin: I was with you.
Travis: Gross.
Matt: It's a favored enemy, right? Just checking. You came prepared with-- with allies at your sides and full power you tore into Thordak and while many blows were sustained on both sides of the fray, Thordak fell on the battlefield. In those moments, as Thordak attempted to retreat into his lair, you, Vax, gave chase and slew the dragon using Whisper in your grasp. As a few of you came up behind, Raishan, as well, asked as part of the accord you had made to be given some time with the corpse of Thordak. It was decided that this was not to be allowed. She was not to be trusted, and an attack was made on Raishan. Though Raishan also had made a few unique choices of her own leading up to it. This led to a confrontation in Thordak's lair beneath the city where you all nearly got your asses handed to you. By-- by a well-prepared Raishan. However, in the midst of this battle, you did summon your ally, J'Mon Sa Ord. They're the leader of Ank'Harel, the distant city on the continent of Marquet, and a brass dragon, who upon arriving in this fray, full health and ready to fight, was enough of a threat to drive Raishan off in her damaged form before she could finish you off in your-- the state you were in.
Sam: So, it was worth it.
Taliesin: Yeah, it was definitely worth it.
Laura: Yeah!
Taliesin: Yeah, it was worth it.
Matt: However, you were then kept at bay by a wall of force as Raishan took two of Thordak's strangely existing eggs and flew into a tunnel towards the corpse of Thordak and then disappeared in a flash of purple energy before the wall dropped and you all just arrived halfway through the tunnel where the corpse of Thordak once lay to find it missing along with Raishan and the eggs that she had gathered. And that was where we had left off. So, as the rest of your party begins running up, winded, bloodied and still reeling from the intensity of the battle you just fought, you have the intense heat of a nearby cavern, the hints of-- of cracked red-hot Earth and rock that are kind of protruding in small sections. The sweat just pouring down your face. You run up and you can see the trail. The pool of blood that once was driven by the wounds left by your blade at the side of Thordak's corpse-- missing. The impact crater of Thordak's landing still carved into the side of this curved tunnel. You see, as Kima rushes up. Out of breath, you see Gilmore rush up and push his hair out of his face and there's a moment of silence as you all kind of take in what has just transpired. What do you want to do?
Travis: Using my magic, can I detect which direction the beast fled?
Matt: No.
Travis: Okay. I don't know anything.
Laura: Should we get, I don't know, does it matter to get any of his blood? Maybe we can track him easier?
Marisha: Yeah.
Laura: The body?
Sam: Thordak's blood?
Laura: Yeah, Thordak's blood.
Matt: Okay, so you go ahead and you pull-- Do you have empty vials currently?
Laura: I took a lot of potions, so I'm assuming so.
Matt: Yes, you would actually, so yeah. So you take some of the-- the mostly or completely emptied healing potion vials and collect--
Laura: I lick, I lick the bottle for all the remaining healing.
Matt: Little straw.
Laura: Like a Capri-Sun.
Matt: Yeah, exactly. Okay.
Marisha: I head back into the chamber and see if I can find any of, like, Raishan's scales or, like, Raishan blood or...
Laura: Maybe give it a moment just to let the lair actions die down a little bit.
Liam: What?
Laura: The-- you know, all the lava stuff happening in there.
Marisha: I'll watch from a distance and make sure that, you know, it's not boiling over.
Laura: It's safe?
Marisha: Yeah.
Liam: I'm gonna limp up to you. You're burnt all over.
Marisha: Yeah.
Liam: Hold still for a second.
Marisha: That really sucks. I want to assume that was karma. -Yeah.
Liam: Alright. I do have--
Marisha: I feel really bad for that duergar now. That sucks. That's a rough way to go. (laughter)
Liam: I cover her mouth with my hand for a second and use the last of Lay on Hands and I-- I checked with CritRoleStats, I do have ten left.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: So I'm gonna use eight, eight of those to heal you up a bit.
Marisha: Okay.
Laura: Eight whole points.
Liam: I only got ten.
Laura: Romeo. What do you do with those last two?
Taliesin: I just imagine like light slapping in the face just eight times. Pow, hit point, hit point.
Marisha: Lay on Hands, Lay on Hands.
Liam: One, two, three, four, five, six.
Matt: The Oath of Annoyance Paladin. Coming soon in the Tal'Dorei campaign book.
Liam: Thordak died like this. (laughter)
Matt: Alright, so as Vax heals you up with some of the remnants of his divine power still-- still in his body. Kima's kind of walking up to Keyleth and Gilmore goes over and starts helping you gather and separate some of the-- What little blood you can. A lot of its kind of just dug into the-- the rock and the dust but there are a little bit that you can kind of pull into it. It's not too clustered and filled with the equivalent of coffee grinds. What else are you guys doing?
Taliesin: Once the lair is safe, I want to get in and start examining it.
Marisha: Same.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. It takes, I'd say, probably a good two minutes or so before the-- the general tremors of the lair begin to subside. The presence of Thordak being long enough removed that the volcanic activity begins to come to a small, gentle end.
Laura: Actually, before we go back in, can I peek up on the surface level and see if it looks like the fighting has died down?
Liam: I was just about to say the same.
Matt: Uh, okay, you guys go up there?
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. Everyone else staying down?
Travis: Yep. -(Same) Yeah.
Matt: Okay, while you guys are waiting, the two of you rush up to the surface. The outside of the opening to Thordak's lair. Both of you guys make perception checks.
Travis: Don't die.
Laura: Twenty-seven.
Liam: Twenty-nine.
Matt: Okay. As you both peek through the-- the heated clouds of soot and ash that are billowing out from inside, your vision clarifies and you can see up into the sky the thunderstorm that has been encompassing the vicinity of Emon. It's still rolling and firing off bolts of lightning and thunder. (imitates thunder clap) In the distance. It is beginning to slowly subside to the size that it began, but you also notice that the wyvern riders that once rapidly swung through the air are all retreating en masse. The few that still remain into the southwest end of, now maybe, about a half mile off Emon, and a number of them are fleeing and catching up with them. It looks like they're being fended off and the tides, at least, have turned somewhat from where they began here in Emon. You also do notice that the-- the two doors that you guys originally entered, that you pushed through? One of the doors is now pushed off of its hinges and has fallen to the ground. The other is kind of partway off that-- that giant gate doorway, and just beyond it, you see what looks to be battle still ensuing. You hear the muffled screams echoing from outside that gate and streets beyond in Emon of hundreds of soldiers shouting into battle. Large heaving war cries of deep voiced giant-kin. You see bursts of flame in the distance and what looks to be bodies occasionally flung through the air to disappear past the horizon beyond the gate top. This-- there is still warfare raging in this city.
Liam: Can we see through that gate to where we parted with Kashaw?
Matt: From this distance, you cannot get that much more. You can just see the motion of-- You have to get closer.
Laura: So, we can't-- can I reach into my shirt and grab out that note that was on the arrow? I never read it.
Matt: Oh, yeah.
Laura: What is it?
Matt: It says, My gift to you, darling, use it well.
Laura: Oh, I knew it! We have to find them.
Liam: Let's go look. -Just a look.
Laura: Just stealth. To see if it looks like the giant is gone, and if Zahra and Kash are around.
Liam: Why don't we just cover like half the distance? -See what we can see from there.
Laura: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Matt: Okay, stealth check both you guys. 
Liam: Twenty-eight. 
Laura: Twelve.
Matt: Wow.
Laura: I know.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: I'm-- you know, I've-- I'm injured grievously.
Matt: You are. You snatched from the jaws of death temporarily, you find yourself physically affected more than you would have expected and what seemed to you as just an instant of darkness, and as you begin to try and follow after your brother, you find yourself stumbling and falling to one knee and trying best to keep up.
Laura: Oh, shit.
Matt: At this time, you notice two figures running from the opening in that gate in your direction. You see it first, but you see it for a moment after him. You see bloodied, bruised, but still in a full sprint both Kashaw and Zahra rushing in your direction and you hear Kash just yelling out, "Vox Machina! You're alive, right?"
Laura: Keep it down, you fuck! Come on, come on into this hole.
Matt: "Hole?" "Yes, the hole, darling." "Right." And they both rush up and as you guys are catching up with them, you notice, by the gate, pushing through what looks to be another fire giant wielding a sword kind of dragged behind, kind of pour through. (yells) And just begins going into a-- a large bounding sprint in your direction.
Laura: Oh, God.
Liam: Running.
Laura: Giants, giants at the door. -Giants!
Taliesin: I am moving towards it.
Travis: Yeah, now we're all going on up towards the hole.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Can I shoot an arrow at him?
Matt: As you're saying "giants" into your ear, you watch as two crossbow bolts kinda... into the back of the head of the giant and giant goes... and stops and looks over the shoulder and you see a flash of light behind him. An impact into the back of the black ironed giant's armor. Like a sudden impact of a fiery meteor just slams into it. (yells) And the giant stumbles to one knee before another blow hits him right across the back of the head and the fire giant just falls on face first unconscious onto the ground. Little cloud of dust and dirt kind of billows up to the sides. There you see, by the front of the gate, you see Jarret with crossbow right there and standing, and now stepping up onto the back of the giant's armor and slamming a flashing bright radiant war hammer into the back of its neck. You see, in chain mail, long beard, white streaked, billowing war torn hair pulled into a tight ponytail towards the back, a familiar face. You see Kerrek, currently of white-- of Westruun standing, wipes his brow and looks up and takes notice of your presence immediately. Patrick, if you want to come on the stage.
Laura: What the fuck? (applause, cheers)
Sam: Geez, Louise! Patrick Rothfuss.
Laura: Scooch on by since it's so easy to make your way. (laughing)
Matt: Our set is so conducive to movement.
Travis: Oh! I didn't break it.
Laura: The whole set falls down.
Matt: I know!
Laura: Kerrek, you can fight!
Patrick rothfuss: I get to sit next to my besty.
Marisha: Yeah! My new besty.
Liam: What in the fuck?
Laura: I thought you were-- I thought-- you can fight?
Patrick rothfuss: Uh.
Laura: Uh, yeah, you just brought down a giant, no big deal.
Patrick rothfuss: Uh, team effort. Like is everything cool now? Like is this the last of them?
Matt: For one, I think you might want to move a little bit over to get into the camera.
Travis: Yes, come on over.
Matt: Just a smidge for the audience.
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: Yeah, yeah.
Matt: There you go, and as you've been in this fray for quite some time and the exhaustion's starting to mount on you a bit, and the-- the two individuals that you and your-- your allies have come upon, being the smaller unit, you manage to penetrate further into the city then the main armies that were pushing towards the gates. You saw the golden-armored human and the Tiefling currently struggling with, what looked to be, five fire giants. Three that had come up behind the two that they had ensnared, and after minutes of battle and tearing through them it looks like you finally gain the upper hand. You've lost a number of allies through this-- this incursion, however, these are the really, really familiar welcome faces given the perpetual onslaught that you've seen since you first arrived in Emon.
Patrick rothfuss: He--he probably just says, "Is it done?"
Laura: Is it?
Patrick rothfuss: That's his-- that's his opener.
Laura: I mean, eh.
Liam: Ish.
Laura: Thordak was killed.
Matt: Kashaw pipes up and says, "So you killed the thing? You killed it, it's dead, right?"
Laura: Mm-hmm.
Matt: "Please tell me you killed the thing."
Laura: Yes, the thing is dead.
Liam: We killed thing.
Laura: And gone. Literally, gone.
Matt: "Great."
Laura: Stolen.
Matt: "Fantastic, that's-- that's wonderful, great." -"We can go home."
Patrick rothfuss: Stolen?
Laura: Can I hug Zahra?
Matt: Yeah, she-- she eagerly puts her arms out and as you guys kind of embrace real fast, she kind of-- both of you almost, from the impact, stop, the bruising sets in.
Matt: "Darling, careful."
Laura: Yeah, yeah, I know, darling. Injured.
Patrick rothfuss: How-- how do these guys look?
Matt: You don't see them yet, you just see these two. And after a moment of these hugs happen, you kind of catch your breath. You notice a few more figures appear from out of this large craterous hole in the ground in the center of this ruined district, and from there you watch as the familiar Percival, Scanlan, oh no, you stay behind? Grog and Keyleth all emerge from the hole.
Patrick rothfuss: How's she look?
Sam: Whoo!
Matt: A little-- a little singed, a little burned. A little worse for wear, but alive. Can't say that much different from the rest of her allies as well.
Patrick rothfuss: Okay. I might actually kind of lumber a little bit in that direction as if I were going in for a hug, and then stop when I remember that maybe I'm not that sort of person. (laughter) It looks-- it looks actually very awkward. (laughter)
Taliesin: Oh, good. This is-- this is a face I would like to see.
Marisha: Kerr?
Laura: He just killed a giant with his giant hammer of blazing white--
Marisha: Keyleth just closes the distance and runs up and just hugs Kerr.
Patrick rothfuss: Big bear hug, big bear hug.
Marisha: What are you doing here?
Patrick rothfuss: Same as everyone. Been doing-- doing as much as a person can do.
Marisha: I got your gift.
Patrick rothfuss: I'm so glad of that.
Marisha: It meant everything.
Patrick rothfuss: Oh.
Marisha: Maybe even a little too literally, like-- like 20 minutes ago. A lot of passing through fire here lately.
Patrick rothfuss: Yeah.
Taliesin: To break the awkward briefly, dear.
Travis: Yeah, much war still happening.
Laura: Maybe we should go down.
Taliesin: Wait!
Marisha: I sky write up in the air, is there like a-- like a sigil of Emon? Like a--
Matt: I mean, there is a crest for the city. You can do a simplified version of it, if you like.
Marisha: I do that into the sky with Sky Write.
Matt: Okay, so the storm, which is still raging, but it's moving itself southwest to almost follow the-- the wyvern riders that have survived this battle so far and are fleeing from the scene. The clouds then begin to shift and shape and the darkness separates into what looks like little plumes of white that spell out a very basic rendition of the symbol of Emon.  What else you wanna do?
Travis: Is Kash there?
Matt: Kash is there with you guys.
Travis: How's he look?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: He looks pretty messed up. There are a few large sections of armor that have been just cloven through and you see a number of flesh wounds sustained but nothing mortal, but he-- He holds himself with a kind of a knowing confidence with his arms crossed, but as soon as any sort of physical movement, there is a little bit of a wheeze and a trying to cover for the physical impact of the battle he's just sustained.
Travis: You look a little worse for the wear there.
Matt: "I don't know what you mean, I'm sorry."
Travis: Oh, I'm sorry. Z, did he go unconscious?
Matt: "Actually, no, he fought quite bravely."
Travis: Are you lying?
Matt: "No."
Travis: Shit.
Marisha: She's lying.
Travis: Good job, I guess, Kash.
Matt: He goes, "You didn't too bad yourself, big man." Smacks you on the shoulder and goes... (whimpering)
Travis: No, that would never hurt me.
Liam: I'm gonna walk up to him as well, cause he looks fucked up and say, "Hey, thank you for the assist, Spanky." And I'm gonna give him two slaps of the cheek and leave a couple of black feathers stuck there with sweat and use the last of my Lay on Hands on him.
Taliesin: Now that-- now that we've sent the word, maybe now-- (indistinct talking) The conversation's underground.
Marisha: Okay.
Liam: Everything hurts.
Matt: What's your armor class?
Liam: Twenty-one.
Matt: He knees you gently enough in the nuts to get you to drop to one knee.
Travis: "Gently enough."
Matt: "That's two." (laughter)
Travis: Yes, good throwback!
Liam: I laugh through it.
Travis: Good callback.
Taliesin: Are there-- are there any soldiers running around by the way? Right now, any of our people?
Matt: Right now, some soldiers are beginning to pour in through the gate that they emerged from. Some of your allies, some from other armies that are starting to find their way towards the center core of the city. Not everyone's been made aware that the-- the center of this battle has already been won, essentially.
Travis: Damn it.
Matt: So, people are starting to come in and calm down a bit and then rush back out to see what else is there. You watch as a few wyvern riders try and scoot through the sky to catch up with the rest of them as a bolt of lightning... Slams into one and you see it... (yells) Streak and tumble and then crash somewhere on the outside of the district.
Taliesin: I'm gonna fire a couple of times into the air just to get some attention and just, "Spread the word, Thordak has fallen! Spread the word!" Now, we can go down.
Matt: You see some of the soldiers immediately kind of look at each other and you can hear the-- sound of the shouting and whispering back and forth. Voices are shouting, "Thordak has fallen! Thordak has fallen! Thordak has fallen!" It starts just carrying throughout the city and echoing.
Marisha: Call the locksmith!
Matt: Everyone goes, "What?" "Sorry, Thordak has fallen!" (laughter) So, as you-- you follow them and gather into the area, or you want to--
Patrick rothfuss: I'd say, just as-- and I have to go talk. I'm like, "Samantha, it's you. Circle everyone up. Make sure the people are taken care of."
Matt: "Yes."
Patrick rothfuss: And it's just like, 30--
Sam: Another campaign going on. lots of campaigns have just briefly touched.
Patrick rothfuss: It's a couple-- a couple dozen moderately well armored, but you know, like... These-- these are not maybe crack troops. They have a lot of heart.
Liam: Do they have any hit points?
Patrick rothfuss: More than you might expect. Yeah, and so I just, I square them away. They can take care of themselves by now, at least for a bit.
Matt: Yeah, they set up a small perimeter to the entrance ways to the district and are awaiting other forces to arrive and inform them of what's going on and still stay alert for any stragglers of the battle.
Liam: What a world, what a world.
Matt: As you-- What'd you do?
Marisha: I just-- I grab Kerr and I start ushering him down into the hole.
Patrick rothfuss: Okay.
Marisha: Into the hole!
Matt: Laura.
Laura: I'm so sorry!
Matt: You are-- you're my favorite 13 year old.
Patrick rothfuss: It's-- it's a lovely hole. (laughter)
Liam: That's what they tell me.
Matt: There's room for everyone.
Patrick rothfuss: It's been a long time for me, you know. I haven't done this recently.
Liam: I'm in here all the time. All the time.
Matt: While this is happening, Scanlan, you stayed down there with Kima and Gilmore.
Sam: Yeah, I sort of moseyed my way back to the beginning-- to the opening of the lair, like, where I had tossed the flute.
Matt: Yeah.
Liam: And I pick it up, and I carefully divide my sachet of Suude into three parts. Three thirds. And I'm going to snort one third of it.
Matt: Okay. The large brass dragon that has currently -been heading at the end--
Sam: He can watch. They can watch, they can watch, they can watch.
Matt: At the end of the tunnel, Devo'ssa, they've slowly brought down to their hands and knees after travelling through and scoping out the interior of the lair. Approaches you as you're pulling out your stash and you know, Gilmore and Kima approaching as well. "What have you there?"
Sam: I've had a... Not a great day, Devo'ssa. Thank you for coming. For answering our call. I just need a second to myself if you don't mind.
Laura: Isn't Pike still down there?
Matt: Technically, Pike would still be down there with him.
Sam: Maybe just turn a wing? (laughter)
Matt: They give a curious glance as Gilmore kind of walks up and brushes his hair back, which it catches your eye interestingly. There is like a glowing rune of some kind in the center of Gilmore's forehead. He kind of brushes the hair out of the way and he goes, "If a man wants some privacy, give him some privacy. I just want to ask you a few questions. It's not very often I get to talk to... J'Mon." And Gilmore walks up as the dragon sits back up and puts out a claw and kind of lifts Gilmore into his claw. They both begin having a conversation back and forth, which, at this point Pike is also curious and begins to pay attention and sidles up next to you as you begin divvying out and goes--
Sam: Are they talking in their language, the Marquet language or--
Matt: If you want to listen in--
Sam: No, no, I'm just curious.
Matt: Marquesian, and yes, they are.
Sam: Exciting.
Taliesin: I don't speak that.
Matt: As you begin taking it out and you're getting ready to go ahead and snort one portion.
Sam: One third.
Matt: One third of your Suude. Pike approaches from behind and claps her gauntlet onto your shoulder and says, "Scanlan, you okay?"
Sam: Oh, yeah, I just-- This is some, some healing herbs that I got.
Matt: "Okay, well, if I-- I'm trained in-- in medicinal applications if you need my help." (laughter)
Sam: I put it away. (laughter)
Travis: Pike cures all.
Matt: She looks over towards Kima and Kima is now approaching the rest of you guys and walking into the lair and they're feeling out the vicinity to see if the lair actions have come to a halt, and made it safe. And so Pike begins shouting out orders, like, "Alright, we have to make a perimeter! Make sure there's no other exits! Make sure there's no-- nothing else waiting for us in this cavern! I'm giving orders to a dragon. You, dragon! Help us do a perimeter, please!" And kind of interrupting the conversation between Devo'ssa and Gilmore. The brass dragon turns the head down. "Well, if you insist, small one." And sets Gilmore back down onto the center of the lair floor and... They just begin to walk perimeter as Pike joins up and you are still left alone in the tunnel, should you be so inclined.
Sam: Alright, I'll whip it out again. (laughter)
Matt: Make an intelligence check if you don't mind. Just add your intelligence.
Sam: Oh, not good.
Taliesin: Wow.
Laura: You're gonna put it in your butt. (laughter)
Sam: Six!
Matt: Six!
Travis: Six total?
Matt: Okay. This looks exactly like the kind of substance you should be snorting for use. So, you-- you take a bit of the Suude, and this-- this particular Suude, taking a closer look at it, the grains of it, and it's like-- almost like a-- like a brown sugar type texture to it. It is a dark brown color to it. It looks like a crystallized dirt almost and you kind of like take-- take a second, look around. (sniffs) It burns! It burns. Oh, man, does it burn! It burns a lot, and you're like... (groaning)
Sam: No effect?
Matt: It burns, that's an effect.
Sam: Okay. I take out the flute. I pack some in the front of it. (laughter)
Matt: This is how you treat relics that were gifted to you by the leader of a foreign nation by turning the expended energy into a makeshift pipe.
Sam: I'm taking another third and I'm packing it in the front of the flute.
Travis: Oh, please let it be-- (talking over each other) Free basing, so! (talking over each other)
Sam: I will dip a torch into a bit of lava to light it. (laughter) And I am going to bong rip from this ancient brass flute. (laughter)
Matt: Alrighty. I need you to make a constitution saving throw.
Laura: What are you doing?!
Sam: Constitution saving--
Matt: Constitution saving.
Laura: Constitution saving throw!
Matt: Constitution saving throw.
Sam: Not good. (laughter) -Eight.
Matt: Eight. Roll 1d4.
Sam: Here we go, here we go. Three.
Matt: As you inhale deeply, as opposed to the burning sensation from when you decided to snort the granules, the smoke and mist that emerges as it fills your lungs, actually has a-- a very fine herbal taste to it almost and it is warm, and there's a head rush immediately that hits you. You feel for a moment your vision kind of crystallize and clarify all of a sudden. All the colors become briefly brighter and you feel this slight pulse of-- of energy whenever you cast a spell, like the fingers kind of warm at the tips and you feel the immediate need to just practice something. Right before your vision gets blurry, and dark. As-- Yeah, that's it, the rest of you guys-- The rest of you guys come walking down the tunnel, being careful, you know, weapons out, but talking, kind of getting up to speed with what's transpired. You look in the distance and you can see within the lair and you're seeing this, it's a down-- A decline into this large heavy tunnel that is just made of volcanic rock and blackened stone with occasional cracks of-- of melting rock that are just spilling through and these small orange glowing pockets into this large central underground cavern that has an entire pool of molten rock that is kind of spiraling through portions of the floor. There is a large brass dragon just casually strolling around the opposite side. Huge, gargantuan in size, strolling around and a few other humanoid individuals, and you guys watch as a singular male gnome ally is face down on the ground not moving.
Travis: Oh, there was no one even in here!
Laura: Can I run up to him?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: Scanlan? Smack him a couple times, does he wake up?
Matt: Nope.
Laura: Can I roll him over?
Patrick rothfuss: Probably get over there pretty quick too. It's not that I don't think that these guys can take of their own wounded, but--
Matt: Yeah.
Patrick rothfuss: Yeah.
Matt: So, you rush up and have both of you make a medicine check right now.
Laura: Oh my God.
Sam: This is everything. (laughter)
Marisha: Great time for a personal crisis. Great timing!
Liam:  I'll do anything for Suude 
Laura: Only eight.
Taliesin: That's the end of his turn.
Marisha: Yes, that was his turn. -Yeah.
Taliesin: Fair.
Laura: But I've got a Cure Wounds potion I can-- a Cure Wounds spell I can use.
Matt: But what'd you roll your medicine check?
Laura: Eight.
Matt: Eight.
Patrick rothfuss: Not great, like, is he gushing blood?
Matt: No, there is no blood from his wounds.
Patrick rothfuss: (sniffing) Do I know what that smell is?
Matt: What'd you roll for your medicine check?
Patrick rothfuss: Not worth speaking of. Like 6.
Matt: Okay, okay. So you're not sure exactly what happened. You do smell this strange kind of herbal, almost like an incense scent that is centered around his area and he is breathing. But he is not conscious.
Liam: Pike!
Patrick rothfuss: Can I check for poison?
Laura: Can I do a nature check to see if I recognize the scent?
Matt: Sure, make a nature check.
Laura: I'm gonna cast Cure Wounds on him, just to try it.
Liam: And I'm just shouting out Pike's name.
Marisha: Ooh, I rolled a natural 19.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: So that's 29-- no 30 total.
Matt: Okay, best that you can make, strangely enough, there's-- the scent is medicinal almost, but it's also synthetic in a way that's not natural. This-- whatever this smell is, it's not a natural incense.
Sam: PCP. It was laced.
Travis: Anyone check to see if the pipe's still packed?
Marisha: Yeah, are there any signs around Scanlan as--
Matt: Well, yeah, there is-- There is the tarnished brass flute that was gifted to him by the leader of the foreign city of Ank'Harel that is currently tarnished by the use of its magic and it is jammed pack with a black ashy crystalline substance with a trail of smoke that is kind of lazily drizzling off the tip.
Travis: What did J'Mon do to him? (laughter)
Laura: Well, regardless of what's going on, you healed 13 points.
Sam: Oh, that's nice.
Marisha: Okay, I pick up the pipe, since I recognize what-- that's where the scent is coming from. Can I like, do an investigation check or something?
Laura: Can I smack him across the face as hard as I can?
Matt: You can.
Laura: Even though I just healed him.
Marisha: If I can put together what's going on.
Patrick rothfuss: This obviously-- if he's not gushing blood. Some sort of poison going on.
Matt: Okay, so-- so--
Sam: Am I having any sort of dream, Matt?
Matt: No, darkness.
Travis: Darkness.
Matt: You utilize Detect Poison and you don't-- you don't sense anything that is clarified toxin to the point where it would register as a poison, so at least, you're calm-- you're calmed to know that there isn't something coursing through his system right now that is in danger of killing him.
Patrick rothfuss: Okay.
Marisha: Fifteen.
Matt: Fifteen on investigation?
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: Yeah, he smoked something out of this. (laughter)
Marisha: Guys. I feel like this was a classic Scanlan. In terms of choices, I don't think anyone did this.
Laura: I don't understand.
Marisha: I'm gonna start kind of, like, like kinda, can I start seeing if I can find whatever he put in this pipe?
Matt: Make an investigation check as you start rummaging through his stuff.
Marisha: Eleven.
Matt: Alright, you're pulling through pockets. He has a lot more pockets than you'd expect.
Laura: Can I do investigation check? Cause I'm good at hiding things on my person.
Marisha: Hey, Vex-- Vex, look. I-- I think he did something. I think he-- he tried something. Look and see if you can find what might be-- what he might have put in this pipe.
Matt: So they're starting to go the rest of his pockets. Make an investigation check. What'd you get here, Vex?
Laura: Goddammit, I'm rolling like shit! Ten.
Matt: Okay, you both start pulling through the pockets before Scanlan--
Sam: I have a porn book that they might find.
Matt: And you do, you find a fantastic small pocket sized tome that manages to contain a lot of very, very detailed pieces of artwork about male and female anatomy.
Travis: I'll take that.
Marisha: I take the pipe. Sorry, the flute.
Matt: You also, you watch as Scanlan begins to shift and his eyes begin to flutter open and you-- you come back to consciousness with a mild headache with all of your friends gathered around and Keyleth and Vax with their hands in your pockets.
Laura: I'm Vex, hi.
Matt: Vex.
Laura: Hi.
Sam: Get your hands out of my pockets.
Laura: What the fuck did you do?
Sam: Wait, first. Are you real? (laughter)
Taliesin: No.
Sam: Is this a hallucination?
Travis: Yep.
Taliesin: Yes.
Marisha: Scanlan, why would you be asking if this is a hallucination? Just curious.
Sam: We've had a very rough day. How do I feel, Matt?
Matt: I mean, you feel like there was-- there was something to the rush, but your body rejected it.
Sam: Rejected it. -Hmm, interesting.
Marisha: Huh.
Travis: Are you tired? You were asleep when we found you.
Laura: Face down.
Sam: I was shaken by today's events and there was a lair action that knocked me unconscious.
Travis: Holy shit.
Laura: What's a lair action?
Sam: I mean, there was a trap set by Thordak previously to his death that knocked me unconscious?
Laura: What's in this flute, you piece of shit? What's in the flute?
Sam: Herbs, give it to me!
Marisha: No, no, no.
Laura: No, you're too short, you can't even reach.
Marisha: I'm too--
Taliesin: Angry T-Rex.
Marisha: Can I do an insight check on him?
Matt: Sure. Scanlan, make a deception check.
Sam: Thirty-two. (laughter)
Matt: What'd you get, Keyleth?
Marisha: Twenty-two.
Matt: Legitimately, like, aw, I guess a misunderstanding.
Sam: I'm shaken, guys, I'm sorry. I'm-- I'm not myself.
Travis: Was it like poison gas or like lava or did a rock fall on your head?
Sam: I appreciate your concern but what the fuck, Vax? Why did you just charge in after Raishan like that? See how I did that? (laughter)
Taliesin: This is the best thing ever.
Sam: Next time, will you please tell us?
Laura: There wasn't a lot of time there, Scanlan.
Liam: She was casting. She was reaching for whatever it is she's been angling for for months.
Sam: Well, you almost got me fucking killed, alright?
Travis: Actually, you-- you did get killed.
Laura: You died, so did I.
Sam: That's even worse than almost being killed.
Liam: I reach out and I do this thing to his eye. Like that (indistinguishable). What did you think we were coming here to do? We're here to-- the fucking world is on fire.
Sam: Yeah, but we're your backup. You don't go in without your backup. You've done this so many times at this point. You've got to wait for your backup to go.
Liam: I do--
Sam: Listen! I will do anything that you want me to do. I will kill Kerr right-- hi, Kerr, by the way. I will kill him dead right now if you want me to. That's how much you are my brother. You need to trust us and tell us what you're doing. Kerr, no offense.
Patrick rothfuss: None taken.
Liam: I hear what you're saying. She was reaching for whatever power she has been working towards and I wasn't going to freely let her take it, and you weren't there. Fate didn't place you there, and when we ran in that cave, you were ten seconds behind me.
Sam: I have little legs.
Liam: Listen. -We failed.
Sam: I know.
Liam: Hard. It doesn't mean it was wrong to try.
Sam: That's true. Man, we really did fail though.
Liam: If not now, when? If not us, who? 
Laura: Well, it's not now, so, when?
Marisha: And it is us, so.
Taliesin: And I'm not calling this a failure.
Marisha: You're not calling this a failure?
Taliesin: I'm not calling this a failure.
Sam: Well, it is.
Taliesin: We bought time.
Marisha: What?
Taliesin: What?
Travis: Yeah, we shit the bed on that. It was a complete failure.
Laura: Truly, here's the thing.
Taliesin: Two dragons!
Laura: If she had succeeded, if we hadn't attacked her when we did, and she had succeeded in whatever she's about to do with Thordak, you know, we probably would have had to fight a much more powerful Raishan or Thordak again or whatever the fuck she's doing.
Liam: We don't know what it was.
Travis: Yep.
Liam: And I wasn't about to stand back and listen to her Scooby Doo monologue. I wanted to put an end to it.
Sam: What's Scooby Doo, man?
Travis: Don't know, folk tale.
Liam: It's an island far away in the next campaign.
Sam: Listen, I get it, I know. I know why you acted and I probably would have done the same thing had I been closer, but just next time, give us some sort of a heads up, alright? We have a code word and everything.
Liam: HolyshitI'mthrowingthedagger.
Laura: Jenga, I think it's jenga.
Liam: It doesn't apply to this situation. I'm sorry, you weren't there. She was moving. The only thing I regret is that she got away. I'm sorry, Scanlan.
Sam: I'm sorry too.
Liam: I reach out and I pick him up by the scruff and I walk off to a far end of the cave. Away from everybody else. I shove him down in a corner. Sit still, don't say anything. Really, don't say anything. This is gonna take a minute. And I start to unbuckle armor.
Laura: Oh, no!
Liam: Shush! I start to unbuckle armor, and it takes awhile as we learned with that fucking wolf.
Matt: Yeah.
Liam: And I reach down into my bag--
Matt: As you're in the middle of unbuckling, Kima has kind of approached from the side of the wall and goes, -like, What--
Liam: Sup girl?
Matt: You know what, keep going. And she kind of just leans back and crosses her arms with her sword sheathed behind her back and there's a little part of her looking at you, Scanlan, as this is happening that says, very silently, Remember that phantom dick circumstance that happened back in the Underdark? I'm gonna enjoy watching this. With her eyes. Reach, reach, reach and I pull out a piece of paper, yeah? I shove it into your chest. That was for if I died. If you're gonna die, don't do it with a fucking flute up your ass, alright? And I storm off. 
Sam: I have a piece of paper?  Can I read it? Does it exist?
Matt: Yeah, yeah.
Sam: What is it? 
Taliesin: It's a Critical Role sticker.
Patrick rothfuss: Vinyl sticker.
Taliesin: Vinyl sticker.
Matt: Pardon me while I pull up the actual information that this has.
Travis: While you're pulling that up, is there anything shiny in the cave that I can walk towards? Cause I'm bored.
Laura: Oh my God, if I roll poorly on a perception check for loot, I'm gonna be so sad.
Matt: Alright, let me pull up--
Travis: All this like lava and gold, there's got to be gold, right? Platinum.
Liam: Melted together in big hunks.
Travis: Yeah, like cheese, if we're lucky. What? You don't dream of cheese in your treasure?
Liam: That's not what she means when she says cheddar.
Travis: Oh! What-- I cannot keep up.
Matt: Was it in text or an email? (laughter) I didn't have it at the ready.
Liam: Fairly short, it says, You were right.
Sam: To me?
Laura: About what?
Sam: Alright.
Laura: I know, but--
Sam: And I just fold it up and put it one of my pockets that seem to have been messed with. Well, I'll just sit there and think for a while.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: As Vax walks back, I kind of pull him aside and I say... You ran in after me. This is-- Partially on me as well. Us, all of us, I guess. 
Liam: We're not mercenaries. We didn't come here looking for a fight we knew would be easy to win.  We do what we have to do. When we landed on the shores at Glintshore, we fought and we kept going because it's what needed to be done. 
Marisha: Kerr. I--I tried to be the hammer that you said I needed to be, and I don't know-- I don't know.
Patrick rothfuss: Oh, no. I-- I might not be great at writing letters. This is not my--
Marisha: Oh no, that was a pretty great letter.
Patrick rothfuss: You don't need to be anything, and you certainly don't need to be anything other than what you are. But he has-- he has a good point. I mean, you-- In situations like this, you do what you have to do. Everyone does what they can do and you can't do anymore.
Marisha: I feel like I focus so much on just my want for revenge and justice against Raishan that I made it so personal that I forgot that this isn't about me. It's ultimately not about any of us. There's something so much bigger going on here and...  Maybe my onus and guilt was, in some way, selfish. I don't-- I don't know. 
Patrick rothfuss: Well, congratulations, you're a person like the rest of us. No, and I mean no offense, but we all do it. And if you think it was wrong, then you can do it a little different next time. (sighs)
Marisha: I admire your wisdom.
Patrick rothfuss: No, no, no, no.
Marisha: I do!
Patrick rothfuss: No, don't. Don't do that.
Marisha: Would you be willing to lend, at least, a little bit of your knowledge to help us maybe find Raishan?
Patrick rothfuss: If, for what it's worth. It seems like you won, you didn't win, you failed, someone was killed, but they're lost?
Marisha: Well, you know, that was a pretty good summary actually, yeah.
Liam: Killed one dragon, picked a fight with another.
Laura: Got our asses kicked.
Liam: Didn't go as well as the first, and the second made off with the first.
Patrick rothfuss: Sounds like you maybe got sandbagged a little bit?
Travis: Yeah.
Laura: Yeah.
Patrick rothfuss: Okay, that's always the worst.
Laura: Yeah.
Patrick rothfuss: And you can't expect to win that fight.
Marisha: She knew far more about us the whole time than we ever knew about her, and that's still the case.
Liam: Almost did.
Patrick rothfuss: I see that you're alive.
Marisha: Yes.
Patrick rothfuss: And if you get caught unawares by a dragon who has been gathering intelligence on you and you walk away, that is not nothing.
Taliesin: She downright ran.
Liam: She did.
Travis: I thought she teleported.
Taliesin: I'll miss you. (laughter)
Travis: Where am I going?
Matt: As this conversation's happening, in the intensity of the emotions, you notice that Gilmore, Kima, and Devo'ssa, the brass dragon, are all just kind of sitting watching. Devo'ssa has their hands kind of clasped in front with their jaw resting on the edge and just kind of watching, and the-- the dragon's voice kind of billows up forth. "Ah, the drama of such short lives. It's heartwarming for us who don't get the chance to see it often enough. It's lonely in the tower."
Laura: You know, you can come down and join us whenever you like.
Matt: "I appreciate the offer, however, the longer I'm away from my city, the more in danger I leave it. I have many enemies, as does Ank'Harel, and I can guarantee you the moment that I absconded with your magic to aid you, that's the opening they've been waiting for, so I have to return to my city and my people, but I believe our debt is collected. Your victory against Thordak complete from where I once left it. I wish you luck."
Sam: Would you-- would you like-- You lent me this symbol, this necklace. Necklace? Symbol. Would you like it back?
Matt: The large brass dragon face kind of shifts down right up to you and the immensity to distance is already intimidating, but when the front of the snarling jaws, the immensity of the nostrils flare right at the presence of a gnome sized individual... You've grown up fighting the sensation of feeling small in comparison to the world around you. You feel truly small this close to the front of the dragon's maw. The teeth curl into a grin and the voice kinda billows out, like, a slow rolling landslide into your face with the warmth of its breath. "Nah, keep it."
Marisha: J'Mon!
Matt: And just steps over and starts making its way up the hall-- the cavern towards the district.
Marisha: Before you leave? If you were fighting a green dragon named the Diseased Deceiver, who wanted ultimate power over her domain, where would you start?
Matt: "In my opinion, entities that are this intelligent, you never want to wait for them to fight on their terms."
Travis: Good answer.
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: And the slow rolling impacts of the dragon's feet grow quieter and quieter before you hear eventually... The wings lifting up and you see as a cloud of smoke and ash kind of pulls forth into the tunnel, showing the lift off as you can only ascertain J'Mon Sa Ord, leader of Ank'Harel, the brass dragon begins flight back towards their home.
Laura: Oh, shit, did J'Mon fly here that entire way?
Sam: No, I don't I don't think so.
Travis: Flash.
Sam: Maybe.
Laura: I was joking, I was joking.
Sam: As terrible as this day has been, there is some gold at the end of the tunnel.
Travis: Which is probably rigged to explode.
Taliesin: I think it's probably-- well--
Sam: Want to go check it out?
Laura: Kind of feel like, we should, you know-- Heal up a bit. I've been here before. It didn't go so well.
Patrick rothfuss: Yeah, how knocked about are they? I mean, obviously, singes and abrasions and--
Laura: Like really, really knocked to shit.
Travis: Raise your hand if you have less than 30 hit points.
Marisha: I'm at 30.
Patrick rothfuss: I could probably take out the whole group. (laughter)
Taliesin: Wow, that would be--
Matt: Plot twist!
Laura: Oh my God, are you Raishan?
Liam: Rothfuss!
Patrick rothfuss: I was sent here by Acquisitions.
Matt: Assassination mission. -I love it.
Patrick rothfuss: You sons of bitches. (laughter)
Sam: You befriended us!
Patrick rothfuss: Next time you pay your protection money.
Sam: Just like us to do this, we trust everybody! God, we're idiots!
Laura: Oh, shit.
Matt: The last thing you hear is the laughter of a one-armed man in the distance echoing.
Liam: Clarota, Asum, Rothfuss. Never ends!
Patrick rothfuss: But no, if people are that-- are that bad, like, I'll-- You know. How are you? You're obviously, like, it's gonna be, like, are you like visibly like knocked about?
Laura: I mean she's--
Marisha: I kinda fell in a pit of lava.
Laura: She's basically black cinder right now.
Patrick rothfuss: Oh, really? -Okay.
Laura: She face planted into lava.
Liam: She's burned, she's burned.
Patrick rothfuss: I'm like, Do you really want to go looking for gold right now? Because you--  Would you like to come over here and sit down? I can take a look at--
Travis: As they discuss, can I just walk over to a pile of--
Laura: Kash, how low are you on healing? Can you heal us?
Matt: Kash and Zahra, who just kind of sitting off of the edge of the cavern, kind of taking a breather. "Um, well, I got a little bit, I guess." Zahra, by the way, is like healed to full.
Travis: Of course.
Marisha: Yeah, I just-- Keyleth just bursts into tears. She just start-- I'm so tired! I'm so tired.
Patrick rothfuss: I'll kinda just kinda usher her off a little bit wherever, like, is a little less in the middle of everything. And I've got my little pack and we can lay it on the blanket. And she needs to get some of these charred, smoldering clothes off of her. And so I can look at these burns and start, um, you know...
Laura: I nudge Vax. I think that guy's puttin' moves on your woman. -Okay.
Travis: Super worried.
Marisha: I do the same to Kerr, I just...my eyes.
Matt: Kash kind of walks up and slaps you on your shoulder, Vex, and kind of a jolt and you heal 14 points. Cure wounds a little too, but as a bit of a jolt through your body.
Laura: It's good, it's good. -Thank you.
Matt: "You're welcome." He turns back around and walks back to Zahra.
Patrick rothfuss: And I just kind of do the slow talk. You know, we're kind of like, it's like, oh, this isn't as bad as it looks at first, you know. And, 'cause this was the old thing that I did in town for years. Somebody would come to me hurt and I'd be like, oh, it's like--nobody knew who I was in town for 20 years. So I do the gentlest, least obtrusive laying on of hands. You know, where it's like, oh, you know, this probably stung like the dickens, but, you know-- Look at this, look at this, it's just rubbing, this is just--
Travis: Oh, you skinned your knees, let me blow on that. (cross talk)
Laura: And I'm hugging you.
Marisha: Why am I so cold?
Laura: I heal Vax 12 points while I'm hugging him.
Sam: I take a little potion.
Taliesin: Try and clear my guns in the hopes that they're actually gonna work. So proficiency?
Patrick rothfuss: Uh, so down, like you can soak up another 30, I'm assuming?
Marisha: Yeah, I have 118 max, so.
Patrick rothfuss: Then, yeah, soak up a full 35.
Taliesin: Whoa, there you go. Are we calling this a short rest? Is that what's happening right now? Are we having, like, some sort of spontaneous short rest?
Matt: If you would like to take a short rest--
Taliesin: Oh, my God.
Liam: I got 16 hit dice, man.
Marisha: Yeah, I'm gonna burn a few hit dice as well.
Travis: So there is a full blown war happening up on--
Sam: Oh, shit, that's true.
Taliesin: Yeah, you know, we just fought two dragons, they can handle this.
Matt: Okay, so you're all taking a short rest before or your going to the gold and not taking--
Travis: Gold.
Matt: Okay. So as you all take a moment--
Travis: There's a lot of talking happening, I just wandered off.
Matt: So as you guys begin to take the rests, tend to your wounds, take a breather, and begin to mentally prepare yourself for whatever the next stage of your journey is. Grog, you step out into the cavern, now without the red in your eyes that normally calls to combat where your focus is on what you can hurt and kill as soon as possible. Now it's what can loot and keep as soon as possible. And make an investigation check.
Travis: Okay, gonna be high. Oh, 17 plus, minus 2. -Fifteen.
Matt: Fifteen. Uh, doesn't matter too much as you walk in and begin taking in the surroundings, you can see there are edges of the cavern that are just crammed with gold and platinum and art fixtures and vases, and golden, brass, and silver keepsakes and knick-knacks and decorations. You can see chains and candelabras You can see all sorts-- it looks like and you kind of-- some of you gleaned this as you went in here. This is more wealth than you've ever seen in your entire life. This...this is probably a majority of the wealth of Emon that has been slowly brought to Thordak and forced into his lair as part of the tyranny that he took over the city. So, all the money here has been amassed from the guilds, from the villagers, from the townsfolk, from the temples, from the shops, from the Cloudtop. This is the economy of Emon crammed into, at least a majority of it, into a singular cavern.
Travis: I feel overwhelmed by the sheer amount of stuff. Are there any, like, unique looking knick-knacks or really lovely or dangerous looking weapons that grab my eye? Because it's just a lot of shit.
Matt: Well, as based on your investigation check, which is a 15, um, you do find a couple of fun things. You find a...
Travis: I love it when he reaches for stuff.
Laura: I know.
Matt: You find a somewhat familiar looking metallic rod about that long, cylindrical. Looks to have a couple of small, almost ring divots on it. You're pretty sure you have one of these.
Laura: Immovable rod.
Travis: What?
Sam: Immovable rod.
Travis: Yeah.
Sam: Who has ours?
Laura: I think I have it.
Matt: You've seen it?
Sam: Why don't we use that more?
Travis: Oh, no, no, it's not the same thing.
Laura: Ooh.
Marisha: Oh, yeah, you'd be like climbing.
Travis: This is different, this is a movable rod.
Sam: Oh, it's a movable one, not an immovable one?
Patrick rothfuss: Just, which means it's just a rod.
Matt: It's just a rod, basically.
Taliesin: It's a shake weight, it's a shake weight, (laughing) It can't stop moving.
Liam: You sullied Dungeons and Dragons.
Taliesin: I would hope so.
Matt: Mind you, that fighter's forearms look amazing. So you pick that up and you start glancing through and you're just kind of pushing through some of the art objects-- a large painting that just breaks in half.
Travis: If there's a vase I would totally smash that.
Matt: You smash a few vases, actually.
Taliesin: Ironically, there are two gold coins inside. (laughing)
Matt: Um, you also do see to the side a...what looks to be a wooden box about that big that is latched shut. It has beautiful engraving all across it. And what looks to be almost like gold leaf with little gems of blue and red kind of toward the corners. It's a really beautiful artisan wooden box about that big. And then there is a large, looks like a beautiful tapestry that is rolled up and bound.
Travis: Okay, that's boring. The box, like does it look like it's simple to open?
Matt: Uh, you pick it up and look at it. It has a little latch on it.
Travis: What would--
Matt: Make an intelligence check.
Travis: What would that guy that's always sneaking around do? Intelligence check two minus--yeah two, okay. -So, zero.
Matt: Zero. You shake it, there's something inside it, rattles around. It's got a little heft to it.
Taliesin: Oh, boy.
Matt: You look at it, try and pry open the side. Nothing.
Travis: Even with the titanstone knuckles, it doesn't open?
Matt: You want to use your strength? Go and roll a strength check.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: Force it open.
Liam: You're going to break a wonderful item.
Travis: Dammit. Eleven.
Matt: Eleven, okay.
Travis: That was a low roll.
Matt: Uh, you crssshh and the wooden case just breaks in half. And as it does, you see what looks to be a small leather sleeve, similar shape kind of pfff and land.
Travis: I'll go get it.
Matt: Pick it up. And it's a leather pouch, it has a little top, it's buttoned shut. And it looks like there's something inside, almost like cards.
Marisha: No, no.
Travis: Yeah, yeah, open the sleeve, the leather sleeve.
Patrick rothfuss: No.
Matt: What are you gonna pull out?
Marisha: You wish.
Matt: You open it and you can see inside what looks to be about 13 cards, tarot looking cards.
Travis: Little cards.
Matt: Cards, yeah.
Travis: Do they smell like anything?
Matt: Uh, they smell clean and fresh.
Travis: How far away is the lava?
Matt: Um, maybe from where you are right now in this portion, I'd say 25 feet.
Travis: Who the hell uses--
Laura: No, Travis! (laughing)
Travis: What?
Laura: What are you even doing?
Travis: I'm going through the loot, you all are fucking healing and shit, I'm trying to find something useful here.
Taliesin: Did you find anything useful?
Liam: Laura Bailey manifested. (laughing) Oh, harp please, poof!
Matt: As you guys have been resting, to be fair, as you're all sitting there in the tunnel kind of talking, you hear in the distance an occasional like ting, ting, ting, clunk. You look in the distance and you see Grog just like rummaging through the loot and throwing shit.
Travis: Pretty much.
Laura: What are you doing?
Travis: What, I'm trying to find something. There's a giant rolled up carpet over here.
Laura: A carpet?
Travis: Yeah, I mean some people call it a telafaphy or whatever.
Laura: I go over to Grog. What do you have in your hand?
Travis: Uh, I don't know, it looks like a bunch of cards.
Laura: Can I see them?
Travis: No, they're mine, I found them. You have all of this stuff to choose from, have at it.
Laura: What's that tapestry he's talking about?
Matt: Uh, the tapestry that's bound up?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Go and make an investigation check.
Taliesin: I'm gonna start wandering into this mess. This is exciting.
Laura: Twenty four.
Matt: Okay, as you quickly go over, you find--there are a number of what look to be types of decoration, wall tapestries. And there one that Grog caught that it's a very, very fine material, it looks like it's probably expensive. Made of a very deep dyed navy blue silk with looks to be a very, very light tan pattern across it. As you unravel it, it's roughly six foot by nine foot. Um, it rolls out in front of you.
Laura: Do you fly, fly? Try to fly right now. Go up in the air. (spit)
Travis: No.
Patrick rothfuss: Did you just spit on it?
Laura: Well, that's my code word for my flying broom.
Matt: Chuck on it, you'll fly. Which sounds like chat-oo!
Marisha: Naturally.
Matt: What do you want to do, do you want to spend some time with the tapestry?
Laura: No, I'm gonna roll it up and save it for later and look around for other cool stuff.
Matt: Okay, so you grab the tapestry and roll it up and toss it to the side.
Travis: There's really no way around this, I've got to pull a card out of the leather sleeve, right?
Liam: Are you gonna take this fucking tapestry or you're gonna look around the room?
Matt: All right, so you pull one card out?
Travis: Yeah, I'll pull one card out, but I want to pull the one in the middle because I remember magicians be like, choose a card, any card.
Liam: Travis, you could destroy the world.
Taliesin: I'm so excited.
Travis: I mean, on any day, but you're lucky I'm really in control.
Laura: I don't know what can come out of that thing, but like, really bad things can come out.
Travis: What is that, I don't even know what that is.
Matt: Ryan, do we have a deck of cards anywhere?
Marisha: Jesus Christ.
Travis: What is this?
Patrick rothfuss: I probably...
Matt: Just regular playing cards. (Ryan) I'm going to look for some.
Travis: Is it fair to say that everyone knows what this is but me?
Sam: I don't know what it is.
Travis: Sam doesn't know.
Laura: I've heard that--oh, God, there's cards right there. They had 'em right there!
Matt: Thank you.
Travis: Scanlan doesn't know what this is. Do you know what this is?
Liam: Yes.
Travis: Laura, do you know?
Laura: I know it's really-- it can be really bad.
Travis: Patrick, do you know what this is?
Laura: Didn't they pull this out during one of the charity games?
Liam: Amazing and great or it could be totally destructive.
Travis: I'm feeling amazing and great right now.
Laura: Oh, God, oh, God.
Liam: Aren't you glad you're here?
Patrick rothfuss: I'm so--there's nothing I'd rather be here for.
Travis: Oh really, just straight up?
Matt: All righty, so.
Travis: That's unfortunate. (cross talk)
Liam: I'm sweating harder than the dragon fight right now. (cross talk)
Matt: Be patient here for a second, folks, as I have to pull out the proper deck here so I know-- (cross talk) As Travis now currently pulling a card out of some sort of enchanted deck.
Travis: It's called an enchanted deck?
Liam: If he wins, he can win big.
Travis: Is there a name for it, whatever this is?
Patrick rothfuss: Oh, yes.
Travis: What's the name?
Taliesin: Idiocy.
Liam: Yes.
Liam: We'll tell you later. (cross talk) 'Cause we're all out of character.
Travis: I genuinely am only doing this because I don't know what the hell it is.
Patrick rothfuss: Which is perfect, it's perfect, perfect. This could not be better. Although honestly, they're like--and into the lava would also be perfect, yeah.
Marisha: That would be perfect, yeah.
Travis: Would that have activated all of them and then...?
Laura: I don't know.
Marisha: You can't really destroy magical items though, right?
Taliesin: No, they would have just put them into the rock.
Travis: Oh, they're magical...
Matt: In my rush to get everything ready, -I did not...
Sam: How dare you.
Laura: How dare you not prepare?
Matt: Well, there was that too, but you know. I learn lessons the hard way sometimes.
Laura: If Travis gets a hold of it...
Liam: Not ready for eSports, Matt. (laughing)
Matt: I hate you so much. (laughing)
Travis: Not ready for...
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: So excited.
Laura: Oh, God, I'm terrified. I don't know what all the things are that they can do.
Taliesin: I don't think I would have the guts to do it. I think--'cause I would know, I would not have the guts.
Travis: 'Cause you know what it is. Well, there's like 13 cards, how bad can it be? What's the percentage of bad cards to good cards?
Liam: It's mostly bad.
Travis: It's mostly bad?
Laura: Do you know, you know, you know all the cards.
Liam: But the goods are amazing.
Matt: Shuffle these here for a minute.
Laura: Oh, God, oh, God! Oh, my God, what if we're all about to die? 'Cause it could be world ending, right? It could just...
Marisha: I'm with Kerr in the hall, right?
Matt: You guys are all just resting. And Vax is asleep.
Sam: I'm checking to see if there's any more in the flute that didn't get burned.
Matt: Uh...
Liam: Now is the time.
Taliesin: Smoke 'em if you got 'em.
Matt: Literally. As you check the flute, what you put in the flute has been expended, yes. All right, so I want you to just pull one of these-- I'll turn them around, shuffle.
Travis: How many pulls do I get?
Matt: You said you were just pulling one card, so you pull one card.
Taliesin: Only Travis, Travis is the only one.
Matt: What's it say?
Marisha: You have this conviction to your voice that's just--I believe you.
Patrick rothfuss: I'm very calming.
Matt: All right, good to know.
Sam: Good to know. Oh, good to know, you all die.
Laura: It's a giant...
Taliesin: No, don't look at the screen, don't look at the screen. That's not gonna make anyone feel better. (cross talk)
Marisha: 50 gold, 50-- 50,000 gold.
Liam: No whammies, no whammies.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: He's turning more pages, why? Why more pages?
Patrick rothfuss: I'm actually sweating.
Sam: You should only be on one page. Why would he need to be on multiple pages? (cross talk)
Taliesin: It's a centerfold.
Liam: It's the most powerful thing in the book.
Matt: Okay, hold on, I have to go back for a--
Sam: Why are there more pages, Matt?
Matt: You'll find out, you'll find out.
Travis: Why would you give me that?! (laughing)
Marisha: I was asking the same question.
Travis: You give me like chastity belts or--
Matt: Look, man, the last thing I expected was Grog to be the first to loot for magical items. And roll a decent investigation check. And yet, here you are, discovering this deck. All right, so... With this... You pull the card out and it looks like this beautiful tarot like design of what looks like a metallic key that is currently held aloft in space behind what looks like almost like the stars converging into some sort of a pattern in the night sky.
Travis: That's good, stars are nice.
Matt: At this point--
Travis: Orion wouldn't fuck us.
Liam: Nope.
Patrick rothfuss: That's not a sword on his belt.
Matt: As you pull the card and look at it, the card bursts into flames, and you feel this slight tingling in the hand that held the card. Suddenly, you watch as there's a flash of light within your grasp with what looks to be extending from where the card once was. You immediately feel something steel in your hand and as you clutch your fingers instinctually around it, and try to crush whatever it is, you look and watch as this beautiful looking scimitar like blade is now in your grasp.
Travis: Oooh! Whoa.
Matt: It's beautifully made, an ornate hilt and hand guard. And it has like a chain dangling from the bottom of the pommel that has, looks like a small blue gem. It's a beautiful looking piece of weaponry. And as you whip it back and forth, it's perfectly balanced.
Travis: Does it make any noise when I swing it?
Laura: A card turned into a sword?
Sam: We should pull the other cards to see what swords they'll make.
Patrick rothfuss: You can do that 12 more times!
Travis: I'm apparently the most powerful sorcerer that has ever lived.
Sam: This is a deck of weapon cards.
Laura: I mean seriously, though.
Travis: I have to hit something with it.
Laura: Well, go hit something with it.
Travis: Is there like a tall statue around or anything?
Matt: I mean, you can see there are a few marble busts and things that have been collected from the more--
Travis: A marble bust is good, that's perfect.
Taliesin: Please don't decimate the antiquities.
Travis: Can I pick it up? Lob it--
Laura: Grog, also don't forget this is property of Emon.
Travis: It just broke because you distracted me. (laughing) I've got to go find another bust. Is there another?
Matt: There are a few, yeah.
Travis: Thank God there's another.
Matt: You need to recognize, some of these used to exist in the Alabaster Lyceum. These are actually busts of old heralded teachers within the arcane halls of the lyceum.
Travis: They wrote on stuff, right?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: Okay, then nobody cares what they looked like, cool. Take it and lob it in the air, big swing.
Matt: Make an attack roll.
Travis: Okay. Can I make this a reckless attack?
Matt: You can.
Taliesin: Is it a strength or dex weapon?
Matt: It's a strength weapon.
Taliesin: Ah.
Travis: Twenty seven.
Matt: Twenty seven. Um, roll damage. It is considered a scimitar.
Travis: Okay.
Laura: A scimitar.
Matt: It's a d8, I believe.
Marisha: It's considered a scimitar.
Taliesin: But really.
Patrick rothfuss: It looks exactly like a scimitar.
Taliesin: It's a meal. (cross talk)
Travis: I'm kind of doing it off of the blood axe, so like 16? No necrotic no--
Matt: No, no magical bonus on it.
Travis: Just 16.
Matt: 16, okay. And with your gauntlets you have siege, which means you do double damage against objects and structures. So as you take the sword back you strike the edge of this bust and watch it just turn to gravel and dust. Pshhh, it just shatters and explodes out the side with one singular swing and you watch as the small chunks of rock that still somewhat resemble any sort of, you know, sculptured structure go scattering across the black, you know, lava and magma encrusted darkened floor of the cavern. Blade is untouched.
Travis: It is really well balanced, that is, and I just hold it up to my ear. (laughing)
Matt: A moment passes. A second moment passes.
Travis: We're good.
Laura: Yeah.
Travis: We're totally good.
Sam: It's a cool weapon.
Travis: It is, yeah. And I stealthily try and pocket the other cards.
Laura: What are you doing?
Travis: But I haven't showered in a few days and my bum itches.
Matt: Make a slight of hand check, Grog. (laughing)
Travis: Shit, that's a natural 1! (laughing) God damn it!
Matt: You watch as Grog so discreetly takes the cards and just kind of throws them. (laughing) Somehow throws them closer to you and in between him and you guys, trying to hide them and just go thdummp.
Laura: I pick them up.
Sam: Does anyone know what these are?
Laura: Grog just made a sword out of one of these cards. Do we know what this is?
Travis: They only activate under my magical touch.
Sam: I'm gonna look at it and just see if I happen to know anything about it.
Matt: Roll an arcana check.
Sam: I don't know anything about it. I rolled a 12, do I know anything about it?
Matt: Mmm, they're apparently magical.
Taliesin: Twenty three.
Matt: Twenty three. You, being a studious child and reading many things, you've heard rumors, you have heard myths, you have heard legends of glory and woe based around an artifact referred to as the Deck of Many Things.
Laura: I start to open it up and--
Taliesin: No, no, no, no. No, oh, he looks--
Laura: I think these made weapons.
Taliesin: They can make a lot of things.
Sam: Can they make bad things?
Taliesin: They can make a lot of bad things.
Sam: And do you know what activates them, just looking at a card?
Taliesin: If I recall, it doesn't take much.
Laura: I just shut the little case and stuff it in my...
Sam: Let's keep it.
Taliesin: I was going to say let's put it somewhere where no one will ever find it, but that will be fine for now.
Travis: May, may I--I actually, I found that.
Laura: Oh, Grog, that's sweet.
Travis: But I don't, I want to hold on to it, it's mine.
Laura: No.
Travis: You can keep all the other gold.
Laura: Yeah, no, I don't trust you with it.
Travis: Why not?
Laura: Because you do stupid things.
Travis: Look what I made.
Laura: You made a beautiful sword and I'm proud of you.
Travis: Yeah, I'm sure it's like reactive its user--
Laura: Maybe there's another set in here, we should find it!
Travis: And then you can have it.
Laura: No, if we find another set, you can have it.
Liam: That's a bad deal, too.
Travis: I go to look for another Deck of Many Things and nothing else. (laughing)
Matt: For all the gold that is in this cavern, none of it has any luster or shine to you as your singularly focused on finding another one of these deck of cards. You are throwing handfuls of platinum over your shoulder.
Travis: Garbage. Rubbish, filth. (laughing) Life has no luster to it anymore. You wretched...
Matt: All right, so continuing off of your investigation check--
Liam: What a heart attack.
Taliesin: Wow.
Matt: So you do have the Deck of Many Things which now has 12 cards in it.
Laura: Oh, my God.
Taliesin: Ah!
Matt: I'm gonna hand that to Laura.
Sam: Next time I go back to casino, I'm taking that with me.
Matt: You do--you have that tapestry. You have--you find what looks to be a pair of very fine crafted dark green leather boots that have almost a silver or platinum scrolling along the edges of the leather, almost like leaves and branches that tangle in towards the front of the foot.
Laura: Do they look Elvish?
Matt: It looks Elvish in design. And you find what looks to be a very, very well crafted war hammer. It has--its shape and its design is-- and only because you've seen this type of handle before-- it appears to be Dwarven in make. And it has a series of runes and glyphs along the sides of the war hammer head itself that seem to give you the sense that this is a very expensive, or at least a very, very elegantly crafted weapon.
Laura: Okay. Sweet. I can't, can I see if they're magic, I can't can I?
Matt: I mean, you can take the rest of your short rest with one of the objects to see if you can ascertain any sort of magic or information about it.
Laura: I'm gonna do that on the tapestry.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: I'm with you.
Laura: Fly, fly for me.
Matt: All right, the rest of you guys, is there anything else should rest, just healing up?
Taliesin: Healing up, fixing my guns, and then sort of trying to navigate some of this crazy in here and then eventually looking around the cavern to see if there's anything.
Matt: Has everyone spent their hit dice? What are we at in point totals here?
Sam: Sixty eight.
Taliesin: I've got 102.
Marisha: Seventy nine.
Matt: I think you're still full.
Liam: Ninety nine.
Laura: One hundred.
Travis: I didn't roll any 'cause I was looking through this Deck of Many Things! 90.
Matt: Ninety, okay. At the end of the short rest, Vex, you've taken the time with the tapestry, looking at it. Its design kind of hurts your heart a little bit 'cause it reminds you of the flying carpet that you once had and you're like hoping and praying. And as it--as you're concentrating on it, and hoping that something comes to you, you're like, "Fly," you know, "Go." "Traverse, carry." You're just throwing all these words out. And as you're just getting more and more exhausted, and the rest of your party kind of look over with this, "Oh, give it up, girl," kind of look and shaking their head, a sudden hit of inspiration hits your mind and clarifies--the word "lift." You say lift and the tapestry goes fll fll fll.
Laura: Shut the fucking--! You guys!
Liam: (snoring)
Travis: It's a flying telefaphy.
Laura: Lift higher.  High up in love 
Sam: Another flying carpet.
Laura: Oh, you guys, this is wonderful.
Taliesin: I legitimately think this is the one she tried to replace the one we stole.
Travis: Wwwaahhhhhhh.
Laura: Waahhhhhh.
Liam: It's Allura's other carpet.
Taliesin: It's her other carpet.
Laura: Oh, shit.
Marisha: She collects magical carpets.
Taliesin: Well, she should only ever needs one, we just keep taking it.
Sam: Does it say how much weight it can hold?
Travis: Eight hundred.
Laura: Eight hundred pounds, it can carry more than the last one.
Sam: How big is Grog?
Marisha: Ah, is it a bigger tapestry?
Laura: It's six by nine.
Travis: Like three hundred.
Laura: This is like the California king version.
Matt: Bigger than the one you had before, yeah.
Marisha: It's a California king version.
Sam: Grog can get on that and go hit things.
Travis: Yeah flying speed of 30, I can run faster than that.
Marisha: Can you be like a Silver Surfer thing?
Travis: Blaaaaah, yeah.
Marisha: Ya!
Laura: What's my carrying capacity on my broom?
Matt: Uh...
Laura: I should probably know this.
Matt: Your broom can carry, uh, it can carry 400 pounds at a flying speed of 30.
Laura: Well good, so...
Matt: Sorry, it can carry 400 pounds, but its flying speed becomes 30 while carrying over 200 pounds.
Laura: Okay. Oh, this is amazing.
Sam: That's a good find.
Taliesin: That's a very useful find.
Laura: This is some good stuff.
Marisha: Vex, does it look like our old carpet?
Laura: I mean, it looks similar, it's a bit bigger.
Marisha: Does it looks like they were maybe in the same family?
Laura: Definitely, Keyleth.
Marisha: Yeah?
Laura: Hey, look at these boots, I throw them down to you. They look kind of Druidish.
Marisha: They do look Druidish. Do they look Druidish?
Matt: Roll an arcana check.
Marisha: Okay.  Five.
Matt: They look pretty.
Marisha: These are so pretty!
Laura: I know, right?
Marisha: Oh, my gosh.
Laura: I think the color looks nice, it would look good with your dress.
Marisha: Okay, I'll look at these later.
Matt: They're nicer than the boots you have on.
Travis: Ooh, that's a diss on your boots, dog.
Marisha: I, well...
Matt: They don't necessarily match the ensemble, per se, but they're nice boots.
Marisha: The soles are a little melted now.
Laura: I mean basically Keyleth would be naked this whole time 'cause all of her clothes would have burned off in the lava.
Matt: This is the magical world of fantasy in which characters don't suddenly lose all their clothing or facial hair or body hair because of magical spells.
Laura: All right, sure, whatever.
Marisha: Sounds like that Japanese RPG. (cross talk)
Matt: I'm sure there are RPGs out there that let you do that. I'm sure Lamentations of the Flame Princess lets you do that. I think there's actually some exalted expansions that let you do that. Not this game. The fan artists take care of that for us.
Taliesin: And with that, yeah, I'd love to take a look around the room, see if anything captures my eye.
Marisha: I think also, I think Keyleth's hair would probably be shorter now again, thanks to the fire, again.
Matt: Yeah, sure.
Laura: Ooh, can I fly up on the carpet and see if anything catches my eye from above?
Matt: Sure, you can jump up on the carpet and get an aerial view. And as you get up towards the top if the cavern, look over.
Laura: Not that I couldn't have done that on my broom, but I feel a little safer 'cause there's stuff all around me.
Matt: Yeah, it's a nice big square patch just for you.
Laura: I'm gonna lay down and...
Liam: Is there room for your broom on your carpet?
Laura: Yes.
Taliesin: I'm gonna run on up there and get a vantage point 'cause I still have some spider walk--
Matt: You do, yeah.
Laura: Hop on over, Perc.
Matt: So you watch as Percy kind of walks upside down from on the cavern and kind of gets a similar perspective as you. Make an investigation check.
Sam: Not great.
Marisha: That's real bad.
Taliesin: I can't pretend, -I can't pretend that that's--
Sam: Real, real bad.
Marisha: That's pretty bad.
Taliesin: Why am I even bothering? Six.
Matt: Yeah. In all the time you spent here, most anything that catches your eye beyond just value, you've managed to scavenge and glean from the horde. Everything else seems to be just collections of expensive or valuable knick-knacks, collectibles, museum pieces. You know, silverware, furniture, art pieces. Gem collections, and then gold, silver, platinum. It's...you knowing good amounts of money, you can't even fathom the scope of this. Like this is...
Travis: Vex, you're drooling.
Matt: Like millions of gold pieces.
Laura: That's a lot.
Travis: I feel like this is too much for anyone--
Laura: No, no, no, it is. We need to return this to the people of Emon, I mean, that's who this money came from.
Travis: Yeah, but how do we do that?
Laura: Yeah?
Marisha: Do you see anything from Greyskull in there?
Laura: Oh, do I see anything from our keep?
Matt: Nothing that stands out or you would recognize.
Laura: Not that I can see.
Marisha: All right.
Taliesin: Now we'll, we'll take a tithing for ourselves to help rebuild and then everything we're gonna have to post guards and someone is gonna have to take charge of all this, put it to a use rebuilding the city, make sure that the antiquities get back to the proper owners and that the money is used to just rebuild everything.
Laura: People will have to put in papers with the counsel.
Marisha: I was gonna say people are gonna have to pull papers.
Taliesin: I think they're probably not gonna get their money back, but they're at least gonna get their--
Laura: Something.
Travis: Should we reward Kerr? Kerr, do you want some of this bling?
Patrick rothfuss: Actually Kerr, after you're okay and kind of up and about yourself, probably very casually like kind of wanders around and like when he gets to the jewelry and the gems, like very matter of factly fills up a sack.
Marisha: Very matter of factly.
Patrick rothfuss: You know like, no like, ooh, I'm a---I feel a little awkward about this, just like, like this is really not my first rodeo and money. And money, money does some-- this is more than they can carry. And, um, I have some uses for this money.
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: I did give 20 pounds of gems when we were down in the city of Brass, maybe I can find some more gems.
Matt: Okay, yeah.
Taliesin: No, this is, we are taking our tithing. You know taking it, we have work that needs to be done.
Matt: How much are you taking? I mean, it's your choice really at this point. How much do you want to and how much can you carry? Do you feel comfortable doing?
Laura: We do have a lot of, we do have a lot of money right now.
Taliesin: We're going to be rebuilding. We need gems and platinum. Let's not take anything that isn't gems and platinum and let's not take a ton of it.
Travis: What about like big diamonds or rubies for like important spells and stuff?
Taliesin: A few of those would be good.
Marisha: Gems, yeah--gems for heroes feasts are always good.
Laura: Oh yeah, smart, smart.
Taliesin: We did burn a bunch of them for this.
Laura: Smart, Grog.
Travis: I pass out from the smartness. (laughing)
Matt: As Grog falls asleep cuddling with the gold coins. Like a slow rolling Scrooge McDuck. (yawn) Vex, you do find--with eight of your friends, too-- there are two diamonds roughly worth about 1,000 gold pieces that you can put off to the side as component. You do find gems, but really I mean, how much do you want to take, really? This isn't how much did you find, there's enough here to take pretty much anything you can carry. There's no way you can carry even but a fraction of this, so, what do you want to take?
Sam: Platinum is worth ten gold?
Laura: Yeah, so like we have--
Sam: I'm taking 200 platinum for myself.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: I think I would actually honestly say at least 1,000 platinum in general just for general use for the group.
Marisha: Yeah.
Laura: Yeah.
Taliesin: And then ten of each gem that we can find.
Laura: 1,000 platinum for the group then?
Matt: Sure.
Laura: Okay.
Taliesin: That seems reasonable.
Laura: Yeah, totally.
Taliesin: We're also gonna need to put somebody in charge of all this.
Marisha: Yes, someone trustworthy.
Patrick rothfuss: (snoring) (laughing)
Taliesin: Oh, we know you have things to do.
Travis: The guilt of it. (laughing)
Marisha: I see Kerr hesitate, and I bend down and I pick up like a handful of gold and say...
Patrick rothfuss: No, it's more like, it's like am I gonna be in charge of another city?
Laura: No, no, no, not unless you want to be.
Patrick rothfuss: It's, uh, but no, I grab mostly not big gems, nothing flashy, but light, portable, and stuff that can be converted into cash. Like, I've got troops who are going to-- and a city back home, yeah.
Taliesin: And you did come here, so.
Sam: Vex, there are six, there are seven of us. Maybe we should take a bit more.
Marisha: I'm taking a little bit of gold for myself just 'cause I'm low.
Laura: Yeah, if you guys want to grab stuff yourself.
Matt: Kima's abstained, by the way. Kima's not taking anything. While Gilmore is currently filling up a small satchel, he's like, "Well, I have to rebuild some way." Shoveling in small amounts, but you know, not too much.
Laura: Same. I'll take...so hard.
Travis: I'm taking 184 gold pieces.
Matt: Good job, Grog.
Laura: Nice, Grog. (laughing)
Taliesin: I'm just gonna put 500 gold pieces.
Sam: Dude, that's a million dollars.
Marisha: That's what I did with 500.
Taliesin: 500 gold pieces.
Travis: Like candy or something. Jellybeans in a jar.
Laura: Fifty platinum, so it's lighter.
Taliesin: We're going to have to seal this cave for now.
Sam: Why, the city is secured.
Taliesin: The city is secured, the city is about to become a riot once they finish getting -everything out of here.
Laura: And looters will come down here and take far more than we did.
Travis: No, really?
Sam: Wait a second. Don't we owe The Clasp half of this?
Laura: We owe The Clasp half of our loot.
Sam: What does that mean?
Marisha: But that's our loot, that's not the city's.
Laura: If we don't take as much, then we don't give them as much.
Sam: I don't think they would view it that way.
Taliesin: That's the deal they made. This is not our loot we just looted.
Laura: It's not our money, it's Emon's.
Marisha: The Clasp should be aware of that.
Sam: I think we're going to make an enemy out of them by doing this.
Taliesin: I think we're going to keep an enemy out of them is really more likely.
Laura: How do we even know who we told? It could have been two underlings, nobody would believe what they said anyway.
Travis: Sure would be a gesture in the right direction, though.
Marisha: Well we can, I'm sure we can still throw them a little bit of platinum, but... I mean, Percy--
Sam: What like 5,000, is that what you're saying, half of, half of what we take? How does this work? That's nothing to them. We promised them untold riches.
Laura: We took 1,000 platinum for ourselves. If we took another 1,000 and gave it to The Clasp, that's a lot of money.
Travis: How about we don't give them anything and we just let them know it's clear to come down here and deal with it as they will.
Sam: They'll take everything.
Taliesin: I don't know if they'll take everything, actually.
Marisha: Well, Percy, you once said that every good city needs a good underbelly.
Taliesin: That's true.
Marisha: I imagine that the underbelly would also have a vested interest in a having good city, I imagine it works both ways, right?
Taliesin: I'm so proud of you right now.
Marisha: Yeah, thank you.
Taliesin: Oh my God.
Marisha: I'm learning from you, just like a little, -where it's appropriate.
Taliesin: I'm so sorry, -but I'm so proud.
Marisha: Only where it's appropriate.
Travis: So what is it, we hand deliver it or we just let them know it's clear to come down?
Sam: Hand deliver, we don't want them coming here at all.
Travis: I agree, it's more personal. You write the limerick and we give them two platinum. (laughing) What was the number you said?
Laura: That two is what I said, yes.
Patrick rothfuss: Send them an envelope with half of the deck in it. (gasps)
Travis: It just turns into swords--
Taliesin: How are you the cruelest human I've ever--oh, my. That's amazing.
Laura: I don't know what the deck can do. Could it, could it cause the entire city to crumble? Potentially? Ooh.
Patrick rothfuss: That, I do not know.
Taliesin: We can give them the deck.
Liam: Vax just woke up.
Matt: Hi, Vax, welcome back.
Travis: So, what, five thousand platinum?
Sam: Five thousand platinum.
Laura: Why five tho--where are you coming up with these numbers?
Marisha: You literally said different numbers every time.
Travis: We could give them like three pizza platinum, it doesn't really matter to me, I just want to go.
Liam: Hey, big man?
Travis: Yeah.
Liam: That's a nice sword, where did you get that?
Travis: I took out a card of this little pouch and it turned into this thing.
Liam: What are you talking about?
Travis: Yeah, it was like a little card in like a leather pouch and then Vex took it from me 'cause apparently I make too many weapons.
Sam: If we want them to be our allies, and not hate us and try to kill us, we have to give them a good amount of money.
Liam: What, The Clasp?
Sam: Yes.
Liam: We're talking about payment.
Laura: We give them 1,000 platinum and say that's half of what we took.
Liam: Oh, they're a crime syndicate, they're gonna laugh at that.
Sam: I agree.
Patrick rothfuss: And they know when someone's running a game on them.
Laura: But we didn't take any more, that's our loot.
Sam: That's not how they're gonna see this.
Liam: That's a letter of the law argument, they're gonna want to go spirit.
Marisha: We also just saved their city from utter destruction.
Travis: Honestly, are we gonna stay around and really regulate what happens here, we're not, right? We've got shit to do.
Taliesin: I would honestly say, and I cannot believe that I'm agreeing to this, but I think just if we run into them, we let them know that the dragon's dead and that's where it is.
Travis: I'm with Percy.
Taliesin: They're not gonna bankrupt the city, it's not in their best interests. They're gonna take a look at it and they're gonna get what they can carry.
Sam: So we're turning over the city and the city's treasury to a bunch of thieves.
Taliesin: We turned over the city to a bunch of thieves, they've basically been running the place for the past few months.
Patrick rothfuss: How small town am I? Do I know about these folks?
Matt: You've never dealt with them directly other than scaring off a couple of younger cutthroats you caught in like an alleyway here or there. But you're aware of The Clasp. The Clasp, while largely centered in Emon, is a syndicate that is across all Tal'Dorei and has some hand in every village no matter how small.
Patrick rothfuss: Right.
Laura: Maybe we let them know that it's there, but that the guards are coming. They won't have a lot of time.
Marisha: Why don't we just hand this over to someone else and let them handle it?
Patrick rothfuss: If you hand it over to someone else, and send them a letter, it will take a while to get there.
Sam: The Clasp? They're down the hallway.
Patrick rothfuss: Which one?
Travis: Over yonder.
Sam: They're in the sewers 1,000 meters from here.
Patrick rothfuss: Oh.
Marisha: Regardless, I agree with Grog. We have more important things to worry about right now.
Travis: I'm running for office.
Sam: T-shirt  Regardless, I agree with Grog. (laughing)
Marisha: Things never been said before.
Patrick rothfuss: Is there any of the people collected, the generals or whatever, have you worked with them as well?
Laura: The Clasp or the--
Patrick rothfuss: No, the former leaders of this city, any of the people that you've--
Sam: The military, we can put them in charge of this.
Taliesin: There's not really any military.
Sam: There's a visiting army. Yeah, we can put them in charge of it, at least temporarily. They can be trusted.
Taliesin: Can they?
Liam: Kima, do you feel like keeping an eye on a small group of soldiers from Syngorn? Protecting this? A few days?
Matt: "I could probably run it, I'd probably have to go and check in with Allie. I'm sure she'd be interested in knowing about this since she's, you know, part of the council."
Laura: Right, we need to tell her.
Matt: "We have Asum--I mean we still have a number of standing council members and there's a few we still haven't accounted for."
Liam: This is your home.
Taliesin: That would be better.
Matt: "My home is Westruun, to be honest, but I've kind of taken this as a second home."
Taliesin: Far more stories of treasures being looted by foreigners.
Laura: Honestly, we need to get to Whitestone, speaking of.
Travis: Yeah, don't we need to like get a hand and plant it under a tree or something like that?
Laura: Yes. Yes.
Sam: Forgot about that.
Taliesin: We have a hand.
Marisha: We have a hand.
Laura: We have ashes to bury in Vasselheim.
Marisha: We have a lot to do.
Laura: We have to find out where the fuck Raishan is. Can we see if maybe she went to Whitestone and the whole city's decimated?
Marisha: I can try and scry with the scrying eye, but that's it.
Travis: How about we go to Whitestone and then scry?
Sam: Well, we won't need to if we're there.
Marisha: Yeah.
Laura: Just find out if it's all right.
Taliesin: Let's crawl upstairs. Let's keep some people on this, Kima, and we'll crawl upstairs.
Marisha: I can try to scry on Rai-- Did I find a little, like a scale of hers, by the way?
Matt: Glancing about, uh... roll an investigation check specifically looking for the scale. As opposed to looking for other things about the room.
Taliesin: That's crock, that's-- yeah, I know.
Marisha: That's slightly better. Uh, ten total.
Matt: Ten total? It takes you about ten minutes and because the shifting low light in here the rocky formations of the ground itself, you're having a hard time finding any scales of Raishan's.
Marisha: Anything, blood?
Matt: It takes you about 15 or 20 minutes before you actually find a small cluster. From one of the wounds left behind by Grog.
Marisha: Yeah, that'll do it, yeah.
Taliesin: I'm gonna grab the bag of colding and take samples of the dragon eggs that we cracked, the fluid, the bodies, like I'll put the whole thing in there. We need that.
Patrick rothfuss: They intend? -They took the body--
Laura: Raishan?
Liam: She, uh, no, no, she's been playing us for a long time. We were in a loose agreement with her to get to today and we've never felt like she's told us the whole picture. Uh, we have watched her gas scores of people in front of us. She's killed many of your friends. She's not good. But no, we don't ultimately know what her next move is.
Marisha: I can try to scry on her and maybe get lucky or I can try and scry on Whitestone. The problem is is she's smart, so even if I try and scry on her, there's a possibility that she'll resist it.
Taliesin: She's exhausted still, I would assume.
Marisha: She did burn all of her legendary resistance, -didn't she?
Matt: She did.
Taliesin: And she's probably been running.
Liam: What could it hurt?
Marisha: I'm gonna try and scry on Raishan.
Matt: Okay, casting the spell?
Marisha: Scrying eye.
Matt: Scrying eye, okay the reason, the item's DC, not your spell DC.
Marisha: I guess so, but I don't know if you ever put the scrying eye DC on here, it doesn't have a DC.
Matt: It doesn't--then, uh, then we'll use your spell DC, that's fine, okay, so. So as you guys begin situating, Kima walks up at the surface. Gilmore's still kind of rummaging through and trying to find some interesting things. And there's a few moments when you hear Gilmore across from you like, "Hah, hah, this is mine." Starting to find things left over from his destroyed shop that have been scavenged by looters and brought back to Thordak as, you know, paying homage to their new ruler. Um, Kima begins to head up and you can hear now people have begun to gather en masse into the Cloudtop it sounds like other-- the rest of your soldiers along with Zahra and Kashaw are walking up with her and begin to organize and find whoever's been fighting through the city and figuring out how to set up a perimeter to defend the center which essentially the entire economy of the city lies underground. You begin to pull out the scrying eye and set up the small space for the ritual. You concentrate on it and kind of thrust your vision towards the center of the artifact. What's the spell DC?
Marisha: My spell save DC is 20.
Matt: All right. So as you focus, you feel your vision kind of lift up into the dark clouds as the storm is drifting south--south east of the city towards where the wyvern riders have been escaping. Into the clouds and the dark, the moisture, the rain, you feel the humidity almost oppressive against you and you feel your essence being tugged, being pulled rapidly in a direction. Amidst the cloud, you don't know which direction it is, but it's pulled you quickly and suddenly you emerge from the clouds and you're over ocean. Um, over ocean you see in the distance just open waves, no signs of land, just water. And then a singular island, isolated, distant, far from everything. Your vision suddenly jumps, scats upright to the outside of this cavern opening. You see-- skips, I meant to say. Nothing escapes Laura's mind. She is our resident 13-year-old.
Liam: It was me that time.
Laura: It was actually him. -It was him that time.
Matt: You're twins, that's fine.
Liam: Poopy.
Matt: Yes. Skips ahead to the exterior of some sort of a mountain based cavern that dips deep into the ground in the center of this very, very thick jungle-like terrain. You can see portions of the cavern here have been ruined and broken down and there appears to be some sort of geothermal activity in the vicinity. Your vision skips again and you can see a deep series of winding caverns that lead to what looks to be like a stone-- a very, very old stone laboratory. You see cages. You see wooden furniture. You see what look to be portions of bookshelves that are toppled over. And out of the blurry peripheral of this one focal point where the spell has taken you, you can see what looks to be just out of sight, a large deep red crimson mass that is just resting still. You also see what appear to be to your other peripheral, two ovoid-like red shapes that are kind of resting in the edge. And there at one of the bookshelves you see a woman with long dark green hair. Um, wounded and bleeding. Currently pulling books out of the shelf and opening them and looking through and slamming it closed and throwing it down and pulling another book and going through.  The vision recedes and your eyes blink and come back to you and you're back in the cavern of the lair.
Marisha: She's not in Whitestone.
Sam: She was looking for the third book of the trilogy of Patrick Rothfuss-- (laughing) It couldn't be found anywhere! Why can't I find this fucking book? (laughing)
Matt: And with that we'll take our break. (cheering) That's your break, we'll-- (laughing) Alright, we'll be back here in a few minutes, take a restroom break and a snack break, we'll see you guys here shortly. Stay tuned. (laughing)   Welcome back, ladies and gentlemen, to Critical Role. (laughing) Well done, Liam, well done. (indistinct remarks) So welcome back. Jumping back into our adventure. (laughing) So as the armies begin to filter in, word begins to spread throughout the city that every Fire Giant that stood beneath Thordak in the city has been slain. A multitude of the lizardfolk that were under Thordak and the Conclaves barrier have also been slain or have fled the city. The storm of the Ashari has wandered and dissipated as the immediate threat of the wyvern riding horde has fled towards the Stormcrest Mountains to the Southeast, and are now out of sight. The armies have converged and have begun searching for survivors and putting them under their care. Members of the Clasp have begun to rise up and meet with the remaining armies in discussions of how to bring most of the survivors out as the Clasp has actually been-- as they discussed before-- taking many of the survivors that aren't already bound to Thordak and keeping them underground, and kind of building small underground tent cities for them to live in while they try and figure out what to do. It's very interesting with those of you who've lived in Emon for enough time to see so many different people and so many different racial backgrounds, and so many different cultural decrees all coming to one point and all working together so quickly and so strongly just for the sake of recovery, for aid and there is an air of relief. Some people are gathering the dead and identifying them, bringing them out into portions of the streets to make sure that they are properly buried and the families are given notification. You can see a lot of the fires are being put out and people are doing the best they can to salvage as much of the city that still stands. And a lot of the city still stands untouched. I'd say a good third of it is gonna need some serious reconstruction and rebuilding. And being one of the largest-- if not the largest city on the continent, it's gonna take some time. You guys have begun to speak with the Warmaster as he approaches with his army, and kind of trade stories on what has transpired on their end and yours. And as this is happening, a familiar face steps into the district with a small group of cloaked figures.
Laura: Oh shit.
Matt: Standing before you, you see a tall, scaled female Dragonborn, tailless, armored, Tofor Brotorus, looking harried and exhausted. She steps up and you see what looks to be the cusp of a toothy grin at the edge of her mouth as she catches your attention, raises one hand. "You have no idea how happy I am to see that you all live. So, if I'm to be told, you are the ones that took down the Cinder King?"
Travis: Yeah.
Taliesin: Yes.
Marisha: Us and with the aid of many others, of course.
Matt: "Then this is indeed the turning point. Do you have access to any of the members of the council? We've been cut off in the Lyceum for months."
Travis: Aye.
Laura: Yes.
Marisha: Allura is safe is Whitestone currently. We can say Whitestone now right?
Taliesin: We can say Whitestone now, yes.
Marisha: Okay. -She's safe in Whitestone.
Travis: Whitestone. -Sorry, are we not saying it?
Marisha: Whitestone, yeah. It's kinda nice saying it again.
Laura: Emperor Uriel's wife and children are in Whitestone as well.
Matt: "This is good to know, I was worried about them after the initial attack. Okay, all right."
Marisha: Asum should still be here as well, right?
Taliesin: Back in Whitestone as well.
Marisha: Also back in Whitestone?
Sam: Mhm, Whitestone. I think--wait, Raishan was supposed to take Asum somewhere. Did we ever-- did that ever happen?
Travis: I thought Asum came down to the Ziggurat.
Marisha: Yeah.
Sam: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Marisha: Raishan brought Asum back to us.
Laura: Yeah, that.
Liam: Sound of confidence.
Taliesin: It was like a month ago.
Matt: "Very well. With Warmaster's aid, and any of you who are able to, we'll begin to do the best we can to restructure some semblance of law and order here within the city."
Marisha: And Kima's in there, she's kind of guarding the treasury, if you will.
Sam: Solo.
Marisha: Solo, by herself.
Liam: We were hoping to peel off some of the troops, maybe some of Syngorn's troops to help keep an eye on things in there.
Matt: "Well, master, could you make that happen?" You see Mikael Daxio who is currently in the midst of giving orders to a few of his soldiers kind of puts his hand up and walks over. "I'm sorry, what?" "Mikael, if you would be able to offer some aid or strength of your troops to guard what remains of the city's economy." And Mikael nods. "Should not be a worry. Of course, I'll uh--" and he begins to talk with Tofor, and they begin to break down and structure how people are gonna go here and there. So the longer this progresses, the more it gets into more logistical conversations. What do you guys wanna do?
Marisha: I fill them in on what I saw in scrying. More importantly, what this means is that she is on this plane of existence. I can't scry if she's on another plane, so she's here.
Liam: Do you know where that island is? 
Marisha: I could attempt to think really hard about it. I could attempt to think.
Sam: The Marisha Ray Story.
Liam: Scrying doesn't give any direction.
Matt: I mean even the visuals I'm giving from a narrative standpoint are like a little more than the spell should, but it's for fun.
Marisha: Can I do like a--can I do a roll to see--
Matt: Make an intelligence check.
Marisha: Oh, geez. Thanks for your vote of confidence, Sam. That's not good, that's not good.
Sam: For the dice.
Marisha: This is your fault. -It's a five total.
Sam: Yeah, it is.
Marisha: Wait, wait, wait, no, just a straight intelligence check?
Matt: Yup, intelligence modifier.
Marisha: Yeah, it's five.
Matt: Yeah, you've--you, for lack of a better term, are the homeschooled one of the bunch, and you only recently left the-- well, before meeting the rest of these adventurers, you know, left Zephra to go and see what the world was about. So, unfortunately, you don't have as much worldly experience as other people on your team would. So the visuals you have clear in your mind, you have no personal life experience or any place that you've seen that you can connect the dots to.
Marisha: I turned to Pike and asked-- and tell her of the island, and ask if she has encountered anything like this in her travels.
Matt: She closes her eyes for a second and kinda winces a little bit, her tongue kinda peaks outside her mouth for a second. "Uh, no. Wide ocean, you said, right?"
Marisha: Big, nothing but ocean, except for that one singular island. It looked like there was geothermal activity going on, so it must be near a volcano or something.
Matt: "Most of my sailing was done in the Ozmit Sea."
Marisha: Nothing like that?
Matt: "Nothing that I've seen. Sorry."
Marisha: It's okay, Pikey.
Patrick rothfuss: I'll throw a Hail Mary, like how wide-ranging was I back in the day when I was doing this for my career? Any of this sound familiar to me?
Matt: Roll an intelligence check.
Laura: Come on! (mixed remarks) Natural 20!
Patrick rothfuss: Eighteen.
Matt: Eighteen? Plus your intelligence modifier?
Patrick rothfuss: Eighteen. No negative modifiers.
Matt: That's good. Must be nice. (laughing) As Keyleth is going over the description again, you're thinking about it, and you did a bit of sailing. Sailing in the Lucidian Ocean is difficult. That's why Wildmount... -Take it outside, Liam.
Laura: He's good, he's good.
Marisha: Don't die.
Liam: I pulled the wrong card from the deck.
Matt: The glass of many drinks. You've done a bit of sailing out of necessity, and the Lucidian Ocean is known for being the more treacherous of the large bodies of water, which is why between Wildmount and the other continents there isn't a whole lot of trade, or the trade that's out there is generally considered very expensive and for rarer items and resources. What catches your mind is the idea of geothermal activity. And while you haven't specifically been to a place like that, the islands you know that usually contain that type of subvolcanic activity to expel that type of, you know, region based terrain, those usually are in the southern region, south of Tal'Dorei.  More like southern, southern Ozmit Sea. Close, but not specifically to the Hespit Archipelago, but somewhere in that similar type region. 
Sam: Hespit Archipelago?
Travis: I believe it's archipela-jo.
Matt: I'm gonna throw every dice at you, Travis. (laughing)
Marisha: Southern southern Ozmit Sea.
Patrick rothfuss: This lair did not seem to be the bookish sort of lair, like the sort of dragon who collects a lot of lore, and would have like, stuff like that, no.
Matt: No, not this one, this--the-- Thordak in particular has been interesting too, and as people have been discussing it here-- once a very intelligent and cunning Red Dragon. You don't know the full details of it, but there was something about his return to this realm after being sealed on the Fire Elemental plane, his return involved harboring an enchanted gem within his chest that kind of held and carried the essence of the Fire plane with him, and the longer it resided within Thordak, it caused him to mutate and swell into this, like, primordial beast dragon, but it also drove him insane. And so everything you've seen in the lair, it seems to be a natural chaotic formation of a more feral type dragon mentality than what you've heard about in your travels.
Patrick rothfuss: Right, um, the only other thing I can think of from what you've described is if she was there, and she-- and this place was obviously in ruin and abandoned, and she was tossing at looking for information-- it wasn't hers, but it's abandoned-- the only thing I can think of that she would want would be some sort of lore or magic, which means this is the lab of someone powerful, which means those people show up in stories. And so, that might be a way to find out where this is. In this area, if you find out who was doing terrible things-- 'cause you said cages, right?
Marisha: Yes.
Patrick rothfuss: Nothing good comes from cages. So whoever was doing terrible things in that area--
Laura: Maybe a necromancer of some sort?
Patrick rothfuss: Well, if she stole a dead dragon...
Laura: Hm, all right.
Taliesin: Can I make a lore roll for Booky McBookerson?
Matt: Make a history check.
Taliesin: Natural twenty. (cheering)
Patrick rothfuss: The look of incredulity on his face!
Taliesin: That's a 29.
Matt: Literally was like, If he's... he better roll a natural-- okay.
Taliesin: You're just gonna hand me your notebook and I can just read.
Matt: No.
Travis: Well done, man.
Marisha: Holy shit, holy shit!
Taliesin: Knew there was one in there somewhere.
Marisha: Oh my god, you just saved us a trip to the library.
Matt: Don't say that yet.
Taliesin: I was about to say, no, we're going to the library. Use these places or they disappear.
Matt: You have always had a mild fascination with the macabre. And since the Age of Arcanum was also referred to as the Age of Wanton Necromancy, because at the time, there was no law against it. While necromancy exists in modern day Tal'Dorei-- more so in Wildmount, but it's generally heavily regulated. There are very few necromancers that weren't sanctioned or part of a government system so that it could be very closely watched, and any sort of research or development could be made, you know, made sure that it didn't turn into the usual classic, you know-- My power's greater than everything, I'm gonna go off and do my own thing. The den that she's describing is very much that type of a necromancer. And there are only a handful that catch your attention. One, uh, is an entity that you're very familiar with. That is what was once a great mage, necromancer, that began to pursue ascension to god-dom, known as the Whispered One, or the very familiar name of Vecna. However, however, the acknowledgement of Vecna's history was heavily tied into Wildmount, and what little bit of research you've done into the back history of the Briarwoods says that wherever Vecna's old, forgotten laboratory was, it most likely existed on the continent of Wildmount. The only other individual you can think of that is known historically was an individual known as Opash. Opash was a sanctioned necromancer during the Age of Arcanum on the continent of Marquet, and then after being discovered to be delving into his own experimentations, largely in the idea of crafting and sculpting flesh and undead flesh into whatever form it wishes, as well as the prolonging of life to pursue this endeavor, was set to be, was set to be executed. Through some very, very clever conversations and favors that were owed to Opash, it was agreed instead to just banish the necromancer out to sea.
Sam: Well, that could be it too.
Marisha: Wait, what was that last part? That was really important, banish the necromancer -out to sea?
Matt: Banished out to sea.
Marisha: Who was banished to sea?
Matt: Opash.
Sam: So those are two different stories, two different--
Matt: Those are the only two, like, famous necromancers that--
Sam: Are a-sea.
Laura: You're brilliant.
Marisha: You guys--you're all-- we have such smart friends. Oh my goodness.
Taliesin: Well, we need to, in theory, find the last resting place of Opash.
Marisha: Well, you know, we have--
Taliesin: Can't be harder than killing a Red Dragon.
Marisha: We have a paladin of the Raven Queen, and from what I remember, the Raven Queen hates necromancers.
Laura: Vecna is one of her sworn enemies.
Marisha: Maybe she knows, maybe you could talk to her.
Taliesin: We can do that back at Whitestone.
Patrick rothfuss: What do I know about the Raven Queen? (laughing) Because that one's, that one's new to me.
Matt: So yes, it catches your attention. The Raven Queen, the mother of ravens is, um, is a fairly prominent member of the Pantheon of Exandria, the entire world. Once immortal, ascended to take on the mantle of death and winter as her domains of influence. She presides not over the afterlife, but the moment in transition from life to death. She is the keeper of fate, and keeps watch over the destinies of those who walk the prime and beyond planes, and occasionally takes interest in those that tend to bend the threads around them. Um, you know, resurrection, healing magic, things that maintain life naturally or a natural life, per se, are not infractions upon her belief as destiny is stronger and if an entity is meant to live to fulfill his destiny, then that is how it's meant to be. It's the creatures that pervert destiny, creatures that bypassed the natural predestined and essentially, balk what, in her sphere, says is supposed to be your way, your path, your timeline. Those are her fervent enemies. Largely feared because of what she represents. Largely misunderstood because of what she represents. Generally, worship of the Raven Queen is pretty rare from the circles you've run into. You've generally walked in a lot of-- especially in recent years-- more, um-- for lack of a better term-- -not urban--
Laura: Rural.
Matt: Rural, thank you, more rural environments Raven Queen worship is acknowledged, but generally there's no temples to her.
Patrick rothfuss: Right, okay.
Taliesin: I love the notion of cornfield Raven Queen worship.
Laura: So creepy.
Taliesin: Ohh, I'm damned for that. (laughing)
Matt: Oh, don't worry, you'll get to Wildmount eventually.
Marisha: I'm sure they're out there.
Taliesin: The harvest is good this year.
Laura: You know, Raishan did say-- I mean, I know she's prone to lying, but she did say she was from Wildmount. That's where she wanted to go back to she said.
Taliesin: We have two very clean paths.
Laura: Maybe she's studying necromancy, maybe she's been studying Vecna, maybe she's been studying Opash.
Taliesin: Maybe she's been studying a lot of things, but one of them would probably be how to resurrect a red dragon.
Marisha: And she's also very familiar with, I'm sure, whatever the Briarwoods were doing, and with whatever the Ziggurat is on the bottom of Whitestone that we still don't know what it's technically for.
Laura: She knows what it is.
Marisha: I bet she does.
Laura: She knows what the orb of death is.
Marisha: Is Gilmore still around?
Matt: Gilmore is. Gilmore's kind of listening to the conversation while finishing closing off the satchels that he's filled with coin, and is currently kind of thinking to himself with his, you know, fingers crossed, his chin kind of perched upon his hands, and himself, trying to see if there's anything he knows out of the conversation. You do notice that also at this point there's a very faint glowing glyph on his forehead.
Marisha: Yeah.
Sam: What is that thing?
Matt: Do you say that?
Laura: Yeah. -What's going on there?
Taliesin: What's on your face?
Marisha: You've got a little, you've got a little something.
Sam: You always look dashing, but you have a new added dashing feature to your forehead right now.
Laura: Gold, right up--
Matt: Oh, and he kinda waves a hand briefly, and it kind of fades back into his skin and it's like there's no glow there. "Ha, it's a, it's a, just a thing."
Sam: Oh, that seems fine, okay. (laughing)
Laura: No, seriously.
Marisha: Hopefully a good thing.
Matt: "Everyone has their magical specialties. I, um, I carry, I carry power in my bloodline."
Sam: What power?
Matt: He looks back, 'cause there's people kind of in the vicinity, and he--
Laura: Just mouth it, I can read lips.
Matt: He kinda goes, "I'm what they refer to as a runechild."
Laura: What does that, what does that mean?
Matt: You don't know.
Laura: I know, what does it mean?
Matt: Go and make a history check.
Laura: Okay.  -Oh no, I don't know.
Travis: You don't know shit. -You know less than me.
Taliesin: What's a child? (laughing)
Matt: Who are you, who am I?
Travis: I've got a new weapon down in the, in the lair. Can you identify this?
Matt: "I can."
Travis: Just take a look at it.
Matt: "I've got a few low level spells still available, certainly. Oh, this is quite a fancy endeavor."
Travis: It's really pretty.
Matt: "Oh, it's not just pretty, it'll perform for you. This, my friend, is a dancing sword."
Sam: A dancing sword?
Marisha: How does it work?
Laura: How do you make it work?
Travis: I throw it on the ground.
Sam: I start playing a ditty. (imitating instrument playing)
Matt: Okay, what'd you do, Grog?
Travis: I threw it on the ground. I throw it on the ground! I don't need your dancing!
Matt: My weapon's not a sword!
Travis: Duh! (laughing)
Matt: I'm not part of your feudal system! All right, so you throw the sword on the ground.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: It's gonna kill me.
Liam: Clang-a-lang-a-lang.
Travis: Clang-a-lang-a-lang.
Matt: Here we go. (humming) The sword goes clang-clang. The music's playing, sword just stays there.
Laura: I don't think that's how it works, Grog.
Sam:  Dancing sword   Feel the-- 
Travis: I feel moved by Scanlan's tunes, and I go over and I pick up the sword and... (singing gibberish)
Sam: Maybe it has to lead, Grog. (crosstalk) (laughing)
Sam:  I know this much is true 
Matt: As Grog slowly rotates, caressing the back of this ornate scimitar, the music emanating from Scanlan's fantastic shaum. A number of nearby military begin to slowly turn and just kind of cock their heads and watch as an unexpected display presents itself amongst the Cloudtop ruins. 
Travis: Perverts.
Matt: Gilmore leans in, "You might wanna spend some time with it first. I don't think it trusts you yet."
Sam: Take it to dinner.
Travis: Yeah, but it's very sharp.
Laura: Sit down and compliment it a lot.
Liam: I think you have to hang out in the shitter with it for a while.
Travis: Oh right, shitter, compliments, take it to dinner.
Marisha: Conjure some wine in your jug.
Laura: Oh, good call.
Travis: For it or for me?
Laura: Both, both.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: "Once it likes you it'll tell you a magic word. Use the word and that sword fights on its own."
Sam: On its own?
Travis: Really?
Taliesin: Like a Warner Brothers cartoon.
Laura: So you can fight-- it can fight and he can fight with another thing? (gasping and laughing) -You should give it to Scanlan.
Travis: What?
Laura: I'm sorry.
Travis: She forgets herself sometimes, it's all right. Thank you, Gilmore.
Matt: "Of course, anything else you need?"
Marisha: Back to the runechild thing.
Matt: "Yes?"
Marisha: What's that about?
Liam: What's a runechild, Shaun?
Laura: You don't have to tell us if you don't want to, but please.
Matt: "Well, I just-- it's, um, it's a natural thing that some people are born with. It's a gift, it's, um--"
Marisha: Like scoliosis?
Matt: "Adjacent."
Liam: That means I had it.
Matt: "But no, it's--there aren't many of us, and let's just say, in times past, we were-- runechildren were sought after. Not always by the best of intentions. So I'd like to keep this information--"
Marisha: Sure.
Laura: Of course.
Liam: Was that a problem even in Emon or just where you hail from?
Taliesin: Another threat we need to deal with at some point.
Matt: "It pervaded the entire Age of Arcanum, but, um, it's not that it's-- it's just not well understood, and, uh, um, just please."
Travis: Your word is safe with us because I don't know what you're talking about.
Matt: "That's why I like you, Grog. The details go nowhere."
Marisha: Gilmore, in your time in growing up on Marquet, did you ever hear any tale of someone named Opesh?
Laura: Opash.
Matt: "Opash?"
Marisha: He's a necromancer.
Laura: Terrible necromancer.
Matt: "Hmm."
Travis: Don't tell him.
Matt: "Can't say I have, I'm sorry. I wasn't really a history buff, sorry."
Laura: Damn, I bet J'Mon would've known.
Taliesin: We have to go back anyway.
Laura: We have a hand to deliver.
Taliesin: We do, we have many things. If anything else, the next order of business is to make a list.
Sam: That's what I'm doing right now.
Taliesin: I'm not actually going to build a list, we're just gonna make--
Marisha: How much longer do you think Raishan will stay there? Especially if she's not finding what she's looking for.
Travis: Not long.
Taliesin: I think it'll be a base of operations, that's what I would do. If I thought that I was going to be safe somewhere, I would stay there and simply hunt out, much as we did with Whitestone. Safe until it's not.
Laura: Do you think she knew you were scrying on her?
Marisha: She didn't seem to notice. A lot of times you can kinda tell.
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: She seemed distracted.
Taliesin: She's been beaten pretty badly.
Marisha: Yeah.
Laura: We should get to Whitestone.
Sam: Is here taken care of? And do we need to stop in on our home, our keep, and do anything there before we leave?
Liam: I mean, can--aren't we all tapped out? Can you get us to Whitestone now?
Laura: Maybe we spend the night in the keep -for old time's sake.
Sam: For old time's sake.
Travis: The old hangout!
Marisha: I could get us to-- back to Whitestone using my last seventh level spell, and then that's it, I'm done, done, done.
Taliesin: We could go home.
Sam: You couldn't get all of us, -right, I mean--
Marisha: No, transport via plants.
Sam: But like Jarrett, and Kima, and Gilmore--
Marisha: It lasts six seconds.
Matt: "If we all go quickly, yeah."
Liam: We could get in a line.
Marisha: I think my record was like 25 people when we were moving refugees through. Yeah, it was pretty good, still trying to break that.
Matt: "I would recommend not really trying to break it."
Patrick rothfuss: We don't wanna get 25 and a half. (laughing)
Matt: "You've seen it happen, I can tell." (mixed remarks) "Well, I'm glad I'm alive, I'm glad you're all alive."
Laura: Thank you for helping.
Liam: Thank you, Shaun.
Matt: "It's the least I could do, and if anything, it's really-- this experience has helped me come to terms with the fact that I should not be on the battlefield. I need to stay in the shop, and I--"
Travis: That is not true, that finger of yours is very powerful.
Matt: "Yes, and I was also on fire a lot. -I want to avoid that."
Travis: That's true.
Taliesin: Are you gonna be rebuilding your shop here or are we gonna see you in Whitestone as well?
Matt: "You know, my intent a while back was to start a franchise. We'll see how the winds carry me, after all, I think--" And he kinda tugs open this large heavy sack and satchel that's on his side now, and to the other side you see a small compact bag of holding, and he goes, "I think I've got it taken care of." (laughing)
Laura: Nice.
Travis: Brilliant. We wish you well, Gilmore.
Matt: "Well, I mean, if you're going to Whitestone, -I'm coming with you."
Travis: No, you gotta stay. I'm just kidding, you can come. (laughing)
Laura: Ker, are you gonna come to Whitestone with us? 
Liam: Stay the night and have a drink with us.
Sam: Are we going now?
Laura: We can bounce you back.
Sam: We're not even gonna go to our keep for a little bit. -Did we go there?
Taliesin: We did, we came in. -Stopped by the ruins.
Sam: All right.
Travis: Heyo, heyo, Ker, heyo.
Patrick rothfuss: I could use a drink, I would love to. I would love to, give me just a moment, and I head back to the troops and I talk to, like, the couple of them that have kind of like risen up--
Laura: Samantha.
Patrick rothfuss: Samantha, yeah, like fucking runs the whole thing right now.
Liam: Sam's pretty legit.
Patrick rothfuss: Yeah. And so--and I also kind of circumspectly-- I sort of distribute a little bit of money. I give Samantha some, and this is like-- it's like if something happens, if I don't come back, here's how long you stay, here's what to do among the populous. Like--and I don't need to give them the talk of like, No looting, 'cause they've already had Daddy Ker like constantly lecturing them about how to not be dicks.
Matt: The kind of people that would follow you into battle for this, as small as your group was, the kind of people that you know you can trust this, and Samantha with her like, kind of, you know, graying hair that's pulled into this kind of hard topknot on top, and her darker skin with the scar across her cheek, and her breastplate of armor, she comes up and kind of grabs your hand and goes, "Don't worry, I've got it taken care of, it's fine."
Patrick rothfuss: Right, yeah, it's right, you've done it before.
Matt: "We've gathered the dead, we'll make sure with what you've given that we'll get it back to the families that remain."
Patrick rothfuss: Right, this is gonna be a tricky place for a couple of weeks, and not only could our people maybe use a rest, but maybe it would benefit from 30 or 40 level-handed people with swords maybe keeping an eye out, maybe traveling in pairs around the city making sure nobody's houses get broken into. Just--you can't take care of everything, but it would not be bad to camp out maybe for a week. Wait for me, and I'll be back, and if I'm not, you know where to go.
Matt: "Hey, I'm always down to rough up some ruffians."
Patrick rothfuss: It's--yeah, okay.
Matt: "Ker, go with your friends."
Patrick rothfuss: Okay.
Travis: Is Samantha attractive?
Laura: Should we--just ignore. She has that breastplate.
Matt: Yeah, I mean, she looks like she could definitely bruise you in the face with a left hook. So, for you, yeah.
Travis: Awesome, hey, Ker, Ker.
Patrick rothfuss: Hm?
Travis: Put in a good word.
Patrick rothfuss: I--she--I... (laughing)
Travis: Hey. 
Matt: "He's going with you, right?"
Patrick rothfuss: Yeah.
Matt: "Great, okay."
Laura: Does Kima wanna come with us?
Matt: Yeah, Kima's ready to go, she's like, "All right, we're going back to Whitestone?"
Laura: Does everything look like it's in order with Daxio, with everyone here?
Matt: "Sure."
Laura: Are we good to leave?
Matt: "I don't do the whole council thing, but they assure me it's fine, Allie's gonna know what to do. I just--this is really depressing me."
Laura: I look at Daxio, is everything okay, can we cut out--
Matt: He's in the middle of a conversation. "Yes, yes, we've got it covered. Let Allura know as soon as she can, come to us, we have a lot to discuss."
Laura: Will do.
Matt: "Everyone, thank you."
Laura: Thank you.
Matt: "And from me, from all the civilians of the city, from Tal'Dorei proper, we all owe you a great debt of gratitude."
Laura: Thank you for having our back.
Matt: "Thank you for having ours. Now, off with you, you know where to find us."
Liam: Kima, come on, let's get you back to Allie.
Marisha: We gotta find a tree.
Sam: Might I just--
Taliesin: We have a tree at the keep.
Marisha: We do have a tree at the keep if we wanted to make a stop at the keep.
Sam: So we are now stiffing The Clasp.
Laura: No.
Taliesin: No.
Laura: By the way, Daxio... (laughing) I'm sure you're aware, but-- and we'll let Allura know as well--The Clasp was instrumental in keeping survivors alive here in Emon. -They definitely deserve a bit of the pot.
Taliesin: Compensation.
Sam: Handsome reward.
Matt: "We'll discuss with them. I do believe that we've already had a few conversations with a few operatives during our arrival within the city, and they've been very forthcoming with information, and willing to aid us. So, yes, I appreciate the acknowledgement."
Laura: We wouldn't have made it here without them.
Sam: Please let them know that we vouched for them.
Liam: They've at least earned the old status quo.
Travis: What is that?
Matt: "Very well."
Laura: I have no idea.
Patrick rothfuss: And just to mention, if you take people like that and give them, in a place in your town, you can keep an eye on them.
Matt: He eyes kinda narrow a little bit, he nods towards you. "Indeed. Well, I'll take it from here. Return when you can. Get Allura back to us, and stay safe." And he turns back to handle some more business. What do you guys wanna do?
Travis: Make for Greyskull Keep--
Laura: Where our giant tree is so we can go to our other giant tree.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: What they said.
Matt: You guys make your way walking southward through Emon, and--
Laura: Just loot everything along the way, like--
Marisha: Just like decking children.
Laura: Every person you see. (crosstalk)
Liam: Matt starts rolling random encounters.
Matt: Six episodes just getting out of Emon. (laughing)
Travis: Why the hell did we walk?
Matt: You guys make your way through, and as you do, it's, it's an emotional journey, because as you walk through the city that became your home as you all became a family, you can see familiar sights, you can see familiar thoroughfares, and streetsides, and taverns, many of which have sustained severe damage, many that have been reduced to nothing but rubble and ash. And some that still stand defiantly versus all the difficulty, and stress, and strenuous struggle that has existed for weeks and weeks and weeks here. You see people slowly emerging from the shadows to try and reclaim what remains of their life, but you also see them helping each other. You also see a comparison between the busy bustle and kind of general selfish lifestyle that most people in a well-off capital city exist in replaced with a newly understood sense of kinship and looking out for each other. You see the guards themselves beginning to really understand, in their lifetime, the first true, large-scale victory for the betterment of their people and what that means to them. And there's kinda a sense of pride through the sadness that many of the armed soldiers you've come across probably never had.  It gives you hope, though to see it in such a state in itself is harrowing in its own right. You can already begin to see through this energy and through the slow crawling return to life that you've helped ensure that Emon still has a future, let alone Tal'Dorei itself. No one catches your attention as you leave, but a number of eyes train onto you as you exit. And many of them flash with recognition, their face going bright, and then with just a solemn nod of, "Thank you." Eventually you find yourself to the southern gates of Emon exiting out into the charred fields that once were green and lush with grain and grass. Eventually coming upon the exterior of Greyskull Keep, the home of Vox Machina. Just as you left it, abandoned, the front gate partially ajar. There stands the keep. Mighty, defiant, and somewhere there is a jar of no-longer-magical poop. (laughing) Making your way inside, there is the garden that you left within the Temple to Sarenrae and the large central tree that you use for most of your transport to and from, Keyleth.
Marisha: How's the garden look?
Matt: Looks as good as you left it. It was far enough from the battle to where it didn't seem to suffer any sort of blows or issues. You guys managed to basically focus everything within the city's walls, so, good on you for that.
Marisha: Okay, anybody need anything?
Sam: Not gonna go through the-- need anything from your rooms or anything?
Laura: We'll be back here.
Sam: Change of underwear?
Travis: What's that?
Laura: It's all at Whitestone. We have everyone with us. Jarrett, Kash, Zahra.
Matt: They've all kinda walked along with you.
Liam: I'm just gonna pluck another flower and tuck it behind my ear.
Matt: Okay. As Keyleth steps forward and places her hands across the base of the tree, she focuses and it's almost like grasping two ends of a bag and then pulling it open with alternating zippers. You watch the bark split, and as it opens up and crawls from floor to the seven-foot apex, a doorway is opened temporarily, and on the other side you immediately see the, the slow morning sun beginning to rise in Whitestone across the city.
Sam: Jump in.
Marisha: Six seconds, go, go, go!
Matt: You all go charging through as fast as you can, all emerging into the center of Whitestone's central area, the twilight being slowly cast away by the rising sun. The Sun Tree at your back as the doorway closes behind you, and the cold air immediately catches your lungs. You've been amongst the heat and the clouds of smoke and soot of Emon for so long amongst the struggle, the cold crisp air is almost a welcome moment of respite from that experience. You look around you and the little bits of grass have broken the cobblestone and floor of the open area, have bits of frozen dew across their surface, and it's this beautiful crystal moment of peace that you didn't realize you've been seeking for quite some time. You can see the gentle bit of light beginning to crest over the mountains, hitting Castle Whitestone ahead of you. You've returned. What do you wanna do?
Laura: Well, I thought it would a be a nightcap, but it seems like it's a morning cap instead.
Liam: That's our specialty.
Taliesin: It's night somewhere.
Liam: That is our specialty.
Laura: Head to the castle, have a drink, -tell Allura what's going on.
Marisha: Should find Allura. And Cassandra.
Taliesin: Yes, let's head to the castle. 
Laura: Hey, Ker.
Patrick rothfuss: Hm?
Laura: Wanna see where we live?
Patrick rothfuss: I will admit to a passing curiosity.
Taliesin: Let's give him a tour.
Liam: This place was full of fucking vampires. They were everywhere, they were giants. It was terrible, we've renovated, yeah.
Sam: We led a rebellion and I was the general, it was amazing.
Taliesin: We let him say that.
Laura: He was a dinosaur.
Liam: Any beret you see one someone's head right now is because of this man right here.
Laura: Oh, and that flat part of land, that's mine. (laughing)
Travis: I thought they said that was the wastelands.
Laura: No, it's mine.
Travis: Isn't that where they bury all the shit?
Sam: Yup.
Travis: Yup. (laughing) 
Matt: As you guys walk your way up the path to Castle Whitestone, the Pale Guard morning shift has already begun to walk across the grounds. They greet you, you're let into the castle, and from your perspective, this hillside, this small mountain that marks the northern side of Whitestone, the city that sits in the central valley surrounded by the thick Parchwood Forest, you see this beautiful castle. Not too large, but enough to have once housed a very respectable royal family, if you will, of at least lord and lady blood. Made of a dull pale gray. You've never been to Whitestone, you've heard about it, and you immediately assume that, Well, this is what they call it 'cause the castle itself has a little bit of white. Entering inside, it's slowly beginning to rouse. You sense some energy with the sunrise. People begin to make breakfast and guards begin to walk past. Eventually, with you guys taking a moment to kind of rest and even grab a little bit of food, as early as it is, Cassandra enters. You watch as a woman in her-- what you can only imagine to be late teens, early twenties physically, but her eyes carry the wisdom that only years of trauma and survival can hold. Her dark brunette hair with a single shock of white that kind of curls to the back. Walks in, consciousness-- as much as you could expect from a girl that early in the morning. Has her hands kinda clasped at her chest. "Well, um, back so soon, are we?"
Marisha: Is it soon? It feels like we've been-- at least two weeks. (sighing) (laughing)
Liam: More like five.
Marisha: That's true. Like a holiday break happened.
Laura: Thordak is dead.
Matt: "Then it is done, I'm proud of you all."
Laura: It's not done.
Liam: It's not done.
Taliesin: But it's a victory. -We've had a good day.
Marisha: We're not dead.
Matt: "I can see that, and I'm quite thankful. Um, your friend, I don't believe I've had the honor."
Marisha: Oh yeah, this is Ker.
Patrick rothfuss: Am I still like-- do I look like Brian Blessed who's just been through, like, a bloody fucking massacre? -Am I still like--
Matt: All of you do. All of you right now are just wrecked.
Patrick rothfuss: Okay.
Matt: Like still, still shiny from like oils and sweat. There's still like smeared ash and--
Patrick rothfuss: It's probably not until right then where I'm like, I am, I am a fucking mess. I'm like up to elbows bloody, yeah.
Taliesin: You fit right in here.
Patrick rothfuss: Yeah, okay.
Matt: "I've not had the pleasure."
Patrick rothfuss: Ker, it's a pleasure to meet you.
Laura: How did you know we were here, Cassandra?
Matt: "The guards went and summoned me. To be perfectly honest, I don't usually rouse so early in the morning, but this is good news. And to be perfectly honest, the last few times the guards have summoned me with your arrival, they've been with a bit of a scare. So, um, it's an absolute pleasure to make your acquaintance, Ker, you are welcome here. Any friends of my friends are a friend of mine."
Laura: Can we roll an insight check to see if it's really her?
Liam: Sure.
Matt: Sure, roll an insight check.
Laura: I don't trust anybody now.
Travis: Me too, it was my idea.
Liam: You've burned us too many times, Matt.
Laura: Twenty-five.
Liam: She's a beholder.
Travis: Four. (laughing)
Laura: This is just a ruse.
Sam: Secrets!
Laura: It's not gonna be Raishan. (laughing) Go team.
Matt: Suddenly suffers how much psychic damage?
Sam: Vex.
Laura: Huh? Do you think this would be my reaction if it was Raishan? (laughing)
Matt: "Well, rest."
Taliesin: Have a bit a of drink, we're going to rest, and then--
Matt: "Well, you know where we keep the wine."
Laura:  Bloody Marys   Mimosas 
Matt: "Are we expecting more or is it just you?"
Taliesin: Did Vex just do that?
Sam: It's just us for now. -I think--
Travis: It's just us, yeah.
Sam: They never gave our airship any instructions. I guess it's just roaming the countryside.
Travis: It's just us this time, I know we usually have a lot in tow--
Sam: Oh, and we don't need to-- well, do we need to keep the force field up around the city anymore?
Taliesin: No, everything's--we can stand down at this point. It's time for everything to rest briefly.
Laura: We need to wake Allura.
Taliesin: We do need to wake Allura.
Matt: "All right, I'll have her roused. The rest of you, if you wish, I could have baths drawn. I think you could use it."
Taliesin: What are you trying to imply?
Matt: "Brother."
Taliesin: I know, I know, you owe me--I owe one.
Liam: You don't like Dragon Age splatter? (laughing)
Travis: Paintbrush of gore.
Matt: "I mean no disrespect, but as a lady of esteemed blood, you are all a terrible mess."
Taliesin: I am going to walk right up to her, give her a big hug.
Matt: "No, no, no, no!" And for a second, for a second you see a glimmer of the young sister that grew up with Percy fighting him off, and she pushes him off. (laughing) "Thank you."
Taliesin: I am going to be owed for much more than that, I'm well aware.
Matt: "Yes, yes, you are. -I'm glad you're back."
Taliesin: It's good to be home.
Matt: "All right, I'll have Allura brought to you. Rest well, should you require anything, I'll be in my chambers waking properly." She leaves the room.  Though you had--brought little scraps of food as they were available, a full breakfast meal is properly prepared for you, warm food.
Laura: This is post bath and we're clean?
Matt: Yeah, you guys take time just being cleaned properly.
Taliesin: We're spying, we're spying.
Marisha: My hair is still singed short again.
Sam: Before we part ways with Jarrett, I'd like to pull him aside a little bit.
Matt: As you pull Jarrett aside, you get but a few steps away and he goes, "I'm not doing it again."
Sam: I know, I know. I just wanted to thank you for your efforts, and, you know, it really meant a lot to me, and I'm gonna cast an eighth level modify memory on you. (laughing)
Taliesin: What?
Travis: I love him so much.
Marisha: You still have an eighth level spell? (laughing)
Laura: You have an eighth level spell left?
Sam: Yeah. (crosstalk)
Matt: Okay, okay.
Laura: I don't even feel bad that he died now.
Matt: Is this through the hand cone, because that's a whole-- -that's not subtle.
Sam: No, it would not be subtle, -so I cannot do the hand cone.
Matt: That's okay, he rolled a five. So, what are you modifying?
Sam: When he delivered the suude to me, I thanked him for it and I went into a-- I'm implanting this memory in his head. I told him why I needed it so badly, and it was a very sad tale of how a goblin killed my mother and the image haunts me to this day and I can't get through a night-- I can't function without some sort of sustenance. He felt terrible for me and vowed to get me more, much more. (laughing) And at that time, I gave him 50 platinum.
Travis: Holy shit, you're turning into a drug lord.
Sam: Which he finds in his pocket now, because I gave it to him.
Taliesin: We have met the enemy, oh my god.
Marisha: You're going full Heisenberg.
Sam: And he feels for me.
Travis: He is Heisenberg.
Taliesin: He is the one that knocks. (laughing) (crosstalk)
Sam: I broke down and he's never seen me break down like that.
Matt: No, he hasn't.
Sam: In his mind anyway.
Matt: He hasn't, and--
Taliesin: Wow!
Travis: Outstanding.
Taliesin: I can't--what?
Matt: Okay.
Sam: That's that.
Matt: All right, and at which point you watch as his eyes kind of glaze over for a moment. He was about to make his way towards getting his own shower. He let everybody else go first, and he kinda stops for a second and his eyes glaze over, and he kinda blinks for a second. "Well, I understand these have been very trying days. If there's anything I can do to help, let me know."
Sam: You know how to help. (laughing)
Matt: And you see the look in his eyes that you've seen before, which is the, I don't do this, I barely know how to do this, and the connections I have, it's, it's gonna be hard. And you see this look, but as opposed--where previously it was, I can't do this anymore. He goes--he reaches up, touches your shoulder and goes, "I'll do what I can."
Sam: That's all I ask.
Liam: Yeah, Mr. Shorthalt, yeah.
Travis: Meat man coming.
Marisha: What the fuck?
Sam: Rest well, Jarrett, thank you for your brave battle.
Marisha: Oh my god, oh my god.
Matt: "Just so you know, I'm expecting a raise, 'cause, uh, I kinda almost died like twice. It's ridiculous."
Sam: You should've seen me. I did.
Matt: "I'll see what I can do." Then he goes and leaves to take a bath.
Liam: We were all taking baths, right? And they're like big royal baths 'cause this is Whitestone?
Matt: Yeah, there's maybe four at any given point in time. So you guys still have to kinda take turns.
Liam: Excellent, I take mine very quickly, and walk in the buck, and I find Percival's bath, and silently walk in while he's bathing, and I sit in the bath on the other side, and just stare for a minute.
Taliesin: You know you're getting weirder. (laughing)
Liam: Um...  You and I are very different. 
Taliesin: I would agree, although, again, I'm in a bath at the moment... Cut to it, I think, I was really working on something. (laughing)
Liam: I didn't think you were, uh, so meek. Umm... Anyway, I still plan to honor your request, but, um... I want you to know... that you are like a brother to me.  Now I have a sister, and we fight constantly, so I expect to do that with you.
Taliesin: I'd hope so. 
Liam: I'm glad I have you around still.
Taliesin: Me as well, I-- I like this family, I'd like to keep it. 
Liam: Don't say another word. I show him my ass and I leave.
Laura: As soon as he leaves, I come up from the water and go, Ugh! (laughing) I thought he'd never leave!
Travis: Amazing! Amazing!
Taliesin: I was so hoping you were gonna do that.
Marisha: How big are these fucking bathtubs!
Taliesin: They're big bathtubs!
Liam: That is so gross! That was like a minute long!
Taliesin: I love you, that was wonderful.
Liam: So gross! (laughing continues) Oh, my-- My opinion of you has changed!
Laura: You don't know! You don't know, you're gone!
Taliesin: She was just tickling on the back of my knee the entire time.
Liam: I'm not talking about Vex! Vex can pork him all she wants, I don't give a fuck! That is a twisted D&D choice, man!
Matt: That is--that is an amazing D&D choice.
Liam: That is crazier-- that shit is crazier than the broom to me, Laura. Holy shit. Boosh! -Hit me up top!
Matt: Hey, Laura--
Travis: I'm working on something here, cut to the chase.
Marisha: I'm working on something.
Sam: We gotta speed this up! (laughing)
Matt: In hindsight, that changes everything. -Wow.
Liam: Yes, yes and! (laughing)
Marisha: Is that where those water-breathing potions -have gone to?
Taliesin: Literally-- we are actually bathing in them, ironically. In the water flow.
Matt: It's like The Abyss. (laughing)
Liam: Percy, what is that really cheesy music that's playing in here?
Matt: All right, so... unless you have any more particular bath-based shenanigans to encounter...
Taliesin: I will leave that to peoples' imaginations.
Liam: I need a shower with lye, man! (laughing)
Travis: Amazing.
Matt: ...and that might work better.
Taliesin: ...while that was happening. Let me remind you of that.
Liam: It looks just like us.
Patrick rothfuss: I heard somebody has alter-memory spells, if you can hit me with that.
Matt: No, he only does it to people that don't deserve it.
Liam: Oh, man! I can barely remember those dragons right now.
Matt: So, after you've all come-- finished bathing, come down to get your breakfast, and you've all kinda gathered around the table and there's, you know, chatter, that sort of, the release after so many nerves built up even though there is still things to tackle, there is a moment of kinship and respite and, honestly, Ker, it's a little strange for you at first. You--such jovial atmosphere in the face of such... you know, recent tragedy and trauma reminds you of back when you used to do this. And it's weirdly welcome. You know, it's very humanizing, and there's a brotherhood that comes after battle that you can only describe if you've been there. And it's been a while since you've had this type of brotherhood. And even though you're quiet amongst their chatter, and they are a family that you're outside of, you can't fight the smile.
Patrick rothfuss: Oh, no, it's--this is-- and actually it's, you know, it's very nice to watch like, you know-- It did not stay like this for me, and it's obviously staying like this for them. And so, yeah, I'm very happy. And honestly, if there is liquor here, I probably do not stay very quiet for long. (laughing)
Laura: So much liquor.
Matt: Breakfast wine!
Taliesin: One of my Brit friends-- actually, were you at that breakfast at Comic Con where we went to the pub and he said, Do you have any breakfast beer? What do you have on the breakfast beer menu?
Travis: Yeah, if Ker is with the liquor and not being quiet, -I'm probably with him.
Matt: All right, well, you watch as Ker comes back with two bottles after being given directions as to where the... (bottle pops) Just like that. (laughing) A bottle in each hand, and each of you grab a bottle, and kinda toast the bottle itself. You're gonna drink. Is there anything you guys wanna discuss while you're having breakfast?
Travis: We're not worried about the spinning dirt button of death, right? It's fine down there, like it's--
Taliesin: I think it's on the list, but we have a list, we can slow down a bit.
Sam: What is our list, 'cause, I mean-- so here's what I got on my list. It's not very long. Bury a hand in Vasselheim.
Laura: No, bury ashes in Vasselheim.
Sam: Oh, what was the hand?
Laura: The hand was return the hand.
Sam: Oh, return the hand to Marquet.
Marisha: Marquet, yeah.
Sam: Return hand...Marquet.
Patrick rothfuss: An actual hand. I don't need to know, I just wanted to see -if I was doing it right.
Sam: Bury ashes in Vasselheim. -Find Opash, go to--
Taliesin: Island of Opash.
Sam: Go to Wildmount.
Laura: Both, yes.
Sam: Is that the same thing?
Laura: No.
Sam: Well, what--which one do we do?
Laura: Well, Vasselheim is-- is Vasselheim north-- close to Wildmount?
Taliesin: Nothing is north--
Matt: No, opposite side.
Laura: Oh, well, shit.
Matt: Vasselheim's to the northwest. Wildmount is the east-- northeast of Tal'Dorei.
Travis: We may find more about Opash in Wildmount.
Laura: Zahra's from Wildmount.
Matt: Uhh.
Travis: Is she?
Laura: Originally, I think.
Matt: Maybe--you'd have to check with Zahra.
Laura: I think she is--when she told me her history, I think it was.
Matt: Sure, there we go.
Travis: What else is on your list?
Sam: Uh--
Laura: Ooh, and the boys! The boys.
Sam: Oh, the little boys!
Laura: Yeah, the little angel babies, they're from Wildmount.
Sam: Where are they-- where did we leave them?
Laura: They're here.
Sam: Oh, okay.
Travis: Where did we leave them?
Taliesin: On the side of the road.
Sam: Any other to-do list items?
Taliesin: We have a demon.
Laura: Oh, God, we have Hotis, and the other demon that we fought in the City of Brass.
Liam: We've got time on that-- how long has it been Hotis-wise?
Matt: Hotis-wise, it's been a few weeks.
Liam: We've got time.
Sam: Is there another one?
Taliesin: No.
Laura: The ambassador to the Nine Hells was in the City of Brass, and we killed him, and he's gonna hate us.
Sam: Wait, he can come back?
Laura: I think so!
Travis: Hotis, oh, yeah.
Sam: Well, we can't do anything about that.
Matt: Make an arcana check, Sam.
Sam: Uh, more than 20--23.
Matt: Twenty-three. Umm, best that you know, as far as like hierarchies and devils in that plane, a devil as high-ranking as the one that you guys fought that got its ass handed to it by a bunch of random people in the City of Brass is considered such a slight in the eyes of the hierarchy of the Nine Hells, that devil probably has been punished stripped of its power, and is not something you probably need to worry about.
Laura: Oh, shit! (cross talk) Nice!
Taliesin: He does not get to come back next week.
Sam: We've done something on our to-do list.
Taliesin: I have a bit of... I have a bit of work to do around the house, so to speak. There's a few matters that have to be tended to here that we should at least get up and started, but...
Marisha: I mean, I feel like...
Taliesin: ...nothing's urgent.
Marisha: I feel like the giant green dragon in the room is pretty urgent.
Taliesin: It's the top of the list, but it's not something that's going to be solved tomorrow. It's not something that's necessarily going to bite us tomorrow. I think it's going to bite us, honestly-- if we left it alone, I think we would be reaping the damage of it in six months.
Matt: "Preferably no biting at all." As you look, you see at the table, her hair kinda pulled up into these small circles at the bottom of her head-- you see Allura, um, with just kinda like a nightrobe on.
Laura: She has fun buns.
Matt: She steps in... you see a woman standing with blondish, light hair that's been braided into long braids and then curled up into these small little balls underneath with like a dark blue-- almost shimmering materials are her robe. She steps in a sits down across from you guys at the other end of the table and begins taking them out and begins kind of rebraiding them. "I'm very happy to see that you're all safe. From what I've also been told, that there is no need to maintain the illusory barrier over Whitestone, which is of great relief to me as that's been draining. I have also heard that Thordak has fallen, so congratulations are in order."
Sam: We also found you a replacement flying carpet. (laughing) If you'd like it.
Laura: Scanlan, you're on my list.
Sam: Although we could use it in our battles to come.
Matt: "I'll tell you what-- when I have my tower rebuilt, then perhaps we'll find the right place for it where it matches the rest of the furniture. Until then, hold onto it."
Sam: It's really a tacky color, though.
Matt: "I can change that."
Liam: We won't let it come anywhere near acid at all.
Matt: "Please, I would appreciate that. In fact, any of my things that you may've stolen or taken over the past few years, keep them away from acid in general, thank you."
Laura: Really the rug was the only thing.
Travis: I took a couple pictures while I was in that... (whistling and laughing)
Marisha: Um... Raishan is still at large, and we have discovered that we think she is on the island of Opash.
Taliesin: The island that Opash was banished to, that is.
Liam: Dude what's name was Opash had an island.
Laura: Do you know anything of him? 
Matt: She thinks for a second.
Taliesin: They will probably be in ... we'll check.
Matt: "Do you remember the name of the island that apparently Thordak was ruling over when he was thought lost at sea?"
Laura: Do you?
Sam: Notes--there's some notes to go through.
Marisha: When did you tell us that information?
Matt: "Uh, this was information that Raishan gave you."
Laura: Right! (cross talk) ...200 years ago.
Taliesin: Just think if we had some device that would make it searchable...
Laura: Could I--would I remember this? 'Cause this was remembering information based on a dragon.
Matt: I would say yes for you.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: Well lawyered. (laughing)
Liam: Because you are so de-stressed right now, -your mind is so focused.
Laura: It's so clear.
Matt: Yes, there was something-- after Thordak was long thought dead, Thordak seemingly reemerged after spending a few--as far as you know-- years, decades, centuries, possibly, rebuilding his domain on what was called the island of Viscon.
Marisha: Of Viscon?
Matt: Viscon in the south of the Lucidian Ocean.
Marisha: Lucidian Ocean.
Matt: And so as you say-- as it comes to your mind, you're like--You say Viscon? Allura goes, "Viscon. Now, I know this island is-- it was part of our research when Thordak first began to attack and assail the seven regions of Tal'Dorei back when, you know, me and Kima were adventuring. Um...I don't know much about this Opash figure you speak of."
Laura: Did you find a laboratory on the island? An abandoned one?
Matt: "We did not go to the actual island, we just had to discover that was the-- the historical creep of Thordak's domain."
Laura: Right.
Matt: "It was fiercely guarded, and at the time, our focus was more to banish the creature as opposed to trying to walk into the center of its home, and none of us would be alive. That would be a place to look."
Laura: Thank you.
Patrick rothfuss: Um, from the religion angle, do I know anything about Opash? Like necromancer working against the natural order?
Matt: Role a religion check.
Taliesin: It's in Tolkien's Spirit Guide.
Patrick rothfuss: Yeah. Uhh, 17.
Matt: Seventeen. I mean, you've-- you've come across a modicum of necromancy in your years-- your younger years, at least. Usually, low level, employed by various tribal sages and wandering, marauding hordes of orcs or knolls that were, you know, given positions of power within their small cultures, because they had begun to harness some of the powers of life and death, but nothing that really left a lasting impression. There was one tomb that you excavated that it was beyond the southern lands of the Stormcrest Mountains. It was in the Reifenmist Peninsula, which is the thick jungles that exist on the southern peninsula of Tal'Dorei, below the countryside, below the actual political structure. It's a free land, it is beyond the rule of Tal'Dorei or Syngorn, and it is where refugees flee from society. It's where folks that want to live beyond the law go and build their own place, but south of that into the jungle, there are many lost and ancient places that were either forgotten intentionally, or buried through time as the founding to the age of Arcanum in these eons past and past. There is one tomb that you went to that was steeped in heavy necromancy and even just a short journey in, you lost two friends, watching the life sucked from their corpses, left behind just these dust-skinned skeletal memories, and you fled--you and the remaining members of your team. Since then, you've been keenly aware of the awful effects of necromancy, and it honestly scares you, and so the more this discussion continues, the more and more just uneasy you become with the discussion. Um, as far as the essence of what Opash may have in store, uh, you're not particularly sure, but, um, I mean, the domain of necromancy is life and death. Um, and that central theme keeps reemerging with Thordak, with Raishan, with whatever this dynamic is, there's something about life and death that is cyclical in this conversation that keeps you connected. 
Patrick rothfuss: Was that island that you mentioned volcamic?
Laura: The island of Viscon?
Patrick rothfuss: Volcanic.
Matt: You should slow down on the breakfast wine, friend.
Patrick rothfuss: Kerrek is pronouncing very deliberately at this point. (laughing)
Matt: "The island of Viscon-- it would be in a zone that does see quite a bit of activity of that kind. There are a number of places in the ocean that are known to just perpetually spire forth sulfur and other terrible fumes."
Taliesin: I wonder if a red dragon had been living there.
Matt: "Long before he came."
Taliesin: He would've certainly encouraged it, though.
Matt: "I'm--I don't doubt that. There is something to be said for that, so--"
Sam: More Lava, Keyleth.
Marisha: My favorite.
Taliesin: One day we're going to meet a lava door.
Travis: Don't you put that evil on us. Don't even put it out there.
Liam: Matt hadn't even thought of that!
Taliesin: Three times, you say it three times.
Sam: Door made of lava.
Matt: "If you do decide to inquire, this island of Viscon, carefully, slowly, methodically, whether or not this has a tie or this is specifically where the deceiver lives at the moment, who knows how long they'll stay. You say she's seeking something there?"
Laura: That's what Keyleth said it seemed like.
Marisha: She seemed to be poring through tomes and books looking for something. She seemed very frustrated. Question--oh, go ahead.
Matt: "Let's just say, what happens if she finds what she's looking for?"
Marisha: Exactly.
Patrick rothfuss: Oh, she brings the dragon back from the dead.
Taliesin: Or transfers her consciousness into the dragon's body, reanimates an undead red dragon.
Laura: I don't know what necromancy is capable of.
Taliesin: ...create some unholy monster.
Patrick rothfuss: You...
Sam: There's also dragon babies.
Patrick rothfuss: ...put into the-- into the eggs...
Laura: Hey, K, you remember when I said you were really smart? (laughing)
Sam: He makes wagon hitches, all right? -Listen!
Liam: I like this guy.
Sam: He's a simple man! He's a great wagon hitch maker.
Patrick rothfuss: Well, I mean, why do you take a body? I mean, well, and you're all like, "Well, I died Tuesday, I died Thursday!" Like, and then you killed-- how bad did you kill the dragon? Because if you didn't kill it real bad--
Laura: It could be brought back.
Patrick rothfuss: Like Tuesday, right?
Laura: At least the gem was shattered-- the gem was shattered.
Matt: "It was?"
Laura: Yes.
Matt: "You destroyed the Soul Anchor?"
Laura: Yeah, and Thordak shrunk! He was huge, and then he was like normal after that.
Matt: "Well, that's something at least."
Travis: Yeah, it's something.
Sam: I don't think that she's trying to reanimate Thordak. I think she's trying to probe him for knowledge of some sort.
Travis: Probe.
Taliesin: I think she's attempting--
Sam: She's trying to probe his dead body.
Travis: Probe.
Marisha: Allura, if we scried on this island, if you saw it again, would you recognize it?
Matt: "I'm--I haven't been there, -but if I were to scry..."
Marisha: Oh, I thought you said...
Matt: "...what would you require-- what would you need?"
Marisha: I wanna confirm if she actually is on the island of Viscar--Viscon.
Matt: "Well, I mean, I can attempt to. I've only heard of it, so..."
Sam: Do you--what if we-- would it help you to scry if we gave you some blood of the thing that we're scrying on?
Laura: Thordak?
Marisha: But she would still see the same thing that I would-- that I would've seen. -It wouldn't confirm the island.
Laura: Oh, right.
Taliesin: It also might mean that we would be discovered.
Sam: Keyleth, don't you have some spell where you say the name of a place and it shows you the way there or something?
Liam: Well, can you look for trees on that island?
Marisha: I could try and scry... on Viscar--Viscon. Right? If I know enough about Viscon, I could try and scry on a location, correct?
Sam: No, you can only scry on a person.
Matt: Yup, you can scry on a location. That was my fault in the past, by the way. I completely--I-- very into the spell.
Sam: But no, don't you have like a directions spell?
Marisha: Find the path, yeah.
Sam: What does that do?
Matt: Yeah, if you have secondhand knowledge, and you've heard of the target, you can still scry to it, it just has a modifier-- if it's a target. If it's a location, um...
Laura: But, 'cause I--will it-- I mean, we lucked out the first time that she didn't catch on. What if she realizes?
Marisha: If I scry on the island, she won't notice.
Laura: Okay.
Marisha: It's only if I scry on her.
Sam: ...you're looking at some leaves and trees.
Taliesin: But we'll get an idea of where to go.
Marisha: I could look--
Liam: You saw it once already, and you would know it-- you'd probably recognize it -a second time.
Marisha: Would I?
Travis: Would you?
Liam: It's worth a fucking shot.
Marisha: If I--if I scried on Viscon, could I recognize, yeah, this looks like the similar island?
Matt: You could try, yeah.
Laura: Yeah, you could certainly try.
Matt: You can certainly try. Thank you, Laura. I needed a little goose.
Marisha: All right.
Matt: Needed a little ...
Marisha: Last fifth-level spell of the day. (cross talk)
Laura: Ker, you should try this wine that Grog got from--
Travis: Yes!
Marisha: You should try it!
Travis: Oh, it's really good!
Marisha: It's so tasty!
Travis: ...sand dunes of terribleness.
Liam: I mean, you don't want to-- I haven't tried it either. You don't want to finish your life without trying this bug juice. It's the nickname we have for it.
Travis: I pop the top, and I hand the bottle to him.
Laura: Just small--small amounts.
Travis: What is it, sand keg, sand...
Liam: Bug juice.
Travis: Yeah, that stuff. (cross talk)
Liam: I take the bottle, and I put my thumb over it and pretend like I'm drinking--go--
Matt: Sleight-of-hand.
Liam: That's great, sure.
Liam: Sure, sure, sure.
Liam: That is a 26.
Matt: For the hell of it, Kerrek, go ahead and roll-- roll a perception check.
Patrick rothfuss: Uh, no, not by-- not by a country mile.
Matt: He took a mighty swig.
Patrick rothfuss: Yeah, well, it's--
Laura: Don't take a swig that big.
Patrick rothfuss: It's that good?
Liam: It's smooth.
Travis: It has really got -some balls on it.
Liam: It goes down smooth.
Patrick rothfuss: You gotta shake the flavor in. (laughing) 'Cause the flavor goes slowly to the bottom.
Laura: Oh, God, oh, no.
Patrick rothfuss: It's 'cause of the gravity.
Laura: What if he realized something we didn't?
Marisha: See, I told you see was wise.
Liam: I wish it could be my first time again.
Matt: So as the liquid hits your lips, it's thick. It's like... (laughing)
Patrick rothfuss: Too much flavor.
Matt: It doesn't pour like wine or liquor, it pours more like a-- like a light honey. But it has a very acrid, um... pungent, immediate flavor as it hits your tongue. I need you to roll a constitution saving throw.
Patrick rothfuss: So is this like when I left that glass of Surge out for so long that it evaporated in the cup down?
Travis: Just, like, ...
Matt: Kind of, yeah.
Patrick rothfuss: And then because there was no mold growing on it, and I am a scientist at heart...
Travis: It's all clear.
Taliesin: You went where mold feared to tread.
Patrick rothfuss: I, uh--I thought, when will I ever have this opportunity again?
Matt: When the most basic forms of life eschew existing on a substance, that's when you have to drink it.
Travis: Agreed.
Taliesin: Yes, yes!
Patrick rothfuss: That's gonna be my best role all year.
Matt: So--so--
Liam: Wait, can I point out that this is the best game in existence? (laughing)
Matt: You may. As it fills your gullet, the warm, burning sensation you're used to with fine, heavy liquors is surpassed by the ever-burning sensation of fire within your lungs, and as the heartburn begins to kick in, you stop for a second and realize that the burn goes away and everything goes numb. Everything goes numb. Your tongue...your jaw...
Laura: How do you feel, Ker? (indistinct speech) (laughing)
Liam: One more time?
Sam: Beard got in the way. (indistinct speech) (laughing)
Laura: He likes it-- I think he likes it.
Liam: I would've thought that as well.
Taliesin: Ladies and gentlemen, Burning Man, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to Burning Man.
Travis: That is good shit.
Marisha: The fire has passed through you. (laughing) It's gonna go all the way through you. So be careful when it comes out the other end.
Liam: Good reincorporation! (laughing)
Taliesin: I remember this.
Laura: But you're still conscious, and that is saying something.
Travis: Really impressive.
Laura: I wouldn't drink any more of it, though.
Travis: No, no, no, yeah, you gotta warm up -and then take another one.
Liam: No, no, no, I mean, that's all fun and games, but come on.
Matt: As this is happening, you all look over and glance that, as Allura has cleared the table and begun to set a space for the scry ritual, -is just staring at you all.
Laura: Oh, shit, right.
Marisha: Thanks for setting this up for us, Allura.
Matt: "Oh, please, keep going."
Travis: We didn't mean to be rude.
Matt: "This is the most fun I've had in days."
Travis: Do you want some?
Taliesin: After! (yelling)
Liam: No, that's a bad idea, don't do it!
Travis: Do it.
Sam: She needs to do the spell!
Liam: Do it later-- that shit's fucked up.
Travis: Don't listen to him.
Marisha: Wait, I thought I was doing the spell. We could do it together.
Travis: We're trustworthy. Open the bottle. -Down the hatch.
Matt: She pops it off, and goes, "Look, it's morning, we're all alive. What's the point if we're not celebrating?"
Travis: That's what I'm saying!
Liam: That will turn your blonde hair green!
Taliesin: No!
Matt: Ah. "Not my favorite flavor." (gasping)
Liam: She's got magic.
Sam: She's so strong!
Laura: Constitutions for days!
Liam: She's so cool.
Travis: Will you teach me your sorcerous ways?
Laura: Keep talking, keep talking.
Travis: How do you feel?
Matt: "I feel fine."
Travis: I don't--I don't know what to say.
Liam: Fucking magic.
Sam: She's amazing.
Marisha: You're awesome.
Liam: Can you say red leather, yellow leather? What about-- (laughing) What about--try saying three times in a row can you say Irish wristwatch? (laughing)
Patrick rothfuss: Three times in a row.
Liam: This is to Ker or Patrick-- Irish wristwatch as fast as you can three times in a row. I have faith in you.
Patrick rothfuss: Irish wr-- (laughing) Irish wr-- Irish wish--
Liam: You know, thank you for playing. That was a valiant effort. Hey, let's scry on a dragon!
Matt: "All right." (laughing)
Travis: Were you in a motorcycle gang? How did she do that?
Liam: Warrior!
Sam: She's immune to alcohol.
Matt: She sits across the table from you and puts her hands out.
Sam: Oh, yeah, let's do this.
Marisha: Oh, man, it just feels like old days, Allura!
Matt: "That it does--simpler times."
Marisha: Yes, it was.
Matt: As you both close your eyes and you all watch as Allura and Keyleth close their eyes. A moment passes, a second moment, and across the smooth, polished wood table surface of which you've been having breakfast, you watch as the grain begins to shift. Almost these small lines of light blue and white sparkling, tiny arcane ley lines begin to just curl a circle around the table. In the center, their arms are clenched. You watch as it carves two circles-- one smaller one within the other-- and then begin to form these various, rigid, star-like patterns within, and as soon as the two points eventually connect in the center, there's a flash, and both Keyleth and Allura open their eyes, but there is no pupil, there is no iris, it is just white.
Travis: Creepy.
Patrick rothfuss: Fuck. (laughing)
Taliesin: That was the most Brian Blessed fuck I've ever... It was amazing. (laughter continues)
Matt: The two of you share a vision-- a vision of water, a vision of endless ocean-- a familiar vision of endless ocean. You see small pillars of steam rising out of the center of this expanse, clusters of them in places, occasionally a few rocks breaking the surface, and beyond that, you see an island isolated out in the ocean, covered with green. You see a large mountain set across one side as your vision flashes inward to an overhead view, you see a familiar island.
Sam:  And the line where the sea meets the sky   It's blinding  (laughing)
Matt: The vision fades, you both return, the circular glyphs on the table kind of sparkle out leaving the smooth surface untouched. Both of their eyes clarify, their irises and pupils returning, and they both take a simultaneous breath, and then release each other's hands.
Marisha: Holy shit.
Laura: So yeah?
Marisha: Yeah. We know where she is. (gasping) It's the island.
Laura: Do we know how to get to the island?
Marisha: I can tree stride us there. I saw a tree--did I see a tree big enough?
Matt: There were a number of trees.
Laura: Oh, geez!
Sam: Palm trees?
Laura: Oh, my God, we need to rest and get there.
Marisha: We need to rest and get there.
Liam: We need to go the fuck to bed.
Patrick rothfuss: Let's go right now! (cross talk) That was a joke. (laughing)
Laura: Shit, we need to rest!
Marisha: Oh, my God, yeah.
Laura: And go!
Marisha: We need to rest and go.
Liam: We should go right away. What a to-do to die today at a minute or two 'til two.
Sam: Trippingly off the tongue.
Matt: "You get two options."
Laura: Okay.
Matt: "And I defer to your judgment on this. You rest and prepare, that leaves her to rest and prepare."
Laura: Yes.
Matt: "You don't rest, she doesn't rest. The choice is yours as to which you think leaves you in the more advantageous position."
Marisha: I--I--I cannot... get us there.
Laura: We need to rest.
Liam: Can you get us there?
Matt: "I've unfortunately already used my spell to get you to..."
Liam: But you're say--I understand what you're saying. -She's got nothing--
Matt: She stops and goes, "I've seen it, actually, with the vision. And I did rest--I do--I could. I could get you there."
Sam: To what end?
Matt: "The choice is yours."
Sam: I have nothing.
Liam: But Scanlan, pluses and minuses. She has nothing.
Sam: I can't die, Vax. I've already died once today, I can't do it again.
Laura: We don't have any healing. If anybody dies, we can't come back.
Travis: I've got two healing potions.
Marisha: Okay, all right. (humming) Is there a way, do you know, where we can maybe, like, restore ourselves faster? (laughing)
Matt: "I wouldn't recommend that."
Travis: Oh?
Laura: Oh!
Matt: "But nevertheleth..." (laughing)
Travis: Amazing.
Patrick rothfuss: Say, Irish wr--wr-- (laughing)
Taliesin: Hard, isn't it?
Matt: She goes back to braiding her hair. (laughing)
Marisha: What is the minimum amount of time we could sleep?
Matt: Eight hours. (grumbling)
Travis: Let's do it, let's sleep.
Liam: So if we rest, she gets her meteors, she gets her everything.
Laura: She gets it all back.
Sam: And she could leave.
Liam: She's gonna rest, too, to get all her shit back. If we go now, having had a breather with this drunk guy...
Laura: No!
Liam: I'm not saying what we do. You can decide what we do because you're the smart one, but I'm just talking it out. She--it would be a physical fight with none of her magic.
Taliesin: If we had--if we had a dragon with us, I'd say yes.
Liam: You two brainiacs can make the decision, but she's got no meteors, she's got a lot less.
Laura: Look, we took on Thordak with full health, and we made it out pretty well.
Marisha: I mean, once again, unless we do this-- unless we get to the island, try and scout out-- find Raishan... ...island, that way if she moves... we won't let her leave? What Grog, what?
Sam: I can't camp on the island, I don't have the mansion.
Marisha: We can camp like we did old school style.
Taliesin: She would know that we were there--
Laura: Wait a minute, you said you had it left.
Taliesin: And if we go there...
Laura: Scanlan, you said you still had the spell left -so we could--
Marisha: No, he used it to change Jarrett's mind, right?
Matt: Well, you don't know that.
Marisha: Well.
Laura: Oh, well, shit.
Sam: I used it in the battle, fuck off. (laughing)
Taliesin: If--if we were to go right now, I would almost recommend that Scanlan and Keyleth stay behind because they would be nothing but targets.
Travis: Ooh, how does that feel?
Liam: Well, then, we won't do that.
Taliesin: Which is why we shouldn't go, because if we go, it is... the four of us.
Travis: Strangely, I agree with Percy.
Taliesin: And if we wait a day? It's six--it's at least six, seven, eight of us-- however many was can bring, but every magic user right now is--
Laura: Tapped.
Liam: Allura.
Matt: "Yes."
Laura: Except for her.
Liam: I kinda wanted to bring you in the beginning. Are you willing to come with us?
Matt: "There's no need for me to maintain the illutho-- -the illusory barrier on the thity."
Patrick rothfuss: Wristwatch. (laughing)
Marisha: You did it!
Matt: "That's rather imprethive."
Marisha: Okay, well, look, if we wanted to go now, I still have my beast shaping back.
Taliesin: That's a bit...
Marisha: I have one first-level spell, two third-level spells, and one fourth-level spell.
Laura: Oh, my God.
Sam: That's enough to kill a dragon.
Liam: Do we have--here's a question. Do we have some healing potions banked -at Whitestone right now?
Travis: No.
Laura: We took them all.
Matt: "To be perfectly honetht, we've given you everything we have." (laughing)
Laura: Are there any--
Matt: "Don't laugh at me, Vex'thahlia."
Laura: I'm not, darling, I'm not.
Marisha: I haven't used any of my health.
Laura: Are there any steal-- heal--(stammering)
Laura: Are there any healers within the castle?
Patrick rothfuss: I am relatively fresh in terms of healing. I could heal some.
Laura: Would you wanna go with us?
Liam: Yes, but are you in Burbank next week, though? (laughing)
Sam: Pike is out!
Laura: Pike is done. She's got two first-level spells left. That's it.
Sam: I have one fifth and one fourth. No, two fourths.
Laura: I think I've got two first-levels spells left, -but that's it.
Taliesin: It's--
Travis: Let's be honest. We're not quite at our best, and it's one diseased deceiver in a cave with another dead dragon that might or might not come back to life, and two baby little eggs. We rest, and then we give 'em hell!
Patrick rothfuss: The brass dragon, I feel, made a great point that if you let someone of that...
Sam: Power.
Patrick rothfuss: ...power choose the rules of engagement...
Laura: Right.
Liam: That's a good point, and Allura makes a good point.
Travis: Plus she doesn't know that we know where she is. She thinks she's got all the time in the world.
Sam: You wanna go now?
Travis: No, I wanna wait.
Taliesin: Go tomorrow.
Laura: I think we rest and we go tonight. We sleep eight hours, it's only in the morning-- we go as soon as we're rested.
Liam: She's gonna have everything tomorrow.
Marisha: Can we, like, do, like, six hours...
Sam: She won't be expecting us at all.
Marisha: ...and chug some coffee?
Matt: Nope, need a full eight hour rest.
Sam: She won't be expecting us at all. We'll still have the element of surprise, she won't have a lair to defend. She won't have any other fire giants to protect her.
Taliesin: There might be a lair.
Travis: Maybe, but we are fucking tits against lairs, come on.
Sam: You have a dancing fucking sword.
Laura: That's right.
Liam: Percy, what do you think?
Taliesin: I think we--honestly, I think that we-- I think if we go right now, we win, and at least one of us dies. And if we go tomorrow, we're probably going to win, and probably most of us are going to survive.
Patrick rothfuss: Unless she is merely scrounging there.
Taliesin: I think she might be scrounging, but I think if she's scrounging, that's a lot to look through. I think that she thinks she's safe.
Laura: Did it look like there was a lot of books there, Keyleth?
Matt: There were quite a number. Probably 100 at the very least.
Sam: We don't even know what she is. -Didn't you see a woman?
Liam: But that was her.
Marisha: That's Raishan in her female form.
Liam: So she can look at books so she doesn't fucking mangle them.
Travis: Keyleth, are you worried if we wait, you're going to lose the chance to kill Raishan?
Marisha: I don't think we're gonna lose the chance to kill Raishan, it's just a matter of who's killing who first.
Taliesin: I say that we take eight hours' sleep, and we go there immediately.
Travis: She thinks she's got cover, but she doesn't.
Taliesin: It will have only been ten hours at best by the time we get there.
Marisha: Allura, since you know of the island, and we know where she is, is there any way where we can keep an eye on the island magically from afar? If Raishan moves, we know?
Matt: "I mean, I can incrementally scry on an island and keep an eye on the vicinity, but if I scry directly on Raishan--"
Marisha: She could sense it.
Taliesin: She'll sense it.
Matt: "Well, there's a chance."
Marisha: Yeah, let's not do that.
Travis: Don't you wanna be at your best? Don't you wanna be some fucking wicked badass from the sky? Or do you wanna limp in?
Laura: Right?
Travis: Yeah.
Laura: Plus, if she's got 100 books to go through, that's gonna take more than two hours.
Taliesin: She may not--it's possible she may not even rest. She might just be so angry that she's--
Laura: She might not be fully rested by the time we get there.
Travis: I know it feels like an advantage to press, but we were five down at one point.
Laura: I can't die again.
Travis: You can, but it's not advisable.
Taliesin: Let's not let that happen.
Marisha: She has none of her legendary resistances right now.
Travis: No, I'm not worried about those.
Taliesin: She--we may interrupt her mid-slumber.
Marisha: How long did it take when, um, we injured...was that Vorugal? Who retreated and started healing?
Liam: Umbrasyl.
Marisha: Umbrasyl.
Travis: In his lair.
Marisha: In his lair. Doing nothing but sleeping right?
Matt: Well, you came upon a number of empty potions-- things that were part of Umbrasyl's hoard.
Laura: So Raishan might not have that.
Taliesin: Or she might.
Liam: But we're gonna get-- if we wait till tomorrow--
Taliesin: Which, if she does have it, she's already taken them.
Liam: You all can decide, but if we go tomorrow, she's fully stacked, she's in her lair. If we go tonight--I'm just--
Laura: I don't wanna fucking go tonight. I don't wanna go tonight. -I don't wanna die again.
Taliesin: It's the morning, we sleep through the day, we go tonight.
Liam: Well then, there's nothing to talk about.
Taliesin: I think that's the way to go.
Travis: Agreed.
Laura: We sleep, we go tonight.
Taliesin: We sleep, we go tonight. She may spend all of today going through those books, and then sleep tonight.
Travis: Keyleth, we know what we're asking of you. We're asking you to wait, again. (chuckling)
Marisha: I... I think in recent events, I can wait.
Sam: Then at dusk...
Travis: We plan.
Sam: Yes. (mixed remarks)
Travis: It's actually dawn--sorry.
Marisha: How much do you... how much do you heal up overnight, generally?
Matt: At night, you get full points, and you get back half of your-- half of your hit dice that were spent.
Marisha: Okay.
Travis: Make the call, Keyleth.
Marisha: We'd better get sleeping, I guess.
Laura: Let's go to bed.
Sam: Instead of fighting, we're going to sleep.
Marisha: Well, what do you want, Scanlan?
Taliesin: You can go.
Marisha: You have been devil's advocate this whole time-- "I don't wanna die again, but she could kill us!" What do you want, Scanlan?
Sam: I don't wanna die.
Laura: Then let's sleep.
Taliesin: Then sleep.
Marisha: I don't wanna die either, and I don't wanna watch any of you die again.
Taliesin: But if we go right now, you're going to die.
Laura: We need your spells to protect us-- you're clutch in a fight-- and without them, you're kind of just a-- a dude.
Taliesin: Who's very good at becoming a target.
Sam: I'm so much more than a dude. (laughing)
Taliesin: One day you may be a bro.
Sam: Someday.
Matt: And on that note, you begin to put your things together, your plots, your preparations for getting to rest... Did you have something you wanna do?
Liam: It feels like you're going to wind down. Before we do that, if everyone's going to bed... back in your room, I plunk down a bottle of whatever, and I take out Whisper-- have a seat.
Marisha: Okay.
Liam: I take Whisper, and I just start gently cutting away burnt edges of hair on your already shorter hair so that the ends are clean.
Laura: Aww.
Marisha: Do you like it shorter?
Liam: I like you.  And I see you doubting yourself.  I see it, Kiki.  I have no doubts in you.  I've known you for a long time now...  and I have seen the strength in you growing.  And I'm a fan.  You're gonna make a great leader some day. 
Marisha: I just feel like there's so many people I could easily disappoint. I don't want to. 
Liam: You are doing the very best you can with what you've been given, and I've seen you rise again and again and not stop and not back down.  And you fucking blow me away with the things you can do out there. You are beautiful, and you are talented, and you are strong as fuck.  And I can't take the doubt away-- I can't do that.  But mix in with that my faith in you... Percy's faith in you... Grog's faith in you... Ker's... Vex'ahlia's, Scanlan's, Allura's... all of ours.  We are all behind you, and we all believe in you. And we all love you. And obviously, I love you.
Marisha: I love you. You know... everyone comes from these backgrounds of having all these well-ventured and traveled pasts. You were the first people that I knew and met... so not only are you the longest, I don't really have any other friends. You are my family.  I'll try not to let you down.
Liam: I have no worries. Look at you. Don't you look like royalty. 
Marisha: I'm not a princess, remember?
Liam: That's kinda what I like about you. (laughing) Would you do me a favor? Down the line, once all this is behind us... will you go back to the theater with me?
Marisha: What is it with you and the theater? (laughing) Why?
Liam: I don't understand it either. 
Marisha: As long as you go back to Zephra with me, maybe?
Liam: You don't have to ask.
Marisha: Does my hair look okay?
Liam: Are you kidding me?
Marisha: Does the short thing kinda work? Does it work with my bone structure? The antlers aren't overpowering it, right? The length kind of balanced out this, you know?
Sam: Bangs!
Marisha: Bangs.
Laura: Don't do it, don't do it, you'll regret it.
Marisha: No bangs.
Liam: I shut her up with a kiss.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: (stammering) I'm in my room...  I am taking Vax's letter and ripping it in half and burning it. And I'm packing my pipe for the morning. (mixed remarks)
Laura: This is for real, you guys.
Liam: Wow.
Matt: Alrighty. Prepared and ready to go. You have your next dose of brown suude prepared.
Marisha: I pass out from sheer exhaustion.
Matt: Okay.
Patrick rothfuss: I am noisily sick. (laughing) And honestly... it took every ounce of willpower I had to not do it in the middle of your scene. (laughing) I feel like I've really grown as a human being.
Taliesin: I think we've all learned something tonight.
Matt: The whole time, just like slowly cut past the wall, and there's Ker just going-- holding it. (groaning) (laughing)
Liam: We've all been there.
Laura: Before we go to bed, Allura, any chance you'd be able to join us? I know you didn't get to come the last time.
Matt: "Oh, I'm there, don't worry."
Laura: Thank you.
Matt: "So, you all get your rest. I'm honored, really. I was proud of you all for going into that fray as you did. And you had many great compatriots at your side. I was a little jealous."
Laura: Kima did wonderfully.
Matt: "I'm sure she did."
Laura: I'm sure she'll want to join us again.
Matt: "I'm sure she'll continue to complain about things that fly. It's never been her strong suit. But I'll be there with you, do not worry. Rest well. I've had a full night's sleep, I'm just gonna keep vigil and no longer drink things you procure from your bags without inquiring."
Marisha: And we all set our alarms for exactly eight hours.
Laura: No sleeping in, and just go.
Liam: Siri, wake me up before Raishan wakes. (laughing)
Sam: (barking)
Matt: "I'm sorry, I didn't understand that, Vax'ildan!"
Travis: That stupid dog alarm.
Sam: I love the dog alarm!
Matt: All right, so as you all find evening's rest, we'll go ahead and end tonight's session there. (cheering) Preparing for whatever chaos the next endeavor unfurls.
Laura: Oh, geez.
Marisha: That was a good game.
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Well done, guys, it's fun.
Marisha: Yay, Kerr-bear!
Travis: Yeah, Patrick!
Patrick rothfuss: It's such a treat-- such a treat to be able to come back.
Liam: Is there any chance you'll be here next week?
Patrick rothfuss: Honestly, I was already trying to figure that out in my head. Like, it's--I mean, I've flown places for dumber reasons. (laughing) You know, so I'll maybe email with you a little bit to see how you feel about that.
Matt: Let me know, I mean, we'd love to have you.
Liam: Get you in some combat!
Laura: Yeah!
Patrick rothfuss: I will admit I've never--
Laura: You had a pretty awesome hammer there!
Patrick rothfuss: I, uh--I have yet to actually take him for a test drive in that way, so...
Liam:  I'm just looking for one divine hammer  (laughing) Breeders--that's The Breeder's, man, -that's the '90s.
Matt: We'll try and coordinate for that--hopefully it works out, 'cause that would be great. Otherwise, thank you guys for kicking ass. Uhh...it's a great-- it's a great episode. Thank you guys for watching, thank you again for all your amazing support. We're--we're taking all the positivity we can force-feed into 2017. Um, but we love you guys. We'll see you in a week, and is it Thursday yet? Take care, guys.  

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: -- tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play Dungeons and Dragons. We are down one Sam, unfortunately, tonight, so Scanlan will be Jaeger-piloted by Keyleth and Percy over there, and Pike is still in New York, but in trade, we do have Rothfuss joining us this week via Skype. (cheering)
Matt: To continue the journey of Kerrek along with these crazy kids. So thank you for joining us, Patrick.
Liam: Look at his beautiful office and all his beautiful owlbears.
Marisha: So many owlbears!
Matt: It's beautiful. Cool, so before we get into the game tonight, let's go ahead and do our announcements. First and foremost, we are starting with our first official sponsorship of the year with the return of Lootcrate. Thank you so much for being amazing supporters of the show and we're excited to get started. Liam, you wanted to talk about this one?
Liam: Oh my gosh, Sam is not here and I got asked to do something ten minutes ago. This is gonna be so good. In Sam and Lootcrate's honor, I have written a limerick. I think you'll all approve. And then I'll tell you a little bit about Lootcrate, but first, some Irish poetry. Sam's style is not what you'd call quaint, let's be honest, my man is no saint, but Lootcrate is happy, his pitch plans are snappy, singing songs about fisting and taint. (laughter)
Liam: Okay! So Lootcrate, the January theme is not 'taint' or 'fisting', it's 'origins'. The brands are Superman, Marvel, TMNT, Nintendo, I know everyone here's familiar. The cutoff-- you have to order now, the cutoff is 9PM tonight.
Matt: 9PM tonight.
Liam: So you gotta go get got, and you want to go to lootcrate.com/criticalrole. Not critrole, but lootcrate.com/criticalrole. And the promo code is 'criticalrole', one word, for 10% off your first month.
Matt: Rockin'.
Liam: Also taint.
Laura: Thank you, Lootcrate. We're glad to have you back.
Matt: We can't talk about the taint theme. That doesn't happen until April.
Laura: So excited about it, though. Just so excited.
Liam: There are some exclusives.
Matt: There are some inclusives. So anyway. I also wanted to give a shout-out to Blue Mics, Blue Microphones, they have been fantastic and sent us a bunch of new equipment here to start upgrading the audio quality of our fantastic show here and us personally, as voice actors, I myself have used Blues for quite a long time for home auditions and I'm hoping that the one that now sits before me will give you a little bit of a better boost from my usual audio. So thank you guys so much, Blue Mics, for helping support us here. If you're interested at all in checking out their awesome audio equipment, you can go to them at bluemic.com. That's B-L-U-E-M-I-C.com. Thank you guys.
Taliesin: I cannot say enough good stuff.
Matt: Laura, you wanted to talk about stuff?
Laura: Oh my gosh. Okay, okay, okay, I'll stop rolling for a second, because we have these new things in the store, and they're socks. (gasping)
Laura: I know, I know, I put 'em in front of everybody. They don't smell yet, 'cause nobody's worn them. They should be in the store right now. They say 'how do you want to do this?' and they've got the logo on it, and if they do well, then maybe we'll think about releasing some Sox Machina in all the different characters. I know, it's exciting, it's fun. And also, the dice are still in the works, those should be coming up soon, hopefully by this month, maybe next month, but they will be back in the store. We have pins, we have bracelets, limited stock of those are back in the store, too, so. That's so exciting. And all the other things that I've been announcing every week because, you know, we're just so on top of it, no big deal. (laughter)
Travis: Can we keep these?
Laura: Yeah, no, these are for us.
Travis: Yay! These will stink in a week.
Matt: Please bring them back next week and show us.
Laura: Can I just tell everybody how much I miss having you next to me, boo?
Marisha: Aww.
Laura: I'm sad you're not over here.
Travis: Oh, we're not in character yet, right? I miss you too.
Matt: Aww. Stop it. Next thing I want to announce is there's a convention coming up in February called Anime Milwaukee, February 17-19, in which me, Marisha, Travis, and Laura will be in attendance as guests. So come join us for an awesome Critical Role panel, we'll have signings throughout the weekend, our other panels about voiceover and other elements of chaos. So if you're in that area, please come and say hi. Bring things for us to sign.
Travis: Yeah, bring a bathing suit, I hear there's a pool party on Saturdays in the negative-two-degree weather.
Laura: Oh, god. Is it really that cold?
Travis: I don't know. It's Milwaukee.
Marisha: Yeah, it's by the lake, too, you got that lake-effect air.
Matt: Dress warm, just in case. Anything else anyone wishes to discuss or mention? Patrick, anything you wanna mention?
Patrick rothfuss: You guys are coming to my state? You're gonna be in Wisconsin? When's that?
Matt: That is February 17-19.
Travis: But we're not gonna see you. (laughter)
Patrick rothfuss: You act like you have a choice. (laughter)
Matt: So yeah. Come see us!
Patrick rothfuss: I'll see, I'll check my calendar to see, that'll be a short trip if you're just down in Milwaukee.
Laura: Oh my gosh, Patrick dinner.
Patrick rothfuss: That would be awesome.
Matt: So look for a bearded fellow with sunglasses and a hoodie at the convention. Well, cool. Thank you guys so much. Now that our announcements are done, let's go ahead and dive in to tonight's episode of Critical Role. [no audio] [dramatic music]
Matt: And welcome back. (laughs) Yeah, that was a great countdown. So, to bring us into the story, and get you guys up to speed, the adventuring group of Vox Machina had been battling the Chroma Conclave, a collection of ancient chromatic dragons that had terrorized the Tal'Dorei countryside, ruined a number of the villages and cities, their leader, Thordak the Cinderking, lording over the capital city of Emon for a number of weeks at this point. In order to prepare themselves for this battle, they have traversed the planes and all across the world to acquire Vestiges of Divergence, these powerful artifacts, and upon acquiring them and gathering allies, they made an assault, with the help of these allies, upon the city of Emon, defeated Thordak the Cinderking, and, after making an alliance with one of these Conclave members, Raishan, the Diseased Deceiver, to aid them in this battle, they ended up battling Raishan as well within Thordak's lair beneath the city. Raishan nearly annihilated the entirety of the group Vox Machina, kept at bay only by them summoning one of their allies, J'mon Sa Ord, the powerful brass dragon and secret leader of the city of Ank'harel. Enough of a threat to push her away, Raishan took the corpse of Thordak, apparently via teleportation, as well as two of the eggs that remained in the lair, and vanished. Upon wrestling your way outside of the lair itself, you came upon a number of allies who had fought their way to the center of the city, as well as Patrick's character Kerrek, who had brought a number of his ragtag adventurers from the city of Westruun to aid. Kerrek joined you in your return to Whitestone, and has now agreed to aid you in your search for the current whereabouts of Raishan. Through the use of some rather rapid scry magic and the dragon's spent capability to defend against it at the time, you found the location of Raishan, apparently a distant island to the far south in the Lucidian Ocean, one that once was the lair of Thordak before he was sealed, and before that, apparently belonged to a necromancer named Opash. You then spent the evening in Whitestone-- or, I guess, the day, since you slept through the day-- in Whitestone, preparing to rest for a coming conflict, giving chase to Raishan in hopes of stopping whatever her plans are before they come to fruition. So. That is when we dive back in. So all of you guys have had a full night's rest, you're back up to your full hit points, you regain half of your spent hit dice. Spells are back. I know we had a few characters level. We had Scanlan level, Percy levelled, and Pike levelled.
Laura: So we're just gonna choose an eighth-level for Pike, but it won't stick if she wants to not have that be it, right?
Matt: Yeah. Sure. It's fine, as a cleric, you have access to all the cleric spells.
Laura: Oh, so she doesn't have to choose one like a ranger?
Matt: No, no, no. That's kind of the benefits of the cleric and the wizard, is they have a larger breadth of spells, druids as well.
Laura: Oh, that's great. Well, never mind!
Liam: We're gonna pick Power Word Kill Green Dragon.
Laura: Yeah, Power Word Kill Green Dragon for her eighth-level spell.
Matt: She's taking Power Word Kill?
Liam: Green Dragon.
Laura: Specifically.
Marisha: Can she do that?
Laura: No, no.
Marisha: Okay. I was just like, is that allowed?
Liam: You don't know.
Marisha: All right. All right.
Matt: So. If you guys wanna get your-- any attunement changes you want to situate for the coming party company move.
Liam: Yeah. I would like my boots back, and I've been sort of dreading this moment. Can I have my boots back?
Laura: They look so good on me. Have you noticed?
Liam: It's all I've noticed for the last 24 hours when we were fighting. I mean, we probably would've killed her yesterday, but I was so distracted by how good you looked in the boots, yeah.
Laura: I know, I know.
Liam: Yeah.
Laura: I mean, like, really good.
Liam: Strategically, I think I can actually do more, and I think I'm more likely to get a little more bang for my buck out of them.
Laura: Oh, really? Strategically, you can do more than me?
Liam: Never mind. I'll use the sword--
Laura: No, no, no, I'll give them to you, I'll give them to you.
Liam: That was as painful as I imagined it would be.
Travis: It could've been worse.
Liam: Yes, it could've been. Percy, would you like this sword back?
Taliesin: You know...
Liam: Or anybody. Yeah, the sword.
Laura: It's the Dragonkilling sword.
Liam: I just, I'm better when I'm maneuverable, and I feel like I'm gonna get one swing and a miss and it go to waste.
Laura: Oh, jeez. Who needs it? Can anybody take it?
Taliesin: I will admit, if I get within striking distance, I'm probably--
Travis: Can I see it?
Liam: Sure you can. Here's the handle.
Marisha: Proper handling techniques.
Travis: What, really? (gasps) I'll have it.
Laura: Should I do stealth cloak or should I do--
Matt: You guys have also taken some time to inspect the other items that you received from the treasure hoard.
Laura: Get me out of this bench situation!
Marisha: Gimme those, gimme those, gimme those boots.
Matt: Boots to Keyleth, and this to whoever, the hammer.
Travis: The hammer. There's a hammer?
Matt: It's a warhammer.
Travis: What? Who found a warhammer? I was asleep.
Laura: Hold on, hold on, I'll pass it over to you. I'm not even going to read it, Keyleth.
Taliesin: Chapter one.
Laura: Okay, wait. The Dwarven Thrower, this is the warhammer. Okay. You gain a +3 attack bonus, bonus to attack and damage rolls. It has a thrown property. Normal range of 20 feet and a long range of 60 feet, Grog. When you hit with a ranged attack using this weapon, it deals an extra 1d8 damage or, if the target is Giant, which a dragon is, 2d8 damage.
Matt: Like an actual giant.
Laura: Oh, 'is a giant'. Never mind. Immediately after the attack, the weapon flies back to your hand.
Liam: Another one of those secrets she was telling me about.
Matt: Yeah, it's Thor-hammerish. Does require attunement by a dwarf.
Travis: What if I've got a dwarvish beard?
Matt: If you have the Belt of Dwarvenkind attuned, you can attune to the hammer as well. But only under that condition. If you unattune the belt, you have to unattune the hammer.
Liam: And you have to give Matt $20.
Travis: I'm so happy right now.
Matt: Yes, that as well. I forgot that on the card.
Laura: Kerrek, are you secretly a dwarf?
Patrick rothfuss: I... no, though the similarity is notable. (laughter)
Liam: I noticed you haven't actually given me the boots back, and I just wanted to remind you--
Laura: Oh my god, let me find the fucking piece of paper. Jeez.
Liam: It's very important. I'm also going-- oh, you go.
Marisha: Also, these boots may be good for our wonderful cleric. These are Boots of Elvenkind. While you wear these boots, your steps make no sound, regardless of the surface you are moving across. You also have advantage on dexterity stealth checks that rely on moving silently.
Laura: Oh my gosh, but I don't know what else Pike has attuned on her.
Matt: Well, that one I don't think requires attunement.
Laura: (gasps) Pass 'em over, Pike will wear them! They don't need attune? Wow, I'll write them down on her sheet.
Matt: But she will not have her Boots of Levitation. Or no, she will not have her Sprinter's Boots. Sprinter's Boots will be replaced by those.
Liam: Well, you know, what are the chances that she's gonna need to bolt? Probably more than sneak around. Probably?
Matt: It's a choice to make.
Laura: Okay, here's a question  can she have the boots on and then right before the battle put on the Sprinter's Boots?
Matt: Sprinter's Boots do require attunement.
Laura: And it's not like you can attune them and then take them off?
Matt: I'll have to double-check the card from her. I don't know if they do.
Marisha: Sprinter's Boots are pretty clutch for Pike.
Laura: Yeah, they're pretty clutch, especially after the last time.
Liam: We're going to brawl.
Laura: But we're going stealthy, probably, before--
Matt: It's up to you. The process of a giant, armored gnome to change out her boots is gonna be-- it's not like a quick, it's not pressing the 'x' button in your inventory.
Liam: It's like changing from one pair of ski boots into another pair of ski boots.
Matt: Essentially, yeah. (laughter)
Matt: So be mindful of that.
Liam: All right. Minor thing, I'm going to attune the Deathwalker's Ward to necrotic.
Matt: To necrotic. Okay.
Marisha: Well, then, how's your stealth, Percy?
Taliesin: I have spider-boots.
Marisha: Oh, you have spider-boots. What about you, Grog?
Travis: Huh? What was the question? Sorry, I'm drooling all over this--
Laura: Do you mind-- can I put 'em on for now? Since I gave him back his boots. Is that okay?
Marisha: Yeah, my stealth is pretty all right.
Taliesin: He's got leaping boots.
Liam: Is that a Thor hammer, is that thing?
Travis: It's pretty fucking close. Apparently I throw it, it comes right back to my hand. If I had Frenzied Rage and three attacks, would it go (whack whack whack) like a giant yo-yo?
Matt: Technically yes?
Travis: (hyperventilates) I'm taking this one.
Taliesin: I get it.
Liam: How far can you throw that thing?
Travis: 60 feet.
Matt: Well, it's 20 feet and then 60 feet is the second range increment, so if it's longer than 20 feet, your attacks are at disadvantage.
Travis: Son of a bitch.
Matt: But you can still attack.
Travis: What if I did Reckless Attack?
Matt: Then it would be no more roll, and then everyone gets advantage against you.
Travis: I love you right now. If these two tables weren't in our way...
Matt: Love the dice that rolled that treasure hoard.
Liam: Ugh, what's all over the bottom of the table after the show?
Travis: Mayonnaise.
Matt: Is there anybody else that wanted to--
Travis: I would like to attune to this.
Matt: To the Dwarven Thrower?
Travis: Yes. Not the Blood Axe.
Matt: Okay, so the Blood Axe goes away. Dwarven Thrower's out.
Taliesin: Cabal's, Dragonslayer, Animus.
Matt: So, just so you're aware, the dice roll on that is a d8 to do damage, as opposed to a d12.
Laura: Oh. That doesn't sound as cool.
Travis: I must think.
Marisha: I'm gonna do my circlet, my antlers, as always, Ring of Protection, Spire of Conflux.
Matt: Okay.
Patrick rothfuss: Just to chime in, out of character, I know we picked up the dancing sword, which could act as an autonomous fighting thing, but I don't know who has that or who has slots available to attune.
Matt: That is-- Grog has that, actually.
Laura: Grog has every weapon ever.
Marisha: Is it an attunement thing?
Matt: You have to attune to it, yeah.
Liam: You're a Fallout character.
Matt: But yes, Grog does have the sword.
Marisha: Do you have an extra spot, Kerr? To attune?
Patrick rothfuss: I'm gonna show my age, here. You know, I have only occasionally done 5th edition, back in the day when I got used to playing, we never attuned our weapons.
Matt: Yeah, you only have two things attuned. You do, you can.
Patrick rothfuss: So I'm relatively easy in terms of what magic items. I could have it and set it loose at the beginning of combat, if nobody else can.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: So Grog pulls the sword out from the Bag of Holding, and as he reaches and extends it towards you, you feel this sudden almost like a sudden burst of headache at the back of your mind, and you stop for a second, Grog, and you look at the blade. And there across the metallic sheen of this gorgeous scimitar, you see this image begin to seep through and look at you. It's this female-like face, very faint, a reflection--
Travis: Female setting!
Matt: But the teeth are fanged, and you see what looks to be almost like a swirl of snakes around the outside. At that moment, you feel that burst of headache in the back of your head grow extremely strong, and you drop the blade out of your hand, and you guys watch as Grog falls to his knees, just clutching the sides of his head. The sword, as it hits the ground, it clacks. The blade almost immediately rusts and turns into a dark, dull metal. The gems crack and turn to dust, and what now lies there is an inert weapon.
Laura: What the fuck?
Liam: What did you do?
Marisha: Grog?
Travis: Ow. (laughter)
Laura: Oh no, did it turn you really, really, really stupid?
Travis: That really hurt, and it's still hurting.
Marisha: Grog, how many fingers am I holding up?
Travis: Square.
Taliesin: Well, he's fine.
Liam: That magic sword bit me. That really hurt.
Travis: What happened?
Laura: Is it just because it's only meant for you?
Liam: Kerrek, do you still want it? (laughter)
Patrick rothfuss: Do I have any idea, like, was this thing rejecting me or pissed that Grog was abandoning it?
Matt: You get the sense, just 'cause you've seen a few things like this, that this was actually an inherent curse within the blade, and it just took a moment to dig itself into Grog.
Travis: Oh no.
Matt: But the source of the curse is expended, and Grog, you are permanently at -2 to all of your saving throws. Correcting my mistake from the card last session.
Laura: Oh, shit!
Marisha: This is the Deck of Many Things?
Matt: This was me completely either misreading or mishearing it last time, as the internet let me know that was the card drawn, I want to make sure that we stick to what was drawn.
Travis: I don't have a problem with that, I do have a problem with the headache. Can we maybe bargain to get the headache removed? 'Cause I'm really--
Taliesin: I have Tylenol, but it requires attunement. (laughter)
Travis: I need BC Powder.
Matt: I think Grog has a way to get rid of headaches.
Liam: Can I also say, no one's gonna ever try to get away with anything here, because we know we're being watched-- people are watching like hawks. Everything's going to be seen.
Marisha: So -2 to all of his saving throws?
Matt: Yes.
Marisha: Permanently?
Matt: Well, until a god takes it away.
Laura: A god? No, go talk to the Raven Queen or somebody. Sarenrae! (gasps) Maybe she can Greater Restoration, if Pike realizes what it is.
Travis: Stupid sword. Jeez, me and swords. Just really not doing well.
Liam: Pike, can you take a look at your buddy?
Laura: Well, I don't know if I know that anything's wrong with him. Grog, do you have a headache?
Matt: Grog is clutching the side of his head. Pike just came up to you and asked you a question.
Travis: What'd she say?
Laura: Do you have a headache?
Travis: I do. Do you have anything to help with it?
Laura: Well, I can maybe do like a Cure Wounds, or--
Travis: I'm not wounded, it's just a headache. Do you have Cure Headache?
Laura: I don't think so, but I can pray to Sarenrae if it would help?
Travis: I don't know, it's out of my league. I mean, maybe, yeah.
Laura: Can I-- is there anything I have?
Matt: What do you want to try?
Marisha: Pike is just universally cute. She's like a kigurumi, if you wear it, you're just automatically cute.
Laura: Just insta-cute.
Matt: It's true.
Laura: Would I know what to do? Would she know what to do to try to help him at all?
Matt: If it's a curse, I mean, there are a few things that can usually take care of a regular curse, but she doesn't understand the nature of this curse.
Laura: Okay. I can try to do a-- I don't know what level Greater Restoration is.
Matt: It's a 5th-level.
Travis: It's only a headache. I'll be fine.
Laura: Are you sure, Grog?
Travis: Yeah, we all just healed, I'm fine.
Laura: Okay. Let me know if you need anything, though.
Travis: All right, yeah, I will. Thank you, Pike.
Patrick rothfuss: Coming into this fight down two on all saves...
Travis: We're gonna kick some ass. Oh, down two. That's...
Taliesin: Do we have anything sitting around that's not attuned, though--
Liam: Pike got that cloak that fucking Hotis glued to my flesh off. That's I think what she did.
Marisha: Grog, if you want, also, you can have my Ring of Protection, which is a Ring of Protection +2, and it gives you +2 to AC and to all your saving throws. I was gonna wear it, but I could wear the Cloak of Displacement instead.
Travis: I'm not a real big jewelry fan. Do I have to attune to it?
Marisha: Yeah.
Travis: Nah, I don't want it.
Marisha: Okay.
Travis: Thank you, though, Keyleth, that's very sweet.
Marisha: You're welcome. It's a little bit of a girly ring, so I understand. Well, you're full on attunements, right? You're full up?
Laura: Pike's gonna try to do Greater Restoration on Grog.
Matt: Okay. So as you guys are finishing this conversation, Grog and Keyleth, Pike walks up and holds her gauntlet out, her giant, awesome, monster-ogre gauntlet. As it begins to suddenly emit this bright white vibrant glow, she touches the front of your forehead, beckoning you to bend down to try and get rid of the headache. You watch as the healing energy surges through your body from head to toe, and as it passes through you, the light fades, the spell is spent-- that's a 5th-level spell she used-- and the headache remains. (groaning)
Travis: Did it do anything for my gas?
Matt: There is no divine magic that can do anything about that either, Grog.
Travis: Son of a bitch.
Laura: It was worth a try, though, because that would've been helpful.
Taliesin: I cannot find my card for my Ring of Lightning Resistance. It seems to have vanished.
Travis: I don't know where it would have gone.
Taliesin: Do we have anything else equipped that we can--
Laura: I didn't say it the last time, but Trinket's out of the necklace, and he healed overnight, 'cause he's low too.
Patrick rothfuss: Actually, you know, Kerrek is kind of standing around, buffing a little bit of the rust out of his off-the-rack chainmail. He's trying not to look like that kid who showed up at the rich kids' party. (laughter)
Patrick rothfuss: Out of character, I will say, if anyone has anything that they're not using in terms of--
Travis: Yeah, no, we do!
Patrick rothfuss: I'm reasonably geared up, I'll be able to go in and hit.
Taliesin: Are you wearing armor?
Matt: He has chainmail.
Taliesin: Okay, so the Bracers of Defense wouldn't work.
Marisha: Yeah, would the cloak work with armor, right? It wouldn't replace his armor, a cloak?
Matt: No, the cloak can go over armor.
Marisha: Are you okay with that, Vax? Kerr, we have this Cloak of Displacement that's pretty awesome, if you want to wear it.
Liam: Yeah, it's made from the flesh of a flying manta ray-type thing, and it makes you really hard to hit, and this is a loaner--
Matt: It's actually made from the flesh of a displacer beast.
Liam: I know that, I know. I also have a very precious ring which I would love to have back from you once we've killed this dragon, but you will not be seen if you wear it.
Patrick rothfuss: I would put that to good use in the coming fight.
Marisha: Okay. I take the cloak and I throw it over him. You gonna tweet it to him? Or text it to him? Whatever.
Liam: And I slap the ring down into his palm.
Marisha: Do you have a picture of the ring?
Liam: A picture of the ring?
Laura: It's a Ring of Invisibility?
Marisha: Do you have a thing? No?
Liam: Yes, I have a thing.
Laura: Just a legendary ring.
Matt: Just a legendary ring like you do. Just note, with the Ring of Invisibility, you remain invisible until the ring is removed, until you attack or cast a spell, or until you use a bonus action to become visible again.
Liam: If anyone has anything better to give him, we could do that.
Laura: No, that's really good. That's a badass ring.
Liam: Hey, Siri, remind me to ask Patrick Rothfuss for my Ring of Invisibility back once the dragon is dead. We're good.
Matt: All right, there you go. Thank you, Siri. (laughter)
Travis: Assisting D&D games since 2000-something.
Matt: All right. So. What else do you guys want to prepare, if anything, as you wake up, come to consciousness--
Laura: We should have a Heroes' Feast.
Marisha: Yes, we should.
Laura: Is there anybody that could do a Heroes' Feast?
Marisha: Pike, how are you looking on Feasts?
Matt: I mean, if Pike wants to prepare a Heroes' Feast, Pike can cast it.
Marisha: Can Gilmore?
Liam: That was a one-time thing.
Matt: Gilmore had a few items that basically turned into a Heroes' Feast, but he lost his shop.
Laura: Okay, okay, okay. Pike can do another-- what level is that?
Matt: Heroes' Feast. It is, I believe, 6th-level, I think. Yes, 6th-level.
Travis: Why're we having a Feast? Are we going to fight something?
Taliesin: It's breakfast. It's the most important meal of the day.
Travis: That's right. I feel terrible for not realizing that.
Laura: Okay, so we all have Heroes' Feast.
Matt: All right, so. Mark your diamond that you recently found in the hoard, marked off, as Pike prepares a long wooden table, summoned through divine magic, that contains a fantastic meal of all the classic Westruun comfort foods, instilled with the power and guidance of Sarenrae. As you spend the additional hour to eat and drink and gain the effect of the spell, you become immune to poison, immune to fear, and you all get an additional 2d10 to your maximum hit points, if you want to roll that, Laura.
Laura: For Pike?
Matt: Yes. Well, this is for everybody. Everybody gets this amount.
Laura: Oh, that's not bad, that's not bad. That's a 15 added for everybody.
Matt: So everybody gets 15 additional hit points.
Marisha: And I'm assuming Trinket is eating and Allura is eating?
Matt: It can feed up to 12 people, so yes. That would be Kerr as well, and Allura, and Kima.
Taliesin: We get advantage on what saves?
Laura: Fear and poison.
Matt: Well, you're immune to fear and immune to poison.
Taliesin: We don't get advantage?
Laura: Advantage on wisdom.
Matt: Wisdom saving throws. All righty.
Laura: And I attuned-- by the way, my Bracers of Archery are attuned again.
Matt: You reattuned to your Bracers of Archery? Cool. All righty. So.
Marisha: Should I do a Scrying Eye, see if I can still find Raishan?
Laura: Yeah, but what should you scry on? Can you scry on Thordak's body or something? 'Cause she would have it right next to her.
Marisha: Can I?
Taliesin: We have the ball.
Matt: It's either a creature or location.
Patrick rothfuss: Well, if right now we're pretty sure that they don't know we know where they are, do we want to risk that? Losing the surprise?
Marisha: We don't. If I scry on her cave, would that tip her off? The cave of Opash?
Matt: Only one way to find out.
Marisha: Only one way to find out?
Taliesin: I'm of the opinion that-- personally, I think it's safer to know what we know now and go in, because if things--
Marisha: I mean, I can always teleport us there and scry there. That way, at least-- minutes.
Matt: As far as you know, when you create a sensor at a location, creatures that can see invisibility can see the actual scrying location, the orb itself that you create, the magical orb of which your vision appears through. But that's the only thing you would have to consider.
Marisha: That's a massive thing to consider.
Travis: Unless she's in, like, perma-bubble-bath world or something.
Liam: We should just go.
Marisha: I think we should, too.
Laura: Oh, jeez! I'm so nervous.
Marisha: I know.
Travis: I'm not.
Taliesin: I'm feeling strangely positive.
Travis: -2, playas.
Liam: Would you put that piece of wood down, please?
Laura: He's eating wood again.
Marisha: We need to get him another salt lick.
Travis: I do miss my salt lick rock. Can I keep an eye out as we walk around for another salt lick rock?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Travis: Don't make me do that. Ooh!
Taliesin: God, the sound those things make.
Travis: 13.
Taliesin: It's like your dice have a subwoofer.
Matt: You find a few separate pieces of what look like quartz-like rock that line the sides of the road and the exterior garden of the castle, and upon trying each one, not as salty as you'd hoped. They're generally just bits of whitestone or rock.
Marisha: Grog, that's caca!
Travis: Find your own!
Taliesin: Let him lick it if he wants it. It's just gonna make him happy.
Travis: Is it close to salty? Could I confuse it with salt?
Matt: I mean, you get a hint of salt, but it's gone after the first lick.
Travis: More shiny than the others?
Matt: After licking it a few times, it gets a little shinier, yeah.
Travis: I am a great sorcerer. I will keep this new stone.
Matt: Okay. So go ahead and mark three quartz rocks.
Travis: Palm-sized?
Matt: Roughly. Some are a little bigger. The center one is a little bit like a basketball size.
Travis: Bag of Holding, you've got new occupants.
Marisha: Putting rocks in the Bag of Holding. Just filling it with rocks.
Laura: Rocks and like dried poo.
Matt: Don't judge his collection.
Marisha: Ox, oxen, troll dicks, pet rocks, just a bunch of pet rocks.
Matt: All right. As you guys are preparing, Kima and Allura catch up to you guys. They've gathered their materials and they're prepped for battle. Kima's fully armored.
Marisha: Does she look badass? In her full sorceress armor?
Matt: Oh, Allura?
Marisha: Paint a picture. What's she look like? (laughter)
Marisha: She's an upper-middle-class girl.
Matt: She's wearing one of her many ceremonial robes that she does for presentory Tal'Dorei Council work, but you see she has a hood up over her head, her hair braids are tied together behind her neck so they don't get in the way. You notice that there is some really nice jewelry that's adorning the side of her neck. The staff she carries with her usually is relatively simple, but you see now that there are a number of runes carved in a spiral along the sides of it. You can see a number of rings that she previously wasn't wearing that are on, and her face is hardened, and you see that she-- where normally she has this air of keeping the room-- almost a teacher or parental-type presence in the area, there's an intensity and darkness to her face that you haven't really seen before. Not since at least the attack on the city happened.
Liam: Work!
Laura: (sings) Allura!
Matt: (sings) And Kima.
Travis: Oh my god!
Matt: All right, guys. So. They've arrived, and Allura steps into the room, her staff clicking across the stone floor of the castle. "All right. Have we put all of our affairs in order?"
Travis: Yes.
Taliesin: Well, I hate when you put it that way.
Laura: Kima got the Feast, too, right?
Matt: They come in towards the beginning of the casting of the Feast, and they eat as well, yes.
Taliesin: It's a buffet. It's a Heroes' Buffet.
Matt: "So. How best should we arrive? If you have the ability to bring us through the tree, or I can teleport us there."
Laura: Is it the same difference?
Marisha: What power-- how much energy do you use when you teleport?
Matt: "As far as the advancement of spell strength, a Teleport spell in its own right is the seventh sphere of magical incantation."
Marisha: Mm. Then let me go with our Transport Via Plants, which is more of a six, you know, level.
Matt: "Sounds like a wondrous idea."
Taliesin: Worst-case scenario, we can camp for the night, if are victorious and spent.
Travis: I love camping.
Marisha: Yeah, it looks like a very pretty island.
Taliesin: Let's make sure that one of the Gate Stones is left here in case one of us has to make a mad dash.
Marisha: Give it to Cassandra?
Taliesin: Give it, obviously, keep it in Cassandra's care. If somebody comes back, you know everything's gone horribly wrong.
Matt: Kima rushes over and takes the stone from your hand and goes, "All right, I'll give it to her. Be right back." She jogs off. You hear the (clanging) of the armor as she disappears
Taliesin: Maybe we should give--
Taliesin: -- her the boots.
Marisha: -- her the boots.
Marisha: That's not a bad call.
Laura: That's true.
Matt: So.
Laura: Yeah, yeah, you know what? When Kima comes back, I'm gonna give her the Elven boots, so she can be quiet.
Matt: She takes them and is like, "Not really my style."
Laura: If you don't want them, I'll wear them, I mean, I like them a lot. I'm just saying, you're loud.
Matt: "I'll take 'em." And you all wait patiently for the next six minutes as she unbuckles and pulls off the rest of her lower armor and gets the boots on.
Travis: That don't match at all.
Matt: No. And you can see it gives her a twinge of disappointment.
Marisha: It's like different tiered armors in Warcraft. It's the worst.
Liam: Slips her Doc Martens over here.
Matt: The expansion just came out, so it's like all epics and one green that's better than the rest. Yeah. That's the worst. (laughs) All right. With you all gathered there, Allura, hood still up, kind of nods. "Keyleth, lead the way. To the Sun Tree, then?"
Marisha: To the Sun Tree.
Matt: "Very well. (sighs) Let us hope that we return here tomorrow victorious." She swirls around, her cloak spinning around her base as she follows suit after you, Keyleth, the rest of you make your way, marching down the front of Castle Whitestone to the center of the town, where there you see the faint elements of green bloom now growing across the tree from where once it was bare, the season bringing a sense of spring and summer that have been kept at bay for a while. And for you as well, Percival, this is the first time in a long time you've seen the Sun Tree showing that growing life.
Taliesin: I quietly sneak up and give it a good kiss.
Marisha: Aw. I see it, and I'm like. You know, I know him. I can put in a good word.
Taliesin: Really? We talk all the time, he never mentions you.
Marisha: What? What? I'm gonna let that go. (laughter)
Marisha: That could be a discussion. I don't wanna do that right now. We'll talk later. Are we ready?
Matt: All right, so what are you focusing on for the receiving end of this?
Marisha: I'm assuming I found a tree that was close to her cavern that's big enough?
Matt: With the second scrying that you did with Allura, which was just specifically the Island of Viscan, you did see a number of trees not far from the rocky protrusion, the small mountain that seemed to be the place where this laboratory's in. So yes, you can choose one of those trees you saw that would be large enough to do it.
Marisha: Okay.
Taliesin: Scanlan stops us before we start. For the record, this is a terrible idea and we have no plan. Just putting it out there. I'm with you, this is a terrible plan, and we're going to die.
Laura: You seem different.
Taliesin: I'm fine. I have a cold. I don't feel well. I'm taking something for it.
Travis: Sing me a song. Sing me a song right now.
Taliesin: I'm not singing.
Marisha: I try to stealthily sniff Scanlan. Does he smell like--
Matt: (laughing) Well, first roll a stealth check. (laughter)
Travis: Don't ever say the word.
Marisha: Okay. 14.
Matt: 14. The not-stealthy-at-all Keyleth slowly approaches you. You see her. You make eye contact. And yet she still slowly crawls up and begins taking a big whiff on your shoulder.
Marisha: (sniffs) Ah, so nervous.
Taliesin: There once was a barbarian named Grog, who had the IQ of a log-- I'd keep going, but now you're excited, and you've made me lose my--
Travis: That was amazing.
Marisha: Does he smell like the incense that I smelled from him before?
Matt: No. He smells of frustration, disappointment, and worry.
Marisha: You smell like a sad man. All right, let's go.
Matt: (laughs) All right. So do you go ahead and cast the spell? All right.
Marisha: I say to the Sun Tree, I say, I like your new haircut. I have a new one too. Okay, let's go.
Laura: I cast Pass Without a Trace on all of us before we go through the tree.
Matt: Okay. So as the shadows coalesce around your bodies, your legs, your knees, your feet, you watch as the front of the Sun Tree suddenly splits open to reveal the pathway through across to what looks to be a partially ruined jungle. You all step through the tree quickly before the portal slams shut behind you, and as you guys emerge, looking about, you can see what looks to be a lot of heavy dirt and earth that-- there's spatterings of sand throughout, and surrounding it immediately, you can see there are different trees throughout this kind of-- some points are lush green jungle on the outside, and the further in you go, you watch as the trees have all withered black. A little ways over the treeline, you can see maybe a quarter-mile off what looks to be the top of the mountain that a brief instant of your first vision in your Scry spell lent you towards.
Marisha: Does it look like the blight of the trees is getting more concentrated the closer to the top of the mountain?
Matt: It looks like it's a radial effect from the actual mountain, yes.
Travis: Does it look like fire damage or something else?
Matt: You want to go ahead and take a look? Make an investigation check.
Travis: Yeah! Stand back. 11 minus two.
Matt: (laughs) You can't recall the color, really, that they've become, but it's not alive.
Travis: Someone peed on these trees. All of 'em. In a big circle. Like that.
Marisha: Grog, is this what happens when you pee on trees?
Travis: Is that not normal?
Marisha: We should talk with Pike when we get home. Make sure you're okay.
Laura: Oh, do you need me to cast another Greater Restoration? For your--
Marisha: No, his bladder infection's fine.
Laura: Okay.
Taliesin: It can keep.
Matt: It takes a Wish spell to get rid of that, unfortunately.
Liam: He's been in every brothel in Tal'Dorei, it's to be expected. (laughter)
Travis: Not ashamed.
Laura: He and Scanlan both.
Marisha: Did he find anything out? Did you find anything out?
Matt: No, he didn't find anything.
Marisha: Can I do a nature check?
Matt: Sure, go for it.
Travis: These trees aren't alive.
Marisha: Fancy that. That's good. 21.
Matt: Okay. As you guys begin to walk through-- it's not a very dense jungle.
Laura: We want to keep quiet as we do it.
Matt: Okay, so make stealth checks as well.
Marisha: We have Pass Without a Trace?
Matt: Yes you do, so plus ten to all your stealth.
Marisha: Natural 20!
Marisha: Pew-pew-pew!
Laura: Pew-pew-pew!
Marisha: If only it mattered right now. Pew-pew-pew.
Matt: All righty. And a natural 20 for Allura. And, actually-- I rolled with disadvantage for Kima, and it was like a 16 and a four, but then she had the boots on, so the first one sticks.
Laura: 24 for Pike!
Matt: Nice. So, stealthily, you guys-- what did you roll?
Taliesin: I rolled 33 and Scanlan rolled 31.
Matt: Grog?
Travis: 13.
Taliesin: Plus ten.
Travis: Yep.
Taliesin: Okay.
Matt: With the plus ten?
Travis: Yep.
Taliesin: How did you do that?
Matt: Okay, well, Kerr, what did you get?
Patrick rothfuss: 14 for me.
Laura: Plus ten?
Patrick rothfuss: Where did that plus ten come from?
Laura: From Pass Without a Trace!
Matt: A spell that she had cast on all of you.
Patrick rothfuss: Then I am at 24. (cheering)
Laura: 38.
Marisha: 37!
Matt: As you guys fan out in this-- (computer chime)
Taliesin: Now boarding  Star Tours.
Marisha: Thanks for that, Microsoft Outlook.
Matt: As you begin to weave your way through these trees as quietly as you possibly can, Keyleth, you step behind and run your fingers along some of these withered grey and black fronds and branches. All these trees look like they had the life force pulled from them, almost like a very, very rapid starvation, or thirst took them, but what's interesting is a lot of these trees are near-petrified and have been this way for a very long time.
Marisha: That was gonna be my question.
Matt: It's not a recent occurrence.
Marisha: So like the petrified forest in Arizona?
Matt: Kind of, yeah. But a sadder version, if that's possible. They're all like "ehh, I'm a bad tree."
Taliesin: What do I know about Opash and the crimes and what sort of tinkering?
Matt: You don't know that much. The fact that you knew the name and a little bit of the history was even impressive by the standards of everyone here. What little you do know is that he was sent away specifically because of his inquiries into how far you can reach with necromantic magics, and lost history from the Age of Arcanum.
Taliesin: Okay, that's good to know.
Matt: The Age of Arcanum was the epoch before the Divergence, before the Calamity hit, and not a lot of history exists about it, a lot of it was destroyed either during the battle, or people destroyed it thereafter to prevent us from reusing what led to that sort of conflict. But Opash apparently had gathered, or at least was in the process of trying to recover, some of that information.
Marisha: So these trees have been dead for hundreds of years.
Matt: Hundreds of years, yes.
Marisha: All right.
Taliesin: So the scarring does not seem recent.
Marisha: And there's no new scarring.
Matt: There does not appear to be any new scarring that you can tell based on what you've seen so far.
Marisha: That's very good.
Laura: Do I see any sign of tracks or anything? Dragon tracks?
Matt: Go ahead and make an investigation check.
Laura: Dragging of giant carcasses or just, y'know, footprints.
Taliesin: Yellow 'Dragon Crossing' signs.
Laura: Advantage, 'cause it's a dragon.
Matt: If it's dragon-related.
Laura: It is dragon-related. Natural 20.
Matt: All righty. There are no dragon tracks.
Laura: Motherfucker.
Taliesin: She licks a tree. "No dragon has been here." (laughter)
Laura: I bet there's other tracks, though, that I totally missed 'cause I was looking for dragons.
Matt: Yes.
Laura: Can I look for anything other than dragons? There won't be an advantage.
Matt: Go for it, sure.
Laura: I really want that 20, but I don't get it. This one is not as good. Is this an investigation? Perception?
Matt: Yeah, this would be investigation for you, sitting down and getting close and looking throughout the dirt.
Laura: (whispers) 11.
Matt: 11? You do find tracks, but they're scattered and they're small feet. Looks like some indigenous creatures or wildlife that exists on this landscape.
Laura: Okay. But they were little.
Matt: They were all little, yeah. As you guys push through, Allura looks up toward the boughs of the dead trees. "While you were preparing, I did some research on this island, and it seems that there were an indigenous people that lived here before Opash came. Thousands that made seaward trade routes to the north and the west, and when he made this his home, the indigenous people were never heard from again. It is believed by many who fare the seas that this land is cursed and is to be avoided for that reason. This forest, one of the superstitious points of that reasoning, there are a few that come through hoping to scavenge or find things from his lost whereabouts, or his own hoard or treasures he may have garnished in his time, but few of those return as well."
Taliesin: Well, if Raishan came back, then who knows what horrors actually do exist on this island? It's possible that she found some of his notes and built upon them. There could be anything.
Marisha: Did you read if the island was trapped or any type of arcane presence on it?
Matt: "Well, if this was the lair of a necromancer, an entity that is both selfish and driven towards the personal power and advancement of their own narcissism, I can imagine that they are very well protected with their secrets. The fact that this abode was taken by Thordak before he made reign upon the southern side of the continent... who knows what happened to Opash?"
Marisha: Thordak made this his abode?
Matt: "Yes. Up until he began to wander onto the continent of Tal'Dorei."
Taliesin: Interesting.
Laura: Mm-hm.
Taliesin: I'm just playing some conjecture in my head. You have a powerful necromancer, if there's any possibility that he could've found a semblance of unlife, of Opash wandering around, and bent him towards his will, then we don't know how that gem got into his chest in the first place. We don't know how any of this happened, and there's just too much we don't know yet. We have to find the cave.
Matt: "The gem we created. Me, Kima, Drake. As far as we know, if any of her stories can be believed, Raishan was responsible for the rituals that embedded it within Thordak's chest on the Plane of Fire during her time with the Fire Ashari. Once again, as much as we can believe."
Taliesin: There's just a lot we don't know.
Matt: "Let us be careful. Press on."
Laura: Tread carefully. Just keep an eye out. We're keeping eyes out for anything that looks different than normal jungle-ness.
Liam: You and I head out 20 feet ahead of everybody and check for traps as we go. Carefully.
Matt: Investigation checks from both you guys, if you don't mind.
Liam: Investigation or--
Matt: If you're looking for traps specifically? Investigation.
Laura: 26.
Liam: 18.
Matt: Okay. Pushing forward, you guys--
Laura: I wasn't just looking for traps, I'm looking for anything that looks out of place in the forest, 'cause I don't know what kind of traps necessarily would be set by something like this. You know what I mean?
Matt: Sure. In a very Laura Bailey "how much can I get out of this roll?" I know, I know, I know, I'm just messing with you. So as you guys push forward, you, Vax, notice that the further in you go towards this mountain, the trees, still dead, grey, are even further withered, and many of them have just turned to ash and dust. And the closer you get, the actual treeline grows thinner and lower as it seems like the closer it gets to the mountain, they're bereft of most of their structure. You do, Vex, catch as your brother is moving forward, he is stepping towards a section of the earth and sand that has slightly different texture, ever-so-slightly from the rest, and he's but a few feet from stepping into that space.
Laura: Vax! Stop! There's some weirdness on the ground. I feel like it's something.
Liam: So you think something's up under the ground there?
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: I mean, what do I do at this point?
Matt: What do you want to do? You look down, and you--
Laura: Don't you see it?
Matt: It looks almost like--
Liam: I'm gonna take a closer look, is what I'm gonna do.
Matt: It looks like the difference between sand and slightly damp sand. The coloration is just ever so faintly--
Laura: Now that you're looking, now that you're looking, you can tell, right?
Liam: Now that I have context. Context is key, as always.
Travis: Can I push him in? No, I'm kidding.
Laura: Is it quicksand?
Liam: Do I find a trap if I'm looking closer, now, with her added?
Matt: I mean, it looks different from the rest. There's no mechanism there, you don't see a pulley or a--
Laura: Maybe it's magic.
Liam: How much of it looks different?
Matt: It's avoidable. It's like a ten-, 15-foot oval area.
Laura: Hey, everyone. Let's just not step on this dark patch, how about that?
Travis: Why?
Laura: 'Cause I think it's like magic or something, Grog.
Travis: Like good magic?
Laura: Like bad magic.
Travis: What kind of bad magic?
Laura: The kind that would kill us all.
Marisha: Like the kind that gives you a really bad headache.
Travis: I really don't want another one of those.
Laura: Similar sort of thing.
Liam: Continue.
Matt: Now that you've identified that, you've come across a few more patches, and they seem to grow more dense as the trees grow more withered and gone, until you get to a point where you can now see the base of this mountain.
Marisha: Can I from a distance maybe do a nature check? Are these almost like siphons, like wells where he was sucking the life force?
Matt: Make a nature check.
Taliesin: Or maybe quicksand? This could be all the quicksand we were promised as children.
Laura: I know, right?
Marisha: Oh my gosh. Always quicksand.
Travis: Seriously. Today's kids do not appreciate quicksand.
Taliesin: It was such a big part of my childhood.
Marisha: Why did I never find quicksand? 22.
Matt: 22. These are less siphons, they're more what looks to be-- it's a phenomenon known as hollow earth, which is when subterranean caverns go into collapse.
Liam: Sinkholes.
Matt: It can create a sinkhole-like phenomenon, but hollow earth generally is based on some sort of magical release, an explosion of magical energy beneath the earth that causes-- even though there is no space, it erodes the earth from its magic presence, whether it just completely disintegrates or destroys portions of the earth, it leaves this very, very unstable portion of ground.
Marisha: So it's like a magical quasar? That blasts out?
Matt: You're not entirely certain what it'll do, but it's not good.
Travis: I take one of my new salt lick rocks and I throw it in one of the little sandy pools.
Matt: Okay. As you take the rock and throw it into the sandy pool, it lands with a little bit of dirt being kicked up around it and sits there for a rest.
Travis: Ooh, magic, huh? Real scary.
Laura: And then?
Taliesin: Would the rock tell you if it was having a headache right now? How would it tell you that?
Travis: I have a psychic connection with my rocks.
Liam: You also weigh a little more--
Matt: The rock then goes-- it just falls underneath, and you can see a spot in the ground, perfectly shaped where the rock was, that is now just--
Laura: Told you it was dangerous.
Travis: I actually did that. It's magic.
Laura: Good job, Grog.
Travis: Don't step there.
Marisha: You figured it out, Grog, good job.
Taliesin: Weird point of contention for my imagination. Are the trees wilting, or do they seem like there was a bit of a blast?
Matt: They are not leaning a specific direction.
Taliesin: Okay, so there's no pattern to it.
Matt: Yeah, and it isn't like there are were leaves or anything blown off of them. It just looked like they gradually just died rapidly in place.
Liam: Seems like the closer we get, the deader it gets.
Laura: Can we see the mountain that we're getting towards?
Matt: Yes, you can, and you guys maneuver around these spaces to get to the base of it, and it's a moderate-sized mountain, nothing impressive on the outside, it's maybe 600 feet tall at its apex, it's more of a large, rocky mound. Make a perception check.
Liam: Natural 20.
Matt: There's nothing in here. Why do I keep trying to sip?
Laura: 30 is what I rolled, but that's not as good as a natural 20.
Liam: No, it's not.
Laura: But 30 is still good.
Matt: But what's your bonus to perception?
Liam: Perception, oh yeah, is 12. So 32.
Matt: Okay, so close. You guys being at the front of the party anyway--
Laura: Whoa, your perception bonus is higher than mine? When did that happen?
Taliesin: How did you just notice that?
Liam: Who fucking knows?
Matt: As you guys scoot forward, being ahead of the rest of the party, you glance across the surface of this, and most of the rock follows the familiar pattern of tectonic shift that's broken and cracked in places, but it's been, over hundreds and thousands of years, just settled into its natural state. There is one section of rock just maybe 200 feet from where you are landing at the base where it looks like the texture, the natural lines of the rock, is in a different direction. And upon you heading in that direction, you can see, now, what it appears to be is a large rock, very large, maybe 20, 30 feet wide, that is jammed into an entranceway.
Liam: I perceive a rock.
Marisha: I got a rock.
Matt: Kind of. There are a number of strange holes peppered over the surface.
Laura: Like, big holes?
Matt: About the size of a-- larger than a gold piece, each hole.
Laura: Does it look like it could be, like, things could come out of it?
Matt: Possibly?
Liam: Checking for traps.
Matt: You have to check it.
Travis: You know what Gilmore would do. Put his hand in it.
Taliesin: How very Flash Gordon.
Liam: 25 for investigation.
Matt: Investigation, okay.
Laura: Do I need to roll, since he's so good?
Liam: Might as well.
Laura: What if it's a one? Ooh. No, 24. Damn.
Travis: Got you a water, Matt.
Matt: Thank you, sir. So. Are the rest of you guys following up behind them?
Liam: Just wait a moment, wait a moment. No, hang back for a second.
Matt: Okay. Between the two of you glancing, you notice that each one of these holes is actually a pierced intrusion upon the rock, something very quickly jammed itself into the rock to create this hole. And they're clustered in places. And you, with your experience, these claws are respective to the size of a very, very, very large dragon. And it looks like different-- some of them are more weathered than others. This boulder has been placed and pulled back and placed many, many times throughout the years.
Laura: It's probably too heavy for us to move, but Grog, do you want to try?
Taliesin: I don't know if we should move it.
Laura: Well, how do we get in if we don't open the entrance?
Patrick rothfuss: If nothing else, rather than moving the whole boulder, is there a way we could just get enough of a crack to get in?
Marisha: I can Stone Shape it a little bit thinner.
Laura: Ooh, dig. I like that.
Taliesin: Just so that if the dragon tries to run, they have to move a giant boulder, it would be really convenient.
Laura: Oh, good call.
Marisha: Does it look like there's-- am I there? I'm not there yet.
Matt: You guys are hanging back.
Liam: Kik.
Marisha: All right, I'll go up. Is there a crack that looks like it can kind of just whittle it away, that's kind of already started with the boulder?
Matt: I mean, the boulder is larger than the entranceway that it's jammed into, and you're not entirely certain what the inside of this cavern mouth is, if it's just a direct intersection point or if it's a gradual influx. You can just try and push through at one of those points if you'd like.
Laura: Can you just put a hole in the middle, like right in the center of the boulder, on the ground?
Taliesin: Or would it be easier just to scrape across the side?
Marisha: I only have a limited amount of space that I can carve out, so the boulder might be too thick, but if I do it at the seam line, I should be able to do it. I want to do it at the seam.
Travis: Do we want to take the first entrance that we find, I mean, is it really one way in, one way out? What if it's just, like, a trap?
Marisha: Does someone want to check for traps?
Matt: They already checked. It did not appear to be trapped, just a very, very heavy rock.
Travis: I mean, like, run a perimeter, do any recon, anything else?
Laura: We'd have to run around an entire mountain. Does it look like there could be any other entrances?
Matt: I mean, you'd have to go around the entire mountain.
Laura: How long would it take if I flew around?
Matt: Oh, maybe at full speed, hour and a half, two hours?
Travis: Fuck that, death first, open the door.
Laura: All right, cool cool cool, let's just shape the boulder.
Marisha: Do I want to scry on the inside, or are we just going in? Do I want to scry and see if she's there?
Matt: This accounts for you flying, stopping, checking, flying, stopping, checking. You can't just check for traps while going by at 50 feet around.
Taliesin: Scrying on the inside.
Matt: Are you gonna scry?
Marisha: Are we just going in?
Travis: Yeah, we're doing it.
Taliesin: I think we'll just go in. I mean, what are we gonna see that's gonna make us change our mind?
Laura: Well, if she's not there.
Marisha: Well, if she's not there.
Laura: (gasps) Oh, I'm gonna try to detect dragons! What the fuck?
Marisha: Yeah, that's better!
Laura: I sit down and go, hmm.
Travis: Do you have a headache too? Oh my god, we're all gonna die. I'm patient zero.
Patrick rothfuss: If I'm up by the boulder, too, I will do-- I don't have a huge range, but I will do Divine Sense.
Matt: Okay.
Patrick rothfuss: I can detect all manner of stuff up to 60 feet.
Matt: Yes, you can. All righty. So, using your Divine Sense, let's see here. Okay, so you spend your time just focusing, making sure there's nothing either in or in the immediate vicinity of the rock boulder that could be of celestial, fiend, or undead nature. While you spend a spell slot to do your Primeval Awareness. So yes, you do sense what appear to be three sources of dragon life force within the space. Roughly in the direction of this mountain and below.
Laura: They're here, they're here. Oh, god. (hyperventilates) They're here, she's still here, and I think the eggs are okay, 'cause I can still feel like there's dragons.
Marisha: Oh, they're still alive?
Laura: I think so.
Marisha: God damn it. God. Okay. All right.
Laura: I just did it within a mile, so is that okay? Was that within a mile?
Matt: I believe it's--
Laura: Or did I need to spend longer?
Matt: For that one, it is for one minute per level of the spell. And it's within one mile, up to six miles if you're in your favored terrain.
Laura: Oh, so I am, because it's woods, right? Wooded?
Matt: It's not wooded anymore, so it's one mile. So you know at least they're within a mile.
Marisha: That's big.
Taliesin: That's huge.
Marisha: All right.
Liam: So this is happening.
Marisha: Does anyone need to do anything else before we go in?
Laura: I have to go take a poo.
Marisha: I have to pee, too. I have to pee so bad. (laughter)
Matt: Was that in character?
Marisha: It's both?
Laura: I'm so nervous.
Marisha: Little bit of both.
Laura: All right.
Matt: So what's the plan, guys?
Laura: We're gonna go in? Let's go in!
Marisha: Does anyone need to do a thing?
Laura: I mean, I don't know if we're gonna have to go through. And it only lasts for a minute, so I feel like we're gonna be in the caves longer than--
Marisha: Okay, okay, okay.
Laura: So we're still stealthing.
Travis: Wait, actually, can I pull Vex aside real quick? Can I talk to you just real fast before we--
Laura: Me?
Travis: Yeah, like a little further away, like in private?
Laura: Grog. I'm already seeing someone.
Travis: No, I know. I hate to beat a dead bush. Horse? Cow? I hate to beat a dead cow, but I really did like that little magic thing I found.
Laura: What little magic thing, darling?
Travis: When we were looting and stuff? And I've been really worried about you. I know you like to bargain, right? So I thought I could trade you back for what I found. And I have this little Parapet of Wound Closure, you've been dying so much, right? And if you wear this and you die, you immediately stabilize on your next turn. I figured it'd be a good trade.
Laura: Do I have to attune to that, Grog?
Travis: No.
Laura: You're lying.
Travis: It's a big word. I don't really know what you're saying. I really liked it. I mean, it made a magic sword when I touched it.
Laura: Grog, and then it gave you a headache!
Travis: Yeah, but I can deal with a headache. I won't-- I just, I found it, you know?
Laura: Grog. (yells) Grog!
Travis: What?
Laura: This is awful. No, it's so bad for you.
Travis: Look, you won't die, you won't die.
Laura: (laughing) You motherfucker.
Travis: It's only 'cause I'm looking out for you.
Laura: Oh my god.
Liam: It's the wedding all over again.
Laura: You see how hard this is when people want their boots back, when people want their decks back...
Liam: Don't compare the boots to the deck, are you kidding me?
Laura: You did find it.
Taliesin: Technically, it's somebody else's.
Liam: What do you care what he says?
Laura: Grog. You have to promise me you won't pull anything from it. All you can do is hold onto it. That's all you can do. You can't look at anything, you have to keep it in its little pouch.
Travis: Okay. Yeah, I don't look at anything, I keep it in its little pouch, I don't pull anything. I promise.
Laura: So, you know in Guardians of the Galaxy, when he gives him that little ball at the end?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: Can I do that? Can I give him a pouch? Here's your cards back. But don't look at them, Grog. They're really dangerous. All right?
Travis: You want to trade?
Laura: Yeah, give me the necklace.
Travis: Okay, there. I take the cards.
Matt: Okay. So what are you giving him?
Laura: A little pouch that's the shape of the deck of cards.
Matt: How do you make the pouch the shape of cards?
Laura: It's maybe not that good of a pouch, but it's Grog.
Matt: Make a sleight-of-hand check with disadvantage.
Laura: Okay.
Taliesin: Aw, man.
Liam: Yeah, everybody saw through it immediately, just so you know.
Laura: Well, obviously! But it's Grog. That's really bad. He's gonna be able to tell. Nine?
Matt: Go ahead and roll a perception check, Grog.
Travis: Six.
Taliesin: Yes!
Matt: The trade is complete. She hands you your deck of cards, she takes her Parapet of Wound Closure.
Laura: Oh my god, I'm in so much trouble! (laughter)
Patrick rothfuss: I like to think that there's a live kitten in this pouch. (laughter)
Matt: If you pull the right card, yeah.
Liam: Well, you saved the party, but your marriage is in jeopardy.
Laura: I know. He's so mad at me! He's so mad. It's really good that he's sitting over at the other table right now.
Taliesin: I'm gonna get the wrath of this.
Marisha: I know, we have him!
Taliesin: I can feel the heat emanating right now.
Matt: So, feeling satisfied that your imploring of Vex and a trade you've made, your shiny package of happy cards are back in your possession, but you promised, at the moment, at least--
Travis: To not look at them. All right.
Matt: While she's right there in front of you, yeah.
Travis: Thank you, Vex. That really means the world.
Laura: Seriously, though, they're really, really dangerous.
Travis: I know, they're really special. I won't look at them or anything. That means a lot. I don't find a lot of great things. I did find a couple rocks, earlier, if you want them.
Laura: Oh, they're yours.
Travis: Okay. Are you sure? You're not gonna try and steal that shit, too?
Laura: No, I promise.
Travis: Cool. Let's go kill a dragon. And I jauntily and cheerily walk back to the group. (laughter)
Liam: He looks happy. What was that about?
Laura: (nervous laughter) Oh, I just gave him back his cards, is all.
Travis: So happy to be reunited.
Taliesin: I'm so proud of you.
Matt: All right, so. What are the rest of you doing in the meantime?
Marisha: You've got a little bead of sweat on your forehead, Vex. It's such a humid jungle.
Liam: We zoom in on the single drop.
Marisha: I'm waiting to sculpt a hole in the door.
Matt: Okay. So, using Stone Shape, you can-- a section of stone no more than five feet in any dimension, and form in any shape that suits your purpose. So. You can make a small passage, as long as it is no more than five feet thick. The wall and the stone are both thicker than five feet. You can begin to make a slight passageway. You can create enough of a crack with your spell, as it completes, which, mark off your 4th-level spell, but as you create it, you do manage to pierce, and you can look into the darkness of the tunnel behind, but through the full use of the spell, you create this kind of tunnel intrusion into the side of this mountain, and you only get that much of opening.
Marisha: Son of a bitch.
Taliesin: No, this is an excellent start.
Marisha: All right. In spelunker-Keyleth mode, I'm looking through the hole with my Darkvision.
Matt: Okay, perception check.
Marisha: What do I see?
Liam: Fanart, please.
Matt: Keyleth in The Descent.
Marisha: Oh, son of a bitch! That's a one.
Laura: What do you see, Keyleth?
Liam: You just got James Franco'd.
Marisha: It's so fucking dark, you guys.
Laura: How about I try-- Oh! What if we light an arrow, can I do an Oracle Arrow through the hole?
Marisha: I shimmy out and say, Vex, go in the hole.
Matt: Okay. All right. So you pull back the arrow, you fire it through. The arrow-- go ahead and make an attack roll.
Laura: I'm getting death looks. Natural 20!
Matt: You fire the Oracle Arrow at just the right angle where it doesn't hit any of the walls, it just arcs off straight, before it eventually begins to curve. And what you do as you pass along with this arrow, with your Darkvision, you can see, down the tunnel there is no light source. There is a layer of untouched dust all across the ground, and interesting texture the further in you go. And then eventually, about 100 feet or so in, the tunnel begins to curve to the left and descend before the arrow lands and sticks into the rock there, splintering a little bit, and your vision now sits there with the arrow. There doesn't appear to be any movement. It is silent and pitch-black.
Laura: Okay. And nothing had walked, it didn't look like there were any tracks. It was just heavy dust.
Matt: From what you could see from the arrow rushing past it, yeah.
Liam: And that gap is just this much?
Matt: It's about that big, yeah.
Liam: And does it go in like that, like a long tunnel of that, or is it-- could I reach my arm through?
Matt: You could reach your arm through. Essentially, it's like the edge of the wall of this tunnel and the rock were kind of jammed together, and she punched through just enough to push past where the rock and the wall had hit, and it created this slight opening, but there's still a bunch of stone there.
Liam: Shit.
Taliesin: It's okay, there's options.
Laura: I shimmy out. It's just a tunnel.
Taliesin: That's good.
Laura: Yeah, it's a long tunnel.
Patrick rothfuss: That means we could make a little bit of noise getting in here, maybe.
Laura: Potentially. Raishan, I think, has rather good hearing. If we make a lot of noise, it might echo down.
Patrick rothfuss: Right.
Taliesin: We have no way of keeping silent, do we? We don't have any way of--
Marisha: I could try, like what you said. I can always, worst-case scenario, burn another 4th-level to finish this off.
Travis: For a door?
Taliesin: We've spent more opening a door.
Marisha: Yes, we have.
Travis: We don't have to spend anything. I'll just beat the shit out of it.
Taliesin: You're our last resort at this point.
Laura: But you do have siege gauntlets, though.
Travis: I do, yeah. I actually have those, like, no one's taken them from me. (laughter)
Liam: Why do you say that right now? How is that relevant to the conversation at hand?
Travis: I just mean, like, they're mine, you know. They work for me, they speak to me. Yeah.
Liam: I've always said as much.
Marisha: Do you have a relationship with all of your inanimate objects?
Travis: I try to work on it at night.
Marisha: Sure.
Taliesin: Wow, I actually do blame myself for this. This is interesting.
Marisha: Why would you say that, Percy?
Taliesin: I don't know.
Marisha: Man, I feel like there's a lot of secrets.
Laura: What do you think? Should we burn another 4th, or should we have Grog punch the little hole a little bit?
Marisha: Well, let me see. I crawl back in the hole.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: All right.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: You know how, like, a blade of grass can break a block of concrete?
Laura: What?
Marisha: I'm doing some monk shit, all right? (laughter)
Marisha: Okay. Go with me. Okay. You know how plants can break stone when they grow through? If I do a Druidcraft cantrip and try and grow some plants through this hole, will it maybe help crack open a bigger hole?
Travis: Can you fast-forward 1000 years?
Matt: (creeper hissing)
Marisha: No, creeper. No creeper. Okay. I shimmy back out and I say, no, apparently that takes like 1000 years. (laughter)
Laura: Grog. You wanna go punch some shit?
Patrick rothfuss: Hold on for one second. I know you can move this stone, if it allows you to only move certain parts of it, could you use the stone you can shape to effectively carve out a chunk that could be pulled out? Like a very thin, narrow, like just move as much as a finger's-width around and then we could pull that out instead of just pushing it all the way like clay?
Matt: I mean, it could be, but one spell's already been spent.
Laura: So it would just be another spell slot.
Matt: But it would work.
Patrick rothfuss: It would be another spell, but that would be just two to get in, as opposed to endlessly throwing spell after spell at this.
Laura: Well, Grog has siege gauntlets, so he could potentially do some damage to the rock, but it would make noise.
Liam: One second. Percy. I have a nutball idea that maybe you could turn into a better one.
Laura: Doors!
Liam: I pull out the Oil of Etherealness that I've been carrying for ages.
Marisha: The What of Whatness?
Liam: This, it's goop, you rub it on yourself and you become ethereal for an hour. But I can't do it.
Laura: Why?
Liam: There's not enough to cover me. But Scanlan could do it or Pike could do it and could walk through the rock.
Laura: And then do what?
Liam: Look around, see if there's anything to-- I don't know. I prefaced it with saying it was a shitty idea, and I spoke to the brain to see if he could come up with something better.
Travis: We looked for a switch, right?
Marisha: It's a giant rock. It's a boulder.
Taliesin: With handholds on it. It's Fortress of Solitude.
Travis: Can I look for a switch?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Travis: If I solve this... 19. Oh, minus... 17.
Matt: 17. Looking around as they're having this conversation, there's no switches, but you do see fingerholds, like big, dragon-sized fingerholds, like something grabbed it and jammed this boulder in there.
Patrick rothfuss: I actually want to kind of take a look around, too, because if this is a naturally formed rock, a naturally formed opening, this is not like a cork in a bottle. There has to be some parts that don't fit really smoothly. Have we found the best place to make our incursion? Is there an opening? Is there any-- this can't fit snugly into this unless it's been shaped for that purpose.
Taliesin: We can now get enough of a hold to make a lever and move the boulder out a little bit, get us all in, and then drop it back into place. In theory. We have this hole now that's big enough for, let's say, a magical weapon that can't be destroyed? And we can just apply as much pressure, put a bunch of other people pushing on the other side and see if we can open it up enough to get in and then let it close behind us.
Liam: How would Bigby be in this situation?
Marisha: Bigby would be an upper-level spell.
Taliesin: I don't want to burn that right now.
Marisha: Grog. Do you want to try and use some of your basic mechanics of physics? Of leveraging?
Travis: I don't know what that is, but I will assault this stone with a quickness.
Laura: Do it! Just get us in.
Marisha: Don't assault it. Don't insul-- don't insult or assault it. If you could just--
Travis: There's no joy in either of them.
Marisha: I know. I know. This one isn't for you.
Taliesin: Who's got a magical weapon that's very long?
Travis: Kima.
Marisha: If you could take Kima's sword, pry open a crack, let us slip in--
Travis: You ask Kima for the Holy Avenger, I'm not taking that.
Marisha: Well, don't you have the dragon sword?
Travis: You ask Kima for her sword. See how that goes.
Taliesin: Kima.
Matt: "Yes?"
Taliesin: We're thinking about building a giant lever. Could you put your sword in that hole and help us pull very, very hard to see if we can move this boulder?
Matt: "Will it damage the sword?"
Taliesin: In theory, no.
Laura: In theory.
Taliesin: It's a magical sword. Can you break a magical sword with pressure?
Matt: "You ding it, you pay."
Taliesin: That's fair. So I'm going to try and build this lever. All of us are going to put pressure in the other direction, we're going to try and have as many of us moving this thing just a couple feet. Not far. Just far enough to make an opening to get as many of us through as possible.
Matt: All right, so who's doing the leverage?
Liam: Pike is.
Laura: Definitely Pike.
Marisha: Definitely Pike.
Matt: Okay, well, the size of the sword, at most it's going to be one person assisting the main person. Which would be Pike assisting Grog. All right. So as the rest of you guys get on the other side, Grog, I want you to go ahead and roll a strength check.
Marisha: Pike and Grog, Pike and Grog.
Matt: With advantage because of Pike's aid on this.
Travis: Thank god. 23.
Matt: 23, okay. As you guys get on the other side, before you even start getting into position, Grog already begins to pull back on the sword. You watch as Kima keeps glancing over her shoulder like (worried noise). Waiting for it to just snap. But the large rock, the boulder begins to shift ever-so-slightly. You watch as dust and other small pebbles begin to clatter down the outside of the rock. You all get on the other side and, all together as a group, everyone else make strength checks.
Patrick rothfuss: We can use the rod of immobility to brace it if we need to.
Laura: Yeah, that's a good call, because we have two of them, now.
Marisha: Oh, that's such a good idea.
Taliesin: We have holes drilled in the stone by dragon feet.
Marisha: We can just wedge it in there. Yeah. That's a good call, you guys. Wait, we're all doing a strength check?
Laura: 12.
Marisha: Just straight strength?
Matt: Straight strength, so add your strength modifier.
Taliesin: 17.
Marisha: 13.
Liam: 16.
Laura: Did you want Pike's?
Liam: To do what, help prop it up?
Taliesin: Scanlan rolled a four.
Matt: Okay. Okay. So you manage to get about a foot and a half--
Laura: Trinket rolled a 19.
Matt: Okay. So Trinket's also pushing as well. There isn't a whole lot of surface area here to really aid, it's mostly on you, Grog, and you manage to get about a foot and a half wide before you pull out the Immovable Rods and Kerrek, and anybody else who wants to help, you manage to jam them into two of the finger-holes, and as soon as they lock in, you can release the weapon and it's just enough to hold it in place, although it is slowly moving. Each rod can only hold 8,000 pounds. Mind you, it's not holding it entirely aloft, it seems to be holding okay for now.
Liam: I immediately throw Whisper through the crack and bamf through.
Taliesin: I scootch.
Laura: I scootch.
Matt: You guys all pull through. Kima immediately rushes and grabs the sword. You guys charge into the darkness.
Laura: Can Trinket get in or do I need to bamf him in the necklace and bamf him out? Okay, that's what I do.
Matt: You guys all do get inside the tunnel. The boulder does appear to be stationary.
Laura: Should we leave it open, or should we take the rods? We might need to get out in a hurry.
Taliesin: What a wonderfully convenient way to close. And it also means that the dragon will not be able to open the door.
Marisha: Because it's wedged?
Taliesin: It's wedged shut.
Marisha: She could turn into a person. She can also teleport. Let's not forget that. Okay, let's keep going.
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: Just, let's remember to pick those up, if there's anybody left to get them.
Matt: You guys now stand in the 15-foot-wide, about 12-foot-tall, tunnel entrance to this mountainside. As you saw before, the floor itself has a layer of dust. There's a heavy smell of ancient rot and stagnant water and wet earth. The rock walls of the pathway are rough, but appear to have been intentionally carved for a purpose more than any sort of presentational element of it. There's no wind, there's no movement of air. Everything in here has been, at least in this portion of it, still and untouched for quite some time. As you guys push forward through this tunnel, to where it begins to make its slow descent--
Laura: Stealth.
Matt: You guys? All right.
Liam: Checking, checking, checking. 24.
Laura: Oh, this is investigation.
Taliesin: I thought you were stealthing.
Laura: Oh, was that a stealth roll or an investigation roll? That was investigation, right?
Matt: That was investigation. 24?
Laura: Dogshit. 11.
Matt: Okay. We'll have to make-- we'll say, make new stealth checks since you guys have come out of stealth and you're back in. But as you guys are moving down the curvature of the tunnel, Vax, you notice that there are, amongst the dust and pebbles of the floor, small pieces and chunks of other material. Most of them very small, maybe anywhere from a pebble size to the size of this die or a little larger. And they're different than the rock, they're a lighter material, and almost porous upon close look, as you take one and look at it.
Liam: Scanlan and Keyleth, come up here, please. Do you know what that is?
Marisha: What is it?
Matt: You've seen this before, actually, in a subterranean place once before, although it was a large field of it at the time. There are a number of scattered shards of bone, just kind of scattered and cracked and broken across the floor. Not a very thick mat, but just here and there, peppered throughout the walkway.
Marisha: These are dead things. This is bone. Yeah.
Matt: You also do notice, upon looking at a few of them on the ground, now having the context, a lot of them look blackened, a lot of them look like they've been charred, burnt.
Laura: Hey, Keyleth.
Marisha: Yeah?
Laura: When you did the scrying thing, how long did it take to get down in the tunnels? Was it a lot of tunnels before you got to the laboratory?
Marisha: In terms of my vision?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: You don't know. It looked like you're at this point, and then you're there. So you have no idea.
Laura: It's less than a mile down, I know.
Marisha: It kind of rushes past you really fast, it's a little disorienting.
Laura: Okay.
Liam: No traps?
Matt: No traps at the moment, no.
Laura: Should we all stealth?
Patrick rothfuss: These are just here so that people step on them and it makes noise?
Liam: It's a theory. We already stealthed.
Laura: I thought we had to reroll stealth.
Liam: Oh, I did.
Marisha: Can I do a-- this is some CSI shit.
Matt: You guys are going stealth, right? All right, so roll your stealth checks, please.
Travis: Plus ten?
Laura: 30.
Liam: 35.
Taliesin: 34. And then Scanlan...
Marisha: 30 total.
Travis: 28.
Laura: 25 for Pike.
Travis: No, sorry. Oh, 30.
Taliesin: 18 for Scanlan.
Patrick rothfuss: 29 for me.
Matt: Great, awesome. All right, so, as you guys continue progressing down this curving tunnel, it goes into a very, very mild descent.
Marisha: Can I do-- I wanna do a quick check. This is some Bones-type shit. Can I see if these bones were charred recently, or once again, if these bones have been there for a long time? I know this is some weird carbon-dating shit.
Matt: Make a nature check on this, actually. This is your understanding at least of how fire against bone, which is--
Marisha: Ooh, that's good. 28.
Matt: 28. Yeah, so understanding especially in the Pyrah, and noticing the difference and just your experience of natural animals and creatures that have been cooked to be eaten, and the effect of the fire on the bones that are left behind, this bone charring is not as ancient as, say, the trees that have withered, but they're aren't-- they're years old at the very least, if not longer.
Marisha: Years old, if not longer.
Matt: Yeah, there's a layer of dust on these bones, as well, that shows that at least they have been untouched for a short time.
Marisha: Okay. But wait, was Thordak here over a year ago?
Taliesin: Could have been, yeah.
Laura: He was here for a long time before-- he was here before he got the thing, right?
Matt: Yeah. He made this his lair after avoiding death from J'mon Sa Ord in Ank'harel, and then recuperated here, from what you know, and then made this his domain for a while, and then pressed northward in Tal'Dorei, which is where--
Marisha: That's when Allura and her team encountered him.
Matt: Correct. That's when Thordak battled Raishan and began the beginning of the formulation of the Conclave, that's when Thordak destroyed Byroden and by proxy, their mother. That's when all of that went down.
Liam: While we're quiet here, in the dark, I pull Pike over to the side. Pike!
Laura: Yes?
Liam: I have a bad-- will you take care of my sister? You have that one thing that you do, I don't know what it's called, but if she falls down, she gets back up again. Do you know what I'm talking about?
Laura: Is that the Death Ward? It's a thing. I talk to Sarenrae and then she protects them for a little bit of time.
Liam: Could you do that to my sister now?
Laura: Feels a little selfish, but sure. (laughter)
Liam: I thought of it.
Laura: I mean, if you want me to do it.
Liam: I do, I do.
Laura: Sure, why not? I walk up to me. I guess Pike will cast Death Ward on Vex.
Matt: Okay. So that's a 4th-level spell off Pike, and for the next eight hours, Vex is Death Warded.
Liam: When you're brought down to zero, you ping up to one, is the math on that.
Marisha: It's kind of like buying Starbucks with the company Amex.
Laura: Feels a little weird, not gonna lie.
Liam: It's just strategy, man. Game strategy. Well, it's done, and my sister is a little safer than she was before, and y'all can go fuck yourselves.
Marisha: So easy when you have the pin code. (laughter)
Liam: This one and this one on me.
Laura: Yeah, it's totally cool.
Liam: Out of character, Matt pooped out this new feature to dying, and she's on her last fucking string, man. No regrets, move forward.
Matt: To be fair, I'm still toying with it, because it's one of the things that I'm adjusting as we go.
Liam: Well, you said it and the spell is cast.
Matt: That's not true at all.
Marisha: You freaked everyone out, Matt.
Matt: Oh, I can keep it if you want.
Marisha: No, don't worry about it.
Taliesin: You're literally wearing a creeper shirt, you have to be careful what you say. God, every time.
Matt: It's a rule that I'm working with. I may have jumped the gun in releasing it at the time as I'm working on the campaign guide, but one of the resurrection rules, I was deciding the DC, I think five per death is a bit intense, so I might adjust it more to be a two. Just 'cause I was thinking, in a long-term campaign, your character might die a lot more between levels one and 20. And then it gets a little insane. So I'm working on it.
Liam: Listen, I help my sister, okay?
Matt: Mind you, she's still closer to death, but yes.
Marisha: Mind you, she's still closer to death.
Patrick rothfuss: Just to ask a little bit, as we're going down here, I don't know how everyone else is geared up, but I'm kind of vanilla human here, and not that equipped to see in the dark.
Matt: Yeah, in fact, currently Percival and Kerrek are blind. Like, pitch-black blind.
Laura: Wait, light your little dagger up.
Matt: All right--
Patrick rothfuss: Actually, you probably just hear Kerrek say, I am sorry, but at this point I can't see at all.
Liam: I'm always holding two, and one of them is, I pull out the Flametongue Dagger, and I wave a fly away--
Laura: This gnat, this fucking gnat.
Liam: And I hold it so that Kerrek can see, and I say, we might die, so try it one more time with me. Irish wristwatch. Just once more, before we die.
Patrick rothfuss: I dreamed about this last night. (laughter)
Taliesin: It's a tough one.
Patrick rothfuss: Irish wr-- (laughs) (cheering)
Patrick rothfuss: Irish wristwatch. (cheering)
Matt: There you go. Well done.
Liam: I feel so much closer to you now. Let's fucking do this.
Matt: The dagger, which emits flame on it, is the equivalent of a candle. He can see about 15 feet beyond you, and that's it.
Patrick rothfuss: Well, actually, I'll say, as soon as I say, are we okay with light? Or are we trying to keep it as dark as possible? Because--
Liam: Too late now.
Laura: A little bit of light.
Liam: There's a candle.
Matt: There is now a flame licking the edge of the blade that's being held aloft. So light is being shed now in the tunnel. Though not a lot.
Travis: You know, you could put that out and they could just grab onto each one of our arms and move forward.
Marisha: Yeah, I go and find Percy.
Taliesin: Okay.
Marisha: And I link arms.
Travis: Oh, jeez. Hey, Kerr, you wanna cuddle?
Patrick rothfuss: Actually, yes. (laughter)
Travis: Hey, Vax. Put that light out.
Matt: All right, so Kerrek, there's a moment of quiet and stillness in the darkness, as you feel the ground beneath you shift ever-so-slightly. Heavy footfalls approaching you as suddenly a large, muscled, somewhat sweaty arm just curls around the outside of your shoulders and pulls you close to Grog's torso.
Patrick rothfuss: It is one of the most comforting things I have ever experienced. (laughter)
Travis: I love it. I love it!
Liam: We're about to die.
Laura: No, no, no.
Marisha: Okay, I kinda guide Percy as we go through.
Matt: So you guys are making your way down this slow grade beneath. Yes.
Marisha: Being stealthy as fuck.
Matt: You make incremental checks as we go. Eventually, as the grade continues downward, you begin to see the hallway open up ever-so-slightly, and what was once just somewhat rough rock walls begin having slight shapes or details to them. It's still hard to see. Darkvision is-- you still need a little light to make out fine details or things at a distance, but it does help you at least make out the basic shapes and things ahead of you. You see what appear to be small shelves or alcoves that are now beginning to show up every 20 or so feet as you progress down. Little bits of rock that jut out that look like they were either bolted in or crafted on top of it, and you see small, little cubbies, almost, little alcoves that are put into the rock as well.
Laura: Hold your little dagger up to it, I want to see what it is.
Liam: You're sure?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. Make a perception check.
Liam: That's pretty good. That is 29.
Matt: Okay. You glance in the first one to your immediate right, which is a small shelf outward, and you see what appear to be a number of dust-covered-- a cluster of candles that have long burned and melted into dripping wax that pours down the side of this alcove. That's it on that particular shelf.
Laura: Careful. Maybe keep it out, just keep an eye out. It's hard to see down here.
Liam: I can look at these after.
Laura: No, I just, I mean for traps. Psh.
Matt: Okay. So you're searching for traps now?
Liam: Constantly.
Matt: Go ahead and make another investigation check with disadvantage.
Laura: 'Cause it's dark. See? If you'd pulled your dagger out, it wouldn't be so bad.
Liam: Good suggestion. Still at disadvantage?
Laura: If his dagger's out?
Matt: Let me double-check, here. It's kind of a frustratingly broken ability in some cases if it just is universally in here.
Laura: I'm gonna pull out the flying carpet. (laughs) And I'm gonna walk over to--
Matt: So you can see in dim light within 60 feet of you as if it were bright light, and in darkness as if it were dim light, so you have about 15 feet you can kind of see out in front of you in straight darkness. If you have your dagger out, you can see pretty decently for 60 feet, is how it works.
Liam: But if it's gone, I can see 15 feet ahead?
Matt: Kinda shitty in 15 feet.
Laura: I'm gonna give the--
Liam: So regular checks, if the dagger's out.
Matt: For, at least, 60 feet for you.
Liam: And this is investigation. 18.
Matt: Okay. Nothing seems to catch your attention. As you continue pushing forward, you see one more of these shelves. Are you looking at each one as you go?
Liam: Yeah, right now I am.
Matt: Okay. As you glance past, another perception check.
Laura: Hey, Grog. So I have this flying carpet...
Liam: 22.
Matt: 22. Okay. You can see on the left shelf appears to be a humanoid skull that's up on top, next to two more candles, one of them more melted than the other, but the wax drips past. There's a shelf across the way on the opposite side that appears to have a couple of small books that are put off to the side, and what looks like a small wooden box.
Liam: Is the box trapped?
Matt: Roll an investigation check.
Liam: That is a 22.
Matt: Box does not appear trapped, from what you can tell.
Liam: Nah, fuck it.
Taliesin: Put it in the Bag of Holding.
Liam: I don't.
Matt: Okay, continue walking?
Liam: Mm-hm. Looking for traps.
Matt: Okay. As you continue, keeping an eye out in front of you, the next shelf you come across looks to have some sort of a mummified racoon-type creature that is propped up. (laughter)
Matt: Not taxidermied, by any means. It just looks like it dried out in a sort of standing position, or at least is leaning against the wall of the platform.
Marisha: Oh, like some weird Pompeii shit? Like he died that way?
Matt: Kind of. Literally just shriveled.
Laura: Grog, would you be able to use a flying carpet in battle to get up to a dragon?
Travis: I have no idea.
Laura: It could be useful.
Matt: Kerrek, do you have something you wanted to say?
Patrick rothfuss: Yeah, I'm just gonna-- blind as a bat as I am, I'm gonna use Divine Sense to see if I can sense any undead, corrupt, fiend, it's kind of a long list, but I do know corrupt was mentioned in there.
Taliesin: Also, Vax, what were the titles of those books? Earpiece, listening to your vague description of things.
Liam: Thank you for retconning that. Yeah, we'll ask him. Yeah, but I would've read them if I could've. I'm not Grog.
Taliesin: Grog would've read them, even if he just made up words.
Matt: You do sense that there is some sort of an undead presence in your vicinity, Kerr, though you do not quite know what its nature is or its direction. There is something undead near you.
Marisha: Oh, jeez. She didn't bring Thordak back, did she? We're gonna have to fight an undead dragon.
Patrick rothfuss: Do I get a sense of-- is it just, yes, it is present, I don't get any sense of direction or intensity? I'm assuming this isn't my first rodeo. Everybody bumps into skeletons early in their career.
Matt: Correct. I would say it does not appear to be any extreme-- yeah, it does not appear to be an extremely powerful undead presence. You can't tell size or direction, by any means, but it's not like all of a sudden there's a lich ahead of you or some massive arrival of Orcus. You just sense something around you that is an undead energy.
Laura: Around us? Like how close around us, can he sense that?
Liam: I mean, this could be crypt shit on the sides. I'm gonna focus a little more on the ground.
Matt: Okay, do you guys all continue moving forward?
Taliesin: I did ask about the books, the titles of the books.
Liam: Yes, he asked me through the earpiece what the books said. Could I read them when I saw them?
Matt: What languages do you know?
Liam: Common, Elvish, and Abyssal?
Matt: You do not know the title of the books.
Liam: Tighter Buns in 30 Days is the only title I saw. Looking for traps.
Matt: All right. Roll another investigation check.
Liam: 25.
Matt: 25, okay. You continue to push forward. There is no trap set. You do look ahead and see what appears to be the pathway is now showing stonework at times, almost like there are slabs, elements of a tunnel that was once better constructed than what exists, but is either eroded away or elements of wall collapse have covered what was once a very, very ancient form of architecture.
Liam: As a precaution, I'm going to, as much as I can, stay to the stuff that looks natural or fucked-up and not civilized.
Patrick rothfuss: Hold on, first, I'm sorry. I just found my specific description. It does say I sense type and location.
Matt: It does say that, I totally missed that.
Patrick rothfuss: So long as it's not behind total cover.
Matt: Got you. Okay. Then you sense there is something. You know it's from one of the wall areas, but you cannot see, and your one single bit of light source is ahead of you in the tunnel. But you do sense, at one point as you're walking, it is to the left of you.
Patrick rothfuss: Okay. I say, there is an unclean thing here.
Travis: Well, fuck, I'm sorry, it's just not a priority for me, all right? (laughter)
Travis: I mean, I put my arm down off his shoulder, I'll grant him at least that.
Patrick rothfuss: It's not you, Grog, there's some undead thing here, and I say, it's off to the left. To my left.
Taliesin: The left hand of the tunnel.
Patrick rothfuss: But I don't know what's around here.
Laura: Can we see anything on the walls that looks like a door or anything?
Matt: Are you stopping? 'Cause you two are moving ahead of everyone else, so you guys are probably a good 15, 20 feet ahead. You want to move back with them?
Laura: No, no.
Travis: Can I look to the left, just off him saying that, because of the Belt of Dwarvenkind I have Darkvision?
Matt: You do. You glance off to the left. You can see upon that shelf unit there, there are the two candles and the singular skull set on the shelf.
Travis: I start to slowly make my way over to the skull.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Gods damn it.
Matt: Kerrek, you feel Grog slowly step in the direction that you pointed out to him.
Travis: Is this the direction?
Patrick rothfuss: Yes.
Travis: Are we getting warmer?
Patrick rothfuss: Yes, it's over there. I'm not bringing my hammer out, but my hammer's ready.
Travis: What does the skull look like?
Matt: It looks like a human skull.
Travis: Anything shiny about it, or jewelled?
Matt: No, it looks kind of dust-covered. You can see what looks to be-- the bone itself appears to have a hint of blackened soot, or some sort of a darker color to it, like it's been slightly singed.
Travis: Candles look like candles?
Matt: Candles look like mostly melted candles.
Travis: Kerr, I hate to rain on your parade, but I only see two candles and a human skull up here.
Patrick rothfuss: Partial undead thing... do I know, again, obviously nothing is trying to eat our faces off here, but can you turn an undead thing into just like a watcher or a trap or a spy or a trigger?
Matt: Make an intelligence check, or make a religion check. Make a religion check.
Laura: Oh, it could be watching through the skull. You're brilliant, Kerr! Fuck.
Patrick rothfuss: You know, that's about a 12.
Matt: Okay.
Patrick rothfuss: Not my best.
Matt: Best that you can understand is, undead magic can raise dead, it can control dead. You have heard stories of undead or the use of them being more situational, as opposed to just roaming as zombies, but that's as much as you can call off the top of your head. It's been a while since you've been adventuring, so the specific stories are a little too foggy.
Taliesin: Yeah, it could be a security camera.
Patrick rothfuss: Actually, I say, if there's-- give me the skull. And I'm just reaching out blindly in his direction.
Travis: All right. I grab the skull and hand it to Kerr.
Matt: Okay.
Patrick rothfuss: And then I'll use Divine Sense again. Is it this?
Matt: It is, the skull is the source of the undead energy. It is not currently moving or reacting or having any sort of reaction to being held by you.
Patrick rothfuss: I say, anybody mind if I wreck this thing?
Travis: No, I do not mind at all, thank god there's someone else in this world with my sort of thinking.
Liam: What are you doing back there?
Travis: Hold on. I grab my earring, and I say, Kerr found a human skull that has some undead vibes vibrating out of it.
Laura: Okay.
Travis: But it's not doing anything. Do you mind if we destroy it?
Liam: He's already holding it?
Travis: Yeah.
Liam: Well, I mean, if anything was gonna happen, we're probably fucked already, so I don't know.
Taliesin: Actually, where's Kima?
Matt: That's a good point. What is your guys' marching order, by the way? I know the twins are in the front.
Taliesin: Then I think it's you and Kerr, and then me and--
Matt: Grog and Kerr, Keyleth and Percy--
Taliesin: Ash and Scanlan.
Matt: Ash and Scanlan after that. And then we have-- do you have Trinket out of the necklace, right? Then probably Kima and Allura back with Trinket in the back. So they're kind of holding up the rear and keeping an eye out behind as they go.
Taliesin: I think destroying it will trigger it.
Liam: I'm kind of for leaving things alone as we go through here, Percival.
Travis: I mean, we can leave it alone.
Laura: I could do Sacred Flame on it, and it would do radiant damage to it.
Marisha: What if we turn and just face the skull so it's looking into the corner.
Laura: Sure.
Marisha: So it's not looking at us.
Liam: I think dicking with it in the first place might have already ruined us, but yeah, let's just set it down, turn it around.
Travis: Hey, Kerr, they're worried we're gonna kill ourselves. Can you just put it back, but face it towards the wall like it's in time out?
Patrick rothfuss: Sure. If I've got a spare sack, I'll stuff it in the sack and point it towards the wall.
Matt: Okay. So you pull out the extra, kind of a heavy burlap sack, you throw the skull in there, tie it taut, and set it back up on the shelf, facing away from where you're standing.
Taliesin: Do not underestimate the power of burlap.
Laura: We should've come down in the tunnel wearing pantyhose on our heads so Raishan wouldn't have known.
Taliesin: Just thought it was a college prank?
Marisha: Oh man, we should totally invest in those little pantyhose eggs.
Liam: Delta lambda again, sneaking in, aw.
Matt: Every time!
Liam: I don't know enough about that to say that correctly, either.
Matt: Continuing onward, into the next length of the tunnel, about another 50 feet or so, there is-- the room opens up, and you can see that stonework eventually takes the entire floor, and the chamber opens up into what looks to be almost like a hexagonal-shaped chamber that ends at a large iron door. It fills the entirety of the chamber, and it seals off any progression from that point. Make a perception check.
Travis: Vex-agonal shaped.
Laura: Vex-agonal? Should I make a perception check, too, since I'm near it?
Matt: Sure.
Liam: 22.
Laura: Oh god, that was almost a one. But it's not, it was a 15.
Matt: Okay. So 15 total? Okay. As you glance, you can see at the center of this chamber there looks to be-- let's see here. Okay, yeah. There stands a pillar of dark green marble, about ten feet, 15 feet away from where the iron door is, and what looks to be a roughly forged bowl of iron that is imperfect and is bolted to the top of this pillar.
Liam: On the top or out the side of the top?
Matt: Resting on top of it, and it's about maybe five, six feet up, and there is a platform that leads up to it. So maybe if you were standing on the little dais around it, it'd be about chest-height to you.
Liam: How tall is this chamber?
Matt: The chamber's whole height would be about 25 feet. You also see, off to the right, what appears to be another shelf that contains a very, very large leather-bound tome and what looks to be a cold iron brazier that is unburnt but has a bunch of dried tinder in it.
Laura: Oh, god.
Liam: Oh, come here, come here.
Laura: What?
Liam: There's some shit, there's some ingredients in that, ready to go.
Laura: There's ingredients?
Liam: Yeah, there's something in that brazier over there that she hasn't burned yet.
Taliesin: Can I get a little light in here, just for a second?
Liam: I'm holding.
Matt: You have a tiny bit of candlelight. You can see about ten, 15 feet around Vax.
Taliesin: Okay, so I can't see the mechanism on the door.
Matt: You do not even know there's a door there.
Taliesin: Okay, that's fair. For the best, it would just scare me.
Laura: I mean, would it be helpful if everyone could see?
Taliesin: Take a look around.
Marisha: No one else is in this room, yeah? Can the half-elves with Darkvision do a little--
Matt: Make perception checks.
Liam: I'll do that, and I'm also going to do Divine Sense here.
Marisha: Don't fuck me, Gil. Oh, thanks, Gil! That's not bad! Perception, right? 26.
Travis: 16.
Liam: 22.
Matt: There does not appear to be anybody else in this chamber with you, and from your Divine Sense, you do not sense any undead within 60 feet of you right now.
Liam: There's no undead dragons walking around.
Travis: Can I look for invisible dragons? No, I'm kidding.
Taliesin: You see seven.
Laura: So, Light? Should we light it up?
Matt: He doesn't sense any undead within 60 feet, that's the range of it.
Liam: Right. How far from the gate to the far side of the room, is the first question.
Matt: The doorway, you mean?
Liam: I'm at a gate that blocks us from going in, is that correct?
Matt: No, you're entering this chamber, then on the opposite side of the room there is a larger door that prevents you from progressing beyond the doorway. In between you and that door, there is that raised platform, the pillar, and the iron bowl, and then to the right and against the wall, there is the brazier and the shelf with the singular tome.
Laura: Does it look like-- when we entered the chamber, does it look like a door would come down or something when it opened up into the chamber?
Liam: Right, is there a gap, like a crack that something could slide down out of right above where we are?
Matt: Glancing up, based on your perception rolls, you don't see anything that would dictate any sort of exit or entranceway from the ceiling.
Liam: And in addition to everything we see, do we see levers, do we see panels, do we see anything on the walls in this room?
Matt: No, there's standard stone, old stone masonry. You can see chunks that have broken off and just fallen over the years, there's a couple small cave-in areas where it looks like rocks have just tumbled in as the general shifting of the island has caused some elements to fall loose and tumble in.
Marisha: Keyleth is gonna go ahead and light up her fire hands.
Matt: Okay. That gives a bigger radius. Comparable torchlight to Keyleth, and now Kerrek and Percival, you guys can both have a much better view of the room. You can see now this iron bowl on top of this pillar in the center. You can just make out the large iron wall or door on the opposite side, and a little bit of the brazier and the tome.
Taliesin: I've built a fire-lock mechanism for a door before. Would I recognize this as being a set a fire in the bowl and that might open the door?
Matt: Make an intelligence check.
Taliesin: I built one for the Raven Queen temple.
Marisha: Go Percy, go Percy, go.
Taliesin: Intelligence check? That's, with my new intelligence level, that's a 19.
Matt: 19. Best you can glance here, I mean, it's possible, but this--
Taliesin: It's magic.
Matt: You don't know. The room itself is ancient, and the construction, there is nothing that appears to be mechanically attached.
Taliesin: So if it did, it would be magical. If that was--
Matt: Yeah, there's no chain, pulley system visible at all. Where the door hits the seam of the room, it looks very smooth.
Laura: Can I go look in the bowl, the bowl in the middle of the room, and just look and see if there's a residue of anything in it?
Matt: Sure, you can make an investigation check.
Patrick rothfuss: Can I just say that when the lights came up, Kerr kind of, he'd been leaning into Grog maybe more than was entirely appropriate. So he kind of stood up a little better on his own to get out of it.
Matt: Right. (clears throat)
Liam: Luckily, no one saw you, because of that robe.
Laura: 26.
Matt: As you look down into the bowl, you can make out what looks to be a very, very faint long-dried residue just at the very, very bottom of it. Some sort of a liquid that was once in there that has since dried up entirely and left this very, very faint, just a slight shift in texture other than the hammered iron.
Laura: No color change or anything on it?
Matt: Not that you can really tell, no. You're just looking into this dark bowl with a little bit of light source.
Laura: Well, I don't actually touch it.
Taliesin: Do you have something sharp to just scrape some off?
Liam: While she's doing that, I'm just going to quietly extend my wings now.
Matt: Your wings.
Laura: Oh yeah, I get out a lockpick and scrape it to see if I can--
Patrick rothfuss: Holy shit! (laughter)
Liam: They're pretty cool, aren't they.
Laura: They take up a lot of room, though, so.
Liam: No, they don't. They go out and they slam back into my back.
Matt: Yeah, Kerrek, as they're having this conversation, you're looking, watching as this small half-elf rogue that you've had a few encounters with suddenly just sends this pair of large jet-black raven-like wings that fire from his shoulderblades and slowly fold behind him.
Taliesin: They don't work. He just does that to be an asshole.
Marisha: It's all a cosplay prop. That's all it is.
Patrick rothfuss: Strikes a bit of a figure, though, doesn't he?
Taliesin: No, it's very attractive.
Liam: I heard Percival say that.
Laura: Scratch-scratch, scrape-scrape.
Matt: You're scraping the--
Laura: Yeah, just to see what the residue is.
Matt: Okay, it scrapes up, it creates a small, almost like a dried powder-type substance.
Laura: What color is it?
Matt: It's like a dark burgundy.
Laura: This is fucking blood.
Taliesin: Can I taste it?
Matt: Yeah, taste it, has kind of an iron-like taste.
Marisha: Oh, it's so blood. Oh, you're so right.
Laura: Maybe we should just bleed into this bowl and the door will open.
Taliesin: Tempting.
Travis: I can do that.
Laura: Necromancy?
Marisha: I think that's the word, yeah.
Taliesin: Do we recognize the architecture of the door, and I also want to take a look at that book. What is the book's language, what does it look like? I'm not picking it up yet, I'm just looking at it on the shelf.
Matt: The leather tome which is currently leaning up against it has no text on the cover and no text on the spine, but it is big. It's about that big. So it's like a tome.
Travis: Is it made of skin?
Matt: Grog, do you want to go over and check it out?
Travis: Yes.
Matt: Okay. It appears to be a thick leather. It's hard to tell in this light if it was made from tanned hide or tanned flesh, but it is old.
Liam: As we're watching Grog, I just lean over and say, you know, you are criticizing the size of my wings, you are walking around with a Persian rug, a broom, and a longbow strapped to your back.
Laura: I tried to give this rug to someone else, but Grog didn't want to take it.
Marisha: And then I come up and I say, can I pet your wings? I've never pet them before.
Laura: There's things going on in this room.
Matt: You can hear this heavy sigh from Allura behind you, she's like, (sighs). "I'm just, this is my first time actually adventuring with you."
Marisha: This is our method.
Taliesin: We're going to see if we put the PDA in the bowl, see if that'll--
Matt: "Oh, don't get me wrong, it just reminds me of my early days as an adventurer, and I forgot just how ridiculous we were, so."
Travis: Is there still tinder under the--
Matt: Yeah, there's the iron brazier and there's a lot of dried-- inside there, yeah.
Taliesin: Well, we do have samples of blood, in theory, in the Bag of Holding.
Laura: We've got dragon blood. I'm gonna get out a vial of dragon blood. (feedback sound)
Liam: Oh, jeez.
Taliesin: You've caused a feedback loop.
Liam: She's coming!
Marisha: We are Spinal Tap!
Laura: What is it?
Matt: I don't know.
Laura: I put the dragon blood away.
Liam: Are there any holes in the ceiling I can see like there were in the last cave?
Marisha: I have this ringing in my ear.
Matt: There do not appear to be holes in the ceiling, no.
Laura: What should I do? Wait, I've also got other kinds of blood, let me see what kinds of blood I've got.
Taliesin: Is the book trapped?
Liam: 24.
Matt: 24? Looking at the book, are you taking it off the shelf or are you--
Liam: No, I'm looking at it, man.
Matt: Looking at it. It looks like it is just resting against the wall. The shelf unit is not trapped, the book itself does not appear to have any sort of connection to the wall, you can see the pages themselves are weathered, old, stained, but intact.
Liam: Is anyone near me?
Matt: Currently, Percival's a step or two behind you.
Taliesin: I'm holding onto the wing.
Liam: I push back slowly with my wings. Just get 15, 20 behind me. I'm gonna bring it to you. I'm gonna try to take this fucking book off, okay? If I'm going to go down, I don't want you to go down as well, all right?
Travis: Are you about to die right now?
Marisha: Don't, Ve-- Vax. (laughter)
Marisha: I love you! I know your name on my good days.
Travis: (chanting) Grab it, grab it, grab it.
Liam: I get back about ten feet and I take my wing and I scootch it--
Laura: Oh wait, you know what?
Matt: As you're saying this, the book (impact) and hits the ground. It scatters open.
Liam: Oh, it's open? Percival, come here. And I light it up, just to look at the pages that are there.
Matt: So you take the dagger and you place it over there. You don't recognize the text. And you try and focus on it, too, and you don't recognize it, either. It's like the more you look at the text, the text gets smaller and smaller and smaller until it's microscopic. It just looks like a mess of symbols and details. It's weird, it's almost like as you get closer, the perspective keeps shifting away from you, to where you cannot actually make out or read the text in the book.
Travis: How's it feel?
Taliesin: I'm gonna flip gently, with a gloved hand, flip through a couple pages just to see if it's text, text, text, or if there's any--
Matt: As of right now, it looks like there's just text. As you go through, every page seems to have the same sort of reaction, where as your eyes try and focus in the low light, the text just gets smaller and smaller and just avoid comprehension.
Taliesin: I'm going to flip to the front really quickly and see if there's a title.
Matt: There is a title, and as you look at it, the title itself seems to be blurred and obscured and begins to shrink as well. It's like trying to put on a pair of reading glasses that won't focus.
Taliesin: I know that feeling.
Liam: Allura, will you have a look at this?
Matt: She comes over. Kerr, what are you doing?
Patrick rothfuss: I'll actually bring out my hammer and, assuming that I can get close to the book as well, it does the same thing for me?
Matt: As you get close and look, yes, the same thing, your vision doesn't seem to focus on the text, the pages seem to just hide from--
Patrick rothfuss: I was going to say, are we okay with more light?
Travis: Yeah.
Patrick rothfuss: Kind of looking around. Okay. Then I'll effectively, I'll activate the hammer.
Matt: Okay. As he pulls his warhammer in front of him, you watch as the head of it, the spike in the back--
Patrick rothfuss: There is no head, it's just kind of a bar of iron that he has until he holds it up, and then the head of it comes into being as an artifact of radiant light.
Marisha: Oh, that's cool!
Matt: So what would've been the back of the hammer, the front of it is, like you said, missing entirely, and it just blazes forth with radiant energy, like a giant, glowing metallic end of a weapon.
Patrick rothfuss: I'd also like to think that it makes a noise like a lightsaber, but that's just--
Matt: (lightsaber sound) as it happens. The room is now much brighter, and you can see the details of the stonework around you. The mustiness seems to almost back away instinctually from the radiant light itself, almost warms the air in its vicinity.
Marisha: It smells like strawberries!
Taliesin: That's me.
Matt: It's very weird strawberries, probably. As the light hits the pages, the pages go almost blank. The text just shrinks away to the point where it looks like there's just tiny, tiny dots.
Taliesin: I think I've solved this!
Laura: What?
Taliesin: Let's extinguish all the lights, and someone with low-light vision has to read it.
Laura: Okay. Grog.
Travis: Yeah?
Taliesin: No. That's not funny.
Laura: I mean, sure, yeah, extinguish all the lights. I wanna go and see if I can read it.
Patrick rothfuss: Switch off the hammer.
Matt: Okay. The head of the warhammer flickers out, leaving just the handle behind. You go ahead and look at it, and the text is more legible there on the page, but it's still blurred to your vision.
Laura: I think I need glasses. It's blurry.
Taliesin: Do we have anybody with perfect nightvision?
Marisha: Perfect nightvision?
Patrick rothfuss: 20-20 nightvision?
Taliesin: Well, I can't see a thing.
Marisha: Nothing, for you?
Laura: Nah, it's blurry.
Marisha: Still blurry? I look over Vex's shoulder. Maybe, I don't know, anything? I know Primordial.
Liam: Might be that we're too nice.
Travis: Maybe if you put something in the pot and set it on fire, by that light, you'll--
Marisha: Scanlan goes up and looks at it.
Taliesin: Begrudgingly.
Matt: Scanlan glances over. "It's fine to me. I don't know what your problem was. No, I have no idea what's on the pages, I'm just messing with you." (groaning)
Matt: "Sorry, guys!"
Marisha: I thought we figured something out.
Laura: That's actually a really good idea, Grog. Maybe we should light the brazier.
Taliesin: We should light the brazier. That, or raid the cabinets we passed.
Matt: Allura, who's-- oh, so you're going to light the brazier with your hand?
Marisha: Oh, I don't know. I was lighting my hand. I can do it.
Taliesin: We're bringing the light back.
Matt: Okay, so the room fills with light once more. Kerrek, you can bring your hammer back if you'd like.
Liam: We're basically all running around the room in circles.
Matt: Yeah, you guys are just charging around.
Marisha: Are we gonna light this brazier? Keyleth goes up and just sticks her flaming hand right down into the middle of the brazier.
Matt: Okay. Your hand hits the top of the kindling, at which point the wood catches, and there's a slight flash as the extremely explosive materials that were within the brazier detonate, causing Percival, Allura, Vex, and Vax, who were also reading the book nearby, to all have to make a dexterity saving throw. As there's a sudden (explosion). It explodes with a force.
Marisha: Do I make a dexterity save as well?
Matt: You don't make it, you just take the damage, since you were at ground zero.
Marisha: Yeah, that's fair.
Patrick rothfuss: To be fair, I was right next to the book as well.
Matt: That's right. So you go ahead and make a dexterity saving throw as well, Kerrek.
Taliesin: That'll do.
Laura: 22.
Taliesin: 24.
Liam: 16 and a Luck blown.
Matt: Kerrek, what'd you get?
Patrick rothfuss: I got a three.
Laura: Oh no, Kerr!
Matt: Oh, Allura made it, okay. Everyone but Kerrek made the saving throw. So Kerrek and Keyleth, you both take 32 points of fire damage. The rest of you take 16. You take none because you're a rogue.
Liam: Yeah. I start breakdancing, doing the worm underneath the blast. Jeez, all right. The Luck wasn't blown, because the other roll was a one.
Marisha: Grog! Did you see that?
Travis: I did, but everything's really, really bright right now.
Matt: Your ears are ringing from the blast of the impact, the brazier's just, all the metal's just bent outward and ruined.
Travis: I've just got the lit-up shapes of a bunch of people going like that.
Matt: As Keyleth turns around, you can see just her hair's blown back a bit. She's like a cartoon character.
Taliesin: This has happened to me dozens of times.
Marisha: That was awesome.
Laura: If Raishan didn't hear us before, she potentially heard us now.
Taliesin: At least now we don't have to try and stealth anymore.
Marisha: (shouting) Is the door open? I'm sorry if I'm speaking loudly! (laughter)
Matt: The door is not open.
Marisha: (shouting) The door is not open?
Laura: We need blood.
Taliesin: The book's fine, I assume?
Matt: The book has burned entirely. It is destroyed.
Taliesin: That's awesome.
Travis: Who cares about books?
Matt: And you see Allura, who made the save but took some damage, is at the back and is kind of chuckling to herself, goes, "Well, I think now we know the purpose of the book."
Marisha: What?
Laura: Oh, that dick book.
Travis: No fucking way.
Matt: "It was well-played, and curse be on the one who thought that up."
Laura: (laughs) I know who that is. (laughter)
Taliesin: Do I recognize the smell of whatever they used to ignite that, or was it more mystical in nature?
Matt: It was a sort of mixture of extremely flammable liquids. It was not black powder.
Taliesin: Okay, I was just curious. All right. Well. Let's try and pour some of the dragon blood into the bowl and see if that does it.
Travis: Does what?
Laura: Opens the door.
Travis: Oh.
Taliesin: Let's blow a vial, see what happens.
Laura: Dragon blood is so expensive.
Travis: Can't we just knock it down?
Laura: I have basilisk blood, black dragon blood, and white dragon blood.
Taliesin: Let's try basilisk and work our way up.
Travis: They're worth 7000 gold each.
Laura: I know, that's why the basilisk is better. One basilisk vial.
Matt: Okay, so as you uncork and let it flow, and it's thick, syrupy, it hits and it pools. A moment passes. Two moments. Nothing.
Laura: Fuck. I pull out my opal dagger and I just cut my hand and drip it in.
Matt: Okay. The basilisk blood that's still in there, you bleed into the basilisk blood, and it pools in the center of it. And you watch as the blood that you just dropped gets pulled beneath the surface of the basilisk blood and out of sight.
Laura: Creepy. Is the door opening?
Matt: From the few drops of blood you put in there, it has not opened.
Laura: It's like a kill-something sort of situation.
Patrick rothfuss: Kerrek is reaching out, kind of like, don't-don't-don't. There's a lot of things in the world that shouldn't have your blood.
Laura: Oh. Well, shit. (laughs)
Patrick rothfuss: Especially something clever enough to lay a trap like that. Might be clever enough to trick a bunch of people into handing over blood.
Travis: How far is it to the door?
Matt: From the pillar? About 15 feet.
Travis: I walk over to the door.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: I'm gonna go with Grog. Yeah.
Laura: Punch it!
Travis: Can I-- would you mind--
Taliesin: You guys work on your thing. I'm gonna work on another thing. I'm gonna go over to those other shelves, I'm gonna see what the fuck is up there.
Marisha: I go with Percy. I do that. Inspecting the shelves.
Taliesin: I'm gonna quick-jog to the other shelves and take a look at those books.
Matt: The door begins to shift. There's a slight shaking sensation as the bowl itself begins to glow, and the basilisk's blood begins to sizzle and burn away, almost like it's being pushed to the outer edges of the bowl with just the singular drops from your blood resting in the center. The room begins to shake a bit, and you watch as dust that had been alongside the ceiling begins to slightly cascade from above you. The metallic door lifts up and reveals the other side.
Marisha: Completely? It's open?
Matt: It's open. You do take a point of damage from the blood that you lost.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: So you guys are just starting to push out of the room. At which point, you begin to hear laughter.
Taliesin: Oh, fuck.
Matt: Cackling, multiple-sources laughter. (cackling) And you watch as, down in the distance of each side of the hallway from where you came and where you're going, these little sources of light suddenly spark up and begin drifting towards you.
Laura: Pike immediately casts--
Liam: Beacon of Hope?
Laura: No, no, no, not that. She casts the other thing. Shouldn't she? It's undead. Holy Aura on all of us.
Matt: Okay. What does that do?
Laura: I wrote it all down. Hold on, hold on. It is within a 30-foot radius where everybody is. It sheds a five-foot radius of light on everyone. Everybody gets advantage on saving throws. Enemies who are attacking have disadvantage on everyone. Fiends and undead who do melee attacks have to make a constitution save or be blinded.
Matt: Okay. All right, so yeah, that's on yourself, and it creates a 30-foot radius around you. As you guys all see these sources of light hovering towards you, the cackling getting louder and louder from a source just out of view, Pike grabs her holy symbol and slams her hand down onto the stonework in the center by where the pillar is. As it hits, there's a (explosion) sound as the vibrations or impact shift through the ground, and you feel the ground itself grow warm with radiant energy as a giant circle of ancient radiant runes begin to connect and intersect, and within that circle you all kind of rush in, and as you do, you feel the warmth of that protection come over you. As you all gather, with your weapons at the ready, you see now the sources of light, as roughly four floating flame-wreathed skulls come rocketing in, two from each side of the hallway, cackling along the way. And we're gonna take a break. (yelling)
Travis: Flaming skulls?
Matt: Flaming skulls.
Marisha: Flame-wreathed skulls.
Matt: Just floating towards you. You get the sense that one of these may have, at one point, been contained within a bag.
Liam: Guys, it's fine, my ten-year-old son destroyed one of these recently. We're gonna be fine.
Taliesin: Firecracker outside.
Matt: All right, so. We'll be back here in a few minutes. We're going to go ahead and take a restroom break, and we'll see where this next chapter is.
Laura: Oh my god. [break]
Matt: Welcome back, everyone, to Critical Role. We're back from break. The party just found themselves immediately surrounded by large, floating, flaming skulls in the center of this hallway, going towards the necromancer's sanctum. I need you all to roll initiative, please.
Liam: (sings) Get it on.
Marisha: (laughing) It's the Kiss army.
Matt: While they're rolling their initiatives, we had a winner in the chatroom for a Wyrmwood Zebrawood complete dice tower system right here, as well as this awesome leather thing from Wyrmwood, here, they have this nice leather band as well. The winner is heartman_, by the way, congratulations, heartman_.
Marisha: I think you have Zebrawood.
Taliesin: Zebrawood is, I believe, the one that I have.
Matt: Delightful. So congratulations, we'll get this to you ASAP. All righty. So. Getting initiative scores here from people. 25 to 20.
Marisha: Oh wait, we're rolling initiative.
Matt: Yes.
Travis: Jesus.
Marisha: Fuck me. That's cocked. Natural 20.
Matt: All right, so.
Marisha: Why can't I have these when it really makes sense?
Travis: 25 to 20.
Marisha: 22 total.
Liam: 21.
Taliesin: 22 for Scanlan.
Matt: Whoa! Scanlan's always in the rear.
Taliesin: He rolled a natural 20.
Marisha: Me and Scanlan, nat-20 brothers! For Scanlan who's not here.
Matt: That's awesome. Vax and Scanlan at the top. All right. 20 to 15.
Laura: 16 for Vex.
Taliesin: 17.
Matt: Percy, Vex. 15 to ten?
Travis: Me. 14.
Matt: All righty.
Patrick rothfuss: Just out of curiosity, do you allow people to delay their action to act later in the turn?
Matt: You can hold an action, meaning you still take your turn, you still move, but you can hold your action for a trigger. So like, I will hold my action to attack if something comes in range. Or I can hold my action to cast a spell when a certain creature does something. But you still take your turn, you don't move the turn order.
Travis: What'd Pike roll?
Laura: Pike rolled a nine.
Matt: Pike at the end. Kerrek, what'd you get?
Patrick rothfuss: A one.
Matt: Oh, Kerr.
Liam: Number one.
Marisha: Pike?
Laura: Nine.
Marisha: Who rolled one?
Laura: Kerr.
Matt: It's okay. You and Kima are down there. All right, so.
Patrick rothfuss: The term is anchor-man.
Laura: I like it.
Matt: All righty. So, at the top of the round, as these skulls are beginning to find their way in towards the cavern towards you, as you've all circled around Pike in the center of this chamber here, I would like Scanlan and Vax to go first.
Liam: All right. After you, Scanman.
Taliesin: I can turn myself invisible? It's a level three spell?
Matt: You can.
Taliesin: I'm gonna turn invisible and back up against the northern wall in the corner and see if the skulls notice.
Matt: Okay. So Scanlan is gonna go invisible and back up here.
Marisha: It's a 2nd-level spell.
Matt: All righty. 2nd level.
Taliesin: And I'm going to hold my action until I find out whether or not-- oh, invisible is my action.
Matt: Casting the spell is your action.
Taliesin: All right. I'm gonna back up, and yeah.
Matt: Okay. So you back up against the wall there. Okay. So that's your turn. Vax.
Liam: Can you point to where I am in that scrum? I can't tell. I'm going to move to the opposite wall that Scanlan just went to.
Matt: So over here?
Liam: Yeah, and I'll fly ten feet-- I'm winged, so I'll be ten feet in the air as well.
Matt: Okay. I'll put you up on here.
Liam: And I'm gonna huck a pair of daggers at-- I hope this is the right way-- the one on this side that's closest to you.
Matt: Right here. Okay, go for it.
Liam: That's shit. And then the second one--
Laura: Well, don't write it off, it was 15, that first one.
Liam: That's true, it's a 15 and then a 23.
Matt: Both hit.
Liam: Hey! All right, so first one is with Whisper. That is four plus eight is 12, plus psychic damage, which is 19 for the first hit. And from the venom dagger that I'm throwing next, that is four plus six is ten. Ten total.
Matt: So 19 points of damage total. Awesome. That end your turn?
Liam: That's the end of my turn.
Matt: All right. That brings us to Keyleth.
Marisha: Oh dear god, I knew you were gonna say that. Hang on, hang on, I'm looking up the parameters of the spell. Let me see. L-M-N-O--
Travis: What happened when he hit 'em with those daggers?
Matt: As both these daggers slam into the skull, you watch as the flames themselves that are kind of wreathing around them, the skull just ducks out of the way, but the blade still catches and scrapes across the side of the bone, and it has to right itself, but then it gets right back into the place it was. It's taking damage, and you can see portions of the bone are starting to crack and break, but it's still, you know, still holding itself aloft.
Laura: Did its little jawbone go (chattering teeth)?
Matt: Not yet. It's not its turn yet. It's an action to chatter. I'll get you, He-Man! No.
Liam: You boob!
Matt: (sings) Oh my god do I pray. Anyway. Sorry. Oh, internet. Never change.
Marisha: (sings) For a revolution.
Matt: So what are you doing for your action, Keyleth?
Marisha: Huh?
Taliesin: She's inspiring.
Marisha: I got inspired?
Matt: No. What are you doing on your turn.
Travis: Did you stick cotton in your ears during the break?
Marisha: Sorry, I got distracted. Okay.
Matt: Next to Allura, and you have Kerrek to your other side.
Marisha: Which direction were we heading?
Matt: You were heading this direction. The giant gate was here, and it lifted up, and then all the skulls swarmed in from that side.
Marisha: There's only two right now?
Matt: There's four, there's two on this side, two on this side.
Marisha: Okay. I'm going to cast Moonbeam on... hm. Let me do this one. That guy. That make sense? So it's 120 foot, it's a concentration spell up to a minute, and it's a five-foot radius, 40-foot-high cylinder. It causes searing pain and takes 2d10 radiant damage after a constitution saving throw.
Matt: Okay, so constitution saving throw on each of these guys here?
Marisha: It's a five-foot radius.
Matt: Okay, so you can hit one-- oh, if you hit there, you can hit 'em both.
Marisha: Can I? Then I do that.
Matt: All righty. And they-- that is a 16.
Marisha: Fail.
Matt: And a 13. So no, they fail 'em both. (cheering)
Marisha: Oh, that's good. Above average. Six plus seven is 13 points of damage.
Matt: 13 points of damage to both of them.
Marisha: You know, just a little bit of radiant damage.
Matt: So as the beam bursts out from the sky, you see the white radiant nature energy burst around them, and the flames seem to subside for a moment as the one that's already been damaged by Vax almost stumbles to the floor, then picks itself back up, its flame flickering more so than the allies around you. That end your turn, Keyleth? You gonna stay where you are or you gonna move?
Marisha: I'm on the-- are we all on the carpet?
Matt: No, no one's been on the carpet.
Marisha: We never did that. Then I will back away towards me and towards the southeast corner.
Matt: Over here? Okay.
Marisha: Yeah. Southeast to you.
Matt: More south?
Marisha: No, no, that's right, that's right. That's good.
Matt: That ends your turn? All right. It is now the flame skulls' turn. So. All four of these skulls, you watch as the flames swirl around the head, pour into the skull itself, and for a second, the flame almost goes dark, as all of a sudden the eyes burst into angry fire, the mouth grows extremely bright, and a single red beam streaks forth from the jaw to the center of the room. Four of these beams in different directions here, followed by four simultaneous familiar explosions as four separate Fireballs rock the room.
Liam: Four. Separate. Fireballs.
Travis: Fuck.
Laura: We're gonna die just from fucking--
Liam: Wow, look at that. Everybody.
Matt: Yeah, you guys clustered right there.
Laura: Well, we didn't get a chance to move!
Marisha: This is the room!
Matt: Well no, you guys said you all were gonna back in around Pike, and you haven't had your turn yet.
Marisha: It's also still the room.
Matt: I know. I know. This happens, guys. Sorry.
Travis: Like, where else were we gonna go? It's a huge explosion.
Matt: Not knowing or seeing where Sam went, they all focus here, which will affect everybody. So I need everybody to make four dexterity saving throws. Now, mind you--
Marisha: Everyone except Scanlan? Or still Scanlan?
Matt: Everyone except for Scanlan.
Laura: And everybody's got advantage on every single one of those rolls.
Marisha: Wait, dex throws?
Matt: All saving throws you have advantage on.
Taliesin: Four saving throws with advantage.
Liam: You crazy motherfucker.
Travis: God damn it, that's the same number.
Matt: You're trying to beat a 13.
Marisha: How many do we-- oh, we have to roll it each time?
Matt: Yeah, for each one.
Marisha: Natural 20 on my second. We're trying to beat a 13?
Matt: Trying to beat a 13.
Marisha: I cleared all of them.
Taliesin: Cleared all of them.
Liam: Cleared all of them. Evasion.
Laura: Wait, I gotta do them for Pike.
Marisha: No rolls for Scanlan. Okay.
Laura: Fuck. (sighs) Do I have to roll for Trinket, too? Oh, god.
Matt: Everyone was there.
Laura: Okay, Pike saves two and fails two. Vex saves all.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: God.
Travis: These little disembodied bastards are tough.
Laura: Trinket only saves against one.
Travis: What are these called?
Patrick rothfuss: Even with advantage?
Laura: Even with advantage.
Taliesin: It's her magic power.
Laura: Trinket just constantly-- I didn't add anything. Oh, well, he had a plus two.
Matt: Grog.
Travis: I failed the first two, succeeded on the second two. Ten, ten, 21, 21.
Matt: Okay. So you take 76 points of fire damage. Percy.
Taliesin: Save, save, save, save.
Matt: Okay. So you take-- Grog, I said 78, right?
Travis: You said 72.
Matt: Sorry, 72. That is 48 points of fire damage to you, Percy.
Marisha: You saved from all of 'em? Same. 17, natural 20, 14, 18.
Taliesin: 42 points of damage? Wait, how much?
Matt: Sorry, this is a lot of Fireballs and a lot of rolls right now. So for Percival, altogether, if you made all the saves, it would be-- shit. Okay.
Taliesin: Some mild asbestos in the coat.
Marisha: Made of polyester.
Matt: We'll say, for the sake of this and the ease of the damage here, you take 56 points of fire damage, Percy.
Taliesin: How much, sorry?
Matt: 56 points of fire damage.
Marisha: If you saved against all of them, 56?
Matt: Yes.
Travis: Should I have taken more?
Matt: You technically would've taken-- no, you took 70.
Travis: I failed two.
Matt: That's right, you failed two. So that would be...
Marisha: That's with a nat 20?
Matt: You take 88.
Laura: Oh my lord.
Marisha: With a nat 20, you still take half damage?
Matt: Yeah. So how many did you get, Keyleth?
Marisha: I saved all of them, so I'm at 50 hit points.
Matt: Okay. Kerrek, how many did you save?
Patrick rothfuss: I did, I made all of them, thanks to the advantage.
Liam: Nice, Kerrek.
Matt: So you take 56 points of fire damage.
Liam: I saved all of them with Evasion. That's zero, yeah?
Matt: Yeah, so you take zero.
Liam: Yeah, flat against the ground.
Matt: You just duck out of the way. Vex?
Laura: I saved against all of them.
Matt: 56 points of fire damage.
Laura: So I'm at 57 hit points now.
Matt: Okay. Pike failed two?
Laura: She failed two of them, yeah, so 88.
Matt: 88, but half that, because she has fire resistance, so 44.
Laura: Oh, thank god. Okay. That's good, that's good. And then Trinket only got one, so he's in my necklace. Already.
Liam: Luckily, luckily.
Matt: You can bring him out and heal him in a minute, if you want to. That brings Allura, through her Barrier and extra hit points, that brings her to-- okay, there we go. And Kima also failed two, so she took... All righty.
Patrick rothfuss: If I'm still hugging Grog, can I use him as partial cover? (laughter)
Matt: Going forward, you can, yes. From the curling flames of the arcane blasts, unfortunately, not that much cover from that. However, they all then go ahead and scoot back towards the wall. The holy radius itself is starting to affect them, so this one is starting to back up in this direction, and these two are going to go ahead and this one's going to curl around the fallen stonework and land there. That is going to end their turn.
Travis: We're in a fucking kill box.
Taliesin: It's a box of kill.
Matt: Now that brings us to Percival's turn.
Taliesin: I'm irritated. So which was the one that you were shooting at?
Marisha: There's one that's almost dead. What's the one that's almost dead?
Liam: Yeah, the one that Matt just touched.
Taliesin: I'm gonna start with him, and I'm going to, just to be a dick, I'm going to pull some deadeye and a sharpshooter on this one.
Liam: Get out of the box!
Taliesin: So I'm going to start with him, taking a shot with Animus.
Laura: Animus?
Taliesin: With the Animus gun, which is, with the sharpshooter on, is 26 to hit.
Matt: Yeah, that hits, so roll damage for that.
Taliesin: That's-- sorry, I'm a little out of it. What do I need? I need one of these. Oh, I'll use this one, it's prettier. Just counting the dice. That's nice! That's 17, 27 points of damage, plus two points of psychic damage.
Matt: Okay. As you take your first shot, the one skull's just trying to duck around the partially crumbled wall, you catch it right before it goes behind cover, and as your bullet hits from the side, the skull just explodes and shatters into a burst of flame and broken bone, expelled and extinguished on the battlefield.
Marisha: Fucking dick.
Taliesin: Next shot. (laughs)
Marisha: Do you get a grit point? You get a grit point back.
Taliesin: I killed it, so grit point back. Actually, and I'm going to spend another grit point for the same shot. So yes. That's--
Travis: These are not living creatures, though, right?
Matt: They are not.
Taliesin: I'm gonna just switch to the one-- yeah, just gonna switch so that we're not flanked by the--
Travis: Flaming jungle mob?
Taliesin: Same sharpshooter, same thing. Same attack. 26.
Matt: Hits.
Taliesin: That's not as good, but it's okay. 22 points of damage, plus six points of psychic damage.
Matt: Okay. All righty. So this shot impacts, and it sends it slamming into the wall, and it rights itself back in its position, but you can see noticeable cracks across the bone cranium of it, and little bits of fire are poking through areas where it's starting to come apart, but it's still keeping itself together at the moment.
Taliesin: I'm going to take another shot at it. Sharpshooter, but not with the deadeye. Pew-pew. Not as good a shot. 16?
Matt: 16 still hits.
Taliesin: That'll do.
Marisha: Kill it! Kill it!
Taliesin: That's 20 points of damage, with four points of psychic damage.
Matt: That does it. Another blast echoes through as the gunshot goes off. You watch as the secondary light source from that side of the hallway just is immediately extinguished. That hallway goes dark once more, the two glowing lights untouched on the area you came from still standing.
Taliesin: I do a quick reload, and I run up the wall to-- yeah, that way, but to an angle? Yeah, I'm gonna perch up there.
Marisha: Grit point back.
Taliesin: Oh yeah, I get the grit point back. Thank you.
Matt: I like how Keyleth is becoming your paper clip for this battle.
Marisha: Did you know?
Taliesin: I'm trying to write.
Patrick rothfuss: Sorry, I meant to mention this before. And this might not be relevant because everyone has just made eight saving throws or rolled eight saving throw dice. Everyone close to me, because of my Aura of Divinity, gets a plus three because of my charisma bonus.
Matt: That's true.
Patrick rothfuss: I would not bring it up after the fact if that was not just such an ungodly buttload of damage.
Travis: Doesn't affect my rolls.
Matt: That would affect your rolls. You would get plus three to any--
Travis: Still didn't make it, though.
Matt: So it didn't help Grog. Pike is the only one that's near you that would've gotten the benefit.
Laura: That would've gotten Pike up to one of-- she would've failed one of them.
Matt: Okay. So take 22 points of fire damage off-- or no, it would be half that. 11 points. Take 11 points off.
Liam: That's for saves, not on attacks, right?
Matt: Correct, just saves.
Laura: So add 11 points back.
Marisha: Yeah, I saved all mine. You saved all yours.
Patrick rothfuss: But didn't Grog roll tens, and he needs a 13?
Matt: So what'd you roll as your final rolls?
Travis: Ten, ten, 21, 21.
Matt: So that would've made 13 roll. So yeah, that would've.
Laura: You would've saved on everything.
Travis: Hey! So if you saved on all of them, how many points of damage would you take?
Matt: All of them would have been 56.
Travis: Got it, 56.
Laura: Trinket still would've failed three. Just to put that out there, he rolled so poorly.
Matt: Even with the plus three?
Laura: Even with the plus three, Trinket would not have gotten up to 13 on three of those.
Travis: Thank you, Kerr!
Taliesin: You know, I've been led to believe that bears had more affinity with dealing with forest fires in general. I feel it's just-- this is definitely a problem.
Liam: Somewhere, Sam is laughing.
Laura: Oh, poor Trinket. He's just--
Liam: He's good at cuddles.
Taliesin: Do you have a bald bear?
Marisha: With a little singed hair?
Matt: All right, Percy, that ends your turn?
Travis: Percy, does that end your turn?
Matt: Vex, you're up.
Laura: Oh, I'm up. Okay. I'm going to shoot them. I'm going to shoot the one closer to you.
Matt: Okay, there you go.
Laura: That definitely hits.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: 16 damage plus three lightning damage.
Matt: Okay, got it.
Laura: And then, fuck me, I Hunter's Mark him.
Matt: (laughs) Okay. He has been Hunter's Marked.
Laura: I attack him again. Natural 20! (cheering)
Matt: Well, there you go.
Taliesin: I was gonna say, somehow a skull is giving you shade, and now he's not.
Laura: 20 plus eight lightning damage plus eight Hunter's Mark. 'Cause you double all your dice, right?
Matt: You double the dice, yeah. So that's 20 plus eight plus another eight.
Laura: So 28 plus eight lightning damage.
Matt: Yeah. That secondary arrow happens to just hit right on the suture at the side of the skull, and as it hits, the arrow cuts through and causes the skull to crack in half, and you hear this kind of shriek, and the laughter fades, as it pulls back and the flame just flickers out, and the two pieces of bone just clatter to the ground and break across the stone.
Laura: I move away from him into the-- oh, on the opposite side of Percy.
Matt: Okay, so this way? 30, you can get about there. All right. That ends your turn, Vex. Grog, you're up.
Travis: (yells) I run at the last remaining skull.
Liam: Hey you guys!
Travis: In a rage.
Matt: You get right up to it.
Travis: I'd like to play teeball, please.
Matt: Okay, go for it.
Travis: With this new Dwarven Thrower. Should've tried throwing it, but too late for that. With reckless, great weapon master, please.
Matt: Go for it.
Travis: 33 minus five is 28?
Matt: That hits. You don't add the extra d8, since you only get that when you throw it.
Travis: Right. Shit, wait. Yeah. 26.
Matt: 26 damage.
Travis: No, I'm sorry, the second hit was 26 to hit.
Matt: Oh, I see. What was the damage on the first one?
Travis: I didn't do it yet.
Matt: Oh, okay.
Travis: Now I've done it. What the fuck is that?
Matt: Welcome to d8s, motherfucker.
Travis: I know. That's a six, plus-- I'm raging, so 20 points of damage.
Matt: Okay. You slam across the side of the skull. It slams against the side of the wall where you hit it, and as it rights itself, you go with your second attack, which does hit. Roll damage for that one.
Marisha: What the fuck is that? It's a number.
Travis: 19.
Matt: 19 hits. Or 19 damage, sorry. Whack! You slam it again. This time it falls to the ground and picks itself back up, the flames brightening once again, the anger as its jaw clacks open, coming towards your face.
Marisha: It's still alive? Kill it!
Travis: I don't have a third attack.
Matt: Yeah, he's not frenzied.
Travis: With a bonus action, can I attempt to use my Boots of Feral Leaping and leap... (laughter)
Travis: To the wall towards you. (yelps)
Taliesin: He senses the all-powerful deity to the outside of it and just leaps towards Matt's face.
Travis: Damn you, watcher of all things!
Matt: I'll just grab your mini and slam it into the ground. No saves.
Travis: Flatline. Not like this.
Matt: Not like this.
Travis: I just want to leap towards the wall that way so I'm not in the same line.
Matt: Okay, so go ahead and make your athletics check. Since you are raging, you have advantage on it.
Travis: Oh, cool. I don't need it, it's 26.
Matt: Okay, so you-- there you go.
Travis: I expected you to die!
Matt: All right, this is Allura's turn. She sees, currently at the moment, that the heavily damaged flame skull, and there's nothing else in the immediate vicinity. She glances past, steps over past Kerrek, and says, "Shall you, or shall I?"
Patrick rothfuss: Be my guest.
Matt: "You're too kind." And with one hand on your shoulder and her staff in the other, she thrusts it forward, and you watch as four what looks like small beads of arcane energy go rocketing out from the top of the staff, and arcing around each other, as they swell with power and force. All slam multiple times into the side, the Magic Missiles dealing five, ten, 15-- four fours in a row-- 20. Four fours in a row. And that's not quite enough to finish it.
Laura: How is this ghost so strong?
Matt: It's taken 59 points of damage. You watch as--
Travis: I forgot to add ten.
Matt: To each roll? Well.
Travis: I mean, you can add 20.
Matt: So we'll say, given that circumstance.
Travis: Sorry.
Matt: It's okay. Given the fact that it literally had one hit point left--
Travis: She got it!
Matt: It had one hit point left! So as the four missiles slam into the side of the skull, the final one hits, and its jaw gets blown off as the rest of the skull just turns to ash against the stonework and slowly rests across the side, the combat coming to an end in that moment.
Laura: Good times, guys!
Taliesin: Every week. Every week for two years. We've been playing this game for two years.
Liam: It's gonna be amazing when we're level one again, we'll go, I hit it for three points! (cheering)
Travis: We came from that way, right?
Matt: You came from this way, yes.
Travis: Can I run that way?
Matt: This way? Yeah.
Liam: This is a death trap, Grog, what are you doing?
Marisha: Why are you running backwards?
Travis: We came from the other way.
Matt: You went this way.
Travis: I run the other way.
Matt: Okay, so Grog just goes bolting through, past all of you guys, into the currently unexplored--
Liam: I start flying with him. Grog, Grog, Grog, we don't know if everything has been fucked up, will you just wait a second?
Laura: Check for traps, check for traps!
Travis: (braking noises)
Taliesin: At the edge of the map?
Liam: Wow. You're learning.
Matt: You just caught him as he moved past the partially collapsed part of the wall where the one skull was trying to hide.
Marisha: Pike. Do we have maybe like a group heal, 'cause I'm half hit points after flaming Night Riders.
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: I'm gonna check for traps past where the gate was. 20 or 30 feet.
Laura: Some sort of healing thing.
Travis: How many of those did you fail?
Marisha: I passed all of them, one with a nat 20.
Travis: Oh. You're at half your hit points?
Marisha: Look, man, we can't all be Grog the barbarian.
Laura: Do we wanna-- okay, if we all keep charging in, that spell that we just did lasts for a minute. Thought Raishan was around. She was not. So, we've got less than a minute left on that level eight there.
Marisha: That gives us advantage on all saving throws?
Matt: Which, actually, now that I think about it, I need you to roll four concentration checks on that one for Pike. So four constitution saving throws.
Laura: You know what, they did a good job of keeping us from all dying just then, though.
Liam: Yes, they did, yes, that was not wasted advantage. Here we go.
Laura: Natural 20, 18, 19, 11. 11.
Patrick rothfuss: Actually, that 11 had plus three.
Matt: Yeah. Okay, so she maintains concentration, but you have roughly 50 seconds, 45 seconds.
Liam: Let's go right now, right now.
Laura: We're not gonna be able to get to her in a minute, y'all.
Liam: Is there anything ahead of me as I look with my 19?
Matt: Okay, so as they're having this conversation, you push past, you don't notice anything trapped, but about 30 feet from where the iron door was, as you're scoping, the floor just turns to darkness, and as you peek over, you see now a set of stairs are descending.
Liam: But no traps?
Matt: No traps.
Liam: Do we want to keep moving, or do we want to pause?
Laura: If we take a rest, we can rest up and heal.
Patrick rothfuss: I would like to have a short rest right now so we can top off.
Liam: Okay. Let the spell go, then. Hit dice.
Laura: Okay, yeah. We use our hit dice, 'cause we all got half of them back.
Marisha: How long, short rest?
Matt: Short rest is about anywhere from 30 minutes to an hour.
Laura: We can scry and see if Raishan totally knows that we're here.
Patrick rothfuss: Unless there's some sort of big healing mojo, but I am really gimped.
Travis: Yeah, let's just use our hit dice, save the big heals.
Marisha: I mean, I could burn a Mass Cure Wounds and heal us.
Travis: We haven't even fought the dragon yet.
Laura: Yeah, that's the thing.
Liam: For all we know, we fucked ourselves with that skull earlier.
Taliesin: So it wouldn't matter. So what's 40 minutes.
Marisha: I don't know, I feel like that was gonna happen.
Taliesin: Yeah, we're good. Let's take a--
Marisha: She's a smart woman. The least that we can assume is that she knows.
Liam: We haven't outsmarted her yet.
Laura: She's probably already bamfed out, y'all.
Taliesin: You can find out really easily.
Laura: Oh. Yeah, while we're resting, I'm gonna detect dragons and see if she's still around.
Matt: Okay. You sense the same three dragon presences in the vicinity.
Laura: Same spot? Oh, all right.
Marisha: That's something.
Liam: (whispers) Tell us all your secrets.
Travis: Nine times a day, playa.
Matt: Don't forget, you guys using your hit dice, you get Scanlan's Song of Rest.
Laura: Okay, so what is that?
Matt: It's an additional d12.
Marisha: Song of Rest is 1d12 healing points.
Taliesin: On top of?
Matt: On top of whatever you healed, you then get an additional d12.
Travis: I got a 12 right there, that's fucking sweet.
Marisha: Plus 12? Plus 1d8 plus? Sorry. Plus 1d12, right? He adds a 1d12.
Taliesin: Nine.
Matt: That's overall, not on each dice, yeah. Just overall.
Marisha: Hit dice.
Travis: Do we go back up to Heroes' Feast hit points, or not anymore?
Matt: Yeah. Heroes' Feast is addition to your maximum hit points.
Travis: I heal 55 hit points with this d12 monster.
Laura: Oh my god, I rolled so good.
Travis: I'm just one below where I was.
Matt: Which is what?
Travis: 235.
Matt: 235 for Grog. Percy, where are you at?
Taliesin: I'm still rolling.
Laura: I went all the way back to my maximum, so 115 is what I'm at now.
Matt: Okay. Vax, you didn't take any damage. Kerrek, what are you at?
Patrick rothfuss: Still rolling.
Matt: Okay, no worries.
Taliesin: I'm rolling really shittily.
Marisha: I'm not doing great.
Liam: Scanlan helped out with that?
Matt: He did, yeah.
Liam: (sings) When the Blight has come, and the land is dark, and your health is down to 23 HP.
Travis: Oh, you're doing great! That's great.
Laura: That was good.
Travis: We're missing the high soprano tonal quality.
Liam: Can't do it, can't do it.
Taliesin: Wow, I'm down a lot.
Marisha: I'm gonna burn my last few hit dice.
Taliesin: I'm at 140, I'm not at the top of my peak.
Marisha: I'm at 95.
Matt: 95, got it.
Taliesin: Is it possible-- god, I have instructions on how to run Scanlan, and I'm debating how to best do that.
Laura: Oh, I went up to 117, because I forgot I had the extra 15.
Matt: Heroes' Feast, yeah.
Liam: Is he going to do a bump or a thing?
Marisha: Would he do a bump right now? He probably would, wouldn't he?
Taliesin: I was going to say, according to the instructions I was given--
Marisha: Probably.
Laura: Pike's back at 115.
Taliesin: Well, that's the thing, I want to make sure I can do this in a way so I don't take anything from him later.
Marisha: Is he-- wait, hang on, wait, I feel like he texted. No, he didn't.
Taliesin: He really-- yeah, no, I'm gonna try--
Travis: A number, give him a number.
Marisha: Hang on. How many bumps of suude does he have left?
Matt: One.
Travis: Save it.
Marisha: Would he do it for after Raishan or before?
Travis: After.
Taliesin: Before.
Liam: Before, I think, too.
Taliesin: Yeah, I was given specific instructions.
Marisha: I think he would do it before, too.
Taliesin: He's gonna push a little forward, up to the stairs, get away from the rest of the group.
Matt: That'll be going up to where Vax is.
Taliesin: Oh, then he's going to push a little far back and just--
Matt: Okay, so Scanlan backs away.
Laura: Wait, Scanlan gave us an extra nine hit points?
Matt: Extra d12.
Taliesin: Which is nine hit points.
Laura: Nine. I'm higher than 117, then I'm one-whatever. 126.
Marisha: So he has one hit of suude left?
Taliesin: Yeah, he's gonna get himself quietly away. I think he's had it packed already, so there's not gonna be a big, elaborate-- he's just gonna--
Marisha: Holy shit, this feels so weird.
Matt: To by-proxy do this? Yeah. Okay.
Marisha: It feels so dirty.
Matt: Go ahead and roll a constitution saving throw.
Taliesin: I'm not gonna sully it with my good dice, I'm gonna use one of my crappy dice.
Marisha: He gave us instructions.
Taliesin: This is, I guess, the most stoner die I have for this. So okay, constitution saving throw?
Marisha: Come on. Just straight constitution?
Taliesin: 19. Oh, saving throw. 19.
Matt: 19, all right, great. As Scanlan takes the flute and takes in the fumes of the char-burned suude, the familiar burn and chemical flavor fills his lungs, and as he exhales, this fine brown smoke emits from his lungs, and his vision clarifies suddenly, and he feels this elevated sense of energy and power in his mind. For the next hour, Scanlan has one sorcery point that he can spend as the sorcerer metamagic class, and has access to the extended spell Metamagic ability.
Liam: Do you know what that means? I kind of do.
Marisha: Okay, unextended spell Metamagic? So what does that buy us?
Matt: So he has one point, period, that he can ever spend for the next hour.
Marisha: He has one sorcery point.
Matt: Correct.
Marisha: Wait, how do you spell sorcery? How do you spell sorcery?
Matt: And basically, he can spend it to double the duration of a spell as he casts it.
Marisha: He can double--
Liam: That's the only thing that's within reach of one sorcery point, right?
Matt: That's-- the suude gives him access to a specific metamagic based on the color of the suude, and he gets a point. The more you use to get more points, the higher the DC gets, and the closer you get to overdosing.
Taliesin: Ah, I love it! This is the worst thing ever!
Marisha: So he could theoretically die by doing this.
Liam: Hey, man, it's just another version of Craven Edge.
Taliesin: No, it's great, yeah. This is weirdly--
Travis: Yeah, except I had it all under control.
Laura: Sure.
Marisha: So wait, he can double the length of one spell.
Matt: Yeah, a single spell that has a duration, he can use that sorcery point to double the duration of that spell.
Marisha: The duration of one spell.
Matt: Correct.
Marisha: And it could be-- wait, question.
Matt: So if it's one minute concentration, it can be two minutes concentration.
Marisha: What if it's one action? Could it be two actions? He could do it back to back?
Matt: No. The duration, not the casting time. Those are different. The duration is once you cast it, how long it lasts before it expires.
Laura: So like a mansion we could have for two days.
Taliesin: Two-day mansion!
Matt: Actually, no, it says specifically as part of the metamagic ability that it has a maximum of 24 hours. So if it already has a 24 hour duration, you cannot.
Laura: Just kidding.
Marisha: So only if it's below 24 hours.
Taliesin: The large print giveth and the small print taketh away. (laughter)
Matt: That's a beautiful quote.
Taliesin: Tom Waits, everybody. Tom Waits, bless him.
Liam: (Tom Waits voice) What's Percy building in there?
Travis: Patrick, how much did you heal, brother?
Patrick rothfuss: I'm up to 94.
Matt: All righty.
Taliesin: I dig this. We got this.
Marisha: One sorcery, double, okay. All right, all right. Holy shit.
Liam: I found nothing in the further area, right?
Matt: No traps. You came to the edge of the stairs that lead down for about 20 or so feet, and then progress an even path, and then disappear below what your visual is able to see from above.
Marisha: Keyleth is going to just, before this short rest, is going to give one Cure Wounds to herself.
Matt: Okay, go for it.
Marisha: Just to top me off.
Liam: Kerr, is your hammer still aglow?
Patrick rothfuss: If you want light, I can do light.
Liam: I wanna know if it's aglow right now. Did you have a chance to pop it out?
Patrick rothfuss: It probably is unless somebody told me to turn it off.
Liam: Okay. So I figured it was probably still on.
Matt: Yeah, it's still currently being the central source of light in this room.
Liam: How far down the stairs do I see from where I am?
Matt: From where you are, you can see all the way to the bottom of the 20 feet of stairs, but the roof of the tunnel cuts off the rest of the path, so you have to go out further to look out where it goes.
Marisha: Keyleth is at 116 hit points.
Matt: Cool, got it.
Liam: Put that out, please, Kerr?
Patrick rothfuss: Okay, I snuff it.
Liam: I'm gonna go stealth, and I'm gonna go down to the bottom of the steps. And I've already checked for traps-- oh no, I didn't, up to this point, so I'm gonna check for traps as I go down the steps.
Matt: Okay, stealth first.
Liam: Which is 25. Am I still under Pass Without a Trace?
Matt: No, because she cast--
Liam: 25.
Matt: 25, okay. And then make an investigation check.
Liam: Natural 20 for that.
Matt: You make your way down the stairs into the next bit of the hallway. No traps. The stonework here now is getting a little more refined the further you go, and as you look out the hallway, you have another 25, 30 feet of this 20-foot-wide, 20-foot-tall hallway before it seems to just end and drop off. And you can see what looks to be the gap in another wall about 25 feet across from that.
Liam: Okay. So hallway goes a ways, then there's nothing, and then 20 feet past that--
Matt: And then just a wall on the other side.
Liam: So a gap and then a wall?
Matt: Yeah, looks like it goes down or up. You'd have to get closer to get more detail.
Taliesin: I keep meaning to build something for something like this. I just haven't had the time.
Laura: Oh, you know what, darling, don't worry. You can use the carpet.
Liam: On the earring  team, there's a passage down ahead of me. There's no traps, I don't think.
Laura: So let's walk up there.
Liam: Yeah, catch up with me and then pause, and then either I or my sister and I will move ahead?
Taliesin: And just let us know which direction you think we should head, Vex.
Laura: Of course.
Liam: Did you mean Vax or did you mean Vex? Just want to be really sure. Because people make mistakes a lot.
Laura: They do, they really do.
Taliesin: I do, I know I do. That wasn't a mistake, though.
Liam: Very similar.
Taliesin: Love you madly.
Liam: All right. I know you're talking to Vax.
Taliesin: That was for Vex. Vax. Which one?
Matt: Trinket can use his own hit dice to heal, if you wanted to.
Laura: Okay, then he healed himself while we were rested, but he's in the necklace so that we can fly if we have to.
Matt: That's fine. Okay, so yeah, you can go ahead and heal him up. Vax, you move ahead?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Okay, as they start catching up with you, you hear them stepping down the stairs behind you, you come up to the edge, and now what you see is a 25-foot circular almost cylinder. There is a ceiling maybe about five feet above you, and nothing there, but what you do see is about a three-foot-wide spiral staircase that just leads down and down and down. And you cannot see where it ends at the bottom.
Liam: Is it a staircase where I'm forced to walk, or is it stairs on the walls and empty space down the center of it?
Matt: Empty space down the center of it, and it's just a two-and-a-half- or three-foot-wide staircase that goes along the edge, and that's all you have to walk on.
Liam: Ah. I'm going to float out above it and look for traps down the cylinder.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: Why don't you tie the endless rope to yourself so we can pull you up--
Liam: I've got wings.
Laura: But they're only out for an hour, dear.
Liam: 18.
Matt: 18, okay. As you slowly drift down, keeping your wings, you hover further down, maybe incrementally ten feet at a time, looking around, looking at the stairs. You don't notice anything trapped. It all seems pretty standard. The stones are old, they're a little smooth at the edges, what were once kind of very, very rigid and square protrusions from the stone seemingly have a little rubbed off.
Liam: At or near the bottom, doorway, passage?
Matt: As you get closer to the bottom, and as you get about roughly 100 feet down before you actually reach the bottom, but you begin to see below you, there are, right in the center of the spiral downward, a cluster of four-foot-long kind of deep brown or maroon-colored iron spikes that are all just jutting upward in slightly off-kilter directions, and there is a very, very heavy pile of splintered bones and long-mummified dead corpses that are currently just piled up at the base of these spikes, some still impaled, many of which have slowly rotted and fallen apart.
Liam: Over the earring, I didn't see any traps going down, but there's some bloody spikes down here and some dead things, so Vex, dear, could you load everyone onto the carpet and get on your broom and go down and just float down to the center and leave the stairs alone?
Laura: Of course. The carpet can fit everybody.
Matt: The carpet can carry 600 pounds. That's roughly four people, or a Grog. 800 pounds.
Laura: Grog and one person.
Travis: I'm more than 450, so.
Matt: Grog and maybe two people.
Laura: So I can get Scanlan--
Matt: You currently have ten people traveling with you.
Taliesin: So here's an interesting thing. We don't have an immovable bar anymore, we left those both outside. All right, that's fine. Let's--
Laura: What's at the bottom of the stairs? I mean, can we drop people off and go back in?
Liam: Yeah, yeah, yeah, I can come up for Pike, bring her down, we could just take a minute to--
Taliesin: We could shuttle or use a rope.
Laura: Let's shuttle-bus.
Liam: And what around the spikes, is there a safe portion on the floor?
Laura: A safe landing?
Matt: There is a very, very-- kind of where the outer trim is of the stairway, the stonework travels around it, and then underneath the stairway there is a small opening that leads into a further passageway.
Laura: Is it safe to walk into the passageway?
Travis: Pretty sure we should just take the stairs.
Laura: Pretty sure we should just use the brazier and light it.
Taliesin: I will avoid cardio at all costs.
Liam: 22 investigating for traps for that passage down behind the spikes.
Matt: Okay. I mean, just glancing around the archway, it's not a closed doorway, just an archway, and then a dark tunnel beyond that, it does not appear to be trapped.
Liam: All right. Best I can tell, it's okay. I'm not 100% sure, but there's dead people down here, so I just want you guys to float down the middle, let's get this done.
Taliesin: Grog first?
Liam: 'kay.
Travis: I'm game.
Laura: I'm gonna grab Scanlan on the broom. You grab Pike.
Liam: I'm shooting up, yeah.
Laura: Okay, and then we'll take the gnomes and Grog down and then come back up.
Liam: I kinda wanna move as fast as we can.
Matt: Okay, so who's doing what? Okay, you guys just threw a bunch of stuff at me right now.
Liam: I flew back up.
Matt: You flew back up.
Liam: We take the gnomes down.
Laura: Yeah, I've got-- I want Pike on my broom.
Liam: I take my little drug-addled buddy, not that I know that, and I float him down, and I plant the gnomes down together.
Matt: Okay, so you have Scanlan, you have Pike. Okay. You guys enter the center area and begin coasting downward. You notice a faint blue glow above you in the ceiling. As you glance up, you watch as a glyph begins to slowly--
Taliesin: Dispel Magic.
Matt: Dispel Magic from Scanlan right now? Okay, have Scanlan go ahead and roll an ability check.
Taliesin: Ability check? Okay, I will admit, I have no idea what I'm doing.
Matt: For this, 'cause he can't cast as a reaction, and this would technically be your reaction, as it's already been triggered, I wanna have you go ahead and roll an initiative check.
Marisha: Is this a spell attack bonus?
Matt: Huh?
Marisha: What? What ability check?
Matt: This would be a charisma, plus six and plus two. It's plus eight to whatever you roll, but first, I need you to go ahead and roll initiative. Technically you would not be able to do this as it's not really a reaction.
Marisha: His charisma plus his proficiency bonus.
Matt: Not for the ability check on Dispel Magic. 19? That's 17. So yes. Go ahead and roll a d20 and add eight.
Marisha: Big money, no whammies.
Taliesin: 21.
Matt: 21, okay. As he streaks upward and releases the spell, you watch as the glyph that was glowing--
Taliesin: (sings) Rock glyph! You don't have to turn on the blue light. Rock glyph! You don't have to give our bodies to the spikes. Love you, Sam. Love you.
Travis: That was good!
Marisha: That was good, get some Police up in here.
Taliesin: Brought it all the way back for you.
Matt: So. You guys manage to continue all the way downward, flying, you place both of the gnomes at the base, safely by the spikes.
Liam: Oh man, I plant him down, I give him a big fat kiss right between the eyes, you fucking beautiful bastard! Whack!
Laura: What was that? What was that? Sam? Scanlan?
Taliesin: I have no idea. It just looked dangerous, and I figured that's better safe than sorry.
Laura: Do you think it's broken now? Can we get other people from--
Taliesin: Sure, they'll be fine.
Liam: I fly back up right away. Keep this train moving.
Travis: On the carpet? I'm ready?
Liam: I bring Kima down.
Laura: Grog and Allura can fit on the carpet, right?
Travis: Just me, I think.
Liam: She's wafer-thin.
Travis: What do you think? Me and Allura, or just me?
Matt: You and one other person could probably get on.
Laura: Okay, then, oh god. Maybe, could you take, when you fly back up--
Taliesin: I'll go with you, 'cause I'm fine. So I have options.
Liam: Is Kima down?
Matt: You go ahead and begin to carry Kima down without an issue, yeah.
Laura: Okay, I go back up and get Percy. We have Kerr and Allura and Keyleth left.
Liam: Allura.
Matt: Okay, so you grab Allura, bring her down below.
Liam: I hope this is all right.
Laura: I grab Percy on the broom and come down.
Travis: Who else is left up top?
Laura: I feel like-- wait, I pause before we go down the stairs, 'cause I'm like, there was this blue light that happened before, and Scanlan made it stop.
Taliesin: Oh no, we saw.
Laura: How do we not let that happen this time?
Taliesin: Did we make it down and nothing happened?
Matt: Most of you made it down. Kerrek has not come down--
Marisha: Who hasn't made it down? Have I made it down?
Matt: Keyleth hasn't made it down yet.
Laura: I thought you already went down on the carpet. No?
Matt: Grog hasn't made it yet. So you've carried everybody but Grog, Kerrek, and Keyleth.
Laura: Okay.
Liam: I mean, whatever the time is needed. Go up, grab Keyleth, bring her down, go up--
Marisha: What's going on with the blue light?
Matt: It doesn't seem to be having an effect right now.
Liam: I just grabbed up Kerrek.
Laura: You can carry Kerrek?
Matt: Kerrek's pretty heavy. I need you to make a strength check.
Liam: (laughs) Best one ever. 21.
Laura: You're so strong! Oh my god! You've been lifting, bro!
Matt: It's a bit of a strain with the weight of his armor and getting up in his years, versus your tiny half-elf frame, but you do manage to bring him down without issue.
Liam: (strained) The Raven Queen sends her regards.
Laura: Grog.
Patrick rothfuss: I'm getting to hug all the boys in this adventure. (laughter)
Patrick rothfuss: This is Kerrek's best day ever.
Taliesin: Somebody's got a coupon for a back massage. Welcome to Vox Machina. You seem tense.
Marisha: That's what we pay you in.
Liam: I'm sure we just killed ten minutes doing all that shit.
Laura: Groggy, can you come down?
Travis: Is it just me and Keyleth?
Matt: Yeah, it's just the two of you up there. No, he brought Keyleth down. So it's just you.
Travis: Okay. First, I stand on the carpet. I say, lift!
Matt: The carpet takes you off the ground. You have to kinda get your--
Travis: No, I lay down flat. And I grab the edges of the carpet, and I go, okay! And try to go down.
Matt: Okay. You go into a pseudo-nosedive. It's thrilling and scary at the same moment, and as you're going up, Grog just goes past you.
Travis: Stop, stop, stop!
Matt: And it just barely coasts past the spikes and lets you fine on the side.
Taliesin: It's about the speed of the children's rides at Fantasyland at Disneyland, right?
Matt: Yeah, it's not super fast. Magic carpet can go about as fast as a person, especially this size. The smaller they are, the faster they are. This is a very big one, but not very fast.
Liam: All right. Vax does a barrel roll, heads back down, lands, and let's start looking around again. All right, stealth, traps, still vigilant.
Matt: Indeed.
Liam: For stealth, that's a 28, and investigating for traps, ooh, that's a one, and I'm not gonna use my Luck on it.
Matt: All righty.
Liam: I'm not. Seems clear. We're good. I am badass.
Matt: So, as you guys have reached the bottom of this cylindrical chamber, you follow suit, one by one, which by the way, just so I know going forward, what's the marching order right now?
Liam: Vax in the front.
Patrick rothfuss: I'm by Grog. (laughter)
Travis: Yeah, baby!
Matt: Grog, where are you at?
Travis: I'll be behind the twins.
Marisha: I'll be behind Grog. Kerr, with Grog.
Matt: Percy, where are you at?
Taliesin: I think probably, maybe Scanlan and Pike are in front of me, and then I'm probably hanging back with Kima and Allura, just sort of ready to-- I want to be at a distance.
Laura: And Trinket's--
Matt: Trinket is out now?
Laura: Trinket's still in my necklace. He's healing in the necklace.
Matt: Okay. So, moving forward, following Vax's lead--
Laura: I'm just gonna stay on the broom and just kind of very close to the ground, but not touching the ground.
Matt: Okay. So the hallway's probably 20 feet wide and 15 feet tall, as you push forward. The walls are chiseled rather roughly, and about 30 feet forward ahead of you, you can see it ends at a cross-section of what looks like a very deep ravine, both above and below. There is an underground chasm here that stretches both to the right and left, though you'd have to get to the very edge to kind of see how far it goes. It's about 60 feet across to the other side, and you can see what looks to be another entranceway to another hallway, and there is a taut rope bridge bolted to each side leading across.
Travis: We should just use that.
Laura: Totally.
Marisha: That looks safe.
Liam: Jeez, we just blew so much time on that fucking stairwell.
Marisha: Guys, in Latin, Jehovah starts with an 'i'.
Laura: It's a leap of faith!
Liam: Should've sent you to the Marx brothers.
Taliesin: When he said 'chiseled rather roughly', he meant Brad Pitt.
Laura: How long until your wings stop working?
Liam: I don't know. Ten or 15, I guess?
Laura: Zoinks.
Liam: Zoinks.
Matt: Your wings went out before the battle and you took a long rest, your wings are pretty much done now. 30 minutes to an hour.
Liam: Yeah, I thought we were cutting it close, like it could be five or ten minutes at this point.
Matt: Between riding everyone up and down, I'm letting you know, right now, Mr. Already Flying Everywhere, your wings are about expended.
Liam: All right. Should I stand on the ground?
Matt: That's up to you. Do you want to keep flying until they're gone, or do you want to sit there?
Liam: I'm gonna fly to the other side of the bridge right now.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: I'm gonna go with him. On my broom.
Matt: Okay. So. You get about five feet out before the wings go (fsh).
Liam: Over nothing?
Matt: Looking down, you see darkness, and there's a few stalagtites that--
Liam: I throw a dagger at the other side of the chasm, 60 feet, sharpshooter, into the side near the top. Whisper.
Laura: This is why I went on the broom, I was gonna catch you.
Liam: As an attack?
Matt: You're attacking just the wall above, or--
Liam: There's a cliff facing me, right? Yeah, just into the rock wall of the cliff. 20.
Matt: 20, okay. The dagger hits the edge, and you appear right at the edge of the cliff. You're gonna try to reach and grab. Make a dexterity saving throw.
Liam: 22.
Matt: Okay, so you grab and get up on the other side.
Laura: Jesus! Small heart attack over here.
Matt: You didn't even really fall for a moment. Vex, you're floating across, and it feels strange, going across. There's no wind, but the broom is acting extremely wobbly, and the way you control it and maneuver around, you feel almost drunk, but you're not. This is not acting properly.
Laura: I'm gonna turn around and go back to the--
Matt: Okay, so you head back?
Laura: That was weird. It doesn't feel right.
Taliesin: Okay, I'm going to grab on to the bridge, I'm going to test it, I'm going to step to see if it's real. I'm checking it.
Matt: Okay. You take your hands there, holding, and you put your foot out onto the wood, and it's sturdy. It's strong.
Travis: (laughs) You bastard.
Marisha: I go up to the edge of the rope bridge that Percy's now standing on. I lean down and on the dirt I cast Druidcraft. Can I craft some vines to help reinforce the bridge?
Matt: With Druidcraft, you can create some small vines that wrap around it, and it might help in some regard, but not a lot. Druidcraft is a very limited cantrip.
Taliesin: I'm gonna grab one end of the infinite rope, and I'm gonna hand the other end of the infinite rope to someone who's staying. I think that I pose a good chance of getting across this safely. I'm going to make a run for it. Well, not a run.
Travis: Are you literally going to run?
Taliesin: No, I'm going to walk. Gingerly.
Travis: Oh. So you're gonna make a walk for it.
Taliesin: I'm tying the rope-- That may be one of the smartest things you've ever said. I don't actually have a retort for it on any level.
Travis: I don't know why-- what is 'retort'? Okay.
Taliesin: It means if I die, you win. I'm going to tie the infinite rope to myself and hand it off to Grog. Oh god. I'm handing it to Grog. And I'm going to start gingerly stepping out onto the bridge, being very careful, and checking with each step that's it's real, and looking for weird glyphs or signs or anything out of the ordinary.
Laura: Percy? Be careful.
Matt: Make a dexterity check.
Marisha: As this happens, Scanlan sings, hey Percy, you're so fine, you're so fine you blow my mind, hey Percy! Hey Percy! Hey Percy, you're so fine, you're so fine you blow my mind, with your gun! With your gun! And then he gets a point of inspiration.
Matt: All right, so you get your d12 inspiration die.
Travis: Marisha, that was really nice.
Marisha: Thank you. I feel like I had the same witty repartee as Sam Riegel.
Liam: Okay, okay, now just smile and make the smile as big as Manhattan.
Matt: Dexterity saving throw.
Taliesin: That's not bad. That's 22.
Matt: That's really good. All right, so as you start stepping out, you feel this shift in the space, and you grab on to the edges of the--
Taliesin: I'm also using my boots, and I'm gluing them to whatever the-- yeah.
Matt: Right. And as you glue the boots there, that's really what solidifies you in place, and you're still there, on the bridge, without a problem.
Taliesin: Are things just getting weird out here?
Matt: It feels weird. You can't quite understand what's transpiring, but it just feels weird.
Laura: Allura. It felt like almost I was drunk as I was flying across that. Do you know--
Matt: "I don't think it's drunk, per se, it's just that you're not used to flying in that direction." And she points out towards the ravine, and you watch as Percy, who's kind of holding onto the ravine, feet solid, his hair is just up.
Liam: Gravity is fucked.
Taliesin: Well, this will be fine. Is gravity flipped?
Matt: As you hear this conversation, it seems that way, yeah.
Taliesin: I'm going to spider-climb. I'm just going to use my spider-climb boots, and I'm going to make my way, with the rope.
Matt: You do so. Make it across the way. The wood shivers a little bit, shifts beneath your feet, being pulled upward from your weight. You guys watch as the bridge that was once taut is now arcing up and following Percy as he moves across, his weight pulling it upward.
Marisha: That's cool.
Laura: So can I try flying out there, knowing the gravity's shifted? Does it feel okay to fly out like that?
Matt: As you fly out and spin yourself underneath-- yes, you do actually manage to fly, essentially barrel roll across, and manage to make it across to your brother without an issue.
Laura: Oh, I didn't want to go all the way across, I just wanted to test it so I could help bring other people across.
Taliesin: We've got now a third rope, we can literally just clip people to the rope, now.
Liam: It was like pole-dancing, but in space? Upside-down?
Taliesin: We can use the rope we just made as a clipped rappel rope, can we? That's a thing that we can do.
Laura: Potentially?
Taliesin: If everybody wants to try and cross, we can actually-- we now have an unencumbered piece that we can use to get people across.
Travis: I'm gonna jump.
Liam: No, no, that's a bad idea, Grog. You are very hefty and the gravity turns upside-down.
Taliesin: There's probably spikes up there.
Laura: Grog, did you see how I barrel-rolled on my broom?
Travis: Yeah, do I twist in the air?
Laura: Yeah, you should just do the same thing on the carpet.
Liam: Wait, what if he took the carpet and hung off the bottom of it on the first side and then as he made his way over, he'd be all right. You know what I mean?
Laura: I don't know.
Matt: Vex, Vax, and Keyleth, as you guys are having this conversation, something catches the corner of your eye, and you watch something just go (tss), just whizz past from the bottom of the ravine to the top.
Liam: We saw that. We saw that.
Matt: You saw something quickly just go by.
Laura: Can I get a better look, can I look and see if I see it again?
Matt: Yeah, the three of you guys make a perception check as you kind of come up to the edge and look.
Liam: 26.
Marisha: 14.
Laura: Is this related to dragons?
Matt: This is not related to dragons.
Laura: Then that is a 21.
Liam: 26.
Matt: All right. So you're seeing little things, just right out of the middle of the light, you can see something shifting above and below you. You guys have a little better view. You still can't quite see-- the length of your Darkvision is too far for you to see what is below you or necessarily what's above--
Marisha: Can I, as a quick reaction, grab the rope bridge?
Matt: Yeah. So you're still off to the side, just holding onto the bridge? Okay. You are beginning to watch what looks to be figures. Humanoid bodies.
Taliesin: Oh, I have a theory.
Matt: Just tumbling past. One of them hits the edge of the bridge and it keeps spinning off as it disappears into the darkness above.
Taliesin: I have a weird theory. I'm going to grab-- what do I have that I can do this with?
Liam: But they look like spirits falling upwards?
Matt: You watch a couple more go by, and they are nearly skeletal bodies falling upward. But, as you watch a couple more go by, they're limp, somewhat, but still moving as they scoot past.
Laura: Let's just get across here, shall we?
Liam: I'm going to use Divine Sense, now. Just to confirm.
Matt: You wait about a minute or so before one comes close enough to hit the sense, but there is an undead energy that passes past, and both you and Kerr have this moment from across the ravine from each other, seeing this.
Patrick rothfuss: Gonna throw up the horns.
Liam: That's me to you, man.
Taliesin: Try and clock them, see if it's the same bodies over and over again. If it's an infinite loop of falling.
Marisha: An infinite loop of falling?
Laura: Okay, so I wanna get a good look at one of them as they go by.
Liam: Oh, it's a gif.
Marisha: Six seconds.
Matt: Three or four more stumble past, and they're getting more and more rapid. And they're different sizes, they do not appear to be the same bodies.
Laura: I pick up Pike and try to barrel roll across.
Matt: Okay. Barrel roll across. As you're making it across, three more come tumbling up, two of them too far away, but one of them does reach out with its arms as it tumbles past you, and swats out to try and grab you. I need you to make an acrobatics check.
Liam: You got this. Oh, you got such a bonus. Come on, girl!
Travis: Such a bonus, huh? Such a bonus. Look at Matt's face. Look at his face.
Taliesin: Oh, fuck no.
Marisha: Oh, come on. No, come on.
Liam: Do they both make that roll?
Matt: She's the one driving the broom. She's having to try and maneuver.
Taliesin: I was about to interject, and I know that I didn't make that fast enough, but at some point I would already like to be moving to interject in this.
Matt: Right, as you're watching them start going across, you get a step out onto the bridge--
Taliesin: I'm not going onto the bridge, I'm pulling out my gun--
Laura: Oh wait, Pike has a thing that she can help people with their--
Travis: War God's Blessing?
Matt: That's an attack roll.
Laura: Damn it!
Matt: War gods don't help you survive, they help you kill shit.
Travis: Do what you're gonna do, Mercer.
Taliesin: I was gonna start skeet-shooting at some point, so.
Matt: Understood, but before we get to that. So the creature grabs you and essentially grapples you in the moment. As that happens, the momentum of pulling you up causes the broom to shift out of whack, and you begin to careen in a slight circle. I need you and Pike to both make strength saving throws.
Patrick rothfuss: How far away is this?
Matt: They're about 30 feet from you.
Marisha: What about from Keyleth?
Matt: About the same, so you guys are on the other side of the ravine.
Laura: She's got a plus four on strength. Nine for me.
Liam: 13 for Pike.
Matt: So. Okay. So Pike's on the broom with you. You get grabbed and yanked off the broom. Pike manages to hold the broom, but currently Pike is not the current driver of it, and so she's clutching a broom that's just floating in the gravity. You watch as both Pike and Vex go from careening off to tumbling upward into the darkness above.
Marisha: Are they both attached to the broom?
Matt: No. Vex is pulled off the broom.
Taliesin: But she's still tethered.
Matt: She's still tethered, yeah.
Marisha: Does Keyleth have an action?
Matt: Right now, the two of you can both make an action.
Taliesin: All right, my first action, I was just pulling to try and skeet-shoot and sharpshoot with Bad News to hit the undead that had grappled her, and I assume I have spend a grit to get him to let go. To shove him off.
Matt: Because of the nature of the rapid movement, you are at a disadvantage on this attack.
Marisha: You still have the inspiration, right?
Taliesin: I still have that d12 inspiration.
Liam: Matt? Watching this, I'm going to pull Whisper out and watch to see my sister falling through the air, and if I see her falling, I'm going to throw the dagger at her.
Matt: Okay. She's falling.
Liam: Down or up?
Matt: Up.
Liam: I'm watching him and I'm watching her, and if she goes-- how far away is she from me?
Matt: Right now, she's about 30 feet out from the ravine, and now tumbling upward, she's about 50 feet from you.
Marisha: 'Cause he's on the other side, correct?
Taliesin: Oh, for fuck's sake, really?
Matt: Misfire?
Taliesin: Misfire.
Marisha: All righty. Keyleth's gonna go. Seeing Percy misfire, Keyleth is going to grab a Grasping Vine on the side of the wall, and she's going to go for that broom. 'Cause both Pike and her are still grabbing onto that broom, yeah?
Liam: And I'm throwing Whisper at Vex. I'm doing it.
Matt: The vine, unfortunately, only has a range of 30 feet.
Marisha: You said she was 30 feet away.
Matt: She's 30 feet out from the center of the ravine and is now 15, 20 feet up in the air.
Marisha: Can she not hit the wall, get a vine off the side of the wall and bring her down?
Matt: The opposite side? Maybe.
Marisha: I've got a 60-foot range to this spell, plus 30 feet from the Grasping Vine, right? Or is it 30 and 30? I thought you were still grabbing onto the--
Laura: I'm tethered to the broom.
Marisha: To the broom, and Pike's still grabbing onto the broom, yeah? I'm going for the broom. Come on, man! (laughter)
Matt: Look, I'm trying to work out-- you guys do a lot of things really fast. I'm trying, I'm working with you, so please bear with me on this.
Marisha: Grasping Vine! What? What?
Liam: You're like a loan officer.
Matt: I wouldn't recommend doing that or I won't give you a chance to even do it. Don't taunt the DM.
Liam: I want to sell you this house, but there's some shit we need to go over.
Matt: So. I'm going to ask you, Keyleth, to go ahead and make just a general dexterity check.
Marisha: Just general dex? What?
Matt: This is how fast you're able to enchant a spell, which requires an incantation and the release of the spell's effect, thus summoning the vine and causing it to lash out. This is just a general, base DC, I need you to go ahead and just roll and add your dexterity modifier.
Laura: You got it, you got it.
Marisha: I love you.
Laura: I love you.
Marisha: That was a natural 19, so that is plus my dex, which is plus two, so 21. Hah!
Laura: Don't hah, don't hah the DM!
Marisha: I mean, (yells, grunts).
Matt: So, as Bad News misfires, you watch as the front of it just, this burst of black smoke bursts outward, and this look of utter horror on Percy's face. Keyleth rushes out, and grabbing the edge of the rope bridge to get enough of a reach out there, you watch as her hair lifts up and part of her body begins to just drift upward, but she holds on and reaches out with the staff, and, using the strength of her force of will, the edge of the stone above the ravine cracks open and suddenly you watch where there is no life, a piercing flash of dark green shoots outward, a vine freshly grown from the edge of the stonework reaches out and grabs, wrapping around the broom itself and holding it taut. You watch as the vine and the entire group shifts upward. You're suddenly pulled, you're still grappled by this undead zombie-like corpse, and Pike is currently clutching onto the broom as hard as she can as you both impact at the end. With your weight and the creature's weight, I now get to see if the--
Laura: Vine holds?
Matt: Well, not the vine. The vine magically holds. It's the chain that attaches you to the broom. Yeah, okay. So that holds. It goes taut, you're held there. The creature's still clutching you right now.
Laura: Are my arms restrained?
Matt: Your arms are held to, yeah. Actually, 'cause you're still held there, I want you to go ahead and make another acrobatics check.
Liam: Holy fuck.
Laura: Acrobatics. That's Pike. Acrobatics. 25.
Matt: 25. So it does not progress into restrained. You're still grappled, it's still holding on to you, but you manage to swivel out of its grasp, as it's trying to pull you in, and it's starting to try and bite into you. As you glance upward, now that you're drifting, dangling roughly 60 feet up, you look up, and you can see what is the top of the ravine, and it is a writhing mass of hundreds and hundreds of undead corpses that are all reaching out for you, their different-boned claws all extended, going (rasping), trying to just pull you towards them into empty air, as you dangle, looking up into that.
Liam: This is fine.
Laura: Oh. My. God.
Marisha: Everything's okay.
Laura: Everything's fine, you guys.
Matt: At which point, the vine pulls the broom, Pike, you, and the creature up towards the edge of the wall. So you're still 30 feet up, but you're slammed into the side of the wall, now, the vine is just holding the broom taut against the edge of the rocks.
Marisha: Sorry!
Laura: No, I love you! You're amazing! Can I just take out-- I just have a dagger, can I pull out my dagger and try to jam it up into the zombie's-- under his chin?
Matt: Go for it. It's going to attempt to bite attack you, by the way. Which it does not do with a two. Just getting your armor, gnawing on the leather.
Laura: Oh, it's all zombie drool! I am really bad at regular attacks. What do I add to this?
Matt: You add your dexterity and your proficiency modifier. So it would be plus ten, I think.
Laura: So 20.
Matt: Okay, yeah, so you jam it with the dagger. Go ahead and roll damage. That's 1d4 plus your dexterity modifier.
Laura: Oh, plus my dexterity. I didn't roll a 20, I rolled--
Matt: It's a d4 plus five, is what you're rolling for damage.
Laura: Eight.
Matt: Okay, so eight damage. You jam the dagger up into its jaw and throat, and it slaps it out of the way. You can see it's damaged, but it's still holding on. The creature's now grabbing onto you and slamming you into the wall best it can.
Laura: What is Pike doing?
Matt: Pike is just holding onto the broom right now. She's going to attempt to-- actually, what she would do in this moment would be Turn Undead. 'Cause that's what clerics do.
Laura: I didn't even see that spell, where's that spell?
Matt: It's not a spell, it's her Channel Divinity ability.
Patrick rothfuss: Yeah, it's Channel Divinity, but I couldn't do it from the edge of the pit. It's 30 feet.
Matt: Yeah, you have to be closer from there. Okay, so it has to make a saving throw, which it does not make. So as you look over and this zombie's biting at you and you're trying to jam at it, Pike, who's holding onto the broom, grabs the symbol of Sarenrae from around her neck and looks up and just closes her eyes for a second, and as they flash open again, there's no pupils, just white, bright, vibrant, radiant eyes. This small shockwave bursts off her, and you watch as the zombie goes (gasps) just turns into ash and disintegrates, its body just tumbling in chunks and pieces up into the ravine above you.
Laura: So I would look down at Pike.
Matt: Yes, and then up at where the zombie went. Pike is below you, still holding onto the broom.
Laura: You're amazing! That was amazing! This was a mistake. How do we get down?
Matt: "I don't know. Keyleth?"
Marisha: I'm holding on, man.
Liam: Where's the carpet, where's the carpet, where's the carpet?
Taliesin: The carpet is not what we need.
Matt: A few more corpses start tumbling up.
Taliesin: The rope that is currently tied at the other end of the ravine, where they're currently above us, right?
Matt: Yes, they're about 30 feet above you guys on the opposite side.
Taliesin: I'm going to try and reverse rappel with the rope, the other end of the endless rope, up to them.
Marisha: Also, as a bonus action, I can switch the direction of the vine to lash out at the same creature as a bonus action, so can I grasp a vine and hand them off and stair-step them down?
Matt: No, the vine is attached at a base, it's almost like it grew out of the ground, so what Grasping Vine allows you to do, is you can-- wherever it's based at, it pulls it to it.
Marisha: Right. It just says, until the spell ends, you can direct the vine to lash out at the same creature on my bonus action. So.
Matt: It doesn't do damage. What it does is it just grasps and pulls towards it. So what you can do is, each turn you can change the target. If you change the target, it's gonna release the broom and they're both gonna tumble up.
Marisha: Well, I don't wanna do that. But I can't change the origin of the vine?
Matt: Not without casting the spell again.
Taliesin: I'm gonna reverse-Batman this shit.
Matt: All right, so you start reverse-rappelling up the side. What's everyone else doing?
Liam: Where's Grog and the flying carpet?
Matt: Grog, Kerrek, and Keyleth are all still on the other side with Kima and Allura. They're all on the other side of the ravine.
Liam: Get off the rug, get off the rug. Get off the rug, now, please.
Marisha: I'm not on the rug!
Liam: Isn't anyone on the rug? That's why I asked.
Matt: The rug is still with them, it's on the other side.
Liam: Back where it was. Shit.
Matt: Nobody's taken the rug across--
Taliesin: The rug's a terrible idea, right now, anyway.
Travis: I can't get on the rug, so one of you lighter people, will you go get those two, please?
Taliesin: I'm just, I'm going up super fucking fast.
Matt: Okay, so you rappel up the side. While they're holding on there, one more corpse tumbles up past. It's going to attempt to--
Laura: Can I-- no, I can't do that. I'm like floating, basically. Basically I'm like falling and just held onto a broom that's being held onto the wall.
Matt: Right now, if you were to try and take a shot, you could try, but you'd be at disadvantage for all your attacks.
Laura: I want to try to-- any zombies or undead that come near us, I want to try to shoot them and at least ricochet.
Matt: Okay, well, one comes tumbling past. What are you doing, Kerr?
Patrick rothfuss: If nobody else on this side is getting on this carpet, then I will.
Matt: Okay, so Kerrek hops on the carpet and it begins to lift above the ground.
Marisha: Can I get on it as well and still maintain the concentration on my Grasping Vine?
Travis: But why would you do that, because you've gotta put two people on that carpet?
Marisha: What?
Travis: We're trying to put them on the carpet, right?
Taliesin: It can hold four or five people.
Marisha: I'm trying to hold the concentration on their Grasping Vine so they don't get fucked. So I'm going to get on the carpet.
Travis: You know, if you get hit by something that falls.
Marisha: That's true. But I have advantage on concentration checks these days.
Matt: Allura--
Laura: Oh my god.
Taliesin: Hang on, I'm coming.
Laura: Yeah, no, that's the thing. Percy's on his way to save us, so you guys just try to hold onto that carpet.
Taliesin: Get across, we need people to pull us back.
Marisha: Also, Grasping Vine's not a concentration spell. It's a bonus action, and-- no, no, it's a concentration spell.
Matt: Allura, watching this happen, grabs Kima and Dimension Doors across to the other side, sets Kima aside, and just stays there, waiting carefully.
Marisha: Scanlan does have Dimension Door.
Laura: He does. He could do it for himself.
Matt: And one other person of equal size, which is only Pike. And Kima, technically, but Kima's already gotten across.
Laura: That sucks, 'cause Scanlan could've taken Kima.
Taliesin: Scanlan also has a plan, if you guys are about to really fucking die.
Matt: So you're just waiting. Kerrek and Keyleth are going across. Are you guys going just directly across, or are you going towards Vex and--
Patrick rothfuss: Well, if they were to fall, I'm heading wherever below that is, toward them, to offer support if they lose it. I'm also ready to Turn Undead if a big cluster of these things comes towards us.
Marisha: I'm maintaining concentration while floating next to Kerr on the carpet.
Matt: All right, so you guys, as the carpet heads out, you hearing the carpet as you move forward, Kerrek, you barrel roll the carpet and begin heading upward to float underneath where Pike and Vex will be. As you begin heading upward, it's funny you mention that. What were singular bodies tumbling upward are now groupings. Four or five, almost chained together, like these small balls of just limbs and bones and gnashing zombified teeth begin just (falling sounds) upward. One of them slams into the bridge and scatters out, sending a number of bodies spinning outward, broken arms and limbs from the impact. The bridge itself cracks a bit, and you watch as the center of it is still being held by a rope, but it is currently not overly walkable without holding the rope to get across.
Taliesin: You can use the rope just to steady yourself on the carpet.
Matt: One of these clusters starts making its way upwards towards where the carpet is.
Patrick rothfuss: If I'm steering the carpet, can I dodge away from this? Because even if I Turn it, they will have velocity.
Matt: Correct. You have not driven a magic carpet before. I would ask you to go ahead and, let's see, for this? Make an intelligence check.
Patrick rothfuss: Jesus is my copilot. (laughter)
Matt: Go ahead and make an intelligence check, just a straight d20 plus your intelligence modifier.
Patrick rothfuss: The first fucking character I make where I lowball intelligence. (laughter)
Patrick rothfuss: Oh. That is a-- just straight?
Matt: Well, plus your modifier, whatever that is.
Patrick rothfuss: Wait, my proficiency modifier?
Matt: Your intelligence modifier.
Patrick rothfuss: Oh, yeah, no. That's an eight.
Matt: Okay. So, moving this across, you're basically watching this thing come careening upwards, and you're trying to shift out of the way to maintain momentum and have this not impact you, but both the nerves of what's happening, the unfamiliarity with the change in gravity and not running a carpet before, you move out of the way just as it slams into the upper corner, causing the carpet to shift and quake. Oh man.
Patrick rothfuss: Can I push Keyleth hard enough to get her to the other side?
Matt: You guys were heading upward, so if you were to kick her off, she would probably still arc upward at this point. You guys are essentially, in theory, you're below the ravine if this were normal gravity.
Marisha: How close are we to--
Matt: You guys are about 30 feet across, 'cause the movement speed of the carpet is, if I recall, from what I told you, right, it was 30 feet?
Marisha: So we're not close to Pike and Vex.
Matt: Not yet. You're halfway there.
Taliesin: Just so you know, the second my feet hit the stone of the upper wall, I'm going to hold on-- I no longer have to repose, I've got the spider, I'm going to double-dash towards them with the rope.
Matt: So, as they get hit, Percy has just made it up the wall to you and Pike.
Taliesin: And I'm just tying them to the rope.
Matt: Double-dash got you there.
Marisha: If Kerr's kicking me off, I'm reaching for Pike and the broom and still trying to maintain concentration while trying to reach for those guys.
Matt: Okay, well, first and foremost. First and foremost. Oh man, this got really complicated. I love it, it's great. I-- okay. I would like both Kerr and Keyleth to roll strength saving throws to maintain hold on the carpet.
Liam: How far are they from me?
Matt: They're about-- right now? 35, 40 feet.
Patrick rothfuss: You get a plus three, by the way.
Marisha: I do?
Matt: Yes, you do. From being just near him. He's so awesome that when you're near him-- Paladins, man.
Liam: I'm on the very edge. Close as I can get, right?
Marisha: 14.
Matt: 14? Okay. Kerr?
Patrick rothfuss: 23.
Matt: You both maintain your grip on the carpet. I will say, for the sake of this, Keyleth, make a concentration check.
Marisha: I have my advantage 'cause of Warcaster, yeah?
Matt: Yes, you do.
Marisha: That one's cocked.
Matt: You just need to beat a ten.
Marisha: Okay, yeah, I beat that ten with a 26.
Matt: Okay, so you maintain concentration, you maintain hold of the carpet. The carpet rights itself, the corpses go spinning upward into the abyss above. The carpet has now spent the rest of its turn getting into position to guard you and Pike, just in case it's necessary. So. You guys are in place. Percy, you've tied the rope--
Taliesin: Tied them, holding onto everybody, and I just have been yelling, pull!
Marisha: What?
Taliesin: I've got them on the rope, pull the rope down!
Laura: That's you.
Taliesin: Who else is on that side of the--
Matt: Right now, it's Kima and Allura as well.
Taliesin: Yeah, as many people as can start running out that way.
Matt: You guys all grab the rope that's currently affixed to Percy, that hopefully you've been holding this whole time. I'm imagining you would've.
Liam: I don't know, where's the rope? There's so much going on.
Taliesin: I'm going to use my spider-walk ability to actually just maintain everything and just keep an eye out and try and safety-spot everything.
Matt: Okay. So you go ahead and start pulling the rope. Kima and Allura help out. Allura's not doing much, eight, unfortunately, but Kima is.
Patrick rothfuss: And we were technically below them. I'll just bring the carpet towards them and elevator them up if I can get below.
Matt: Okay, cool. So now we have Kerrek and Keyleth. Keyleth, are you releasing the vine? Because it's currently what's holding them against the stone wall.
Marisha: Are you grabbing onto the carpet?
Matt: They both have ropes they're grabbing onto from Percy, and they're being pulled below. Do a strength check.
Marisha: I let go, and can I switch to a Gust cantrip to try and push us down?
Matt: Gust cantrip is not gonna be strong enough to push anyone of your weight. Cantrips are very simple.
Liam: I rolled a 19, so 21.
Matt: 21, good, so between you and Kima, you both begin to just hand-over-hand, pulling the rope as it's taut up against the edge and upward. Vex, Pike, you both begin being pulled upwards, and Kerr, you're lifting with Keyleth, keeping that. You guys get right to the edge. You look down as you see this one cluster of what looks to be maybe 20 or so bodies comes up, not as a ball, but what looks to be almost a giant skeletal hand made up of smaller corpses is tumbling upward and reaching, its outstretched, large, maybe 15-foot-wide grasp towards this carpet.
Laura: Oh my god.
Patrick rothfuss: I do Channel Divinity on that shit.
Matt: Okay. So what is your save DC for your spell DC?
Laura: Grog's still on the other side.
Taliesin: And Scanlan.
Laura: Oh, no, this is perfect.
Patrick rothfuss: 14.
Matt: 14. Okay. Hold on just a second, real fast. So for your Channel Divinity here, it's eight plus your proficiency bonus plus your charisma modifier.
Patrick rothfuss: So eight plus... that'd be seven plus, yeah, that's right.
Matt: 15?
Patrick rothfuss: 14. Oh, you're right, you're right, 15.
Matt: 15, yeah. All right. Cool. So, with that.
Laura: This is a really cool setup, Matt, though. It's really fucking badass.
Marisha: It's a pain in our ass, but it's really awesome.
Laura: The visual of it is amazing.
Matt: I'm enjoying this quite a bit.
Marisha: Dead bodies falling to the ceiling, reaching up, yeah, no, it's cool. This is definitely a Brendan Frasier movie.
Laura: Yeah, for sure.
Matt: Okay, so. As this giant, skeletal hand reaches upwards to basically scoop up the entirety of the cluster of everyone gathered right at the edge of this ravine, the carpet pushing them inward, it's almost gonna sandwich the party into the palm of this, you watch as Kerrek, clutching the edge of the carpet, reaches up from beneath his armor and grabs his own holy symbol, clutches it firm in his grasp and looks upward, shouting a whispered word that doesn't reach anybody's ears but the ones that it's intended for. And as it does, you watch as a piercing bit of light jettisons in an upward-- or downward direction from your perspective-- towards this hand. As it reaches out its outstretched zombie fingers, it bursts, and as it does, the hand is scattered outward in a small shockwave. All the bodies, once linked, are now sent into separate, disparate spinning corpses that all reach out helplessly as they all go scattering past upward and disappearing into the ravine above. With that final push, you all get down on the opposite side of the ravine, safe and sound.
Laura: Oh my god. I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry.
Taliesin: I grab you and give you a big kiss. Big, sexy, still-tied-up makeout kiss. Hey, well done not passing out this time. Good for you.
Laura: Thanks for saving me, darling. You.
Matt: Grog and Scanlan are waving from the other side of the ravine.
Taliesin: I untie the broom and the--
Laura: Don't untie it all, I like being attached to it.
Marisha: And I go over to Percy and I say, smitten. Smitten.
Taliesin: I slowly start shoving Keyleth back towards the ravine.
Matt: Just Scanlan's arms crossed, and his eyes are very wide, and he's kind of looking around.
Taliesin: Scanlan's with Grog.
Matt: I know.
Travis: Yeah, we're just kind of watching the fucking show.
Matt: "So. What do you think?"
Travis: I think we just leave 'em.
Matt: "Yeah, you're right, let's go." You watch as Scanlan and Grog turn around and start walking back from where you guys came.
Liam: Hand around Kerrek's neck, pulling him in. Thank you. Thank you. Fucking thank you.
Patrick rothfuss: That... that... so this is pretty much just a Tuesday for you guys, right?
Taliesin: It's more of a Thursday. (laughter)
Laura: I give Kerr a big hug. Thank you. Saved the day.
Matt: A giant impact, as behind you, another sphere of these corpses slams into the bridge, causing it to snap and go limp against the upper portion of the ravine.
Taliesin: Well, okay, how are we going to get the last-- there's still a rope.
Travis: I had a question. So I take one of my five empty jugs out of the Bag of Holding, and I go to the edge. While they were up there doing all that shit. I look down and I just throw it straight down as hard as I can. Does it immediately go whoop?
Matt: Yep. Upwards.
Taliesin: Bit of an arc. You want to pee, don't you?
Patrick rothfuss: I see what you're doing, and I grab just whatever, a rock or something. I try to throw it straight across.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and make a strength check.
Patrick rothfuss: Because it should fall at first, but if it's 50/50, it should fall and then fall the other way, and it'll go right across.
Travis: Right, so if you did a jump.
Liam: It's like Angry Birds. If you get the arc right.
Taliesin: I've got a great idea. You grab the end of the rope that's still tied, of our endless rope. On the count of three, Scanlan's going to jump on your back, on the count of three, they're going to make a running jump, and we're going to run, all of us holding like a giant game of tug-of-war, and just see if we can pull them across like a kite.
Travis: I will pull you all into the chasm.
Marisha: I thought everyone was over.
Matt: Scanlan and Grog.
Marisha: Son of a bitch.
Taliesin: Well, if you tie yourself to the rope, too, no matter what, we'll be able to-- so you'll at least be tethered.
Travis: Can't somebody fly the carpet back over and then-- can't Pike fly it back over, and then she and Scanlan can bamf over, and then I can just try and make it across with the carpet.
Laura: Well, I could go over on the fucking broom again, dear lord. How about the bodies? Are they still flying?
Matt: They're still going past, and it's like little singular ones here and there, but every now and then a cluster.
Laura: Thing is, I can put Grog in the necklace and bring him over.
Marisha: Grog, can you backpack Scanlan?
Travis: Yeah. And then what?
Marisha: And jump really hard?
Taliesin: Chain of Returning?
Matt: Chain of Returning is-- what's the range on that?
Laura: 40 feet? Or is it 60 feet?
Travis: It is somewhere.
Taliesin: I've got a crazy idea.
Travis: Doesn't have a range.
Matt: I want to say we have it set at a 30-foot range. It's a big weapon.
Travis: Sure, I'm down with that, 30 feet.
Matt: Are you attaching it to your hammer?
Travis: No, I'm not attuned to that. I've got the little hammer now. Oh, sorry, the hammer, yes.
Matt: So yeah, that has a furthest range of 60 feet.
Travis: How far across the chasm is the thing?
Matt: 60 feet.
Marisha: Can you attach the Chain of Returning to the hammer?
Travis: I mean, I can essentially attach it to anything, I think.
Laura: I feel like I could go back over.
Taliesin: (laughs) Sorry.
Laura: I know, I rolled a one, though, you guys. It was real shit.
Marisha: How much time has it been?
Matt: Has passed? I'd say you've probably hit a good minute, little over a minute since the very beginning of this endeavor. Probably a little longer. Given time to look over it since it happened, and converse about what to do.
Patrick rothfuss: I say, if we have a rope tied to her, we could bring her back if something bad happened.
Laura: Totally, totally. All right, cool. Attach a rope to me. I bamf Trinket out so my necklace is empty, and then I take off across the channel.
Taliesin: But we have two, are we just going to do it twice?
Laura: Scanlan can get on the broom.
Taliesin: Oh, and Grog can get in the necklace! That's very clever.
Laura: So I want to fly back over.
Matt: All right, so.
Laura: Heart pounding, this was terrifying. I'm sorry, buddy.
Matt: You jump onto the broom, steel yourself.
Taliesin: I'm gonna anchor this rope also to Trinket, just so there's extra weight.
Matt: Trinket happily allows that anchoring to happen.
Taliesin: All right, you guys feed it, I'm gonna be ready.
Matt: You barrel-roll across. Across the way--
Laura: I wanna try to time it so I avoid as many as I can.
Matt: There are-- there's a small cluster that comes by, and a couple of minor individual bodies on this side. Make two dexterity saving throws.
Laura: Okay, cool, cool, cool, tight, tight, tight. Here we go, here we go, here we go. Natural 20!
Marisha: What's up?
Laura: And that one's totally fine, too. That's a 29.
Matt: You just whip past, out of the grasp. You hear the clacking of bones--
Taliesin: I think with a natural 20, you could steal jewelry from one of them as you went by, like, that's a nice necklace.
Marisha: Top Gun high-five!
Matt: You make it across to the other side. There, you see Scanlan waiting, arms crossed, foot tapping at an accelerated rate. Grog waiting, finding another vase to throw, and all of a sudden you watch as Vex comes streaming across and eventually rights herself back up to your position, her hair falling normally flat to her side.
Laura: Oh hey, guys.
Marisha: And I give her a big high-five!
Matt: You don't, 'cause you're on the other side.
Marisha: What?
Liam: She made it one way, she's gotta go back the other way.
Matt: Keyleth high-fives her from across the ravine.
Marisha: High-five, woo!
Liam: Wait a minute. Are you saying this story only exists in our imagination? (laughter)
Laura: Hey, Grog. Do you trust me?
Travis: No.
Laura: Do you wanna get in this necklace?
Travis: Sure.
Taliesin: He knows! Modify Memory. (laughter)
Taliesin: Back in the Matrix.
Laura: And then Scanlan.
Matt: So Grog, a familiar sensation. Once you're back in that chamber I described to you once before.
Laura: And Scanlan, I want him to affix himself to this broom, like really tie him on here.
Matt: You go to get to the broom, and he just latches onto the side of your leg. "I'm fine here."
Laura: I still tie some rope around. I've got the Rope of Entanglement, I can at least wrap us up.
Matt: You actually magically restrain him with the Rope of Entanglement, so he's bound in a spiral fashion to the actual broom as you get on top of it. Begin to cross to the other side? Okay. At this point, you watch as another corpse tumbles past, and looking downward, not a hand, but what looks like a giant face emerging, built of various pieces of zombified corpses and bones, the mouth opening almost to try and swallow you as you zoom over that way. Make two dexterity saving throws. The first is against the singular zombie, lower DC.
Liam: Is she within 30 feet of me at this point?
Matt: She will be in just a moment. First one she's not, second one she will be.
Marisha: It's her and Pike?
Matt: No, it's her and Scanlan.
Laura: The first one is-- I add my dexterity?
Matt: Correct. Or whatever your dexterity saving throw is.
Laura: Okay, that's a 26.
Matt: First one, you zip past without an issue, and that's when you look down and notice the giant face coming up. Second.
Liam: Wait, she's within 30 feet of me now? I'm Blessing her.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: Scanlan is also inspiring her.
Laura: Okay, that's good, that's good, though, this is good. 27.
Matt: 27. The mouth comes up to try and slam shut around you, and as it comes up, you just arc out of the way. You guys watch as the jaw begins to close, and just as these jutting pieces of broken bone, skulls, and shoulderblades that make this weird makeshift mouth of this entity begin to close and slam shut, you watch as the broom just barely catches out of the top of it, arcs downward, and makes it across the way without impact. Just as Vax finishes his Blessing spell on her, you've all now made it across safely to the other side of the ravine here.
Marisha: Now I give her a high-five.
Laura: I untie Scanlan and pop Grog out.
Matt: Grog, you're released. Trinket comes up to you and starts licking the side of your face.
Travis: That really seemed very easy. I don't see what the big deal was. (laughter)
Taliesin: You want to try again? I know that you're considering it reasonably.
Marisha: Don't put these ideas in his head.
Matt: So, what are you guys doing?
Laura: Move forward, I guess.
Matt: All right, so you push forward--
Laura: Check for traps!
Matt: Check for traps, okay.
Liam: Thank you. Thank for catching my sister, thank you.
Matt: Investigation check.
Liam: Checking for traps.
Laura: Good, I hope you rolled well.
Liam: I always roll well on this. 18.
Laura: 'Cause I rolled a one again.
Matt: Wow. Better now than a moment ago. All right, so. As you guys push forward into this dark chamber, now, the humans, I imagine you still have your warhammer out for light, Kerrek?
Patrick rothfuss: Yes.
Matt: So you have enough of a radius where you can kind of make out the scenery and such. As you progress forward about 45, 50 feet further down this path, you see what looks to be a small structure built into the ground, almost like a multi-tiered statue of some kind, and you hear what sounds like a very faint bit of trickling, rushing water.
Liam: Statue of a what, please?
Matt: You're not quite sure yet. As you approach, you look at it, and it appears to be a fountain, like a small structure that contains what would be a bowl for water, and then a central, smaller tier that opens up into a smaller bowl, and kind of a jagged edge to it. It looks a little sinister. And at the very top looks to be a humanoid face that's stretched into this ghastly, horrified expression of terror and gasp. From its mouth is pouring a small trickle of water, but it is upward. And it's just spilling onto the ceiling, where it's just pooling and separating into cracks. The path continues past it. It's just in the center of the hallway.
Travis: It's going up, but we're not.
Matt: Correct.
Marisha: We're just not light enough.
Taliesin: Or not close enough.
Patrick rothfuss: Or we're not in the area of effect, yet.
Marisha: I reach down and I grab a little pebble and toss it towards the fountain.
Matt: Okay. You toss it towards the fountain, the pebble clinks. And the fountain is empty, it is dry on the inside right now, on each of the lower tiers, because the water that is being poured from this face is trickling upward and hitting the ceiling. It's this steady, constant stream.
Marisha: Pebble.
Matt: You throw the pebble into the fountain, it just kinda comes to rest.
Travis: What's on the ceiling? Just flat?
Matt: It looks to be just a stone ceiling, and the water's just hitting in one particular spot. If you want to roll a perception check.
Travis: 16.
Matt: Okay, you glance up, and from what little bit you can see with your Darkvision, the water appears to be impacting something that has a different surface than the ceiling stonework. It's smoother, shinier, it reflects a little bit of light.
Marisha: How high, roughly, is the ceiling?
Matt: It's about 15 feet up at this point.
Marisha: Only 15?
Liam: Is it a dead end?
Matt: No, the path continues past it. Just straight.
Taliesin: Oh, god.
Travis: Well, we could pour a bunch of water in the fountain.
Taliesin: I don't know if we should touch the water that's coming out of the fountain. I think it's coming out of a petrified human that's been turned into a mystical source of water, is the vibe I'm getting.
Travis: Oh, I just meant pour water out of the alchemy jug.
Laura: Like, into the fountain?
Liam: I'd like to move along the edge of the room, checking for traps ahead.
Matt: Okay. So Vax continues forward.
Liam: 19.
Matt: Okay. So you coast ahead, keeping an eye out. There are no traps, but you do sense that there is some mechanism involved with this fountain.
Liam: I'm gonna stop where I am, then.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: I'm going to walk up the wall towards, very gingerly, doing my best to check for traps or anything unusual, towards whatever it is that the water's hitting on the ceiling.
Matt: Okay. Make an investigation check.
Taliesin: That's a natural 20.
Matt: As you walk up the edge-- what's your actual perception bonus?
Taliesin: My perception? With my perception, 28.
Matt: Okay. You make it up to the top, and as you glance in, you can see there's some sort of a green emerald-like gem that is embedded into the ceiling that the water is just trickling onto.
Taliesin: Do I recognize the green emerald gem? It's a green gem, or is it residuum?
Matt: No, no, it is not residuum, it is not processed whitestone. It is an emerald-like gem, although it is imperfect. It is not, you know, a jeweler has not cut over it to make it a beautiful gem. It is a little rough.
Taliesin: And the water is hitting that gem.
Matt: It's hitting the gem and it's kind of just pooling around it and sifting into cracks and being drawn.
Taliesin: I'm feeling the urge to fuck with this. I'm really hoping someone tells me not to.
Laura: Probably maybe leave it?
Liam: Wait half a minute, half a minute.
Taliesin: I'm going to edge towards it gently, and I'm actually-- this is going to sound weird-- I'm going to spit at it to see at what range my spit decides to move towards it.
Matt: Okay. So you spit at it, and your spit still kinda arcs downward, normal gravity, then it hits the water and just gets caught up in the water.
Taliesin: Okay, so it's the water itself that's being-- something maybe in the fountain?
Marisha: Can I do an investigation? Can I do a closer look at the fountain?
Matt: Yeah, make an investigation check.
Marisha: Man, I hate investigating.
Liam: What's the light like?
Matt: There is no light in this room, other than the source of Kerr's hammer.
Marisha: 20 total on the fountain. 20.
Matt: 20 on the fountain, okay. There is, best you can tell, some magical source. This is connected to something. You're not entirely sure what.
Marisha: No gems? I don't see any gems?
Matt: I mean, you see-- there's no gems based inside the actual fountain itself. The only gem that's--
Marisha: Something magical about the fountain.
Matt: Yes. There is a magical essence to it.
Patrick rothfuss: I will do it if nobody else wants to. Can you catch some of the water in a jar or container?
Matt: Yeah, if you want to.
Patrick rothfuss: 'Cause I look around, I don't want to disrupt anything, but I'll just catch a little in a bottle. Once it's in the bottle, does it still pull upward?
Matt: Once you pull it in the bottle, it rests back into regular gravity.
Patrick rothfuss: Does it just smell like regular water?
Matt: It smells... it smells very stagnant. Hard water-ish, like Pirates of the Caribbean or It's a Small World.
Laura: Gross.
Matt: Yeah, yeah. It's not the clearest of Arrowhead. It's cold.
Marisha: I mean, we could have Scanlan do a Dispel Magic on it.
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: Dispel the fountain. Or the gem. Or I could carve the gem out of the ceiling.
Taliesin: I'm standing next to the gem. I can pry it out of the ceiling if we have to.
Marisha: But that means you have to touch it.
Liam: What can I see down the way I'm looking?
Matt: You, looking ahead, the tunnel continues and you're starting to see more and more of the essence of reclaimed stonework. You can see, whereas previously this ravine was an actual semi-natural tunnel that pushed forward, the walls begin to get more brick-like. It's looking more and more like a really, really old, for lack of a better term, temple or structure where you can see there was care put into its design.
Liam: Okay. So the statue's in this semi-natural chamber. And turns into more carved-out, civilized.
Taliesin: I might run down to Grog. Do you have a spare jar or jug that I can borrow?
Travis: I do. What do you want for it?
Taliesin: I just want to borrow it for like five minutes, and I'll give it back.
Travis: What you got for trade? (laughter)
Taliesin: I have nothing--
Travis: Is that an ascot you're wearing?
Taliesin: Yes, it is.
Travis: I'll take that.
Taliesin: It won't even fit around your neck.
Travis: I don't care. I want it.
Taliesin: Do you know how to tie an ascot?
Travis: I want to be dignified.
Marisha: I can teach you later, Grog.
Taliesin: Oh, that alone. That's adorable. I tie a little Dickie's first day of school Christmas bow. And I take my little pin and I pin it on him.
Travis: Here's your jug.
Taliesin: Thank you. (laughter)
Taliesin: And I go walking back up. I have a theory that maybe if we cover the green gem, that might do a thing, so if we start to cross and everything goes weird, I'm going to cover the green gem.
Liam: Hey, for science.
Taliesin: For science. But let's try and leave this room without doing anything, maybe.
Liam: Besides what you're doing?
Taliesin: I'm not gonna do anything unless something happens.
Travis: How high is the ceiling?
Matt: 15 feet.
Travis: Okay.
Marisha: Hey, Grog. If it comes to that. Don't worry about it.
Matt: So what's the plan?
Liam: Scootch forward, to the other side, looking for traps, looking for traps.
Matt: Okay, you continue to scootch forward.
Marisha: I stay with Grog and Percy.
Laura: I stand in between.
Matt: Okay, so you guys stay back there. Okay, Kima and Allura stay back, waiting for you guys to scout as well. Okay. You guys, make stealth checks again.
Laura: I'm scared of all my dice right now. Just, all of them.
Liam: 30.
Laura: 17.
Matt: Okay. You guys begin to very, very slowly make your way up ahead, and you watch as the path ahead of you begins to-- the ceiling begins to grow higher and higher, and the hall begins to widen open a little bit, and begins to split in two directions, like all of a sudden the tunnel breaks into two different paths, with the ceiling rising and growing wider on each of those paths as it presses forward. You're starting to see portions of it are still the cavern-type feel, but once again, you're seeing more and more sections where it looks like all these walls at one point were carved stone and had a specific purpose, and then over time, once again, portions of it have fallen to disuse and ruin.
Taliesin: So nothing-- the fountain did nothing?
Matt: Currently not yet, no.
Liam: Fuck a duck. We've got a fork in the road. What do you want to do?
Taliesin: Let's bring everyone towards you now. Is it time?
Liam: Well, there's nothing immediately dangerous-appearing.
Laura: I'm gonna try to focus on dragons again and see if I can figure out which direction they are.
Matt: Okay, so you use another spell slot.
Travis: We don't wanna pour anything into the fountain?
Taliesin: I don't--
Travis: We did nothing to this thing that's right here, magically pouring water out.
Taliesin: It might just be the equivalent of a big red button.
Travis: I love buttons.
Taliesin: The world loves buttons.
Laura: It's up to you, Grog.
Taliesin: You have a jar of unending water if you wanted to--
Matt: Vex. The sources are still ahead of you. They're still present and still in the direction you guys are facing.
Laura: Do I know which fork they're down?
Matt: In that direction.
Liam: I'd also like to use my last instance of Divine Sense here, at this fork in the road.
Matt: 60-foot radius up there... no. There is no sense of anything undead, fiendish, celestial.
Marisha: Nothing? No sway?
Matt: Not where they currently are, no. What are you guys doing?
Taliesin: I'm waiting for everyone else to-- I'm circling to the other side of the green--
Liam: Are we all gathering up at this fork in the road?
Taliesin: Yeah, if everyone's gonna cross the room.
Matt: Okay. So you just move on? Okay. You guys continue and gather at the edge of this fork. You can see a very, very faint bit of light coming from both sides of the fork, just glancing off a distant opposite cave wall.
Marisha: Both have light?
Matt: Both have a very, very faint bit of a light source. Two of you guys make, since you were up front first, make perception checks, if you could.
Liam: Bupkis for me.
Laura: 24.
Matt: 24? Glancing both ways, for you, it splits off, and they both seem to curve around in almost like a rejoining direction, or at least, they get close to it. The split is less of a split and more that there is just a large column of earth that splits what would be a wide path. The two paths eventually seem to join again on the other side.
Laura: And there's a little bit of light coming from the end of it?
Matt: A little bit of light source. Apparently on the other side of whatever this pillar would be, or at the other side of each of these different paths, that it's just barely reflecting off of the cave walls, enough for it to give you the essence that there is light further.
Liam: Should we all trot along, or should we send us down?
Laura: Trap? You wanna look for traps? The dragons are still in there. Just ahead.
Liam: This could be it, although we thought it could be it twice at least.
Marisha: Do we wanna split the party, half one way, half the other?
Laura: No, let's all stay on one side.
Taliesin: If the water were running, which direction would the water be running down? Like, if the fountain filled-- this is just, I'm trying to conjecture, I feel like the fountain's gonna irritate me for the rest of the god damn night.
Marisha: We can Dispel Magic the fountain.
Laura: It could just be like this could be a water canal that we're looking at right now.
Marisha: I could also get rid of that gem. We have options for dealing with that fountain.
Taliesin: Do it?
Liam: Well, I mean, if it's itching.
Patrick rothfuss: I will say, a lot of the things that we've touched here have been put there to hurt us if we touch them.
Taliesin: Touche.
Patrick rothfuss: But also, the skull that we left behind ambushed us, so it seems to be a horse apiece in terms of a pattern, here.
Taliesin: I figure, I think, if you've made it this far, that you've not touched several things at this point, so. This is so obviously a-- I know.
Marisha: I mean, if it's just a trap then it's just a trap and we avoided it and we moved on.
Liam: All right, look, we've got two identical passages. Do you want to flip a coin? Or can you see any benefit to either side?
Laura: It looks like they come back together. This is just a giant separation thing.
Liam: Flip a coin?
Laura: Oh, but I have an actual coin.
Liam: Do you? Pull it out. Come on, treasurer.
Matt: What are you guys doing?
Liam: We're picking a passageway.
Matt: What are these guys doing? Are you catching up with them?
Taliesin: Yeah, I'll start walking towards them.
Marisha: I hang back with Grog.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Grog. What do you think, man?
Travis: I just feel like, I don't know, nothing more sad than an empty fountain.
Marisha: What do you want to do, you want to fill it with water?
Travis: Well, yeah, I feel like that's what a fountain does. I mean, like, if you came across an empty fountain, kind of a worthless thing.
Marisha: Do you think a full fountain would help our case in this instance?
Travis: I dunno.
Marisha: We can try it. Do you want to fill it with water?
Travis: Yeah, kinda.
Marisha: All right. I support this endeavor if you want to do it, Grog.
Taliesin: I hear this over the ears, and I'm gonna slowly crawl, not too close back--
Matt: Allura and Kima are, "Um, are you certain you want to do this?"
Liam: Do what, now? Do what, now?
Travis: Allura, it's just an empty fountain, right? It's gotta have a purpose.
Matt: "Right. Do you know whether the purpose is a good or a bad one?"
Travis: I never really get that far.
Matt: "I know you've survived thus far on that mindset. That's surprising, but do what you will, just--"
Taliesin: Oh shit, I have a theory, now. Never mind, I don't want to fuck with it anymore.
Travis: Allura, you're all smart with magic and stuff. Why is this horribly terrified face giving water upwards on an emerald in the ceiling?
Marisha: She rolled good.
Matt: She takes a moment, kind of steps forward and looks at it. "Let me see one of your jugs."
Travis: Yeah, okay. What do you want for it?
Taliesin: I hand her my jug. (laughter)
Matt: She takes it, sets the jug right in the stream, and releases it, and the jug sucks up and essentially covers the gem, and the water just kinda spills across the sides.
Marisha: And then what?
Matt: "Huh. My theory was wrong."
Marisha: What? Hang on, what was your theory? Maybe we can do process of elimination.
Matt: "Well, I was trying to--" And you hear in the distance, behind where you guys came from (impact sounds).
Taliesin: I'm moving right now.
Matt: What sounds like many, many, many things falling, cracking, impacting.
Marisha: Hey, Allura, good theory. Let's run. Let's run.
Travis: We are running towards Vax and Vex.
Patrick rothfuss: It just reversed the gravity in the ravine.
Matt: Which, as Kerrek says this and you all look back, you watch as hundreds and hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of bodies are now tumbling back down into the ravine below from where they came.
Liam: Turn down for what! (laughter)
Travis: That was so white. That was amazing.
Taliesin: We can make it whiter.
Travis: So white.
Matt: Don't make this any whiter, please.
Liam: Guilty. (laughter)
Travis: Piano riff!
Taliesin: I may play Dungeons and Dragons on the internet, but now I'm embarrassed.
Matt: The water's still going up, and it's still careening and falling through the cracks. It's not a very strong stream, it's just this-- like a small faucet turned on, it's all just trickling upwards, appearing, but that gem being currently blocked seems to have had an effect on the room behind.
Taliesin: Good to know.
Travis: To the right or the left?
Laura: To the right!
Liam: Going to the right, but hold on.
Matt: Same marching order as before?
Liam: I'm gonna go a little bit ahead, 20 feet ahead, looking for traps. I doubt, but I want to check for traps. Stealth and traps, stealth and traps.
Matt: You're still on the same stealth roll you had before.
Liam: Okay, great. So traps, investigation is 18.
Matt: Okay. The floor doesn't appear to be trapped as you coast forward around the other side.
Laura: Check the ceiling. I look at the ceiling.
Matt: It looks like a ceiling. It's about 25, 30 feet in height throughout this chamber.
Liam: And as we move through this passage, what do we see as we get closer to it?
Matt: As you curve around, you notice that the rocky walls become just stone. You see these grey brick walls that begin to turn as you turn around, you see a faint light source from a series of candleabras that mark the edges of this square-like chamber. There are two distant cages in the far corners that seem to bear some sort of slumped, unmoving bodies inside them. There are two pillars in the center of the room that appear to be just strewn with carvings and glyphs from top to bottom, surrounding them entirely. Two large scaled, crimson eggs lie placed against one side of the wall, seemingly untouched, and on the right-hand side of the chamber, at the base of one of these cages, you see a withered and long-dead corpse of Thordak the Cinderking, folded and sagging. You see a tome propped up against a bookstand on the far end, marked by a singular page, where a series of bookshelves and chains line the walls of this apparent laboratory. You see at the current opened tome across the way, arms crossed, and reading quietly, a tall female with dark green hair and silver, shimmery-like skin facing away from you. And we'll pick up for that next week.
Marisha: I knew it.
Matt: 'Cause it is late. Patrick, are you gonna join us for Skype next week?
Marisha: Or in LA?
Patrick rothfuss: Actually, I am coming out to LA. It's an issue of how quickly I'll be able to get to PAX afterwards.
Matt: Oh, shit!
Patrick rothfuss: 'Cause I'm doing PAX South after my LA trip. Really hoping that I will be in your neck of the woods Thursday night. If not, if you want me around for the finish, I would happily Skype in from San Antonio or wherever that is. Up to you.
Laura: Ash might be able to Skype in, too.
Matt: Dual Skype, maybe. Well, let us know, please do.
Patrick rothfuss: I would be delighted.
Taliesin: Thank you for handling Skype so well. It is not easy to be on the other side of that camera. It's so frustrating.
Patrick rothfuss: It's certainly not as nice as being up close and personal with you all, but I'm just glad that I am not experiencing vast technical eras-- eras, yes, errors.
Liam: Well, we're glad to have you.
Matt: Yeah, thanks so much. All right, well we'll be--
Laura: Thanks for saving us, Kerr!
Patrick rothfuss: (laughs) There was a delightful amount of mutual saving.
Marisha: And, as always, don't forget to tune in for Talks Machina on Tuesday night with Brian Foster. I'm sure he's going to have at least two of us.
Matt: That will be announced as the week progresses.
Marisha: Throughout the week, I'm sure, he will announce two of us.
Matt: Also, as a heads-up, guys, once again, big thank you to Loot Crate for being our fantastic sponsor starting in the new year. They were awesome enough to let us tonight be the first to announce their February theme, as their previous theme ended. The theme is 'build' for this one, and the brands that are included in that include Power Rangers, Batman, Lego, Tetris, things that involve building, construct, that type of a feel, so more information will be coming out with that, but 'build' is the next theme. Check out lootcrate.com for the full reveal of everything they're gonna have in there, and don't forget to use the promo code 'criticalrole', one word, for the discount when you sign up. (cheering)
Marisha: I hope they got those Tetris stickers again that they had a year ago, those Tetris stickers were dope.
Matt: We'll see what they got. Thank you guys so much, rest well, you guys as well. We'll see you next week, and is it Thursday yet? Have a good night!
Travis: Nice one! [no audio] [end of transcript]

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello everyone, and welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play Dungeons and Dragons--
All: (cheering)
Matt: -- you assholes.
Marisha: Der 'n' Der!
Matt: Welcome. Tonight should be an interesting episode, but, before we begin, let's go ahead and get through our announcements for the evening! So, welcome, and, first and foremost, tonight we are sponsored by our friends at Loot Crate.
All: (cheering) Loot Crate!
Matt: Thank you, Loot Crate, for being amazing sponsors. Sam, did you want to tell us a little about--
Sam: Okay! I haven't done this in a while, so I'm falling back on an old crutch, an old beloved character-- Rhodey Slater is back to do another round--
Matt: (laughing) Oh my god.
Sam: Gotta get in character. (in surfer voice) Yo-ho-ho, it's me, Rhodey Slater, with another message from our sponsor, Loot Crate. Whether you're dropping in on a party wave in Uluwatu or even Tamarindo, you won't look like a paddle-puss if you haul your tres gnarly gear from El Crate-o del Loot-o. This month's theme is Build, featuring sick brands like Power Rangers, hang ten; Batman, wax it up; Lego, mondo bitchin'; and Tetris, shaka. (all laugh)
Sam: So don't get raked over by a wiper, point your nose to Lootcrate.com/CriticalRole and use promo code "criticalrole" for 10% off your subscription. You'll be radder than Tom Curren nailing a 360 air reverse rodeo. You'll be cooler than a tight on-shore breeze at Malibu. You'll be more authentic than a sad voice actor searching for surfing terms on Yahoo Answers at 5 pm-- (all laugh)
Sam: -- when he should be really spending more quality time with his children, as their youthful lives pass by without their father, precious moments ticking away until one day they're adults, and you're standing at their wedding, thinking, "Oh my god, I missed so much, I missed so very much, and for what? A Loot Crate ad?" Anyway, ride that tube and subscribe today, (shouting) bonzai! (all laugh and cheer)
Travis: I mean, he's a whole new echelon. It's a whole new--
Taliesin: You just Inception'd a Loot Crate ad.
Matt: Thank you for that!
Travis: Incredible!
Matt: Sam.
Marisha: You took, like, a failed Californian sketch and turned it into Oscar-winning material.
Matt: That is, thank you very much.
Laura: It hurts, it hurts.
Liam: I didn't know Rhodey's, Rhodey's a father, that's an interesting development.
Sam: Yeah.
Matt: Indeed.
Sam: Many. Many.
Matt: Just a heads-up, guys, we've done a couple of these and we're going to do a couple more of these upcoming For Honor streams, where a few of us are going to be guesting on here for a number of hours to play For Honor and beat the shit out of each other and other people, as various historical warriors of old. And then a number of us are actually, I think, a voice in the game.
Travis: Yeah!
Matt: But yeah. So tomorrow, joining the Nerdist team from 9 am to 12 noon Pacific Time, we have Liam and Travis--
Travis: Woo!
Liam: Tarvis!
Matt: --to jump in on there, and then, on Saturday, from 12 noon to 3 pm, that's going to be Travis, Taliesin, Sam, Marisha, and myself on there--
Marisha: Hey-oh.
Matt: -- all playing the game, getting crazy.
Laura: Woah. Really?
Travis: Yep.
Laura: Why aren't I there?
Travis: 'Cuz you suck.
Laura: Oh man.
Liam: He's right.
Laura: I know it!
Liam: He would know. He would know.
Matt: (laughs) So yeah, it'll be here on the Twitch, check it out, I'm really excited, I haven't played the game yet? And everyone I know who's talked about has said it's ridiculously fun and amazing. It's like, the upgrade of Dark Souls combat and I'm really excited about it.
Travis: I have to, like, show up an hour early and learn how to play, or we're going to get. We're going to get killed a lot.
Marisha: Yeah, I'm probably going to.
Travis: We've got to work on our death sounds.
Liam: What, I'm Leet, man, you're going down, and stuff.
Travis: (belches)
Laura: Leet!
Matt: (accented voice) Going down.
Travis: No. No. You... are the one falling, in the opposite direction of up.
Liam: (in Christopher Walken voice) It's important to point out, we're not doing Walken anymore-- (all laugh)
Liam: --we're doing our impression of Troy, doing an impression of Nolan doing Walken.
Matt: Oh, wow.
Travis: It's a quad lay-up.
Matt: The chain goes deep.
Laura: Yeah, it does.
Travis: (Walken voice) Quad. Lay-up.
Laura: Woah. Just woah. (laughs)
Liam: I don't even know what Walken sounds like, it's come through a daisy-chain of assholes.
Matt: It's true, it's true. That's our next shirt. "Daisy Chain of Assholes." I'm okay with that.
Travis: Critical Role  It's About Scientology--
Matt: Also, don't google that phrase!
Travis: -- and a Daisy Chain of Assholes.
Matt: All right! Next up, we have (quieter) me, breaking my pen. Uh--
Laura: Oh, no.
Matt: April 1st!
Travis: April 1st!
Matt: WonderCon!
Travis: WonderCON!
Matt: Save the date. We have--
Sam: We're allowed to say the date now?
Matt: We do now. That's all the information we have so far, but April 1st, WonderCon. Critical Role and Talks Machina live, in their--
Laura: Be there or be squared!
Matt: -- big room, it's gonna be good.
Travis: Anaheim.
Marisha: Big room, did I say square?
Sam: It is not an epic April Fools' Joke--
Matt: No.
Sam: -- this is really happening.
Travis: It's really happening.
Taliesin: It's really happening.
Sam: Okay.
Travis: And it's going to be a big, big, rowdy room. So if you're like, "Aw, I don't want to go, there's not going to be any seats." There gon' be seats.
Matt: There's plenty of seats.
Liam: Yeah, it's--
Travis: Bring it, if you can.
Liam: --It's April Fools', we're not going to be there.
Travis: I can say that.
Sam: You know what?
Liam: We're not going to do that.
Sam: I will promise that I will play at least one April Fools' joke on one of you, during that panel.
Laura: Ooh.
Taliesin: I'm excited by this.
Laura: Can I vote for Brian?
Liam: I'm not.
Sam: Sure, of course.
Taliesin: I think that's a great idea.
Travis: He's not listening to this right now.
Matt: We should have a poll in the community for which member of the team Sam gets to prank. (all laugh)
Matt: Don't actually do that, please. 'Cause we all know that's going to be--
Taliesin: I'm a big fan of Brian, I have a feeling that's a good bet.
Matt: Also!
Marisha: Man, we're being so transparent.
Matt: Isn't it, though? All right! Next up--
Liam: Wow.
Matt: Signal Boost has returned. Marisha, if you want to talk about that.
Marisha: It has returned--
Travis: Oh, snap!
Marisha: Oh, my goodness, you guys! The amazing Darin De Paul, already. He kicked off the season.
Travis: DDP!
Liam: So good.
Taliesin: It was crazy.
Marisha: Yes. Yeah, he kind of set the bar really high.
Taliesin: It was crazy.
Matt: He's awesome.
Marisha: You guys know Darin as the voice of Reinhardt from Overwatch, and many other things. But--
Matt: He's also the main villain, Ardyn, in Final Fantasy XV and a bunch of other games. Super talented--
Laura: He's blowing up! He's in everything now!
Matt: He's incredible.
Marisha: He's great.
Sam: I don't care for him. (All laugh)
Travis: I think he's rude. And he smells funny.
Matt: There you go.
Sam: He didn't want to come on my show, Siggle Boost.
Marisha: (laughs)
Travis: Siggle Boost?
Sam: Siggle Boost.
Marisha: Wow, I haven't heard of that one.
Taliesin: Do you guys just like draw weird circles?
Sam: Yup. Yeah.
Taliesin: Right, okay. I was just checking.
Matt: And people correct you for mispronouncing it.
Laura: It's called Sigil Boost.
Marisha: Sigil Boost.
Sam: That's true, that's true.
Liam: Let's run the GIF (hard g) of that now, please.
Taliesin: It's pronounced siggle.
Marisha: Yes, it's back. You should watch it. Yup.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Marisha: People.
Matt: Yeah, Erika Ishii just did hers--
Marisha: On Tuesdays.
Matt: --and then Amy Dallen's up next, right?
Marisha: Amy Dallen is up next and--
Matt: Awesome.
Marisha: Yeah. It's good people coming up.
Taliesin: Yeah, you drain Erika Ishii's blood. It's pretty great.
Marisha: Yes. We do. Yeah.
Liam: Yeah, but you can only do it once, though.
Marisha: Yeah.
Taliesin: It's a great trick. You can only do it once.
Matt: Laura, do you have a merch update?
Laura: Do I? Do I? Do-
Travis: Do I?
Matt: It's on the list.
Laura: We watched Galaxy Quest last night.
Travis: So great.
Laura: So good. Again. For, like, the hundredth time. You know, I mean, there's merch in the store right now. These dice bags that I'm holding in my hand. I literally just happened to be holding it as you asked me that, which is crazy. There's a very small amount of them left, I happen to know.
Sam: In the hundreds? In the fifties? In the tens?
Taliesin: Baker's dozen.
Laura: In the barely hundreds.
Sam: Wow.
Marisha: Yeah.
Travis: It's a lot.
Marisha: They went fast.
Laura: Which, you know, could be a lot or couldn't. Depending on if you want them.
Sam: Wow.
Laura: There's also shirts! And hats! And patches and--
Matt: (singing) Things, oh God!
Laura: -- other stuff coming up that I'm real excited about, and I'll show it to you when it's here.
Travis: Yep.
Matt: (clicking dice) Such a beautiful sound.
Travis: (sniffing) Allergies. (groans)
Taliesin: You watched Galaxy Quest.
Laura: Yeah.
Travis: You don't need that-- he can have that many. You have too many.
Taliesin: You know they have the dubbed version of the alien language on the DVD?
Laura: No!
Taliesin: (alien noises) The whole movie, the entire movie-- You can watch it, if you're drunk enough.
Laura: It's just so good.
Marisha: (laughs)
Matt: That's pretty great. All right!
Liam: I'm ready.
Matt: Anything else anyone wants to talk about? Or are we good? I think we're good.
Travis: We're good.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: So we're going to hop in, and start off tonight's episode of--
Laura: Oh God.
Matt: Critical Role. (All cheer)
Marisha: That's right. [opening credits]
Matt: Hello everyone, and welcome back. (all laugh)
Travis: Well done.
Matt: So, to get you up to speed with our current story: Vox Machina, having just completed the destruction of the Chroma Conclave, a scourge of ancient chromatic dragons that have terrorized the countryside. They are victorious, yet in the process lost a couple of lives. Percy returned and Scanlan, his lifeless body brought back to Whitestone. They completed the ritual correctly, and he came to life; however, he remains unconscious in a pseudo-coma. They left him in Whitestone, hopefully to recover. While beginning to finish up some of their last business they've been unable to with the current rush of this current arc. They made a journey to Vasselheim, where they walked through the Abundant Terrace and into the Birthheart itself, the temple of Melora within Vasselheim, spoke with one of the various worshippers there, and buried a box of ashes, apparently, of Senokir's wife--
Marisha: "Apparently"
Matt: --as a thank you for when you guys journeyed and met him in the City of Brass on the Fire Elemental Plane. Upon doing so, you then began to scatter about the city to do some business. One of the elements of which: Grog Strongjaw, along with Pike, made their way to the Trial Forge, which is the Kord section of the city. Returning to the Trial Forge, the temple to Kord, and upon walking to the center of the strangely empty temple structure, you saw, down in a once previously traversed sandpit, there stood Earthbreaker Groon, the high priest of Kord, who then turned to you--
Travis: My palms are really wet.
Laura: (laughs)
Matt: --and asked you to "show him what you had learned." After slamming his feet into the sand and preparing himself for conflict, he beckons you towards him. And that is where we left off. So--
Laura: Oh god, oh god, oh god.
Matt: --as you're standing up there on the edge of this pit, Groon just stands there with his hand beckoning towards you.
Travis: I reach into my Bag of Holding, and I pull out a small drawing of the letter "G". This. This is what I have learn-- That's not it. That's not what I wanted. And I take out the Dwarven Thrower and I jump into the sandpit.
Matt: All righty. (jumping sound) (impact thud) There, as you land in the sand, the bottoms of your boots sinking but a couple of inches into the soft surface. Pike gets ready to leap down after and Groon puts his hand up. "No...."
Travis: Oh, shit.
Matt: This fight is for us.
Laura: Oh, god.
Laura: Yeah, we're here, we're watching it, right?
Matt: You guys didn't say if you were catching up with them last time.
Laura: Yeah, we said we came in the temple with them.
Marisha: Uh, no, we're totally watching this.
Taliesin: We're here, we're here.
Matt: So then you guys rush in afterward, hoping that-- Morpheus is fighting Neo, you guys-- (all laugh)
Matt: You all rush in on the outskirts here to watch. I'll put you in over here to keep an eye on the sidelines. Grog, I need you to roll initiative.
Laura: Oh my god!
Travis: (blows raspberry)
Sam: Big roll, big roll.
Marisha: Big roll! Big money, no whammies.
Liam: Now we attack on the count of three.
Travis: I get advantage on my (mumbles)
Taliesin: Jenga.
Liam: Get 'im.
Travis: That's shit.
Laura: God, oh god.
Marisha: Come on, come on.
Travis: That-- that's one worse.
Travis: Five!
Liam: Oh!
Matt: You're going second.
Travis: Hey! You can go away.
Laura: (laughs) You're in jail.
Marisha: You know, second has its advantages sometimes.
Matt: (clears throat) So.
Marisha: Sometimes.
Travis: Mm-hm.
Matt: As you land and ready yourself with the hammer at the side, knowing that all of your friends are up on the outer edges of this watching you, you look up at Groon, who just, his hands at the ready, puts them down at his sides and just.... (slow steps)
Travis: Awesome.
Matt: Just walks up towards you... And just stands there. Your turn.
Sam: Like a matador.
Travis: What a dick move! What a dick move! Right. (clears throat) I, uh. I bow.
Sam: Oh!
Travis: And say... Kord's strength be with you. And I smash the Titanstone Knuckles together.
Matt: All righty! (laughs) Off to a start.
Sam: (sound of impact)
Laura: (whispers) Oh my god. I wish we had popcorn!
Marisha: Oh, yeah. Is there popcorn in the studio?
Denise: (off screen) No.
Laura: Damn it!
Marisha: Damn it!
Marisha: Damn it, Denise.
Taliesin: (laugh)
Laura: (laugh)
Denise: (off screen) Sorry! (all laugh)
Marisha: Always the bearer of bad news, that one.
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: Don't say her name three times, then your rolls won't come true.
Travis: I would like to move backwards three squares.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: That's my turn.
Matt: All right. On his turn he stands there.
Laura: Ahh!
Matt: He stares right at you.
Travis: Fucking knew it!
Matt: Arms at the side--
Travis: What is-- It's a test already!
Marisha: Waiting for you to go first?
Travis: I hate the SATs! I hate Scantrons, I hate number two pencils, I hate all of it! (all laugh)
Liam: Don't blink, don't blink. Roll with it, player.
Travis: MM-hm, mm-hmm, mm-hmm.
Marisha: It's totally--
Travis: I start in that same distance from him, the same radial distance, I start walking to my right. My full speed.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: That's my turn.
Matt: He turns with you as you move and just rights himself and stares at you. Your turn. (all laugh)
Sam: Worst chess game ever.
Laura: I know, right?
Liam: Smash cut to two hours later. (all laugh)
Matt: I know.
Travis: All right. Okay.
Sam: "What do you want me to do!"
Laura: "Are you hungry? I'm kind of hungry."
Travis: I would like to rage.
Matt: Okay. (woosh) So--
Travis: And I do so by taking the...dwarven thrower and smashing it against my chest. And then I chuck it at him.
Matt: All right. As you slam it into your chest, you can feel the impact, and there's that brief sharp bit of pain as the metal clashes against the muscle, slamming against the bone and your rib cage. And that pain just kind of shoots through you like exciting electricity and you harness the pain as your eyes blur for a moment as you feel the rage overtake you, your muscles flexing and tensing and with that fury now flowing through your body, you take the hammer. I need you to go ahead and make a wisdom saving throw.
Sam: Oh no.
Laura: Oh shit.
Travis: (whispers) I knew it. (louder) I mean, I didn't know it.
Sam: Oh no.
Travis: Which is a minus two, right?
Matt: Yes.
Travis: That's a six.
Matt: As you go to throw, the strength leaves your arm and it just hangs limp at the side. The attack is lost.
Travis: Any reason why?
Matt: You don't know.
Travis: Not that I'd know. Cool. Do I have another attack?
Matt: Yeah. You have two attacks.
Marisha: He just Jedi mind-tricked you.
Travis: I shake off the random numb arm, and I toss it over to the other hand like, "C'mon, Betsy!" And I throw it with that hand. (all laugh)
Matt: Okay. Roll another wisdom saving throw.
Travis: I don't know D&D enough to know what the fuck's happening right now. Ooh! 16?
Matt: Uh, 16, actually let me see this real fast.
Travis: I have a modifier of zero. Minus two.
Laura: Minus two.
Travis: I rolled an 18.
Taliesin: Monks are not in my wheelhouse.
Matt: Monks are fun.
Marisha: I feel like this guy's special, too.
Travis: He's not even here. This is a dream.
Liam: Slowly, Raishan uncurls like a Xenomorph from the ceiling.
Matt: What'd you roll?
Travis: 16.
Matt: Nope. This time, you do manage to push through and throw the hammer, but you end up throwing it way wide. Like, 20 feet away from him. Like, you're looking at him and just go (whoosh) (all laugh)
Matt: It comes back, and you catch it, and you're like, something's just messing with your mind. There's something about his presence right now that is oppressing your ability to actually attack towards him.
Travis: All right. All I have is my bonus action.
Matt: Well, you used your bonus action to rage, right?
Travis: Oh I did, yeah. I don't have a bonus action. That's my turn.
Matt: All right. He turns towards you. Walks forward--
Travis: No, I don't.
Matt: --very, just, carefully and intently. That's his turn. You go.
Travis: God dang it!
Laura: Oh man. What does he want-a!
Taliesin: (whispering) Popcorn.
Laura: (whispering) He wants popcorn.
Taliesin: (whispering) He wants popcorn.
Travis: I try and hit him with it with both hands.
Matt: Okay, so you you're using both hands--
Travis: Yeah, both hands.
Matt: Go for it. Roll a wisdom saving throw. (laughter)
Liam: Look at his little boy smile.
Travis: Six!
Matt: You go to swing and he seems to blur for a moment, your eyes blink and as you swing with the hammer, you swung far to your left and it's almost like your arms are intentionally missing and almost fighting your directoral sense.
Laura: Shut up, Brian Wayne Foster!
Marisha: Awesome! Brian Fostah.
Travis: This is so stupid! Okay, I keep the hammer in one hand but I just try and punch him with the Titanstone Knuckles out of frustration.
Matt: Okay. Make a wisdom saving throw.
Travis: What? No weapon in my hand?
Matt: Mm-hm.
Travis: Nine!
Matt: You go to punch and by the time it gets to his chest there's so little force behind it that your fingers just kind of unfold open against him, almost breaking your wrist in the process, and you pull back, and he's just staring right at you. "Show me you have the will to fight. Come at me!" Are you going to move or are you going to stay where you are?
Travis: I'm going to stay within his attack range, but I'm going to 180 around him.
Matt: Okay. That's easy enough to get around here. All righty.
Travis: And I'll stay there.
Matt: All right. For his turn, he turns around--
Travis: No he doesn't. Come on. Come on.
Matt: Your turn.
Travis: Oh, this is a nightmare. I just want to hit him! (all laugh)
Travis: All right. All right. Maybe it's all about love! And I try and give him a bear hug!
Matt: Okay... make a wisdom saving throw.
Travis: No!
Laura: You got this. Natural 20.
Travis: That's a zero. (all laugh)
Travis: I rolled a two.
Laura: Two zero, exactly.
Matt: You go to grab him, and you reach, and you feel this physical form in your grasp, and then your arms all of a sudden touch nothing, and you realize that he's standing where he was. You grabbed what was almost like a mirage or an illusion, it's almost like your brain is playing tricks on you. That's one attack.
Travis: (surprised grunt)
Laura: You can do it, Grog! I don't know what he wants, but figure it out!
Travis: I look so pathetic right now.
Sam: Yo, how does it look to the rest of the gang?
Matt: It looks hilarious. (all laugh)
Liam: What did we just see?
Matt: It's hilarious, and it's disconcerting, because you're watching as Grog, in the middle of his rage, most of his attacks are amateur, far too wide away from the target, or by the time they get close, he is holding himself back. And you don't know why. Something is messing with his will and preventing him from being able to follow through with his attacks.
Travis: Okay. (sighs)
Matt: Second attack?
Travis: Second attack. I just want to touch him with my finger. Just, like, a boop.
Matt: Okay. You reach out and your finger touches his chest (cracking sound), and you feel--
Travis: He's real?! He's there?!
Matt: He's real. The skin's there.
Travis: Thought you might be a dragon. Wisdom saving throw?
Matt: That wasn't an attack.
Travis: Oh! I touched him!
Matt: You touched him.
Laura: Great job, Grog!
Marisha: We believe in you, Grog!
Liam: Okay, now ramp it up! (all laugh)
Matt: He smiles at you and goes, "And with gentleness there comes clarity."
Travis: (heavy breathing)
Sam: I think you're going to have to fuck him, Grog. (all laugh)
Matt: And that's your turn?
Travis: That's my turn.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: (quietly) What? With gentleness there comes--?
Matt: "With gentleness there comes clarity." And he smiles through his big, white-grey beard. And then the smile fades, his eyes flash, and he is going to attack you with a flurry of blows.
Laura: Oh no.
Travis: Wait, I haven't learned the lesson yet. I'm still--
Matt: The lesson's just begun.
Travis: Oh no.
Matt: All right, that is-- ooh. 33 to hit.
Travis: (squeaky voice) Mmm, yep.
Matt: That is a 24 to hit.
Travis: (squeaky voice) Yep.
Matt: That is a natural one. So that is a failure. And it's a 32 to hit, so he hits you three times.
Laura: Jeez Louise.
Matt: So you're raging, so you take half damage from these, because they're bludgeoning, since he's punching you.
Travis: Mmhmm.
Matt: His eyes flash, he rushes up and pummels you once in the chin, elbows you in the sternum, goes and grabs your shoulder and leaps over behind you and then kicks straight back into the middle of your shoulder blades and (pained gasp) you feel the breath almost get kicked out of you. That is 15 bludgeoning damage, halved to--
Travis: Seven?
Matt: We'll say eight.
Travis: Eight? Yeah.
Matt: That is nine, reduced to five, and that is 13 reduced to seven. There you go.
Travis: Oh shit, that's 20 points of damage. Cool.
Matt: That's his turn. You're up.
Travis: Uh, yeah. Sweet, sweet anus.
Marisha: That's a really good British candy.
Travis: What do monks do? Can I, like, use my magic powers? And I want to keep my eyes closed, and I'm gonna swing around behind me, knowing that I just got kicked in the back there.
Matt: Okay, go ahead and make an attack with disadvantage.
Travis: Oh! No wisdom saving throw?
Matt: Nope.
Laura: With gentleness comes clarity. You touched him, maybe if you'd've shaken his hand.
Travis: With disadvantage?
Matt: With disadvantage, because you have your eyes closed.
Travis: Uh, 23.
Matt: That just barely hits. (all gasp)
Matt: Go ahead and roll damage.
Travis: (mumbling) Okay, with a ten.
Sam: So what did we learn from that?
Travis: I should've done it reckless. No, I don't want him rolling reckless, holy shit! God, I'll die in a second.
Marisha: His AC's 23.
Sam: No, that-- close your eyes-- or, how does this... what?
Liam: It might be touch.
Sam: I'm so confused.
Liam: You're unconscious.
Taliesin: You've got the touch.
Travis: That's 18 points of damage.
Matt: 18 points of damage, gotcha. That's your first strike (hitting sound). You feel the weapon behind you make contact with a form, and (cracking noise), you see a little bit of sand out of your peripheral this side go (scattering sound) as his form gets pushed about a foot, kind of setting some of it off.
Travis: So it goes (low hitting sound). I close my eyes again. I swing around the other way, and I try to connect.
Matt: Okay, roll again with disadvantage.
Travis: That's not bad. 14 and 20, uh... 29.
Matt: That hits, yes.
Travis: Yes, okay. Damn, same thing, so 18 points of damage.
Matt: 18 points of damage. All righty. As he takes both impacts, kind of parrying them with his forearms with each impact. They're still hitting him, and he's still taking the brunt of the attack and the pain, but with each hit you can feel the force of his forearm is almost stopping still the hammer blow as you're throwing it behind you, and you can see him gritting teeth with each impact, but he's just staring right at you again as you kind of spin around, open your eye again to see what you did. He kind of gives you a bit of a narrowed glare--
Travis: Stink eye?
Matt: Little bit of a stink eye.
Travis: Fuck.
Matt: But like an intentional kind of connecting point and just says--
Travis: Pink eye?
Matt: No, that's a whole different-- that's a different monk path. (all laugh)
Laura: Like that little hobbit.
Travis: Be nice.
Matt: Let's see here.
Travis: I'm a student here.
Laura: What's the lesson? What's the lesson?!
Matt: Okay, he's going to go ahead and attack you twice. (punch sound) Two punches, straight to your back of your shoulders and neck as you're turning around to look at him. That is a 17, misses. No, that does hit.
Travis: That hits, yeah, it's my AC.
Matt: And a 23.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: So both hit you. That is... 16, so eight damage.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: And that is ten, so five damage.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: And he's going to spend three ki.
Travis: Three ki?!
Matt: Yeah, three ki points. So, the first punch hits you across the chin. The second one, he slams his fingers, curled up, right into your sternum as you turn around to face him (whack), and as it hits you, you feel these kind of vibrations, ripples, carry through your body, and then slowly fade inside. And you feel this tingling, this very faint, brief numbness that just kind of lingers throughout your body. You can feel it gathering at the edge of fingertips and toes, almost like ripples through a lake, and he steps away. You get to make an attack of opportunity if you'd like.
Travis: (strained) I would.
Matt: Don't forget, you can use your reaction to get an attack back because of your retaliation ability.
Travis: Yeah, I've totally forgotten that, I'm just totally stunned at this point. That's good, that's 32.
Matt: 32 hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
Travis: (sing-songy noises) That's a ten.
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: All these sounds are in game, in character.
Travis: So 20, 25.
Laura: (gibberish)
Liam: (gibberish)
Marisha: (laughs) When Grog becomes Popeye.
Matt: All righty, and he just stands across the way, and just kind of beckons you towards him. Your turn.
Travis: And I feel all shake-weighty at the moment, right?
Matt: Yeah. You're not quite sure. You don't feel bad, it's just this kind of uneasiness in your body.
Travis: Can I take a step towards him?
Matt: Mm-hm, take a step forward.
Travis: Does anything happen? Do I shit my pants?
Matt: Nope. (all laugh)
Matt: Not yet.
Travis: Can I take the other four steps of the five step exploding heart point technique thing?
Matt: Seems fine.
Travis: Cool.
Marisha: What would you have done if you shat your pants on that fifth step?
Laura: Oh my god, that would have been amazing.
Travis: Just explosive shat. I'd be, like, kill me now. Kill me now, take it away.
Marisha: Just lost your bowels.
Matt: (laughs) I'd have to bring out the cone template for that.
Marisha: Like a very dedicated marathon runner.
Laura: (laughs) Area of effect?
Travis: Can I close the rest of the distance to him?
Matt: Sure.
Travis: I want to try the bear hug again. I want to grapple him.
Matt: Okay. So, go ahead. And I think it's your athletics versus his--
Travis: So I can touch him now.
Matt: (mumbling) Acrobatics, I'm pretty sure.
Travis: The wisdom saving throw was something in the beginning.
Laura: Yeah, I think it was, you have to shake his hand or do something, like, gentle to him.
Liam: I like the idea that it's silent in here and we're just hearing sand get kicked around and Grog breathing like a bull.
Laura: I like to think that Earthbreaker Groon has, like, mood music for his fights.
Marisha: Agreed, yeah.
Travis: There's frustrated grunts happening.
Laura: He's got a sound system.
Matt: So, make an athletics check.
Travis: Okay.
Marisha: Like war drums, yeah.
Taliesin: Like taiko. (low drum sounds)
Laura: Ooh! That'd be sick.
Marisha: (joins in on the drum sounds) Totally.
Travis: 24. Plus 16 plus eight.
Matt: Yeah, okay, so you go to grab him and he just (fwish) slips out.
Travis: Damn. My athletics versus his? Judo?
Matt: He just kind of like parries it to the side, ducks under and rights himself, just out of your grasp.
Travis: Cool, that was nice. Do I have a second attack?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: Two-handed great weapon master, please.
Matt: Okay, go for it.
Travis: That's not going to hit. 24.
Matt: 24 hits.
Travis: Oh, it does?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: Oh, 23, that's right.
Liam: 23 was the threshold.
Travis: Thank you, god. No it doesn't, 24 minus five.
Matt: Oh, minus five. So, as you go to swing, both of your hands on the hammer, (grunts) giant downward arc. As it slams downward, you see his form (whoosh) shift, and suddenly he's two feet to the right. He moved so fast with the side step, and you slam it down into the sand. You guys watch as this crater emerges (boom), and the sand shoots off the sides from the impact of Grog's blow on the ground. Groon seemingly unaffected.
Travis: That ends my--
Matt: You're not frenzied yet, right?
Travis: Nope. That ends my turn. Yep.
Matt: Okay. At the end of your turn, he's going to go ahead and make an unarmed attack on you.
Travis: Unarmed attack?
Matt: That's just his punch as a part of his legendary action here. That is a 27 to hit.
Travis: Oh, that hits.
Matt: You suffer another ten points of bludgeoning damage, reduced to five.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: Now it's Groon's turn.
Taliesin: Two lair actions.
Matt: He's gonna go ahead and make another series of attacks on you. That is an 18?
Travis: Yeah, that hits.
Matt: 17.
Travis: Hits, also.
Matt: All right. So that is nine plus eight. That'd be 17. So, say nine points of bludgeoning.
Travis: Nine?
Matt: And then--ooh! 18. So another nine points of bludgeoning damage. I need you to go ahead and make a constitution saving throw.
Travis: Damn, Gina.
Liam: Nice pull.
Sam: I don't get it.
Travis: 21.
Matt: 21, okay. As his first hit is a long round haymaker punch across the chin, he comes from underneath and goes for an uppercut that hits you right in the jaw. Right at the side where usually it would snap and really mess with somebody's ability to stay either conscious or control their atmosphere. You just manage to maneuver out of the way where it hurts, but the impact doesn't hit its intended place, and you resist the effect.
Travis: What was the effect?
Matt: You don't know.
Travis: God damn it.
Sam: Diarrhea.
Laura: Instant knockout.
Travis: I'll shit my pants before this fight is over with.
Laura: The button.
Travis: On the button?
Laura: It's the button.
Travis: It's the brown note.
Matt: It's your turn.
Travis: My turn. I am so tired of this slippery shit. I go into a frenzied rage!
Matt: Okay. (unenthused cheering)
Travis: Yeah, thank you. I would like to Great Weapon Master try to hit him with the Dwarven Thrower.
Matt: Go for it.
Travis: Not reckless. No. (crying) I don't know what the lesson is. 32 minus five is 37.
Matt: 27?
Travis: 27!
Matt: That hits.
Travis: Yeah. 32 minus five is 37! 35.
Matt: Okay. This one cracks him right across the side of his shoulder and pec area (wham), and you watch as for the first time since this battle started, he loses his footing, and he has to catch himself behind. His head looks back and he turns around towards you and a big smile goes across his face as he goes, "Good. Keep showing me."
Travis: I was encouraged until he got creepy with the talking.
Laura: Maybe he just likes getting hit.
Travis: All right, I hit him again!
Matt: Go for it.
Travis: That's gonna hit. That's a 31 minus five is 26.
Matt: Yeah, go ahead and roll damage.
Travis: 22... 32.
Matt: 32. Nice.
Laura: He's got like 5,000 hit points. More than last time.
Travis: Last one. Reckless.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: (gasps)
Travis: What's life without a little spice?
Matt: Sure.
Marisha: Ask him.
Travis: 18, not quite. 34 minus--29.
Matt: That hits, yeah.
Travis: Yeah. Close to what I wanted. This is 33.
Matt: Okay, cool. All right, so, as you unleash your next series of blows against him, you saw him topple from the first hit. The other two, he pulls his arms in and takes them, one to the shoulder, and the other one hits him in the stomach (air getting knocked out) and he grabs your arm, and pushes off. Jumps in the air and lands about five feet from you.
Travis: Is he bruised? Is there a slap mark? I mean, is there any blood? Anything to tell me that I might be doing a good job?
Matt: He looks, more so than the previous fight that you had with him, it looks like he's starting to take some hits.
Travis: Good! Yeah.
Matt: He's gonna use Legendary Action to take a hit on you.
Liam: A Legendary Action?
Matt: That is a 30.
Travis: (squeaks) Hits.
Matt: Actually it's with advantage because--
Travis: Yep.
Matt: So that is another nine points of bludgeoning damage.
Travis: Sweet.
Matt: Not halved. That is what it is halved.
Travis: Okay. Because it's legendary--
Matt: Because it would be 18, yeah.
Travis: Right.
Matt: Okay. His turn. He slowly walks around you. And says, "Your size is useful for those who know not how to use it against you." And he rushes down, beneath your large standing form, and goes into a series of strikes against the inside of your knees and your legs and we'll see how the last blow hits.
Travis: I've been forgetting to roll my enlarged damage.
Matt: That's a 30 on the first hit.
Travis: Yep.
Matt: That is a 21 on the second hit.
Travis: (high pitched) Yeah, sure.
Matt: That is a 29 on the third hit.
Travis: (laughs) How many hits are there?!
Laura: Four.
Matt: And natural 20 on the fourth.
Liam: Natural 20 to the gooch.
Laura: To the chode hit?!
Travis: Wow, had to Reckless, huh?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: Cool.
Travis: Vegas is a short trip this time.
Matt: So that is 18 reduced to half; that's nine.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: 14 reduced in half is seven.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: That is a nine reduced in half is five.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: And final strike is a 20. Reduced in half, that is ten.
Travis: Can I use my Stone's Endurance on that last one?
Matt: Sure! Go for it.
Travis: All right.
Laura: Nice.
Travis: That's 12. Plus my constitution, which is five, so 17.
Matt: And I would like you to make another constitution save.
Travis: Shit! So do I add 17 hit points back?
Matt: No, you reduce the attack, which was 10 damage?
Travis: Yeah, so just wipe it out?
Matt: Yeah, it does none.
Travis: Okay, cool. I'm getting down there.
Laura: Really?
Sam: He's down to triple digits now.
Travis: Constitution saving throw. 18.
Matt: 18.
Travis: Ten plus ten minus two is 18.
Matt: Okay. You feel from that impact, all of your muscles seize up. He goes for the same strike zone on the other side of the chin and hits and you kind of (groans) as you pull back. And then, feel all of a sudden this pulse (throbbing sound). The pulse (louder throbbing sound) and all your muscles tense up. You're stunned until the end of your next turn.
Travis: Shit! (laughs)
Laura: What does being stunned do? You can't move?
Matt: Can't move, can't do anything, you're considered incapacitated.
Travis: He Vulcan Pinched my ass.
Liam: Groon's in Vegas and your ass just came up pineapples.
Liam: (slot machine ringing)
Travis: (slot machine ringing)
Laura: I'm gonna pull an arrow out and just stand there and get ready in case Groon does anything.
Matt: Okay. Groon is thinking to go ahead and step back to there.
Travis: What?
Matt: Which would be there.
Laura: He's waiting for you to become unstunned.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: And as he darts back, you guys watch as he runs to the back. As he does, his feet barely touch the sand (fast, light footsteps). You see these very faint little plumes behind each footstep, as this giant man has almost no weight across the ground--
Travis: Like a jackrabbit.
Matt: --as he runs with such speed. And as he lands and finds his footing (loud boom), the weight seems to kick in once more, and you watch as the sand (scattering sound) shoots out behind him. He stands his ground and crosses his arms, and just watches. So Grog, it's your turn. You're stunned. You end your turn, you're no longer stunned. It's now back to him.
Travis: (whispers) Fuck.
Matt: He puts his hand up. Puts it up towards you.
Sam: Oh, no.
Matt: Closes his fingers
Travis: Oh, no, I've seen this before.
Matt: And you feel this (pulse) in your chest, right in the sternum right where he hit you earlier. I need you to go ahead and roll a constitution saving throw again.
Travis: 23 minus two, 21?
Sam: Ooh?
Matt: 21!
Sam: Ooh!
Travis: Constitution I have a lot of. For my saving throws.
Matt: That (pulse) sound ripples out (rapid impacts) and you feel the muscles begin to tear, the ligaments begin to burn from the inside. You manage to, through the sheer force of physical constitution, shrug off what would've been immensely more deadly circumstance, but you still do take 10d10 necrotic damage. (everyone groans)
Sam: It would've been 20d10?
Matt: No, you would've dropped to zero hit points.
Laura: Oh shit.
Travis: Is that the palm thing?
Marisha: Quivering Palm?
Matt: It's the Quivering Palm. He's not holding back this time.
Laura: Oh no!
Travis: Oh, I mean, don't make any special exceptions on my part. Fuck.
Liam: Vax is watching; he just leaked a little bit.
Laura: Gross!
Matt: 18... 26.
Sam: (whispers) Quivering Palm...
Laura: No one will ever notice, the armor already stinks.
Matt: Take 51 points of necrotic damage.
Travis: 52?
Matt: 51 points of necrotic damage.
Travis: 51. Okay.
Laura: How much damage?
Matt: 51 points of necrotic damage.
Travis: I'm out of the triple digits guys.
Laura: (gasps)
Sam: Oh, man.
Laura: Does Grog look all bloody yet, or is he--
Matt: You guys watch as Grog is standing there, his body shakes and shimmers, and you watch various veins that usually bulge in his rage and enhance blood flow of his combat just (bursts and splatters) bursts in places. And blood just seems to spray out of him from multiple positions on his body. And you see the blood now leaking all over him. He's just covered in his own crimson. He slowly turns around, prepares himself for the next round of combat.
Liam: That is some North Star shit.
Marisha: Oh, my god.
Taliesin: Nice.
Travis: Yeah. Yeah. Okay. (exhales) Good deal. Tight. Wow, distance doesn't help. Okay.
Laura: Can you talk to him? (louder) Can you talk to him?
Travis: I just look up, covered like Carrie, in the movie. Just dripping with fake blood.
Laura: Never mind! You're doing great, Grog! Keep going. (whispers) He looks like shit.
Marisha: (whispers) He does.
Sam: Sometimes music calms the savage beast. You could sing to him.
Travis: I would try Intimidating Presence, but he'll just shrug it off because he's amazing.
Liam: It's fine, it looks like he's going to rally. Here it comes.
Travis: I just take off straight for him.
Matt: Okay, you turn around--(counting) You just get into melee with him.
Travis: Cool. Awesome. I am going to take all three attacks at Great Weapon Master at him. NOT Reckless.
Matt: Okay! Go and make your attacks at disadvantage.
Laura: Why?!
Travis: Why?!
Travis: Because I'm covered in blood?
Matt: No. Because he used his Patient Defense.
Sam: Patient Defense.
Matt: Essentially with each blow that you--
Laura: Oh, that's fun.
Matt: --swing towards him, he's just prepared himself from a defensive position, to prepare himself. And he's using your own momentum against you to sway every attack away from him. So make all of your attacks at disadvantage.
Travis: So that's pretty smart. I threw that literally into the holder and it was on an edge. Shit. That's a natural 20 that's going to be replaced by a not as great (inhales sharply). 23 minus five. So, it'll be a dud.
Matt: Nope. So the first blow swings wide. He grabs the actual side of the hammer with both hands and just (whooshes) throws it off to the side.
Travis: Okay, okay. 31 minus five. 26.
Sam: Ooh.
Matt: 26. He attempts to parry this one, however, your sheer force of strength manages to push past his grasp, and you bring the hammer down towards his clavicle. Go ahead and roll damage.
Travis: (exhales) Oh, thank god. (high pitched) I like it when I hit them. (normal voice) That's 28 plus enlarge. Which I've been forgetting. 20.
Matt: 20!
Laura: 18 and 10? Because of your--
Travis: 18 plus 10 for Great Weapon Master. 28. 30.
Laura: 30? You said 20.
Travis: I said 20 I meant 30.
Laura: It's 30.
Matt: You mean 30.
Travis: My apologies. He is hitting me really, really hard.
Laura: Yeah. And your brain is already so little.
Travis: It's actually large, it just doesn't do much.
Matt: And if you're using your bonus action, you can get one more strike in.
Travis: I would like to. At disadvantage.
Matt: Go for it.
Travis: That's a one.
Matt: Nope. So, the second one does hit the clavicle, and it cracks and he (grunts). You see a little bit of blood spill out the corner of his mouth down his chin. And he looks up at you, and for a second there, the whites of his eyes seem to almost dim ever so slightly into a moment of humanity you haven't seen in him yet. He's been this godlike entity and this is the first point where you see that pain show just a hint of any sort of weakening. And he kinda looks right up into you. "Good. Good." And as you go for your third strike he literally puts up his hand and (heavy impact) catches the hammer in place.
Travis: Oh, god, it's so awesome!
Matt: He just holds it there as he stares at you.
Travis: (groans) Yeah, I'm checking reflexes.
Matt: Good.
Travis: I want you to know I'm not afraid to go down.
Matt: That is the first lesson. Let's see if your words can be put into practice.
Travis: Oh shit.
Marisha: Good night!
Laura: No! No!
Marisha: We'll see you in the morning, sleep well friends.
Travis: I hope you get a popcorn kernel in your teeth.
Matt: He is going to, let's see...
Liam: Go Cobra Kai on your ass.
Taliesin: Cobra Kai.
Travis: Sweep the leg, Johnny!
Taliesin: Never dies.
Liam: Put him in a bodybag!
Matt: Yeah, he's going to go into a flurry of blows against you. That's a natural 20.
Travis: (groans)
Matt: That is a 18?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: That is a 26.
Travis: Okay, all hit!
Matt: Yeah, those all hit, okay. So the first one is 18, reduced to half, is nine.
Travis: Nine, okay.
Matt: That is a nine, reduced to half, five.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: That is a 12 reduced to six.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: And that is a 13 reduced to seven.
Travis: Sweet. Real excited.
Matt: And he's just going to go ahead and rotate around you to the opposite side. As he turns around (punch sounds), hitting you as he goes with each hit.
Travis: (grunts, spurting blood noise)
Matt: I need you to go ahead and make a strength saving throw. You have advantage on these because you're raging.
Travis: Yeah, I know. But I still have minus two to them.
Matt: This is true.
Laura: Minus two?
Liam: It's going to knock the beard off your face.
Travis: That's better. 23 minus two, 21.
Matt: 21, okay, yeah. So, the last blow, as he comes round (punch noise), does a roundhouse kick and brings back and goes for a huge double-fisted kind of earth-side punch into your torso.
Travis: Not the double fist!
Matt: It's about to push you backward, but you dig in your feet (grunts) and resist it and hold your place.
Laura: Yeah!
Travis: Look who's catching who now.
Matt: Now it's your turn.
Travis: He didn't have a quip back for me, okay. Right. I would like to turn so I'm facing him.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: I want to pick him up and try and bodyslam him.
Matt: Okay! Go ahead and make an athletics check.
Travis: Okay. 24.
Matt: No, that's a 30 acrobatics. (everyone gasps)
Matt: You go to grab, and he steps back with his arms still crossed, leaps onto your hands as you reach out for him, and just jumps in the air, looks down at you before he comes landing right on top of your hands (bam), forcing your fists into the dirt. What are you going to do for your next attack?
Travis: I almost drop out of my rage because that was a real dick move, just dunking on me.
Laura: He's jumping and crossing his arms--
Travis: He did the Kill Bill on my hands. I want to try one more time.
Matt: All right, roll again.
Travis: 20.
Matt: Remember, you have advantage on these because you're raging.
Travis: It doesn't matter.
Matt: Okay, that's a 24 acrobatics. As you pull your hands up out of the dirt reaching out for him with these giant Titanstone gauntlet-encrusted fingers (groans), and the sand burst goes upwards, you reach, and find nothing but sand. And as the sand fades, he uses his-- Is this the end of your turn, because you still have a bonus action.
Travis: I still have a third one, yeah.
Matt: Okay, so as the sand is still cascading, now you can see his shape through it, what are you doing with your third strike?
Travis: I just want to try and grab a hold of the slippery bastard.
Matt: Okay, one more time.
Travis: Yeah. Strength, advantage or just natural roll?
Matt: Advantage on your athletics.
Travis: Okay.
Liam: God, it probably looks like he's running in circles to us.
Travis: 26.
Matt: He only rolled 24.
Laura: (gasps)
Matt: With the sand there, kind of coming down from the impact of you pulling your fists out, you reach out and finally they find purchase on the sides of his arms. And doing so, you (boom) pull him in, and grasp him right to your chest. The hammer still clutched in your right hand, and you watch as he (grunts) gets pulled in now, and he is firmly in your grasp, he is currently grappled.
Travis: Cool. I don't say anything, I'm just really stoked that I actually got him. (everyone laughs)
Travis: I'm like, take a picture! Whatever that is!
Laura: Draw it! Draw it! Quick, Percy! Should I flash him? Should I flash him?
Taliesin: It couldn't hurt.
Matt: You want to make this into a bodyslam?
Travis: Could I? MARISHA Couldn't hurt the rest of us, either!
Matt: I'll let you, sure. Okay.
Travis: I was thinking initially I'd like to remove one of his five hits that he takes on me, but, four, who gives a shit.
Matt: We'll say for the purposes of this, since your intent was to bodyslam him, go ahead and roll an attack with disadvantage.
Travis: Okay, attack with disadvantage. That's not that great. Oh, regular attack!
Matt: It's without your weapon bonus. It's minus 3.
Travis: Yeah, 22.
Matt: 22. You grab him and you lift, and it's like he's anchored to the ground. He's much smaller than you, and you can lift things far larger and denser than him, but for some reason, he won't budge an inch. He's just staring up at you, with his arms pressed to his sides.
Marisha: I want to learn that trick.
Travis: I've still got him grappled at least. That's it.
Matt: All right.
Laura: You have to be crouched down in order to be grappling him?
Travis: Yeah.
Marisha: It's like the possum trick.
Travis: Let's just assume that I picked him up. I'm just holding him grappled. Or am I squatting?
Matt: You're squatting down and grappling him. You went to lift him up but (grunts) he wouldn't budge.
Travis: Hugging Santa's little helper.
Liam: He's friggin third Hokage, man. He's not going anywhere.
Matt: As you're holding him, he closes his eyes.
Travis: He closes his eyes?
Matt: And you watch as this kind of warm orange-ish white energy begins to just emanate--
Laura: (gasps) He's going super saiyan!
Matt: --from various parts in his body. Just here, in the middle of the forehead a little glimmer opens here, a little glimmer in the shoulder--
Marisha: He's over 9000!
Matt: --his various chakra points begin to glow. And you watch as many of the bruises and bludgeons that you put upon his body, and cuts begin to heal up.
Laura: Shit.
Liam: I want to be at level 21.
Sam: That's 20 more levels.
Liam: Four more years of this.
Matt: (laughs) And he can't move, he's currently grappled. All right, so that's his turn. You go ahead.
Travis: I still have him grappled?
Matt: You still have him grappled.
Travis: I still want to try to get him to the ground. I want to try and get him prone. Can I try a leg wrap, so I'm gonna wrap my right leg around his, and dive forward. Trying to push him off-balance on to his back.
Matt: I'll say go ahead and make another athletics check.
Travis: Okay. 24.
Matt: 24, he got a 21. So we'll say for this, you go ahead, you'll be releasing the grapple, but you slam him on the ground and make him prone. So you manage to just (grunts) rip him off of whatever weird center of gravity he's forced himself into, lift him over your head, and just pile-drive him into the ground.
Travis: Great.
Matt: (boom) Once again, you see sand and dust kick up, and then you see these two legs sticking up as you've basically planted him in the ground like a carrot. And he is currently prone on the ground, yes.
Travis: Great! When he's prone, do I get advantage on attacks?
Matt: When he is prone, attack rolls against the creature have advantage if you're within five feet, so yes you do.
Travis: Great. Great Weapon Master, dwarven thrower, and I say I want to know the answer to the lesson! (everyone laughs)
Travis: 29 minus five, 24?
Matt: 24, that hits.
Travis: Okay.
Liam: Get him, big man!
Marisha: Give him the chair!
Travis: 35.
Matt: 35.
Travis: Plus the enlarge damage.
Matt: Nice! Okay, that's your second attack.
Travis: Uh, 28 minus five, 23.
Matt: 23 just hits.
Travis: 9, 24, 34, 38.
Matt: 38, oof! All righty. So as you're shouting this the first blow comes down (whack), you're not even seeing him or seeing the impact, all you're seeing is sand and fury. The second and final blow, you bring up, and as you bring it down you feel something (crack) crack underneath. And you watch as you pull the hammer up again, he pushes off, and he's gonna actually use it at the end of your turn-- are you going to move?
Travis: (laughs)
Matt: It's up to you, you can stay where you are.
Travis: No, I would be right there, just entranced that he's actually in the ground.
Matt: Okay. So at the end of your turn he's going to go ahead and use a legendary action to attack you.
Travis: I meant 'I run'!
Matt: It's a 30. So it hits you. All right, that's 18, halved to nine, take nine points of damage.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: And I need you to make another constitution saving throw.
Travis: Okay. Natural 20!
Matt: Sick, okay! As you pull up from the hammer, you can see now, there's quite a bit of blood now out of his mouth, and there's a part of the chest where it's pushed in, and you can see where the impact has caused heavy bruising and parts of the skin have broken open from impact. So now he's bleeding in places. You're bleeding all over the place.
Travis: Yeah, yeah!
Matt: So it's just this mess of two somewhat dressed humanoid men covered in their own blood. It's delightful.
Travis: And blood and sand.
Matt: Yeah, blood and sand. It's encrusted everywhere.
Marisha: Be careful, that's how blood diseases are transferred!
Taliesin: Very filthy.
Marisha: Be careful!
Sam: Sepsis!
Matt: He pushes off and manages to hit you in the sternum once again, the same place where the vibrations hit. However this time you grab his hand as it gets there, and it still hits you, but the gauntlets absorb the impact and prevent it from spreading through your body. That ends your turn. It's now his turn. He stands up from prone.
Travis: Goddamn, he did that to me on my turn.
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: (laughing) That's fucked up. (everyone laughs)
Travis: Holy shit. Natural 20 on my turn, saved my life.
Matt: Okay, he's going to go ahead and hit you twice (punch sounds). That is an 18?
Travis: Hits.
Matt: And a 20. So yeah, so the first one--I need you to make a constitution saving throw.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: And you take 14 reduced to half, seven points of bludgeoning damage.
Travis: Uh, 13 on my constitution saving throw.
Matt: 13.
Travis: What was the damage? I'm sorry.
Matt: Seven.
Travis: Seven.
Matt: You feel your muscles lock up once more, and you're stunned now.
Travis: Awesome.
Matt: That allows his attack, and since you are stunned, attacks against you have advantage, and you are incapacitated, so hits that are against you are technically all crits.
Travis: Oh, fuck!
Matt: So the next hit that went against you is six plus eight--
Travis: Can I smile before he hits me?
Matt: Sure, you go. So you feel as your body locks up, the next hit (whack) goes right into the same place where he keeps hitting you in the sternum. You can feel the bruising, now you hear the (crack) crack inward as you feel the cartilage there pop inward. That's the second hit. He goes in for two more strikes now as you're stunned. (whoof) The next one, the third one, that's going to be a 27? That is eight plus eight, you take eight damage because it's halved. So take eight bludgeoning damage. And his final hit, that is going to be a 30. That is going to be a 6, 12, 20, reduce that to ten bludgeoning damage.
Travis: Cool! Great!
Liam: Still standing.
Travis: My math is probably wrong but I'm getting down there.
Matt: Okay. He's going to stand right there. Your turn.
Travis: He is.
Matt: Yep.
Laura: Oh my god.
Matt: What are you going to do?
Travis: Did he just stand there, and he had a turn?
Matt: He just went. He got up from prone, that's half his movement, and he's not going to move around you, he's staying right where he is. What do you do?
Marisha: Show him what you've learned! None of us know what you learned though! We can't help you!
Travis: I feel like he's doing that Patient Defense thing again. Yeah, fuck it. I'm going to go for broke. Because we're pretty close anyway. I'm gonna make all three attacks reckless, Great Weapon Master.
Matt: Okay! Go for it.
Liam: Tripling down on the barbarian.
Travis: (laughing) I don't know any better, I don't know.
Matt: Oh no, actually, you're stunned this turn.
Travis: Oh!
Matt: I just remembered that.
Laura: Fuck!
Matt: So, you grin, and then (grunts) your body just won't respond.
Travis: Is there a small fart at least?
Liam: (high-pitched fart noise)
Matt: It's about that.
Travis: Yep. It's not even like something to be proud of. Just a little squeaker.
Laura: Oh, did you just poop your pants?
Liam: You turtle a little bit?
Travis: (Scottish accent) A little turtle head poking out. (Normal voice) So I'm stunned--
Matt: You're stunned until the end of your turn. Your turn ends, at the end of your turn he's going to use one of his legendary actions to use Like The Wind, and he gets to move his speed without attacks of opportunity.
Laura: What does he want from you?
Taliesin: For you to show him what you learned.
Matt: He just (whoosh) slips back and he's on the opposite side, and just goes.
Travis: Cool. I look back, and do this.
Sam: Ooh! He learned to be a dick! (everyone laughs)
Matt: That's your turn?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. He begins to rotate. Over there... and that's his turn.
Sam: You have a healing--
Marisha: Everyone is doing their Keanu impressions.
Travis: I have no healing anythings.
Sam: Awesome.
Travis: I do if I short rest, but that's it. All right--
Sam: Ooh, take one.
Liam: I do to Keyleth.
Travis: How far can I throw this fucking thing? Long range of 60 feet. The long range of 60 feet means that it would be a disadvantage throw?
Matt: Correct.
Travis: That's not great.
Matt: Short range is 20?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: Just get up within 20 feet of him.
Travis: Yeah, let's be honest. Could I get to him in 50 feet?
Matt: You wanna try?
Travis: Yeah, I'd like to try.
Matt: (counting) You just barely get up to him.
Travis: God! I just wanna keep staring back at him but I don't-- There's no point to it. I can't do anything. It's not like I can psych him out or--
Laura: Tell him what you learned! (all laugh)
Matt: What are you gonna do?
Sam: Vague words of encouragement! (all laugh)
Travis: Yeah, going for broke again. Reckless, great weapon master, all three.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: You have disadvantage on them because of his Patient Defense, so they're just straight rolls.
Travis: Spatial-- Patient Defense.
Matt: Patient Defense, yes.
Travis: Also known as spatial defense in the barbarian world.
Laura: Totally. (gasps)
Travis: Natural 20.
Marisha: Ooh.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Just two more of those, please.
Travis: So I double the damage die-- or I roll two more damage dice after this.
Laura: Are you supposed to roll 10's or 12's?
Matt: 10's for the hammer.
Laura: Okay.
Travis: 42.
Matt: 42 points of damage on the first one, ooh.
Laura: (quietly) That's good, that's good.
Travis: Second one.
Matt: Second attack.
Travis: That's a 31 minus five, 26?
Matt: 26 hits.
Travis: (counting) 35.
Matt: 35 points of damage?
Travis: Yep.
Matt: Oof.
Travis: Last one.
Laura: (clap)
Sam: (clap)
Marisha: (clap)
Matt: Last attack.
Travis: I'm buying a ticket to the no pants dance after this. 20, 22.
Matt: 22, no.
Laura: (groan)
Travis: Oh no no, that's not minus five-- it is minus five.
Matt: Yeah, it is minus five. So, you go bounding up towards him (boom boom boom). He just sits there waiting, his arms up. The first strike, he goes to parry but as you hit (crack), his arm gets knocked out of the way, preventing him from parrying the second strike as it comes down right across the side of the face (boof), hitting him, you watch as blood (splattering sound) across the sand and you see his jaw's kinda momentarily dislodged, his beard just kinda crusted in his own blood. As you come up with a giant over-the-head blow and as it comes down, he (crack) slaps it from both sides and stops it mid-action. You see his hands shaking as he's holding it, and he just kinda looks up in your face, "Good. Good."
Travis: You keep saying that!
Liam: That was so metal.
Matt: It's now his turn. As he throws the hammer back over your head, which puts you off-balance, he's gonna go into his first two strikes. The first one is a 21 to hit?
Travis: (strained) Yes, I believe that hits.
Matt: That is gonna be ten, reduced to five.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: Second one, uh-- on the first one, I need you to make another constitution saving throw.
Travis: Okay, same damage?
Matt: Same damage, yeah.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: But he's gonna do--
Travis: 23.
Matt: 23.
Travis: Nope, 21.
Matt: 21, that's right, yeah. So you manage to resist, the effect of the stunning strike. He's gonna go for the secondary attack.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: Which was seven plus 13, it's 20, so that still hits you.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: You take 18, reduce that to nine.
Travis: Oof (laughs).
Matt: Make another constitution saving throw.
Travis: Cool (laughs). We in the single digits, kids. (all gasp)
Marisha: (quietly) No.
Travis: 22 minus two is 20.
Matt: 20, you just barely shrug off the effect of the stunning strike. (all sigh in relief)
Sam: Clutch.
Matt: He is gonna go in for his flurry of blows 'cause he knows you're on the edge.
Laura: No!
Matt: He knows you're on the edge.
Sam: He just has to miss four.
Travis: Yeah, yeah.
Matt: That's a natural 20. (all gasp)
Marisha: No.
Travis: (laughs)
Sam: Just has to miss three.
Matt: That is 16 plus 8, that is 24 points of damage reduced to half to 12.
Travis: I am unconscious, but! I use my relentless rage.
Sam: (growls)
Matt: Right! Oh shit, okay.
Marisha: You're coming back.
Matt: I forgot about that.
Travis: Which, it's a flurry of blows, and he only did it on the first one. (all laugh)
Travis: So, I'm like (long groan, rewind noise) Oh shit! (long groan). (all laugh)
Matt: Well, you need to make a constitution saving throw.
Travis: I do, yes.
Matt: The DC of 10.
Travis: I do.
Marisha: C'mon.
Sam: Phillip!
Travis: If I can't make a DC of 10, I don't know.
Laura: Go Phillip!
Liam: Phil!
Travis: Uh, 21.
Matt: Okay, so the third hit, the first couple just kinda loosen you up (pop pop)--
Travis: This is gonna get interesting.
Matt: The third hit, he leaps in the air, kinda Troy style (whack) and hits you right square in the face--
Laura: Superman punch!
Matt: -- up in the air and (ringing punch sound) you kinda pull back as you feel your vision begin to darken, and then you feel that surge of white hot rage in the back of your skull (crack) bring you back, and you (grunt) pull back up as he lands, and you watch as his expression goes (huff) and he darts downward and goes for a low to high ground uppercut dragon punch style.
Liam: Look out, Guile, look out.
Marisha: Oh god.
Matt: That's gonna-- oh, that's an 18 plus 13, that's a 31. (all groan)
Matt: You take nine points, reduced to five.
Travis: (electronic shut down noise)
Laura: No! (all laugh)
Matt: (boom) Hits you right underneath the chin, now make--
Travis: However, I use my relentless rage, now at a DC 15.
Matt: Correct.
Sam: Whaat?
Laura: Ooh, shit.
Marisha: Come on, come on.
Laura: C'mon, c'mon, c'mon, c'mon, c'mon.
Liam: Game that system, do it.
Sam: Come on, come on.
Liam: Pull out a squeaker, Travis, c'mon.
Travis: 27.
Sam: Ohh!
Marisha: (claps)
Laura: (cackles)
Matt: 27. As it knocks you into the air, almost onto your feet but you manage to catch yourself and (groans) right back up as he lands (cracks) turns around and looks at you and goes,
Travis: Good?
Matt: "I see what you've learned." (all laugh)
Matt: It's your turn.
Travis: It's my turn?
Matt: It's your turn.
Sam: Kill him.
Travis: All three, reckless, great weapon master! Chewing my tongue off while I do it! (all laugh)
Matt: Go for it.
Liam: (deep voice) Show me what you've learned.
Travis: (deep voice) Show me--
Marisha: (deep voice) Show me--
Travis: 29 minus five, 24.
Matt: 24 hits.
Travis: Yep. So the first one is... 23, 33, 34. 34 points of damage, first one.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Second one, nine, damn it.
Taliesin: (high-pitched groan)
Marisha: (whispering) Kill him.
Laura: 22.
Travis: No, but it's minus five so it's 20.
Matt: 20.
Travis: Misses.
Matt: So the first one hits (whack), it hits him in the side of the head, the other side, it rights his jaw strangely but knocks him down onto three points. He's down on his hand and his two knees in the ground, his other arm's still up, clenched in a fist. He's breathing heavily, like he's on the edge.
Travis: Oh.
Matt: Second strike, you go--
Laura: Get him, Grog!
Matt: -- to swing down and he rolls out of the way (fwish, crack), hits the ground with no effect. You're going for your third and final strike.
Travis: I am, yeah.
Matt: Go for it
Marisha: Come on, come on.
Laura: C'mon, c'mon, c'mon.
Travis: (strained) That's pretty good. That's a 30, minus five is 25.
Matt: 25 hits. Roll damage. (all cheer)
Marisha: Come on, come on.
Travis: Fuck you, Master Splinter.
Liam: Oh man, Vax is just--
Travis: Yeah, I haven't forgotten it now--
Liam: -- perched on the wall, pulling feathers out.
Travis: -- 23, 33, 37.
Laura: Oh!
Matt: Okay, how do you want to do this? (all cheer and clap)
Liam: That was Vox Machina's real reaction.
Travis: Okay, so the first one hits, right?
Matt: The first one hits, the second one, he rolls out of the way and you pull back--
Travis: Right, I reach back for the third one and I go, who's good now? (whack)
Matt: (crack) You guys watch as he knocks him clean 15 feet in the air from the blast of the blow. He ends up landing on top and the outside--
Travis: Yes! (laughs)
Matt: -- of the arena (boom) landing strewn across the steps that lead to the edge of the sand pit, and there's just quiet in the chamber.
Travis: (heavy breathing)
Matt: As he stands there breathing heavily, covered in blood. There's spatters of blood all across the sand and Groon's just lying there, unconscious, breathing.
Laura: We're just screaming our asses off.
Matt: You guys are yelling.
Marisha: Aaaah!
Travis: Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. Stay there.
Laura: What?
Matt: At this point, there's the opening at the top of the temple.
Travis: Right.
Matt: There's... a rumbling sound, a (rumble), from up above. And there's a small spark of energy that (cracks) up above, (cracks) streaks down and hits Groon--
Laura: (gasp)
Marisha: (gasp)
Matt: -- like a very faint lightning bolt, just (pfft) out of the sky and Groon rises up on the side, his eyes just vibrant bright, almost glowing, and he stands back up, and he's still covered in his own blood, he's wrecked. You can see parts of his body where the muscle is swollen, one arm appears to be almost ruined, but he lands right in front of you.
Travis: Little bit of pee comes out.
Marisha: Uh-huh.
Laura: (laughs) Everybody's peeing.
Liam: Join the party.
Matt: "You've learned much... and Kord smiles upon you." As you look up and you hear the roiling again, and two bolts come streaming out of the top of the temple down towards Grog. And slamming into your body, you instinctually pull down and hunker, as an animal in a thunderstorm would, but you feel the warmth as your gauntlets all of a sudden flash with electrical energy. And you look down as the runes on all the sides, and the chains are now glowing with divine energy.
Sam: You're a magician!
Travis: Awesome!
Matt: As the roiling kinda comes to a close you hear the (thunder noises) of thunder begin to subside, and you feel the smell of burnt sky and ozone around you begin to subside, still looking down at the energy pulsing through the gauntlets. Groon is still standing there, looking up at you, and just goes: "Continue with your journey." And just looks at you, waiting for some kind of response.
Travis: I walk over to him. I bow. And then I reach out one of the Titanstone Knuckles. Kord's strength to you.
Matt: And (slamming noise) slams and pulls you in, and with an intensity you feel his fingers crack, even through these newly-imbued gauntlets you feel the tension as his grip is still, strangely... You expect he could be powerful enough to crush the gauntlet with his bare fingers. He just pulls you in from your giant form. The strength is immense and you (grunt) kinda pull down into his form. He looks you straight up, face to face, but an inch away. "What have you learned?"
Travis: That without the love of my friends, life has no meaning, and I would be nothing.
Matt: And how will you utilize this knowledge?
Travis: I will make their strength mine, and my strength their own, and in turn, I will try to make the world a better place than I found it.
Matt: His grip pulls off, and he withdraws his arm, and he releases you back to your full standing pose. Now, at your enlarged form, gargantuan in the center of this temple space, his once very intimidating form, diminutive by comparison to Grog's full structure, looks up and nods. "I thank you."
Travis: I mean, I really-- I thank you. (all laugh)
Travis: I've never gone that far in a battle before. I didn't even know that was possible. This was incredible. I'm talking a lot, aren't I? I have a bit of a man crush--
Matt: Yes. Yes you are.
Travis: Okay. Uh. Thank you. And I turn, and I walk back to my friends.
Matt: As you make your way back, Groon steps and leaps back out onto the opposite side, and you can see, on the opposite end of the platform, of the sand pit, there is a silver, somewhat tarnished, but still functional, bell. And he walks over to the side of it, grabs the rope, and just-- (tolling of a low bell). And you watch, from all the different corners of the empty temple, all the priests of Kord begin to wander back in, who had exited previously, as was the request, it seems, of Earthbreaker Groon, knowing that you were coming.
Laura: (whispers) Oh my gosh.
Matt: They all just silently enter and kind of nod and bow in your direction as you make your way towards your friends. You acknowledge it, but it doesn't slow you, doesn't stop you, they are still your focus. And you guys watch as Grog approaches, bloodied, beaten, barely conscious, one eye, the lid is kinda drooping a bit. And even though he's strong in his stride, there's still a shake with his knees, but he doesn't show that weakness. He keeps pushing towards you with a slight smile through his bearded face.
Travis: Guys-- (cough) if we could just make our way out of here, in as cool a way as possible... If I fall, just pick me up like Weekend at Bernie's, okay? (all laugh)
Laura: Pike stands next to him and says, Don't worry, you won't fall. And she casts, um, Cure-- whatever, fucking-- (all laugh)
Laura: I don't fucking know what the spell is.
Matt: Cure, Cure Things!
Laura: I'm not even looking at them-- Cure--
Matt: You have the spell!
Laura: He-- no, no, no, I gave them back to Ashley!
Matt: No, I mean--
Travis: Vex.
Matt: Vex has the spell.
Laura: Yeah, but as Pike, Cure-- okay, but Pike, she can do it better than Vex can.
Travis: You have the spell!
Matt: Sure, I rolled it for you. You heal eight hit points.
Laura: That way you're standing and you don't have to wobble out.
Travis: I'm back at nine.
Liam: Let's get you some ale, big man.
Travis: That sounds great.
Laura: Grog.
Travis: Yeah?
Laura: That was fucking amazing.
Travis: Right? I mean, I got struck by lightning, guys.
Laura: Wait! Look at your gauntlets!
Travis: What?
Laura: They're glowing!
Travis: Oh shit, they are.
Laura: What does it mean?
Marisha: Is that lightning available to you all the time? (all yell)
Sam: Piece of paper.
Liam: Just for clarification, that all took place in Super Nintendo graphics, right?
Matt: Oh, yeah.
Liam: 16-bit.
Marisha: As we walk out, Keyleth throws a little gust cantrip to kick up the dust behind us. It just looks really dusty and epic as we walk off into the sunset.
Matt: As you guys walk off, the silhouetted most-of-Vox-Machina with one giant Grog form stepping through. You exit the Trial Forge into the rest of Vasselheim. We'll take a break there.
Travis: Wow.
Laura: What's it do, what's it do?
Matt: Yeah, what does it do?
Travis: In its Exalted form, my strength now becomes 26, so plus eight, right?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: And when I use Enlarge now, I gain resistance to fire, cold, lightning, for ten minutes.
Laura: Oh shit, imagine if we had done that before we went after the dragons.
Liam: You should've fought that guy before the dragons.
Travis: Hey, you know? (all laugh)
Travis: A little drama's good for everybody.
Liam: You barely eked out that victory, by the way.
Travis: I know, and double damage.
Marisha: Wait, fire, lightning, and what?
Travis: And cold.
Marisha: Lightning, fire, and cold, and double damage?
Travis: Yeah, so --
Matt: Well, not double damage.
Travis: Double damage on objects and structures.
Matt: He had that previously.
Travis: But that's a lot of resistance to a lot of things. And 26 is... that's really strong.
Matt: 26 is good. It's two more than what you had, so everything goes up plus one damage to hit.
Laura: Damn.
Liam: My armor does that too, but it only makes me smell bad, it doesn't affect me.
Travis: That was awesome.
Matt: All right, guys. We're gonna take a quick break, hit the restroom, get some snacks, and we'll be back here in a few minutes. Thank you again. See you in a second. [break]
Matt: Hello everyone, and welcome back to Critical Role. (all laugh)
Matt: So, picking up where we left off, Vox Machina is now exiting the Trial Forge into the Braving Grounds, Grog with the recently reinforced Titanstone Gauntlets by the strength of Kord through your duel with Earthbreaker Groon.
Travis: Yeah!
Laura: Sick!
Marisha: What do they do Grog? What do they do?
Travis: I dunno. You know what, we'll probably have to fight somebody to find out, let's find the first person outside of here.
Marisha: Well, I mean, okay
Sam: Sure to one-hit them.
Laura: Maybe we can find an old building and you can just destroy it.
Travis: I'm at nine.
Taliesin: It's just a kitten going-- (mimes punching a kitten)
Liam: Old woman!
Matt: Red mist. (all laugh)
Travis: (exploding noises) Oh shit.
Marisha: And that's how Grog was beaten to death by a purse.
Taliesin: It is technically one point. He may go down.
Marisha: Yeah, an old lady trying to cross the street and takes out Grog.
Travis: I'm at nine hit points.
Taliesin: Nine hit points?
Liam: He did just take down an old man so our streak against the elderly is going strong. (all laugh)
Marisha: You have the hit points of a kitten right now.
Travis: Right, well, I do-- I am fond of cats.
Matt: I'm pretty sure a kitten has less hit points than that.
Marisha: Yeah, like five.
Taliesin: Five.
Matt: Who would've had a level one character with less hit points then a kitten. That would be the saddest thing ever. (all laugh)
Taliesin: We worked it out at one point. We worked out the math at one point.
Marisha: Yeah.
Liam: Five is way too many. At level one you can have five hit points as a person.
Taliesin: It's like two hit points, it's going to be a very tough kitten.
Liam: It'd be like 0.1.
Marisha: I mean if you're a wizard.
Matt: What we're saying is 'kitten' is the baseline hit point counter in Dungeons and Dragons, everybody.
Sam: Can we count hit points in kitten strength for now?
Matt: All right, I'm going to use three hit dice, I'm at 12 kittens.
Liam: Jewels, gems, golds and kittens. And that's what the air machines run on.
Travis: Man. Thanks for not jumping in on that. It was very personal.
Laura: It was really hard to not.
Taliesin: Anytime. You're welcome.
Travis: Yeah, thank you.
Laura: For a second there, Grog. For a second. Well, a couple of seconds. Well, no, I did, did you not see?
Travis: I missed it.
Laura: Your back was turned for so much of the time.
Taliesin: It was amazing.
Travis: Encore!
Laura: Well, I mean, we're outside. All right.
Travis: Don't. (all laugh)
Travis: I'm so sad Scanlan wasn't here for this.
Laura: I know, he would've loved that.
Travis: Yeah seriously. (sniffs)
Laura: I feel like we should go celebrate and drink, but it wouldn't feel right without him.
Travis: No, I need like a million potions, and maybe some attractive naked women to heal me back to my full health.
Laura: Right.
Marisha: It has been a while for you, hasn't it, Grog?
Taliesin: Potions or women?
Travis: Yeah. Yeah. I'm real cranky so I need bandages, and maybe some bondage, and just all the women.
Liam: Bandages upon bondages.
Marisha: Those things go together!
Travis: Good!
Marisha: That's great.
Travis: Like a B & B right?
Marisha: Yeah.. that's exactly what B & B means.
Travis: That's what the letters for those words are. (all laugh)
Liam: How long has Scanlan been out for?
Matt: Uh, at this point in time Scanlan's been out for almost a day.
Sam: (making dying noises in the background)
Liam: Gosh. I'd like to go get him, but I really want him to wake up on his own accord.
Marisha: I mean, we can try head back to Whitestone and get Grog healed up and check up on Scanlan.
Laura: I think that would be good. Maybe get some potions before we head out here, because everyone's low. I'll just stop by the store and pick some health potions from where we got them before.
Travis: There are nice stores here, and we haven't even proper shopped in a while.
Marisha: It's true. Vasselheim hasn't been touched, right?
Liam: Yeah. That's good thinking.
Matt: From what you know of the Conclave, no.
Laura: I mean we've got fucking shit to sell--
Marisha: (sneezes)
Taliesin: Bless you.
Marisha: Sorry.
Laura: -- and stuff to buy, but that's kind of a thing.
Travis: Or we should check out the stuff that we got out of the den where Raishan was.
Marisha: We should definitely do the research.
Laura: That creepy-ass book we need to look at.
Liam: Is Scanlan sleeping it off? I mean, we're in Vasselheim, we've just bamfed across miles and miles. We're here.
Travis: Yeah. (all laugh)
Marisha: I know!
Sam: Hmm, yeah, it's fine.
Laura: No, yeah, it's fine, it's fine, I'm just fucking sitting here, no big deal.
Sam: No, it's fine, I'm having a great dream.
Taliesin: I wonder what Scanlan would say if he were here right now?
Sam: Fucking come back and get me! (all laugh)
Taliesin: Yes, yes.
Marisha: He's asleep.
Taliesin: Very asleep.
Sam: (snores)
Marisha: In a coma.
Laura: Shit.
Taliesin: Do quick shopping and then head home and look at all the things.
Laura: A quick buying of potions, I just wanna see if I can get some stuff.
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Laura: I should've just shaken that instead of just--
Travis: Yeah.
Laura: Yeah. 14.
Matt: Okay, with a cursory glance of the area of the Quad Roads which you previously went to for the acquiring of various tonics and salves and healing liquids, you do find a new nice establishment that's just recently been built. And as you enter to check in, the gentleman at the front looks up at you, and is familiar looking, and he goes "Can I help you-- No! You are not welcome. Leave. Now. Out. Please." (snaps fingers)
Sam: Who's this guy?
Matt: And these two bouncers kind of step--
Laura: Are you the cart guy? Fucking who--
Matt: Please. No. Not her. Please!
Laura: I didn't abuse him. Everyone else abused him. I was very kind to you.
Matt: Your business is not welcome here, goodbye.
Travis: Excuse me, has anyone seen my friend Ve-- You.
Matt: You?
Travis: -- beautiful salesman, carrier of all delightful things.
Laura: See! We're friends, we're all friends here.
Travis: Was he uncomfortable seeing you or something?
Laura: Yeah. Said he didn't like me very much.
Travis: I can't imagine why?
Laura: I can't imagine why?
Matt: What do you want from me?
Laura: Just some potions.
Matt: We don't have many.
Travis: Whatcha got?
Matt: We can do business. We cannot.
Laura: All right, I'll just stand next to him while you do business with him.
Matt: You're not welcome in my establishment.
Travis: I'm really hard of hearing. Like, I've been working--
Matt: I can yell!
Laura: Could you understand that?
Travis: It was like (mimics Matt)
Matt: (groans)
Laura: Yeah, yeah, it's just muffled, it's just muffled for him.
Matt: (huffs) "Well, our stocks have been running low since last time you came through, we don't have much!" He puts up a small leather case and opens it.
Travis: It is such a shame. Did you tell him already that we have a whole kingdom's worth of jewelry and gold to spend, and I'm really tired of carrying it.
Laura: Stuff to sell.
Matt: Blah, blah, blah, blah.
Laura: It is so unfortunate. We are saviors of Emon, saviors of the world, really, and he doesn't even care.
Travis: I thought I'd lighten this backpack a little.
Matt: I really don't care. I have four healing potions and one greater. That is all I have.
Laura: Oh, is it?
Matt: That's it. You want it? No? Then good day.
Laura: You know, I don't like him, I don't even want to buy it from him.
Matt: Perfect.
Travis: You go ahead and leave.
Matt: Please!
Laura: No, Grog, please don't. Don't shop without me.
Travis: I'm just gonna yell at him really loud.
Laura: No, no, I'm standing here. I can't let you do this.
Matt: Could you please just escort them out--
Travis: No, no, no, we'll take it. We'll take it. How much? For the four healing potions and the one greater?
Matt: 1500 gold pieces.
Travis: Cool!
Laura: I don't know, me personally, if that is a good amount. But Vex would know, is that a good amount or is that a shit amount?
Matt: Based on your previous dealings with this individual, the fact that you are getting a price at all--
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: --is good.
Laura: But it's not a good price.
Matt: It's not a good market price, but it's also a buyer's market right now.
Travis: I know how to do this. I take a bag of gold--
Laura: No, Grog! Grog, Grog, Grog.
Travis: -- pour it onto the desk. Just a pile of gold.
Laura: Grog, do not do this. Please, please, please.
Travis: 1500 gold pieces.
Laura: I just scoop it back into your little-- hold out your pouch.
Travis: Do you not want healing potions, or what?
Laura: Huh?
Matt: He starts putting them back into the leather case. (huffs)
Laura: I don't want his healing potions. I think those aren't even real healing potions, I think those are probably water colored--
Travis: Well, I mean, clearly I have to say they have worked.
Matt: Probably yes, you're right. They are colored liquid of no particular worth. You're right, leave. Begone.
Laura: Right.
Travis: They've worked every time.
Laura: But we can-- Grog, please.
Travis: Vex. We are so rich.
Liam: I lean in the door and say, you've been in there long enough to pay rent, what is going on?
Travis: Vax, will you come in here a minute?
Liam: Uh, yeah.
Travis: Will you please tell your sister that we have enough money to fund several townships, and that this guy wants 1500 gold for four healing potions and we have almost none.
Laura: And a greater healing potion! Five healing potions really.
Liam: Is she being a pain in the arse?
Travis: Yeah, I mean, c'mon, Vax.
Liam: We're not begging in Stillben. Will you give the guy some fucking coin so we can get the fuck out of here?
Laura: Yeah, but this guy's mean!
Liam: My time is valuable. Will you pay him so we can go, please?
Travis: You're also royalty, so you should show peasants how to act. You know, stiff upper lip, pip-pip.
Taliesin: So glad I'm not in this room.
Laura: That's true.
Marisha: My time is valuable.
Liam: That was Liam.
Marisha: I know, I know.
Laura: I am a lady, and ladies treat merchants well, and they don't hold grudges, I hear, because they are ladies and they are above it. So here. Take this 1500 gold. I'm going to count it out for you, Grog. It's below him, it's beneath him to count this gold, he's also a Lord. There you are. C'mon Grand Poobah.
Liam: All he hears is fart noises, and I grab her by the mouth and I drag her out the door.
Laura: Oh my god.
Matt: He hands the potions over to Grog. "Very well. Enjoy your day, and I'd be wary of keeping her as your business contact. She's a bit abrasive."
Travis: Yeah, I noticed. You've moved up in the world, this is really nice.
Matt: I'm sharing it with a few folks, it's sort of a partnership, but yes.
Travis: Is it working out for you?
Matt: Well, I've had to hire bodyguards, if that's any indication.
Travis: If I wanted your name, like if I wanted to call on you later, 'cause it seems like-- As far back as I can remember, we've run into you quite a bit, and I'm kind of fond of this--
Laura: No, just a couple of times. Just a couple of times.
Travis: Yeah. Do you have a name?
Matt: Cidrick Gillsman.
Travis: I will not remember that.
Marisha: Oh, this guy.
Travis: By the way, did you have any--
Laura: It's the guy. That took advantage of Grog
Marisha: That took all the money from him?
Liam: It's why I'm saying nothing.
Travis: --limited exclusive items and, like, top shelf. Your most elite, (clicks tongue) paying customers only?
Marisha: Did you say 'a leek'?
Matt: I just generally run the realm of healing balms and salves.
Travis: Right.
Matt: My partner does a bit more than that, but he is out currently picking up a shipment and will be back in a few days. Try back then.
Marisha: Where's his shipment from?
Sam: Are you there?
Matt: Who are you?
Marisha: Did he come out? I thought he came out.
All: No.
Liam: No, he walked into the door with Vex.
Marisha: No, sorry.
Sam: You're at the window. When's he coming back?
Travis: Where's he getting his shipment from? Do you trust your partner? This new guy?
Matt: I do, and I don't trust you enough to tell you this information.
Travis: I give him ten gold for the information.
Matt: Thank you, that is very generous. I don't know.
Travis: Oh.
Matt: He gives the ten gold back.
Travis: Oh! I thank you for your time, Poobah out. And I leave. (all laugh)
Matt: All right.
Travis: Look, I know that was hard for you.
Laura: Grog.
Travis: He was very apologetic.
Laura: Was he?
Travis: Yup. He was-- yup.
Laura: Grog, he took advantage of you before--
Travis: No, he didn't.
Laura: -- and I didn't like that.
Travis: No, look, his hands were on that side of the counter the whole time.
Laura: Oh?
Travis: Yeah.
Laura: Really?
Travis: Mm-hm.
Laura: Well, all right then.
Travis: Yeah, here, these are for you.
Laura: Thanks, darling.
Travis: Yeah.
Laura: Which one do you want?
Travis: No, I don't want any, I need more of the hands-on healing, you know what I'm saying?
Laura: I cast Cure Wounds on him. Level four, bitch!
Matt: All right.
Laura: Whoa.
Matt: 4d8 (all laugh)
Travis: 4d8?
Matt: 4d8 plus your wisdom modifier.
Liam: What does that mean?
Taliesin: It's like if you gave him an ice cream, you see me running around on a sugar high for the rest of the day. Never gonna burn that off.
Laura: 14, 19.
Marisha: Yeah, the Makey Mace-- the Mickey Mouse-shaped one?
Taliesin: Forgot the ears.
Marisha: Those were great, with the ears.
Laura: 22.
Travis: 22
Travis: 31 hit points.
Laura: So... who needs the greater?
Marisha: I'm all right. Give it to others.
Travis: I mean, we could take a short rest and let me heal up for a second. Once we land somewhere.
Laura: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Marisha: We're going home, right?
Liam: You wanna rest in the tavern?
Travis: I mean, maybe.
Liam: For an hour?
Travis: But didn't you need to go somewhere?
Laura: Percy. Greater?
Taliesin: Thank you.
Laura: Then I pass out the other healing potions between--
Liam: Where I have to go is a little more involved.
Travis: Oh.
Liam: Yeah.
Marisha: Are you gonna slide by the temple?
Liam: I scoop you by the arm and take you off for a minute. You know, I want to come back here, sometime. One, I would love to go to the Velvet Cabaret again. You know, just like a date night.
Marisha: Oh, that was great. Yeah, that was fu--
Liam: Yeah, but without somebody trying to kill us.
Marisha: -- oh my gosh, that was before we were together. That was good times. (all laugh)
Liam: I'd like to go back without somebody trying to murder any of us, though.
Marisha: Right, yeah.
Liam: That aside, I do have to go to the temple, but I don't want to go.
Marisha: Why are you saying it like you have to go to the toilet?
Liam: 'Cause that's kind of what it's like.
Marisha: Does it feel like that? Yeah. Okay. Yeah.
Liam: Yeah, there is another shoe that's gonna drop, probably, eventually.
Taliesin: You should probably pass that, I think.
Liam: I wanna get back to--
Marisha: (laughs) As Percy walks by.
Taliesin: No, I don't walk by. I just-- I'm amazed that no one remembers that we can hear everything over these earpieces.
Laura: No, you have to be touching your ear.
Liam: No, you have to hit send, my friend.
Marisha: (laughing) You have to hit send.
Taliesin: Carry on, carry on. (all laugh)
Liam: Her other shoe is gonna drop, eventually. And I'm not ready for that.
Marisha: What are you afraid of? What do you think she's gonna ask of you?
Liam: I don't know.
Marisha: You think she's gonna cash in on that bargain?
Liam: Why wouldn't she?
Marisha: I thought you already considered paid up in a way. I don't know.
Liam: I don't know.
Marisha: Sure.
Liam: But I feel like being a little selfish and taking a little time, and when she wants me-- 'cause she's not talking to me at the moment-- when she wants me, she'll call. So I'd like a little time.
Marisha: Okay. What are you asking of me right now?
Liam: Just to come back, down the road.
Marisha: Later?
Liam: Yeah.
Marisha: Do you wanna go now?
Liam: No.
Marisha: While we're here?
Liam: No.
Marisha: You're sure?
Liam: Very sure.
Marisha: So, just getting this straight. What you're proposing is a Raven Queen-slash-Velvet date night visit back to Vasselheim?
Liam: Well, I don't know what's gonna happen at the--
Marisha: Like, you go to church and then we go to the casino?
Liam: I'd probably do it the other way around?
Marisha: Sure.
Liam: Because I don't know what's gonna happen at church. I'm talking months. Unless she rings, okay? I just want to spend some time with you, before I have to do whatever the fuck she wants. She's going to collect.
Marisha: Mm-hm.
Liam: My sister is walking around and breathing. Still.
Marisha: Okay.
Liam: Shocking as that is.
Marisha: I mean, the fact that any of us are still doing that is impressive at this point.
Liam: Anyway.
Marisha: Okay, so that will be-- that's a good date night to look forward to. Let's go home, I guess.
Travis: Yeah. Let's at least go see if little lover boy has woken up.
Laura: Yeah, we've got our potions.
Liam: Way down the line.
Marisha: Way down the line.
Liam: Way down the line.
Marisha: Sure. Are you sure you don't wanna just hop in the Raven's Spa, tonight?
Laura: Hey, Keyleth?
Marisha: Uh-huh?
Liam: Jesus.
Laura: Sorry, I just--
Liam: Who is that?
Laura: -- finished buying those potions.
Marisha: Yeah.
Laura: So, do you wanna get back to Whitestone?
Marisha: Are you okay? You're a little-- you look a little sweaty.
Laura: No, I'm fine. I'm fine. I'm fine.
Liam: That little vein on the side of your forehead--
Laura: You know what? We've made a lot of money, and--
Marisha: Yeah, you've got the Julia Roberts vein going. (laughs)
Liam: Who?
Laura: (laughs)
Marisha: Don't worry about it.
Laura: I really do get that thing, though, I really do. But no, I'm okay. We're fine. Everything's fine. Except Scanlan's still unconscious, so maybe we should go see if he's all right?
Marisha: You're right, you're right, all right.
Laura: All right.
Marisha: Let's go. Let's go. Everything's fine here too, by the way.
Laura: Good, good, you guys didn't seem awkward at all while I walked up.
Marisha: No, we're never awkward.
Travis: How do we get back?
Laura: Maybe we should go.
Marisha: Huh?
Laura: Tree. A tree? Can you still do a Tree Stride?
Marisha: I could do a tree.
Laura: Let's do a tree.
Travis: We gotta leave the city, though, right? Out of respect.
Laura: No, I don't think we have to.
Travis: Oh.
Laura: Druid magic's different.
Marisha: Huh?
Laura: It's not like-- It's not like showy wizard magic.
Travis: These rules confuse me, but okay.
Liam: The wizard magic is like Broadway musicals?
Laura: Yeah. It's like jazz hands. And druid magic is like modern dance.
Taliesin: Community theater.
Marisha: Yes, yes.
Liam: Brechtian theater. (pained groans)
Matt: (laughs)
Marisha: If wizardry is Bob Fosse, druidism is Twyla Tharp.
Matt: There you go.
Taliesin: Wow. We went there.
Travis: That was good.
Marisha: I might know my modern choreographers. Okay? Let's go back to Whitestone.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: All righty. So you find your way back to the Abundant Terrace, where you find a similar-sized tree, to what you arrived in. Using Transport Via Plants, you transport yourself back to Whitestone, stepping out of the Sun Tree. Make your way--
Liam: Pfft.
Matt: Where else, you would like to within Whitestone?
Marisha: It does not make that sound. That's what you're trying to do. It does not sound like that.
Laura: Like a little fart?
Marisha: That is not canon.
Liam: Trees don't fart out here?
Marisha: They don't. Trees don't fart, they poot, okay.
Laura: I just start heading--
Liam: (loud pooting sound)
Laura: -- towards the castle.
Matt: It's the air ashari, man. So what were you saying?
Laura: I start heading towards the castle.
Travis: On the way there, I ask Percy, Percy! Percy.
Marisha: The Cantrip Gust.
Travis: I know this city's, like, being rebuilt and everything--
Taliesin: Yes.
Travis: -- but do you think there will ever be like a pleasure hall, or a house of, you know, bosoms. I mean, I just want to put out like a couple ideas as a city, bound up.
Taliesin: Of course it has one. Do I happen to know where it is, or do I not?
Matt: I mean, it hasn't been--
Travis: Nope, yeah, it's pretty empty right now, I know this.
Matt: -- really functional for a while.
Taliesin: I feel like it would be the sort of thing that would have just existed for fuck all ever.
Travis: No, no, no, yeah.
Matt: Whitestone has had-- there's generally-- There were two brothels, one was destroyed, in the Briarwoods' run.
Marisha: Is one called the House of Bosoms?
Sam: Better be.
Marisha: It's like the House of Cards of porno.
Matt: As one of the titled masters of Whitestone, it could very well in the near future. Just tell me so I can add it to the campaign guide. (all laugh)
Travis: I'll come up with something better.
Sam: International House of Bosoms
Travis: Yes. (all laugh)
Taliesin: Thank you.
Travis: With all the flags on it.
Taliesin: Would I possibly know this?
Travis: And six different syrups to choose from in each room.
Sam: Ahh, the silver dollars.
Taliesin: I don't even know if I would know this.
Matt: You know what? Make a history check.
Taliesin: A history check? That's so-- okay. A natural twenty.
Travis: Is it really?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: That's a natural twenty, with my history is--
Sam: Whore check! (all laugh)
Taliesin: -- is a 30. That's a 30.
Laura: Percy knows knows.
Matt: You've never been to it, but you recall one of your older brothers who is of age did return and tell stories of a house of--
Marisha: IHOB
Matt: -- flesh and pleasure.
Travis: Thank god.
Matt: You don't recall its name, but you know that it existed somewhere on the western side of this city, and within a short period of time, you could lead him to it.
Taliesin: Okay.
Sam: And also that they serve a pancake with-- (all laugh)
Taliesin: There's a pancake brunch.
Travis: Smiley face?
Sam: -- some chocolate chips and a smiley face.
Liam: The ancient Sumerians would pay for sex with silver dollars.
Taliesin: I'm honestly not sure, Grog. I really have to think about it. I don't know if such a thing exists.
Travis: But I'm just saying, you know, if you need to lean on me to develop that sort of the economy again, I'm here for you buddy.
Taliesin: That's good to know.
Travis: Okay.
Taliesin: That's good to know. Excellent.
Travis: Let's go find Scanlan. (all laugh)
Taliesin: I wonder if he's awake yet.
Sam: Search for him. Wherever he might be.
Laura: Where did we leave him, again?
Travis: I think strapped up and covered in mayonnaise.
Taliesin: Pudding. Pudding.
Travis: Pudding.
Liam: "Pudding."
Matt: So you guys find your way back to castle Whitestone, upwards to Scanlan's room. The door's partially ajar. On the inside you see Kaylie is actually asleep. She's sitting on a stool next to the bed and her head's down, and she's very lightly snoring. And there, in the bed, as you left him, is Scanlan.
Laura: His arms are still up?
Matt: Well, he's been turned.
Laura: Okay.
Taliesin: We've had people taking care of that.
Laura: Jeez.
Travis: And Kaylie's sitting in the chair, or is she leaning back on?
Matt: No, she's leaning back in a chair and is passed out. Scanlan is still on the bed.
Travis: Can I please knock the legs of the chair out?
Taliesin: There's seven children in this family, I think they're used to some tomfoolery.
Laura: It's up to you, Grog.
Travis: Yeah. I walk over and I just kick the back leg of the chair out so she falls down.
Matt: (falling sound) (yelps)
Travis: Oh my god, these chairs are so old. Are you all right?
Matt: Oh, I'm gonna remember that.
Travis: Oh right, I forgot, you'll speed bag my nuts later, sorry.
Laura: How you doing, Kaylie?
Matt: She looks groggy and slightly hung over and is like, "All right. So, you've all come back? He hasn't really done nothing" And she kinda smacks him in the side of the face and wipes some of the pudding off. You hear, just ever so faintly, as you kinda are coming out of your stupor, you hear what sounds like voices muffled, and it comes to, you hear what sounds like Grog, and then what sounds like Kaylie, and then something hits you in the cheek and you feel a slight tinge of pain like a flick. But your eyes begin to blink, and you guys watch as Scanlan begins to stir.
Laura: How long has he been like this?
Liam: Why is he covered in pudding?
Laura: Who did this to him?
Taliesin: I have no idea.
Sam: What's going on?
Marisha: Keyleth takes a little bit of the gunk off and what is it?
Laura: Gross.
Matt: It's like a vanilla custard.
Liam: Thank God.
Laura: That's fucking foul, Keyleth.
Marisha: Look. How do you think druids discover things, okay? Someone has to figure out what's poison and what's not.
Liam: Sour.
Taliesin: They lick them apparently.
Matt: It's a little sour.
Marisha: This is funny. This is funny, was this you? This is funny!
Sam: Hello. Hello?
Matt: You guys hear Scanlan talking.
Sam: Hello? What's going--
Laura: Scanlan! (gasps)
Sam: Hi.
Liam: Hey, buddy. LAURA (sing-songy) Welcome back!
Sam: What-- where am I?
Taliesin: You missed all the fun.
Sam: What's going on, where am I?
Liam: This is the afterlife, Scanlan, you've gone to the good place.
Matt: Your hands are bound up over your head currently, and you are dressed in a nightgown and your room and yourself are, there's spatters of pudding everywhere.
Sam: What's going on? Why am I like this? Where am I?
Laura: You don't remember?
Sam: No. Is the dragon alive?
Laura: No, you killed it, and then we all celebrated, and you had a big orgy.
Travis: Yeah, you proposed to this woman downstairs and this was your bachelor party.
Marisha: You clearly have some very intense dreams, Scanlan.
Sam: I feel like you're fucking with me. (all laugh)
Matt: And you hear Kaylie's voice, "Oh, you think that? Probably right true."
Sam: What are you doing here?
Matt: Well, apparently your friends brought me along to make sure that you woke up nice and right.
Sam: They brought you here?
Matt: Aye.
Sam: Where are-- are we in Whitestone?
Travis: Yeah.
Liam: We're in Whitestone.
Laura: Yeah.
Taliesin: And the dragon is very dead. Very, very dead.
Laura: But you are not. And that's very important.
Sam: Kaylie, could you excuse us a moment?
Matt: "Aye, but at the very least--" And she reaches over and undoes the bindings on your wrists. Your fingers are a little numb. You pull back and kind of rub them instinctually. She goes, "Don't take too long. I've a mind to speak to you in a minute."
Laura: Kaylie?
Matt: Aye?
Laura: Thank you.
Matt: "Sure." She just kind of storms past and pushes, a little gnome figure pushing through the crowd of Vox Machina, and out of the room.
Sam: I'm sorry I... fell again. Can someone answer me one thing, though? Who got Kaylie? Who brought Kaylie here?
Travis: Vex did.
Laura: I sit down on the bed with you. Well, it just seemed like the logical thing to do, dear.
Sam: Why the fuck would you do that?
Laura: Right. Well, 'cause you said that--
Sam: I promised her that I wasn't going to die, and you showed her my dead body. You thought that was a good idea?
Laura: What! Would you rather she just discover it on her own? This way she--
Sam: No! I'd rather she never know.
Laura: Scanlan. She came here. She helped bring you back. You know what that means, right?
Sam: Yes, I do, unfortunately.
Laura: You think it's bad that she cares about you?
Sam: I think it's bad that she thinks that I'm an oathbreaker, that I am weak, that I failed in my promise to her.
Laura: Scanlan.
Sam: That everything she thought of me when she found me is confirmed now. That I can't be trusted, and I can't protect her.
Laura: Scanlan. She thought nothing of you when you met her, all right? The fact that she showed up here and saw that you gave your life for a greater cause? That's so much more important than any promise you made.
Sam: I hope that's true.
Laura: I think it is. She didn't run away. And after the fact she stayed here and looked after you!
Liam: You should have heard her play.
Sam: I did. I think. I heard music. I heard Pike.
Laura: Wait. You heard?
Sam: I heard voices. I heard Pike saying a poem. I heard someone playing music.
Travis: Was that it?
Sam: Yes.
Liam: All your daughter knows is that you stood against great evil overtaking an entire continent. That's nothing to sneeze at, Scanlan.
Sam: She also knows that I fell and that my friends thought it would be funny to put me in a fucking nightgown and spread pudding all over me.
Taliesin: That was me.
Sam: And bring back my lifeless body and show her how weak her father is. That's what she saw. I made a promise, and I broke it, and you proved it to her. And I wish you hadn't meddled in my affairs. I don't have... I don't have many things that I care about, and I don't have anything that cares about me.
Laura: That's a lie.
Travis: That is bullshit.
Marisha: Definitely not true.
Liam: That's full bullshit.
Sam: What? You think you care about me?
Travis: Yes.
Liam: Yes, asshole! Yes.
Sam: Yes, I'm sorry, you're right. You like me because I make jokes, and I play songs, and I give you a warm place to stay at night, and I feed you fucking chicken, and I heal you in battle. But you don't really care about me. Come on. Let's be honest with each other. You don't really give a shit about me.
Liam: I've changed my outlook on life because of you! What the fuck are you talking about? Of course we all love you--
Sam: Prove it.
Liam: -- you could crush me in a second.
Sam: Prove it.
Liam: How?
Laura: What do you want us to do?
Sam: We traveled into the fucking nine hells to get Pike a set of armor. We went and battled a city of vampires so Percy could feel good about his name. We fought goliaths for Grog. We've traveled across planes of existence so you could fix your fucking daddy issues. But you've never done anything for me. Ever! You've never risked anything, you don't know me, you don't know anything about me. What's my mother's name? What's her name? Easy question. Died in front of me. Killed by a goblin. Biggest part of my life. What's her name? My father. Is he alive or dead? How old am I? Where's my fucking dog?
Laura: We did get the dog.
Sam: You don't care about me.
Laura: We did get your dog.
Sam: Did you?
Travis: No, we didn't.
Laura: We did, I searched--
Liam: I've asked your age.
Laura: I thought I did the magic search. Fucking hell.
Sam: It's fine. I'm just a little hungover from being dead, and I just have been thinking for a while, and, you know. Grog has Pike. Vax has Keyleth. Percy has Vex. But Scanlan has no one, and I had one chance at one real relationship with my daughter, and I feel like you've gone and fucked it up, too. Because you don't really know me, and you don't really know what my relationship is with her, and what I've promised her, or anything, really. And it's fine. When I met you all, I was just a funny little man playing songs, and that's all I'll ever really be. And that's okay, because I can take care of myself.
Laura: You don't have to, Scanlan. Nobody knew that any of this was going on. How many times have we asked you if you're all right and you just laugh and joke? We can't help you if you don't tell us what's going on.
Sam: I don't need your help.
Laura: Well, apparently you do, darling.
Sam: I don't like that very much at all.
Laura: Get used to it. Nobody likes needing someone.
Marisha: Scanlan, do you think any of us could have gotten here without each other? I thought you knew that more than the rest of us. Maybe we just thought you didn't need us as much as you felt like we didn't.
Liam: I thought you were the only one who had everything figured out.
Marisha: I did too.
Sam: Well then, I must be a very good liar.
Marisha: You are.
Laura: You are.
Liam: I thought for months, what haven't I got figured out that Scanlan has got figured out? I've been trapped in the mud for months, wondering what I could do to get where you are. Scanlan, you fucking saved the world with us. If your daughter can't see that, then she can't see anything.
Sam: Yeah. If you really respected me, you wouldn't pick me up like some sort of dwarf and pick me up and put me down and take off your fucking armor and treat me like a fucking child.
Liam: You've thrown some of us like baseballs. I don't know what that is.
Marisha: Scanlan. Do you wish we wouldn't have brought you back? Should we not have done that?
Sam: I just wish you wouldn't have brought her into this.
Marisha: Scanlan--
Sam: I had one shot with her, and now how will I ever show her that I can be trusted? How will I ever show her that I can protect her?
Laura: Well, maybe you should fucking talk to her.
Marisha: Yeah, you're a better father than most of us have ever had.
Sam: You're right. I should talk to her.
Laura: You should!
Sam: I should! I should. And I will.
Laura: Don't treat her like a fucking sacred object, treat her like a daughter, Scanlan.
Sam: Fine. You're right. I will. I will. I'll talk to her. Listen. I don't know what adventure we're going on next, but I think you should go without me.
Travis: Really?
Sam: Vex is right. I should talk to her. I should be here for her. I don't know why I wasn't with her in the first place. I didn't need to go with you to kill the dragons. I should've just been with her in the first place. Probably just scared to. I should just be her father and stay.
Travis: Can I ask you a question?
Sam: Yeah. No, I will not go whoring with you one more time.
Travis: No. I was gonna ask you what your mother's name is.
Sam: It was Juniper.
Travis: I'm sorry I didn't know that.
Sam: Thank you for asking.
Laura: Is your father still alive?
Sam: I don't really know. He makes things. Made things, I don't know. His name is Vicou.
Travis: I'm glad you're back. Whatever you want to do now that you are... it's up to you, mate.
Marisha: I'm sorry if we had selfish intentions.
Travis: We did have selfish in--
Marisha: Yeah. Grog knows what I'm trying to say.
Travis: We didn't think about those things. We didn't. We thought about what you meant to us. It may not feel like much, to us it feels like a bit, but now that you're here...
Marisha: Scanlan, as much as you can say that you were just the funny guy who played music and made jokes, I don't think you realize how desperately we need that. That's nothing to scoff at, that's not a talent that many of us naturally possess. You've taught me so much about the brightness of the world, and to look at the light side of things.
Sam: I guess it's just easier to laugh at the world when you don't care about it.
Marisha: That's not true. You do care.
Sam: I know.
Laura: That's why he's an asshole now.
Liam: We've never had one conversation, you and I, about my mother. Where my sister and I came from. Did you know Thordak killed her?
Sam: I think that's come up.
Liam: We've never talked about it. Not once. Because I didn't want to talk about it. I didn't push into your private life. If you wanted to talk to me, and you did, about your daughter. We did. We talked in the sewers of Westruun about your daughter because you wanted to talk about her. We love you, Scanlan, and if you want to talk about your mother or your father, we will. You have not been exactly forthcoming.
Sam: That's fair. I haven't been. But I also don't-- I don't have anyone. I have to take care of myself. That's all.
Liam: We have survived a fucking hellscape. All of us.
Sam: (quietly) I didn't.
Liam: You are standing before me, talking to me. You did.
Sam: I did not. I died. Twice.
Liam: That's fucking semantics, Shorthalt.
Sam: In a row.
Liam: You've been brought back. You're standing here. Your daughter is there and needs you.
Sam: I'm being kept alive by some fucked-up weird magic. Before I met you people, I would have never-- the worst I would have gotten in is a bar fight. And I would have won. 'Cause I would have been a liar and a cheater. And now, I didn't help any of you in the last fight. I didn't do anything. The fight before that, I didn't do anything--
Liam: What about the fight before that?
Sam: -- I'm useless!
Laura: (tiredly) No, you're not.
Sam: -- I'm out of my league. I'm out of my league. Listen, it was fun. It's fun. It really has been fun to travel with six legends. It's fun. It's fun to say that your friends are legendary fighters. It's fun!
Liam: Excuse me! Speaking as someone who has been fucking depressed for a long time-- Look me in the eye. I was shit for months. And you are one of the main reasons I am out of that now. We would be dead, all of us, if it weren't for you. The first time we fought Raishan, we would all be dead. You are in a pity party right now, and I know you're hurting, and I'm sorry you're hurting, and I love you. But you are lying to yourself, that you have been no use to us. You are lying to yourself. If you wanna retire, if you wanna go off with your daughter, that's fucking wonderful. I encourage you to do it. But don't lie to yourself.
Sam: Well, that's just it. I'm a really good liar.
Liam: (pleading) Scanlan.
Sam: Just give me some time.
Marisha: (timidly) Hey-- hey, guys? We're friends, right? Are we friends?
Taliesin: Worse, family.
Liam: Family.
Marisha: That's fair.
Taliesin: And for fuck's sake, sir, I will say I died in that fight too.
Sam: It's not fun, is it?
Taliesin: No. And let me tell you something. Whatever lie you were trying to feed your daughter out there about the man she thought you might be, that you just thought you could tell her and then she would walk away and never actually meet you or get to know you. So that maybe she would never see what a shit you can be. And you can be a shit. That fucking girl out there is a shit too. She's a miserable, lying shit. And for fuck's sake, the thing that brought her back here was the things about you that you don't like about yourself. And don't think that they don't count, either. You're a shitty person, we know! That's not the fucking point. The point is for just one moment-- one moment-- once in a blue bloody moon... You come through in a way that others can't. And you do it, and we love you for it, and you are worthwhile, there's a reason we just nearly went mad trying to bring you back. And it was not pity. And we didn't bring her-- we brought her here so that maybe she would snap you out of wherever the fuck you were going to. And I know you're not out of there yet, I've been where you are and I know it's shit. And I would really recommend, as somebody who misses an awful lot of people, that you are honest with that girl and maybe discover that she actually likes you. As a person. Because you are actually likeable as a person! I know, it's coming out of my mouth. I can feel the shit from it but it's true. And for fuck's sake, get to know her and stop making false promises that you can protect her, and you'll always be there. 'Cause you can't and you won't. No one can. And you're fucking lying! And it's sick. Be a man. Be a man. I've seen you be a man, I know you can fucking do it. And when you're done with that, and we will leave you with that fucking shit girl, I would like you to look up my parents' name. You can find it on every fifth hallway in this fucking city. And then I'm out.
Matt: (hoarsely) You leave the room?
Taliesin: Mm-hm.
Matt: (clears throat) Okay. As you push the door open-- it's still partially ajar-- and as you push it open, leaning against the wall just by the door is Kaylie, and you can see she has tears streaming down her face.
Taliesin: I give her a big hug, a kiss on the forehead--
Matt: She doesn't let you. As soon as you go for it, she just kind of smacks it away--
Taliesin: (makes an air kissing noise)
Matt: --turns into the room, and just kind of walks past everyone and grabs her bag off the ground. Slings it over her shoulder, grabs her violin case. "So, you coming?"
Sam: ...Yeah.
Matt: "Grab your things. Be waiting for you downstairs." And she walks out.
Laura: Really? Just like that?
Sam: I have to.
Marisha: Where're you going to go? What're you going to do?
Sam: I'm just gonna be a Shorthalt for a while. And I'm just gonna figure out what that means. And... it's great being part of a team, but you gotta know who you are first. So I gotta go figure that out. And I gotta go figure out what she is, too. And when I do, I'll come back and find you. And if you really need a place to stay, I'll advise you to buy some tents, 'cause you won't have a mansion anymore. I know you'll be fine 'cause you all have each other, but for now, I just need to have me for a while. I love you all. I even love Percy... and his parents, Frederick and Johanna. And I'll go with Kaylie.
Travis: Wait. I reach into the Bag of Holding and I grab my salt-lick rock and I toss it to Scanlan.
Sam: What's this?
Travis: It's yours now. When you miss us-- I know you will-- give it a lick.
Sam: (choked) All right, I will.
Laura: I grab the Gatestone off the end table where we left it with him and hand it over to you as well.
Sam: You'll need this.
Laura: I'd rather it go to you.
Sam: When Vex tries to give you something, you take it. All right. Don't die.
Liam: Scanlan... We'll miss you.
Sam: (exhales) I hope so. And... well, you said I was right. Let's pick up that conversation later. I'll go out the door.
Matt: Okay. As he walks down the hall, you hear his feet across the stonework echo quieter and quieter until you can't hear it anymore, and you all stand in stunned silence in the chamber.
Liam: (draws in a breath) Fuck.
Laura: I just pick up a pillow and throw it at the door.
Matt: It opens slightly. The pillow lays on the ground smattered with vanilla pudding.
Travis: Did he take all his things with him?
Matt: I would say he would've grabbed his things as he left, yeah.
Laura: Well, that didn't go like I thought it would.
Marisha: No. No it didn't.
Laura: Kinda wish we would've gone drinking in Vasselheim now.
Travis: We might've missed him if we had.
Liam: (wearily) We saved the continent, why does everything feel like shit?
Travis: He's alive. That's what really matters.
Liam: But he's our liar, Grog.
Laura: (tearily) And he hates us, now.
Marisha: He doesn't hate us. I just... think we've all just discovered that maybe we have a lot more secrets about ourselves than we've all ever let on.
Travis: He needs time. We have that.
Laura: (angrily) Fuck him! Fuck him for not saying anything sooner.
Marisha: I dunno.
Laura: And fuck us for not asking. (sniffs)
Marisha: I think Percy's right. We're worse than friends, we're family. And family leaves.
Liam: Yes. They do.
Marisha: Can we not be family? Can we, like, redact that?
Liam: I don't think so. I think it's too late.
Travis: I step out into the hallway. Do I see Percy at all?
Taliesin: I'm around the corner, up on the--
Matt: Yeah.
Taliesin: I'm outside of-- If you went far enough, you'd see me.
Matt: You eventually find Percy, yeah.
Travis: Hey.
Taliesin: Hi.
Travis: Rough one, that. Question
Taliesin: Yeah.
Travis: Do you have any, like, sneaky people in your employ here in the castle.
Taliesin: 'Course.
Travis: Wouldn't you feel better if we had someone just keeping an eye on them? Bit explosive, the two of them together.
Taliesin: I'm torn. I don't know if he'd like that.
Travis: I don't know if I care. (laughs)
Taliesin: I don't know if I do, either. I keep thinking, I could just shout right now and half a dozen guards would stop them.
Travis: Yeah. It'd be half a dozen dead guards, though.
Taliesin: Well, what's half a dozen dead guards these days?
Travis: Good point.
Taliesin: There's tale of a brothel in the west end of Whitestone. I don't know if it still exists but I'm sure if you go drinking in that area, you might find something. Sorry.
Travis: No, yeah. Yeah. I'll go give it a look.
Taliesin: When you're in the mood.
Travis: Now's good. Yeah, I'll be back after nightfall. Gonna go out for a bit.
Taliesin: Grog.
Travis: Yeah.
Taliesin: I know we don't always agree, and I know that I can be unkind but... you know you're family, right?
Travis: I don't know much, but I do know that.
Taliesin: It's nice having an older brother again.
Travis: I leave.
Marisha: So what, just-- the half-elves are left alone in a room covered in pudding?
Matt: Yeah. (all laugh)
Matt: Yeah, basically.
Taliesin: Way to paint a tableau.
Marisha: Crying.
Matt: Yeah. Crying in your pudding.
Marisha: Angry.
Taliesin: I think 'crying in your pudding' is actually a British saying.
Marisha: Do you think that if we would've not covered the room in pudding, that he would have stayed?
Laura: I start cleaning it up. Well, he seemed pretty pissed that I went and got Kaylie, even though he ran away with her at the first chance he had.
Marisha: And you had to stay in a shitty BnB, a brothel and-- (laughs)
Matt: You see that Pike is still kinda shaking her fist in the corner right now. She doesn't say anything during this whole exchange.
Liam: Pike--
Laura: Pike, are you okay?
Liam: How you doing, Pickle?
Marisha: Oh, right, Pike. Right.
Matt: He needs to do this... Right? He needs to do this.
Laura: He says he does.
Matt: What do we need to do?
Laura: I have no fucking clue.
Matt: I need to get a drink.
Marisha: Yeah. We could always go back to Vasselheim and pick up on that little drinking.
Laura: I'm not gonna go anywhere, Keyleth.
Marisha: Yeah.
Liam: I don't wanna go back to Vasselheim.
Marisha: I mean, we can drink anywhere. Vasselheim doesn't have to be in that equation.
Matt: Where else do we have to go? Away from here. I just want to be away from here.
Liam: Pike--
Marisha: I have to go to the water ashari. I have to.
Liam: And before too long, we have a demon who wants you and I dead in the night. We have to deal with it.
Matt: All right. Anything else?
Marisha: Pike, you know the Ozmit Sea. You've sailed it, yeah?
Matt: It's been a while, but yeah.
Marisha: We might need you for the water ashari.
Matt: I can do that.
Marisha: Seems like-- I guess all of us are picking up on our own individual paths from here? I guess.
Matt: Why can't we still help each other out?
Liam: We can. Of course we can. Pike...
Matt: His path is his own. He has to do his thing alone. We don't have to be alone.
Liam: No. No, we don't. We just wanna slow things down for a while. It's been a long couple of months.
Marisha: Is Scanlan right? Have we become too close to each other? Do we need to all take our individual time like we've done in the past?
Liam: No, we just need to not have our lives on the line every day. For a little while. Or ever. Retirement's not a terrible idea. I mean, what's the takeaway here, from Scanlan? Can't hold anything in. Fuck. You know that I've always looked up to you, for everything? That I've tried to model myself after you. Do you know that? And you. You know that she's my best friend, right? You know that.
Marisha: 'Course.
Liam: You know that I'm madly in love with her, right? You know that, right? We don't need to joke about it or dance around it anymore. You know that I'm in love with her, right?
Laura: Obviously.
Liam: Obviously.
Marisha: What are you getting at, Vax?
Liam: I just don't-- He left because he felt like we didn't know him. I'm scared to death about what I have to give to a fucking god, eventually. I'm scared of that. I don't want to do that, but it's going to happen, and it's destiny. I'm scared about that. There. That's out. Do you have anything that you're holding in? You're in love with Percival. We all know that, right? It's plain as day, right?
Laura: My take-away from Scanlan is that we all talk too much. And I leave the room.
Marisha: And then I look at Vax and Percy, and say--
Taliesin: Oh, I'm not there.
Matt: Percy's not there
Marisha: Oh, sorry. Vax and--
Matt: Pike.
Marisha: --Pike, and say  And my takeaway is that maybe we were forgetting who we were before we all banded together. And then I leave the room.
Sam: They're all individually going to the room next door. (all laugh)
Matt: Yeah, they're all just congregating in the next chamber.
Laura: And that's where Scanlan's waiting.
Taliesin: It's like a Black Mirror episode
Sam: Everyone's reading highlights.
Liam: Crack out the aerator, yo.
Travis: Highlights.
Laura: Blacklight.
Marisha: It's the basement in Westworld. We all just go catatonic.
Matt: Pike kinda walks up to you as they walk out of the room and puts her gauntleted hand on your shoulder and just says, "We all make mistakes, I make 'em a lot."
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: You have a lot of other people to look up to, aside from just me.
Liam: I've learned that.
Matt: His path is his own. And he'll come back. Right?
Liam: I don't know. But he's our friend. I like having him around.
Matt: Me too. (sighs) Let's get a drink.
Liam: What? MATT Let's get a drink.
Liam: Let's get a drink. You wanna go in town?
Matt: Yeah.
Liam: All right.
Marisha: I chase down Vex, and we do the same thing.
Matt: You guys all individually find your way through the rest of the afternoon to discuss, cope with and ruminate on the separation of Scanlan. Going through all the different emotions you feel that are necessary, and whatever activities you proceed to distract yourself with. Grog.
Laura: (laughs) Crying in a corner.
Liam: (mock-crying)
Travis: Crying on bosoms. (mock-crying) (all laugh)
Travis: I'll pay for this.
Matt: Yes, you will. That's extra. (all laugh)
Matt: And strangely not uncommon.
Liam: He's wrapping up the show, I can tell. So I came to give Sam a hug.
Laura: He's not! No, he's not!
Matt: He's not, actually. I don't know where you got that idea.
Liam: Well, I was just getting in a mid-game hug.
Matt: There you go! (laughs)
Taliesin: This is awkward.
Matt: You guys still got shit to do.
Laura: Guys, no. Stop it.
Matt: You guys made promises, you're still on a timeline for some things.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: You still have things to do.
Marisha: No, we know.
Taliesin: We know.
Liam: We know.
Matt: Don't take that as Sam closing the curtain here. Still got shit to do.
Liam: I know, but... I craved that, so I took it.
Matt: No, that's okay. Cross-table hugs are fine.
Taliesin: That was weird.
Matt: The next morning comes around, you're all in various states of hungover; should you have chosen to imbibe with the rest of the party.
Liam: Heavily.
Matt: Grog eventually wanders in, less hungover but more meek about how his previous day was.
Travis: Not my best night.
Marisha: I see Vax the next morning and I say, Look, your sister gave me one of her blue feathers. It's because this is the darkest timeline.
Laura: I come back and I take that off. I'm like, No, Keyleth, you took that from me when you were drunk last night, actually.
Marisha: It's because this is the darkest timeline and I stole it from you.
Liam: Pike and I come in wearing fun buns, hungover. My face hurts.
Laura: How is everyone?
Matt: She slaps you.
Travis: Amazing.
Matt: Does it still hurt?
Liam: Yeah, and also my face hurts as well.
Matt: Good.
Laura: Percy.
Taliesin: Good morning.
Laura: Morning.
Marisha: What did you do last night?
Taliesin: Worked.
Marisha: Worked? You were productive.
Taliesin: Well...
Marisha: You made the rest of us look and feel like shit?
Taliesin: I think we all have our ways of coping.
Marisha: What did you make?
Taliesin: Just some sketches.
Marisha: Did you bake a cake? I hope you baked a cake.
Taliesin: There's no cake.
Marisha: I really want coffee cake right now, Percy.
Taliesin: There are people for that.
Liam: You look like me.
Laura: Squish-squish. Squish-squish.
Liam: You look like me. Why do you look like me?
Laura: You're still drunk. Sober up. It's a new day.
Liam: That's boring.
Laura: (laughs) Oh, shit! He could've broken his nose just then, I swear. Oh my god.
Marisha: Is it a new day?
Laura: It is.
Matt: It is.
Marisha: I thought it was still yesterday.
Taliesin: Oh hey, I've got all my hit dice back. That's nice.
Matt: Yeah, spells are back, you guys are healed.
Marisha: My staff is charged.
Laura: You're up from nine points.
Travis: Yeah.
Laura: Hey, wake up, fuck. Wake up. It's a new day. Open your eyes. Hey.
Matt: Pike casts Restoration on Vax.
Laura: Hey, you're not drunk anymore, look at that.
Liam: I feel good. (all laugh)
Travis: All right. So, what? First step is the most important one, right?
Taliesin: Well, as far as I know we have three things still on our plate.
Matt: Which ones?
Taliesin: We've got a hand.
Liam: Hotis.
Taliesin: We've got the ashari, and we've got a demon.
Marisha: We also have research we have to look at that we got from that lair of Raishan's.
Travis: What's the hand?
Laura: We have to give Ripley's hand to those guys in Marquet. I think that's the easy one.
Liam: That seems like the quickest.
Matt: That's definitely the quickest.
Travis: Let's try that.
Liam: My mental acuity's on point.
Marisha: I feel like if I teleport I'm gonna puke.
Matt: Pike grabs a bucket. (all laugh)
Taliesin: I run to the kitchen. I put together something that is not quite, but probably a hot sauce, with half a raw egg, and shot of something that is quite possibly but not quite some sort of fantasy variant of tequila.
Marisha: You are not--
Taliesin: Swirl it all up.
Marisha: -- frat-boy one-shotting me this.
Taliesin: This is a thing.
Liam: That's science. Listen to Percy. That's science, you need that and you need a traditional Whitestone breakfast.
Laura: It's super good, Keyleth, really.
Taliesin: Yeah, just get it down, just get it down.
Marisha: Why this?
Taliesin: Don't look at it.
Liam: Just listen to the science guy and chug-a-lug.
Travis: Bottoms up.
Taliesin: I was kidding. You shouldn't actually drink that.
Marisha: Fuck you, motherfucker!
Taliesin: Can I get a roll damage? (all laugh)
Taliesin: I've done something very similar to that on many a morning.
Marisha: We need to look at this research. We need to figure out what Raishan had going on.
Laura: My brain hurts from crying so much yesterday.
Marisha: I know. Are my eyes puffy?
Taliesin: Yes.
Marisha: Do I have bags under my-- thank you.
Taliesin: You're welcome.
Liam: You wear it well.
Matt: So what's the plan. What's up first?
Taliesin: Let's take a quick look at what we got from the cave.
Laura: Maybe bring Allura and Gilmore in here, because we have that book that seemed very nefarious.
Marisha: I help Percy figure things out.
Matt: Okay. From the things that you gathered off, a lot of them were candle-holders, there were various reagents, some of them rotted or dried out, a number of books and tomes, some that deal with poisons, various alchemy. Actually, a similar book to the one that you found earlier in your travels, but an older version of it. And there is the one large tome that you acquired that had the more nefarious-looking leather-bound exterior, the thicker piece.
Travis: I'll read this.
Laura: No, don't touch it, Grog, I don't trust it. I want Allura or Gilmore to look at it first.
Matt: The easiest person to find here would probably be Allura, in the castle. Well, no, because Allura's off in Emon helping with the destruction. Gilmore would be the only one you could really speak to currently.
Laura: Or Eskil.
Matt: Or Eskil. But he's a little wary of you at the moment. (laughs)
Laura: I just keep making people wary of me.
Matt: All right, so you go ahead and you bring Gilmore in?
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. And it's easy enough to bring in. He's just waking up. (yawns) "So, what can I help you with?"
Laura: Hi.
Taliesin: We found this. Be careful, it was with Raishan.
Matt: He takes it, he sits down and places it on his lap, and tugs on his braided goatee. "This smells like shit."
Taliesin: Several things have died on top of it.
Liam: I give my armor a sniff.
Matt: Smells-- different kind of shit, but shit nonetheless. He takes a look over it. "This has a very faint magical essence to it. Let me go ahead and--" He looks over it for a second, his eyes glow with that same arcane purplish energy that flares when he does the Identify spell. Looks over it. "This is an evil book. Reading this would be informative, but would certainly have a cost."
Travis: Like, money?
Matt: Soul-money.
Laura: Soul-money.
Travis: Do we have any of that in the bag of holding?
Laura: I don't think we do. Not anymore.
Matt: Wouldn't recommend it, Grog.
Taliesin: What do you recommend we do with this book?
Matt: Well, if you ever feel like you want some light reading. Or find somebody who's foolish enough to read it. Or at least has the willpower to push through its dark enchantments. I have no idea.
Travis: Oh, shit.
Laura: Let's just keep that in a--
Taliesin: Going to vault that for the moment.
Laura: Yeah.
Travis: You're saying somebody could read it, but they'd have to make it all the way through the end.
Matt: I don't want to look into it, I'll put it that way. But somebody with a strong enough mental aptitude to be able to not be corrupted by its dark magics. It's my recommendation at the very least.
Taliesin: Not anyone in this room, is what he's saying.
Travis: Right. What else have we got?
Taliesin: I say hand. It's simple, to the point.
Laura: I agree.
Liam: I agree. One and done.
Taliesin: And we can find the ashari on the way back.
Marisha: Yeah, we can.
Travis: All right.
Laura: This feels wrong.
Travis: It feels different.
Liam: Ah, it feels wrong.
Marisha: That's not on us, though, it's on him.
Laura: Can you scry?
Marisha: Me?
Laura: Yeah. See where he is, what he's doing.
Marisha: I pull out the scrying eye. Can I hold it out in front-- this is kind of flavor-- and I let it levitate in front.
Matt: It locks itself in place and slowly rotates.
Marisha: Can I open it like a fortune-teller's spying sphere type of crystal--
Laura: And just like project it on the wall behind her so we can watch it like that movie.
Matt: The vision comes to you. It doesn't quite do that.
Marisha: That would be really awesome.
Travis: Can I make it Imax?
Matt: I want that HD download, not the SD.
Marisha: 5.1 Dolby digital surround.
Liam: Whoa, it's all around me!
Marisha: Oh my god, so many lagging issues.
Travis: What's he rolling for?
Laura: To see if he senses it, maybe.
Liam: You don't know.
Matt: So what's your wisdom modifier?
Sam: Me?
Matt: Your wisdom saving throw.
Sam: Negative two.
Laura: Wait, what did you roll?
Matt: What'd you roll?
Sam: I got a two total. But I get advantage against magic.
Matt: You do.
Sam: That's a 17.
Matt: Plus your-- what's your wisdom saving throw bonus?
Sam: I mean, that's 19, my wisdom is negative two.
Matt: Oh, minus two. Got you. And your spell DC is--
Marisha: Oh, I'm spying on those bitches.
Matt: Okay, so. You get a brief view of what looks to be Scanlan, wearing his regular outfit and armor now.
Marisha: He took his armor off? He's just regular clothes?
Laura: No, he walked out in a fucking nightgown.
Matt: He walked out in a nightgown.
Marisha: Oh, right, yeah.
Matt: Through this whole emotional circumstance, he was in a nightgown. But he is currently, he's walking through the Parchwood Forest that surrounds Whitestone. He is on the path south.
Marisha: South of Whitestone?
Matt: Yeah. South of Whitestone. To his left is Kaylie, and they're both with their sacks over their shoulders, and they're just hiking through the forest. They're, at the moment, not talking, but they're both slightly smiling. Just kind of enjoying the journey, and the company. And you just watch them walk for a little bit through the thick tree canopy above, the well-worn path that heads south and out of the Parchwood.
Marisha: He looks content. Happy, even.
Laura: That's good.
Liam: Yeah, good on him.
Travis: Can you yell at him?
Marisha: I feel like he's like flicking off a bunch of trees now. I don't know. He was always an odd one.
Liam: To be fair, he did that about seven times a day. (all laugh)
Marisha: He did, yeah.
Liam: For no reason.
Marisha: I never knew his animosity toward trees.
Matt: You never know.
Sam: Just in case.
Marisha: I don't know. (all laugh)
Liam: Just in case.
Laura: Just in case.
Marisha: Just really hates oaks.
Liam: Raven Queen, demons, you never know who's looking over your shoulder.
Laura: We should've invited Kaylie to come with us. They could've stayed--
Liam: They don't want that.
Marisha: I have a feeling there's little chance we could talk him out of it. Well! All right. He's living a nice, happy, content, low-key life now. Let's continue on.
Liam: Yeah, and why shouldn't he, he earned it.
Travis: Yeah.
Marisha: Yeah, he did
Liam: He earned it.
Travis: (quietly) Dick. (louder) Sorry, what?
Laura: Yeah, right.
Marisha: He saved the world, what more could we ask of anybody?
Travis: Let's go. What clears the brain better than travel? (sniffs) Or sex.
Liam: Wait, stop, stop. I was about to say you sounded very wise, don't fuck it up. Just, period.
Travis: Period.
Liam: Travel and sex. Done.
Marisha: You know, there's merit to that. All right, let's go.
Laura: As we head to the tree, I pull Grog aside, and I ask him: Are you all right, Grog? I mean, I know, I know you got your lady favors out of the way and all that, but... Scanlan was your bestie, right? Outside of Pike.
Travis: Yeah, I'm just bummed, because I'm glad he's alive--
Laura: Well, yeah.
Travis: I think that's what keeps us from being terrible. But like-- (sniffs) I only trust like a few people in the world. You, Scanlan, and Pike. And now it's just you and Pike.
Laura: Me and Pike?
Travis: No, I mean I trust the others, right, but like... I know you on a more intimate level.
Laura: Cause you saw my titties?
Travis: Pretty much.
Laura: Yeah.
Travis: Yeah. Um.
Marisha: That's literally it. I don't know if they've ever had, like, an in depth conversation. (all laugh)
Travis: So.
Laura: Right.
Travis: That's all. I just-- I just feel a little more sad on the inside. But I'm all right.
Laura: I'm sorry, Grog.
Travis: Yeah. I'm glad he's okay.
Laura: Me too.
Marisha: Show him your titties again.
Laura: Do you want to see them? Would that make you feel better?
Travis: No, it's not right, right now.
Laura: Yeah, no, it didn't feel right, I just wanted to... all right.
Travis: Yeah, you know. It's... mmm. You know. (all laugh)
Travis: I appreciate the offer.
Matt: As you walk your way down to the center of Whitestone, to the Sun Tree--
Liam: It's so touching and ridiculous at the same time.
Matt: I know. You recall that in the center of the city itself, Ank'harel, as it acts as one of the largest oases in the center of the central Marquet desert, there are a number of larger trees of various types, and there's one not too far from the Suncut Bazaar, that you recall. You make that your designated tree, and upon casting the spell, you watch the Sun Tree, tear open the doorway, and you step across--
Marisha: As I cast the spell, I just say, Hey, Sun Tree? Watch over Scanlan and Kaylie, okay? And then go though.
Matt: You step through. Okay. You all emerge on the outskirts of the Suncut Bazaar. At this point in time, it would be the beginning of-- just past dusk. The sun has gone down in Ank'harel. But you can still see the oranges and reds and purples of the recent sunset in the distance. The city is bustling. Lanterns are alight all throughout. The bazaar itself and all the various multicolored towers and structures and buildings, the beautiful city just stretch up in all directions around you. You can see the bazaar itself is lively with carts that are open, shouting as various barkers are peddling their wares. It's a very upbeat atmosphere, and one that's a stark change to the Whitestone you just stepped away from.
Liam: And the sun is going down, you said?
Matt: The sun has already gone down.
Liam: After we just woke up.
Matt: Yes.
Liam: Jet lag.
Laura: We fucked up.
Matt: Yeah. Other part of the world.
Taliesin: Jet lag.
Liam: Yeah. What?
Taliesin: Tree lag.
Marisha: Tree lag.
Liam: It's a bitch.
Matt: (laughs) Tree lag.
Marisha: It's the worst.
Matt: You guys begin making your way toward the Debt's Respite, which is the tavern that housed the Scarbearers. This is where Treev Bonebreaker was when you last discussed the return of Ripley's hand--
Laura: Right.
Matt: -- as the assassin that killed one of their own. And you're returning this hand to absolve yourselves of implication in this murder.
Marisha: Yes.
Matt: Since you discovered the body.
Taliesin: I'm, for the record, not wearing the cloak when we do this.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Hey!
Marisha: Hey!
Matt: Good point!
Taliesin: And just for the record, I know I'll get yelled at for twitter on this. I have informed my sister where I'm going and what's going on. Not just going willy-nilly.
Matt: Right, right, Cassandra is aware. All right. You guys walk through, you catch a few eyes as you are not just outsiders walking through Ank'harel, but you're all adorned in, you know, beautiful artifact armor--
Laura: Right, we didn't put on our--
Matt: Magical weapons--
Liam: God wear.
Matt: God wear, essentially. And as you walk toward the Debt's Respite tavern, on the outside you can see, there's what looks to be an eight-and-a-half-foot tall, humanoid, golem-like metallic construct. It looks similar to a golem, but it's smaller. Like the iron golems you've fought before, but it's smaller in scale.
Liam: Like the one we fought in J'mon's.
Matt: Yeah, J'mon's, but much smaller. It's less bulky, and more just a functional, tall, metallic humanoid-type construct.
Liam: Protocol droid.
Matt: Yeah. You see it's clutching--
Marisha: (gasps) It's basically the Vision?
Matt: A little more ramshackle in construct.
Marisha: Ah, okay.
Matt: It's clutching a leather tome in one hand that is open, and is holding what looks to be a quill in the other, and it's just standing there quietly. To the front of it you see, almost waiting outside the tavern in the process of thumbing through some satchels, you see a handsome human male. Late 30s or so, with shoulder length, feathered, dirty blond hair and blue-green eyes, a well groomed goatee adorning his dashing smirk as he turns and looks across you and very quickly the eyes very overtly take in and categorize your decor, your dress, your stature. And the smile grows even wider. His frame is svelte, he's adorned a set of polished, immaculate breastplate armor with numerous satchels all around him, and he carries a silver helmet under his arm that shines with many, many embedded gems: diamonds, opals. Just an opulent-looking figure who's wearing what looks to be barely used, or at least very well-kept armor and jewelry and adornments. Immediately catches their attention.
Sam: You there!
Laura: (gasps)
Sam: You lot! Hello! Wow! Who are you all? Look at this, magical items from head to toe. Why, I've never seen anything quite like it.
Liam: Pouring it on a little thick, friend. What's up?
Sam: Doty, come here, will you? Take this down.
Matt: (stomping and creaking sounds) And you watch as the giant construct takes a few steps forward and begins writing into the book.
Sam: In my travels through--
Laura: Fuck! It's a kleenex, it doesn't work! You piece of shit!
Liam: God dammit.
Marisha: That couldn't have been more uncanny!
Laura: Fuck! I didn't want to throw something hard at him.
Marisha: Hoooly shit.
Liam: Fucking. Hell. (bangs table)
Sam: Doty. Doty, take this down  In my travels in Anh'karel, I have never seen so many magical items in one place. But then I saw them, walking up to me, and I knew I had met some very special people. That's it for now. Hello! Nice to meet you all. The name is Taryon Darrington. (all laugh)
Marisha: Darrien Darriton? Sam: Tary-ann-- Taryon Darrington.
Marisha: Darrington.
Sam: My friends just call me Tary. And I'm a bit of an adventurer. I've been traveling around this continent for a while, trying to tick off things off of my list, and I've had a few scraps and scrapes. And I'm looking for more adventure. I was travelling with a band of ne'er do wells that I had hired and, well, let's just say many of them were killed. Heh. SO. I was looking to employ a ragtag group of people, elves, whatever you are. To accompany me, sort of be my side men, if you will.
Laura: (disgruntled) Oh.
Sam: How much would a band like you cost for a day?
Laura: 50,000 gold.
Sam: Oh. That's nothing. Would you--
Travis: An hour.
Sam: I'm sorry?
Laura: 50,000 gold an hour.
Marisha: It's like our retainer fee.
Laura: (quietly) Good thinking, Grog.
Sam: Well, I tend to employ people on a month-by-month basis, and you get a cut of the treasure as we go, of course. We can work out the particulars, but are you in fact, guns and-- or, not guns. Swords-for-hire?
Travis: What, are you going after treasure?
Sam: I'm going after many things. I have a long list of things I want to tick off.
Travis: Are you famous?
Sam: Of course I am. You haven't heard of... Well, you haven't heard of me yet because my book hasn't come out yet. Doty here is recording my legendary adventures as I travel around the continents.
Travis: How thick is the book?
Matt: It's pretty thick. Make a perception check.
Travis: (surprised) Oh.
Laura: Wow.
Travis: 18!
Matt: Okay. It's a pretty thick book, but it looks like Doty is maybe a third into it. A fourth.
Travis: Lots of scribbles in that book.
Sam: Yes, I haven't settled on a title yet. It will either be-- "Tary's Adventures". It's sort of lame, sort of lame. Or it could be "Daring Adventures of Darrington" or it could be "Tarry On with Taryon". Or something like that, I'm working on the title, I have a while to finish it.
Laura: (sarcastic) They're all very clever.
Taliesin: The Daring Trial and Tribulations of Tary Darrington.
Sam: That's fantastic! Doty, please write that down.
Matt: (creaks and squeaks)
Sam: I knew you were special when I ran into you all, my goodness.
Liam: Hey, buddy boy, we have to go to the Nine Hells in the not too distant future, are you down for that?
Sam: Well. Hold on, let me check my list.... that is on the list. It was... lower down, but, it's another thing I have to tick off before I'm a real adventurer! So, I'm up for anything if you are.
Liam: Hm. I do not like you.
Marisha: This fucking asshole, am I right? This fucking asshole.
Travis: Can I insight check Asshole?
Matt: Yes, you may.
Liam: Look at this willing accomplice motherfucker!
Marisha: I know!
Laura: You piece of shit, both of you.
Marisha: You're all pieces of shit.
Laura: I'm so angry at everything right now.
Travis: Is it perception or what on that?
Matt: Insight.
Taliesin: It feels weird. New dad is wearing old dad's skin, and trying to do an impression of him and--
Marisha: (yelling) I don't like change!
Liam: Who cares about the whisper, what's going on, Sam?
Marisha: Bullshit.
Taliesin: Tell us about the LootCrate, Sam! Tell us about the LootCrate.
Laura: How dare you, Samuel? (gasps) He has a new character sheet. I'm going to cry, again.
Taliesin: Ah! Mother lied. Ah.
Laura: I'm going to cry again. Nope. I hate Tary. He's a dick.
Travis: We are actually--
Marisha: You're going to make Laura cry. Look what you've done.
Travis: We are currently under--
Taliesin: Dick.
Marisha: (yelling) Fuck you, Ryan Green! Fuck you!
Liam: This show is breaking apart because of you, Sam!
Marisha: You were part of this too!
Liam: Show me on the character sheet where the bad DM touched you.
Matt: So, bringing it back to current conversation at hand.
Travis: We are currently employed right now. We're on a very, very dangerous mission.
Laura: A super important mission.
Travis: However, it ends here. So, if you have the coin, and maybe if you prove yourself not to be too much of a lag-behind. Percy, what do you feel like--
Taliesin: I'm just saying, look, it's not like we don't have business right now. You seem... what does he seem like?
Marisha: Yeah, what do you do, Tary?
Sam: I'm an adventurer!
Travis: He's an adventurer. (all laugh)
Taliesin: You seem like a person, and that's great.
Travis: Like Kenneth Branagh in Harry Potter.
Liam: He seems like a prat.
Taliesin: I'm trying not to judge at the moment, and--
Liam: That's what you do.
Taliesin: I know. I've had a bad day.
Marisha: We trust you to judge.
Travis: What does he do?
Sam: That's my biographer, Doty.
Travis: Does he just write stuff?
Sam: If I tell him to. He also has other skills.
Laura: What does he have?
Sam: Many things. I can grant powers to many people. For instance: you, Little Elf Girl, what's your name?
Travis: (laughs) (quietly) I'm gonna move over here.
Marisha: Hell no. Oh-ho-ho-ho.
Taliesin: I take it back, I like him.
Liam: Wait, I'm stealthing.
Matt: Flames on the side of my face. Fire. Heaving breaths.
Marisha: Keyleth uses a fog cantrip and just fades into the alleyway.
Liam: I rolled a 33 on stealth, I'm gone!
Taliesin: And I just hex into the shadows.
Marisha: It's like we're in a Western when they cut back to the tavern and everyone's gone.
Matt: Basically.
Laura: I walk up to him. What kind of adventurer are you if you've never heard of Vox fucking Machina?
Sam: Ooh! Is that a band of evildoers, is that a roving goliath horde?
Laura: Where the fuck have you been? Who are you? No really, who the fuck are you?
Sam: My name is Taryon Darrington, I am an adventurer, and I have more recently set out on my journey, that is true.
Laura: This armor looks very new.
Sam: I have not seen so many real battles yet, but I have fought many beasts.
Laura: Mm.
Sam: There was one, it was a smallish beholder, and my men took it out into a field for me and sort of roughed it up for me, and then when the time was right for the kill, they said "Come on in and kill it!" And I came in and used my powers and killed it and I checked it off the list.
Laura: Oh, I see.
Sam: Yes. It was so thrilling.
Travis: Your men, are you--
Laura: The ones that died.
Travis: Oh.
Laura: Right?
Sam: They also perished, that was a different group, yes.
Laura: Wonderful.
Sam: But they were well-paid before they went, and I'm sure they sent some of the money home. Some of them, I think they do that, typically.
Travis: What else is on your list, what're you looking for?
Sam: I've got a long list of beasts and animals I'd like to slay--
Travis: Just give me one.
Sam: Uh, naga, I think that's how you say it.
Laura: That is how you say it. TRAVIS. It's actually nah-jah.
Sam: Okay.
Marisha: (laughs) Nah-jah!
Sam: I've already gotten a smaller beholder. Someday I'd like to see a dragon, maybe have a crack at it or two.
Laura: Oh, I'm sure you'd take it out in no time, dear.
Taliesin: Right.
Marisha: Man, I fucking hate this guy.
Sam: I feel like you're condescending to me! I'm not, I'm not a dullard, here. I can do a lot of things! My wealth has bought me many different artifacts from my travels, and they all do majorly magical things.
Travis: What kind of weapons does he have on him?
Sam: I have a rod.
Laura: An Immovable Rod?
Travis: Is it movable?
Sam: No, it's whatever I want it to be. Sword!
Matt: You watch as the rod all of a sudden transforms into this sudden liquid, metal-like visage, and then solidifies into a longsword.
Sam: Fire!
Matt: It bursts into flames.
Travis: Now that is fucking great.
Sam: It's fucking cool, isn't it?!
Laura: How much money did that cost?
Sam: Oh, like, 400,000 gold or something? It was a lot of money. I don't quite... Doty keeps the facts and figures. Doty, can you show me that piece of the book?
Matt: (mechanical squeaks, pages turning, squeaks). Turns it around.
Sam: That's embarrassing.
Matt: Shows the page to you and you glance through it, and the actual construction of the item cost you upwards around 65 to 70,000 gold.
Laura: That's it?!
Matt: It's a lot of money.
Laura: Well I know, but--
Travis: So wait, you want to come with us, or you want us to come with you?
Sam: I don't have a current adventure right now. Fire off. Still getting used to some of the contraptions.
Laura: Tell you what, Tary? 50,000 gold and you can follow us right now as we finish this very adventurous errand we're running.
Marisha: What! Vex!
Travis: Yeah!
Marisha: What?!
Laura: 50,000 gold. Small fee.
Sam: What kind of adventure is this, again? You mentioned you're going to do something very dangerous.
Laura: It's so dangerous.
Travis: So dangerous.
Laura: We're going into this dangerous--
Sam: Can you tell me what it is?
Laura: I'm afraid I can't, it's very--
Travis: It's a test of your reflexes, on point, how you handle things you're not quite ready for.
Sam: I could limber up, sure.
Liam: I stealth up behind Keyleth and rest my chin on her shoulder and just say Whaaat the fuuuuck. (all laugh)
Marisha: And I just say I knoooow. Um, Vex.
Laura: What?
Taliesin: One moment, sir. Huddle.
Marisha: Huddle. Is 50,000 dollars worth dealing with this annoying piece of shit?
Laura: While we go drop off a hand?
Marisha: Look, it just feels like when your guinea pig dies as a kid and then you immediately get another guinea pig to replace it? This doesn't feel good.
Travis: You don't like him, right?
Laura: You think he's replacing Scanlan?
Marisha: No! I just, I don't want another guinea pig!
Laura: This piece of shit would never replace Scanlan.
Marisha: He's a fabricator! He gets ghostwriters to write all of his books, I bet he does!
Liam: He's a schmuck.
Travis: He probably does. Keyleth, you don't like him very much, right?
Marisha: I don't like new people right now, as of yesterday!
Travis: But like, 50,000 gold and we have ourself a very flamboyant distraction if we need it.
Laura: Think about it, for 50,000 gold, we're only 15,000 gold away from getting one of those fucking flaming swords!
Sam: While they're talking, I'm working on my rod. Battleaxe!
Laura: Look at how fucking cool that rod is!
Travis: He's in. He's fucking in.
Marisha: No!
Travis: Look at the battle axe! Holy shit!
Marisha: You guys, he's like the worst alter-ego version of Percy! He's a rich kid who just buys all of his cool toys. No offense, Percy.
Taliesin: None taken. (all laugh)
Marisha: It's true though! He's not legit!
Liam: I don't like him either, but I'll just say two words: Hotis bait.
Taliesin: Yes, that's my thought.
Laura: Maybe he is Hotis.
Marisha: Oh yeah, what if he is Hotis?
Travis: He's not.
Marisha: How do you know, Grog?
Liam: He hasn't tried to seduce me.
Travis: I'm a dark wizard.
Laura: I've always known.
Travis: Yeah.
Taliesin: I'm not going to pretend I'm not mildly entertained by the distraction at the very least. We just have to drop off a hand.
Marisha: And then he's gonna take credit for dropping off a hand, like it's some crazy, miraculous thing!
Laura: Let him take credit for the hand.
Taliesin: Do you want credit for dropping off a hand?
Marisha: No! I don't care. It's the principle of the matter!
Travis: Is there a fighting arena in Marquet, or anywhere we could find a scrap if we wanted to?
Matt: I mean, I believe there is. Let me find the name of it real fast.
Taliesin: We also could report in to a certain dragon about things that have happened.
Laura: We actually need to because we promised Jarett we would talk to J'mon.
Liam: So many things to do.
Taliesin: Let's just--
Liam: While Grog's thinking about that, I pull him aside and say Did I ever show you I know how to summon a dragon, d'you know how to do that?
Travis: No.
Liam: Watch and learn from my hand symbols. What do you think of that, big guy?
Travis: And I grab his hands with the Titanstone Knuckles--
Liam: Ow! Ow!
Travis: -- and squeeze.
Liam: Jeepers creepers, you've killed my dragon!
Marisha: Grog! Grog!
Travis: Don't --
Marisha: Grog! Grog!
Travis: -- summon the dragon. Uh, what?
Marisha: Grog, no, no, let go, Grog drop it, Grog drop --
Travis: -- baby dragon
Marisha: Drop it, drop it, good boy!
Liam: See if I ever do anything nice for you again! Jeez!
Travis: Well, I thought you were being taken over. D'you need me to make sure you're all right?
Taliesin: Very proud of you Grog.
Liam: Will you kiss it? I thought so. And I walk away.
Marisha: Grog.
Travis: He comes. C'mon.
Liam: We are fucking slap-happy.
Taliesin: C'mon then.
Travis: Besides I wanna see him get in a fight, let's audition him at least.
Taliesin: Vex, let's let the money tag along.
Laura: Yeah.
Taliesin: It'll be fine.
Marisha: Okay, but I'm--
Laura: C'mon, pretty boy, let's go.
Marisha: -- gonna be pouty about this.
Sam: Doty, take this down. As the group turned around, I knew I had them. (all laugh)
Sam: And our adventure was about to begin. End chapter. (all laugh)
Laura: I hate him so much!
Marisha: I hate him so much!
Travis: I love him.
Liam: I miss Scanlan! (all laugh)
Matt: As you guys decide against your better judgment to accept your companion for the time being--
Liam: Don't like that word!
Matt: -- you make your way into the Debt's Respite Tavern to meet with Treev Bonebreaker and deliver the right hand.
Laura: Wait, wait, I wanted that gold up front!
Sam: Oh! I don't carry 50,000 gold with me on my person!
Laura: Well, you carry platinum, how much do you have?
Sam: I-- not--
Laura: Doty, how much platinum does he have on him right now?
Sam: Doty, go ahead and speak.
Matt: No response.
Sam: Go ahead, Doty, speak.
Laura: Doty!
Sam: Oh, that's right, Doty can't speak. Doty's a machine.
Laura: Doty, show me the ledger. How much platinum does he have on his person right now?
Matt: There's no response.
Liam: (robot beeping sound effects)
Sam: Doty only listens to me. If you had some sort of a pet, you would understand.
Travis: (gasps) Oh, I'm gonna love Tary so much!
Marisha: Vex! Vex, kick his ass!
Travis: I'm gonna love him so much.
Marisha: Kick his ass, Vex!
Laura: Gold up front or you don't join us.
Sam: How about this? I'll give you a little present, just for you, little elf girl. And I flip her a silver coin that I have put a spell into. I've put--
Laura: I don't catch the coin.
Marisha: You're like all the bad things about the internet as a character.
Laura: It's a piece of shit silver coin, I don't need your stupid silver coin.
Sam: It's a special coin, you should pick it up.
Taliesin: Did he flip the coin at her?
Matt: He did.
Taliesin: I was thinking of intercepting it anyway so--
Matt: Okay. It would be easy to do with your Gloves of Missile Snaring.
Taliesin: Yeah, I have Gloves of Missile Snaring. I intercept it.
Sam: Well, that was for the elf girl but all right, sure, you can use it too. When you need it, if you just hold that coin up, you'll turn invisible.
Travis: Seriously? An invisible-making coin?
Marisha: No! Grog, no! Do not show satisfaction in the things he says.
Travis: This is just my gut reaction though. MARISHA. Even if you're impressed, we pretend like we're not. Pretend like you're not impressed.
Taliesin: I'm not saying I can't be bought--
Liam: You said that very loud.
Sam: Hey, big man.
Travis: Yeah.
Sam: Look at this. Heavy crossbow!
Travis: It's the most amazing thing!
Marisha: Grog!
Travis: I mean, hold on! Not impressed.
Sam: You can shoot it!
Travis: I wanna shoot it! (all laugh)
Travis: (bvvm!)
Matt: (tsoo!)
Travis: Yeah, oh shit, take it back.
Matt: You have no idea where it went, it arced way out of your line of sight.
Sam: That was pretty good.
Travis: That's cool.
Sam: Yes!
Travis: He stays.
Taliesin: Let's get the hand to its final destination.
Laura: Ugh!
Travis: Or you can kill him and take the weapon later.
Laura: I will.
Liam: He's slow. None of the rest of us like you, so fucking watch it, all right?
Laura: We're such dicks!
Sam: And with that we embarked on our new adventure! The adventures of, what was it again?
Taliesin: (sighs)
Liam: What a dillweed!
Sam: This is going to be fun, fun, fun! (all laugh)
Matt: As you walk into the Debt's Respite Tavern, we're gonna end tonight's session there and pick this up next week. (all cheer, groan, yell)
Liam: You break our hearts and then pull that asshole out?
Laura: You asshole! How dare you? How dare you?
Taliesin: Unbelievable!
Matt: Oh, it's beautiful.
Laura: I am so angry at you!
Marisha: You were on the Critical Role wikia last night weren't you?
Travis: Tary berry.
Taliesin: Yes, he was, he has it all--
Sam: Tary Darrington.
Liam: You ain't know all our characters' mothers' names, you motherfucker.
Sam: I know all of your parents' names.
Liam: After Googling that shit!
Sam: Because I love you!
Laura: Whatever!
Sam: I love you so much!
Laura: Sam you're the least-- you don't care about any of it!
Sam: I am the most sincere!
Laura: You're a dick!
Travis: That was amazing.
Liam: It was amazing, it was amazing.
Taliesin: I love that-- I wish that everyone could see that the crew is in utter revolt behind us right now.
Marisha: Yes! Get him! Get him!
Taliesin: And they've all got nerf guns!
Laura: Get him! Get him! He deserves it!
Liam: You're tearing this family apart!
Taliesin: You're tearing this family apart!
Sam: No, I'm Tary-ing this-- Tarying this--
Matt: Tary-ing this family apart, oh my god! (all laugh)
Matt: Thank you Loot Crate for sponsoring us. You guys are awesome. Much love to you guys, have a wonderful week. We'll see you soon. Is it Thursday yet?
Taliesin: Big hand for Sam Riegel, holy shit! [ART]

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play Dungeons and Dragons. We have an Ashley Johnson in transit from the airport, fresh from her vacation. She'll be here asap.
Marisha: I wonder if she'll be nice and tanned.
Travis: (burps) Probably not.
Sam: That's too specific. Too specific, she might have gone to a place that wasn't a tannable place.
Marisha: Oh, that's true. That's true.
Sam: Too specific.
Taliesin: Could have been tundra. Could have been tundra.
Matt: This is true. Should be the tundra. Sounds like a great place to spend--
Liam: She could have gone skiing and just gotten a sunburn here, like this.
Matt: That's true. That's true. Anyway, so Ashley will be joining us as soon as she arrives. Coming in hot! In the meantime, let's go ahead and cruise through our announcements. Let's see. Do we have any updates on merch at all, Laura?
Laura: Yeah!
Matt: What do you got?
Laura: Okay. So we put our dice up for pre-order and they're already sold out in pre-order.
Matt: What?
Laura: But we're going to get more. I don't know when, but soon, very soon.
Travis: We're struggling to keep up.
Laura: Yeah. We have these still in stock though. Some of these are still left, which are awesome, and they're so soft. And we have all the other t-shirts as well, except for the 'dagger, dagger, dagger' that Matt's wearing. Maybe we'll be getting those back in. I'm not sure. But all the other stuff. The nail wraps, and the vinyl stickers, and the hats.
Matt: I still remember when we printed ourselves a hundred shirts on this show, hoping that maybe some people will buy some.
Laura: I mean, do you remember the party that we had when we all put them in the envel-- sorry, baby. (laughter)
Liam: How many dice are you able to build a night?
Laura: Oh. I hand-carve like ten to 20 depending how much time I have but--
Travis: (whip crack)
Liam: I mean, that's what the wait is for.
Taliesin: Mine's kind of wonky, can I get a new one? Got a little--
Laura: I'm sorry if they're misbalanced. I make them out of soap, so--
Travis: Stone. Soap-stone.
Marisha: Do you use Charlie to clean up the shavings?
Travis: He's a good little worker.
Matt: It's pretty cool, too, because if you want to balance or find out and make sure the dice are perfectly balanced, you put it in the water but then you can't use the dice anymore because it just makes it soap.
Laura: Yeah. But you smell fresh and clean.
Matt: This is true. So fresh and so clean. All righty. Taliesin, Wednesday Club coming up.
Taliesin: Yeah. We're talking about the Eisners this week. The Eisners got announced all in-- a couple friends of the show.
Marisha: Yeah, Jodie.
Taliesin: Jodie got announced. I think Max got announced for one. I haven't gone through the whole list, but we're going to start talking about the Eisners and it's probably-- we're going to break it up but I think we're probably going to have three talks about the Eisners. There's a lot to talk about. It'll be great.
Marisha: Yeah, like what are the Eisners?
Taliesin: What are the Eisners? Who was Eisner? And--
Marisha: And why Eisner?
Taliesin: What are these books? What does it mean? We don't know. We'll find out.
Marisha: And why do we care?
Taliesin: I don't know. But we do.
Matt: 'Cause they're awesome. So that's Wednesday Club on Wednesday at noon to 2PM.
Taliesin: Wednesday, noon to 2PM Pacific Standard Time.
Matt: Perfecto. New episode of Signal Boost went up this week. Marisha, you want to talk about that?
Marisha: It was Hannah Mahoney. It was good. You should watch it.
Matt: (singsong) Hannah Mahoney.
Marisha: She's got a cool name.
Matt: That's one of the coolest names.
Marisha: Yeah, Hannah Mahoney? That's a dope name. But yeah. Go check it out.
Matt: Pretty sure a Street Fighter character says that when they make an attack.
Marisha: Yeah, most definitely.
Matt: Like, I want that name so bad. It's amazing.
Marisha: And we're filming again soon.
Matt: There you go.
Marisha: We're filming soon. Maybe someday Sam will come on. Maybe someday Bailey will come on. Maybe someday Ashley will come on. It's a mystery.
Travis: She didn't say my fucking name. (laughter)
Marisha: I just assumed you're not interested, 'cause you've never been.
Travis: This is a sportsball.
Matt: Actually, can you please do that? It's ten seconds long, and that's the entire episode.
Marisha: I still wanna make Sportsball, but you won't let me. I wanna make it with you. See? He says no.
Laura: Don't say you wanna make it with my husband. (laughter)
Sam: Why don't we all make Sportsball without Travis, and just be terrible at talking about sports, and he'll be like, I can't, I can't watch this, I gotta go do it.
Taliesin: Which ones are the Gryffindors? I know one of these two teams is the Gryffindors.
Travis: I would watch every episode of that. I would correct nothing.
Taliesin: Oh wait, wait, that's the line de scrimmage, right? That's where they--
Travis: The lined of scrimmage.
Taliesin: The line of scrimmage, yeah. The line.
Marisha: How about this? Will you come on Signal Boost, and we can do a pseudo-pilot test of Sportsball with Signal Boost? Would you do that?
Travis: Nope, fuck that.
Marisha: See? And he wonders why I didn't ask.
Matt: All righty. So, next up. (laughter)
Matt: Once again, MomoCon's coming up very, very close, May 25th to the 28th. Taliesin, Marisha, myself, and Brian Foster will be there to talk about nerdy stuff. MomoCon? Two Street Fighter attacks in one intro. This is already a good Thursday, I'm excited.
Liam: How-do-you-want-to-DOUKEN!
Matt: And I would-- please, I would beg you, nobody put that laser in my eye. Please. I've already got lasers in them once. Children. Children! Thanks, whoever sent those. It's great. I love it. (laughter)
Matt: Why must you arm them? It's herding cats enough as it is. All right, and then Talks Machina is live on Tuesdays at 7PM, of course, we're gonna be next Tuesday with Brian Foster, talking about this episode, so come check it out on Twitch and Alpha. And do we have anything else anyone wants to--
Sam: I have an announcement. We have a fan out there who just got out of surgery. His name is Kurt Shappacher, but in D&D is known as Bork, The Most Eloquent Half-Orc, and I want to wish him a speedy recovery.
Matt: Speedy recovery!
Sam: And I'll kiss his surgical scar if I ever meet him.
Marisha: Wow.
Sam: Depending on where it is on his body. I mean.
Matt: Aw, that won't stop you, Sam. This is true. Awesome. And then we have this fantastic scenario.
Liam: You were not able to attend Critmas.
Sam: I was not.
Liam: But you were sent something very specific by a huge list of Critters.
Laura: Which just fell on the ground.
Liam: I will get that in a second. We haven't looked at it.
Sam: Am I to unveil it right now?
Liam: Right now. There could be something so foul on it, we don't know.
Sam: Can you help me unveil it, people at table one? It is a quilt. Oh my god. It's so big. It's so mighty. It's so many pictures of me! This is everything that I've ever wanted to sleep on.
Laura: Why is it velcro?
Sam: Why are you ripping this thing?
Taliesin: There's velcro!
Sam: Don't tear it! (laughter)
Matt: Yeah, it's a velcro duvet cover.
Sam: It's all posts and artwork of my character-- my former character, Scanlan Shorthalt! (laughter)
Sam: Wow, it's so great.
Matt: That's amazing.
Sam: Wow.
Laura: I need you to stand up with it so we can see what it looks like.
Matt: I love the giant mustache, there's a giant mustache on there.
Taliesin: I think it divides into four, actually.
Matt: Does it really?
Marisha: Wait, is it a cube? It is not a cube. Is it?
Sam: We'll find out at the break, we'll find out at the break. We're not gonna waste too much time, here.
Taliesin: Yup, that's a thing, okay.
Matt: There you go, yeah, there is a mustache, that's awesome.
Sam: It's so great. Picture of me, picture of me, another picture of me. I love it. (laughter)
Laura: There was one more thing.
Liam: This is a quick one.
Sam: There's another thing?
Laura: Yeah. You got a bunch of things, but these are the ones we're passing to you on the show.
Liam: It's an itty-bitty Doty.
Sam: Oh, it is a little itty-bitty Doty! And he's got a tiny little book! Oh, he's so cute. The little book actually has little pages. It's so cute.
Liam: I sold Travis's gifts.
Laura: Made a lot of money off of them.
Liam: Five dollars.
Sam: It was a real Heisman trophy. (laughter)
Travis: Damn, that would be awesome. If you have a real Heisman trophy, please, send it to our PO box. I will take that.
Matt: Unearned accolades.
Sam: If you get a Heisman trophy, will you do Sportsball: The Show?
Laura: Yes, yes, you have to say yes to that.
Liam: Teach me how to sports.
Travis: For one episode. If I get a legitimate Heisman trophy.
Sam: What about a Superbowl ring?
Travis: Yes, I'll do a whole thing of Sportsball. If you give me a Superbowl ring that's worth 45 grand? Yeah. (laughter)
Sam: You heard him, Critters! Go on out and-- for a shitty show?
Travis: Diamond-encrusted, super well-paid, yeah, I'll do that. We'll have lasers and smoke and all sorts of shit.
Marisha: Nope, can't get that from LDN. Cannot promise that from Legendary. Nope. Not for a Twitch show. If you make it an Alpha show, then I can get you money. (laughter)
Taliesin: The Alpha team is laughing right now.
Marisha: They know it's true. Just like we all know our logo looks like a weed shop sign. We all know it's true. I should probably stop saying this stuff. It might be a breach of contract. Let's keep going. (laughter)
Sam: We'll edit this out later.
Matt: We'll fix it in post.
Liam: Just like rehearsal.
Matt: All right, so, let's get ready to dive in. I know today's been a harrowing day for a lot of people. It's gonna be okay. And don't forget what this feels like. That's all I have to say.
Laura: And we love you.
Matt: We love you so much. It's gonna be all right. Don't forget. On that note, everyone, let's go ahead and bring ourselves in to dive into tonight's episode of Critical Role.
Liam: Whee! [dramatic music]
Travis: -- Tetris.
Matt: Welcome back. (laughter)
Matt: God damn it. Anyway. I expect everything else. Well done. Well done, Travis, well done. It's like worrying walking through a door 'cause everyone's just waiting to punch you as you come through. Every week. It's kind of amazing.
Liam: It's one of those videos where the guys are waiting with the big exercise balls to just wing them there.
Matt: Yeah, no shit, and you know what? I'm stronger for it. So thank you guys. You've been training me with weights on for two years now.
Liam: You have passed through fire.
Matt: So, last we left off, Vox Machina, having completed their venture over the past few arcs, having freed Whitestone from the tyranny of the Briarwoods, having brought down the Chroma Conclave, and essentially brought freedom back to Tal'Dorei, you closed up some loose ends, Keyleth finished her Aramente, and you all went to your business for a year-long time jump. You returned, and each of you recounted the things you wished to accomplish in that year, culminating in a Winter's Crest beachside vacation in the Bay of Gifts at the Port of Shamel, which involved some escalating pranks.
Laura: Wait a minute, is it really the Bay of Gifts? With a "T"?
Matt: Yes, with a "T".
Laura: I seriously thought it's the Bay of Gifs. This whole time.
Taliesin: The Bay of Jifs.
Laura: I'm sorry, okay, I understand now.
Liam: Retcon.
Matt: And it is so named because it is such a centralized port for trade across the various continents in that area, so it's a place where it's affluent, and it's funny, it's kind of ironic, 'cause everything there is expensive, as you found out. But, nevertheless, you returned to your home in Whitestone, and reconvened, especially after building your bake shop in Whitestone, but she's not paying attention, so that's fine.
Laura: I'm sorry, he was distracting me.
Matt: That's okay. Anyway, so.
Travis: Fucking twins.
Matt: (laughs) I know, seriously. But upon situating yourselves after you've returned, and enjoying this peaceful period of recovery and expansion of Whitestone itself, there was an arrival on the outskirts of the city. There was a cart, horses pulling a group of four gnomes that all eventually revealed themselves to be family of Pike Trickfoot. After taking them in, whether or not you were excited or eager to, nevertheless, you treated them with hospitality, you gave them a place to stay, you gave them food for the evening, conversations were had, information was passed around, and a handful of you, upon listening in on some of the conversations and pushing for information with the eldest of them, Uncle Ogden, discovered some sort of true purpose as to why they came to Whitestone, dealing with, apparently, a long-running blood curse that lies in the Trickfoot family. And Ogden, having visions, had, along with the rest of the family that takes care of him, made their way towards Whitestone as the information gathered by JB Trickfoot, the esteemed keeper of knowledge about your journey over the past year or so, and the exploits of her cousin, Pike, has told you. So, that being the case, you've promised them a tour of the grounds, and, perhaps, seeking more information about what the next steps are in regarding this curse, if there are any. So, with that, you all finish your evening. Eating of your meals, drinking deep of your cups, and eventually finding yourselves resting 'til the night took you and sleep was had. The morning comes, you wake up rested, and the day is yours. What do you wish to do?
Laura: I think we had talked about going to see Pike's great-grandfather, Wilhand, to talk about the curse with him, right?
Travis: Don't look at me, I have a tour to give.
Laura: Right, Grog and Percival, you were going to help with that tour.
Taliesin: Yes.
Laura: To keep him out of trouble.
Travis: What?
Laura: Huh?
Marisha: Maybe keep an eye on them, make sure they don't have sticky fingers.
Travis: They don't wash their hands?
Laura: Not very often. You saw how much candy they were eating yesterday.
Travis: That's really disgusting.
Liam: Do you want to do the talking and I'll keep an eye on hands?
Taliesin: I think, between the three of us, it should be fine if the rest of you want to go and--
Marisha: Talk to Wilhand?
Taliesin: -- talk to Wilhand and see what information you can glean.
Marisha: Percy?
Taliesin: Yes.
Marisha: I have a question.
Taliesin: All right.
Marisha: Ogden, in his ramblings, mentioned a shadowy figure with burning coal eyes. This doesn't sound like anything that you're familiar with, does it?
Taliesin: Well, I mean, yes, but that is honestly like saying 'a man with brown hair of average height' when it comes to these sorts of creatures. It could be anything. It's kind of the effect they go for.
Marisha: How did Orthax take his form with you?
Taliesin: No glowing eyes.
Marisha: No glowing eyes.
Taliesin: No. So, there's that.
Laura: He had a bird-like thing in the face.
Taliesin: A bit of smoke. Lots of smoke and bird-like.
Liam: It's quite an aesthetic.
Marisha: But you think it might still be of the same fiendish nature?
Taliesin: Honestly, who knows? We don't know enough yet. It's too general.
Liam: It could also potentially be bullshit.
Taliesin: It could also potentially be bullshit. We'll know more when they decide to open up, or if your travels for information bear fruit.
Marisha: Should we bring Wilhand back here?
Taliesin: I imagine that depends on him.
Laura: If he wants to come.
Sam: We're taking Pike to Wilhand, I mean.
Laura: Yes.
Sam: Pike, you want to go see Wilhand, right?
Taliesin: (high-pitched) Oh, yes!
Sam: Oh! I'll take that as a yes.
Matt: Get here soon, Ashley! Please! Have you guys informed Pike of this information?
Laura: Oh, yeah, yeah, we talked about it last time.
Matt: At the end of the last-- yeah, so she's like, "I mean, I think we should. Right?"
Marisha: Well, how about you guys go on your tour--
Laura: First. I mean, we'll head over there while you guys do--
Sam: Simultaneously, but we'll leave just a moment later.
Marisha: Yeah, theoretically.
Taliesin: So while this is both happening at the same time, there'll be some sort of narrative distance.
Marisha: Yeah, just a little.
Liam: What are you saying?
Taliesin: I don't know, I just had this weird aneurysm just hit my brain, I'm not entirely sure what it was.
Marisha: Just so when historians look back, and they want a detailed timeline of our lives.
Liam: Life is not a book!
Laura: Well, it depends on who you ask.
Taliesin: Have you met my friend, Lord Fourth Wall?
Laura: She wants to go see Wilhand, Pike definitely wants to go see Wilhand.
Marisha: We'll see you in 24 hours.
Laura: We'll head towards the old Sun Tree!
Matt: As you guys head down, you pass by the dining hall for breakfast. And there you already see Astra and Johann are in the process of having their own breakfast. By that, I mean you see Astra, who's currently hand-stitching new clothing from a clump of high-quality silks that she seems to have pulled from a number of noble dresses that are left within their guest quarters of Whitestone. As you glance on the table, there's a number of them folded over, but sections have been cut out, there's a pair of scissors on the side, and she's currently stitching through. As you walk in, she glances up and goes, "I've needed some new dresses for far too long. Y'all have some fine cloth here!"
Laura: Were those-- those didn't belong to your--
Taliesin: Oh. There's more. A few more at least. So. Yes.
Matt: And you watch as she fans out this new blouse. It's not the finest craftsmanship, but functional enough. She goes (sighs), rubs it against her face. "That's nice." And squeezes into it.
Laura: I go and grab a servant and tell them to quickly remove all of the clothing from the wardrobes in the guest quarters so that they don't do it again.
Taliesin: Anything that hasn't been cut yet, yes, please.
Matt: "Right away, Lady." Rushes off quickly. As this is happening, Johann's in the process of eating a breakfast that primarily consists of just fine cakes. He has clusters of dried baked good around the outside of his mouth and caught in his mustache, he's freshly washed his hair, freshly combed over and slicked with whatever equivalent of pomade he carries with himself. And as you walk by, you see this-- like he has the plate and there's just a crumb-circle around it that has emerged, and is in the process of his gluttonous eating, he stops and goes, "Such delicacies are a rare treat! You have to make time to enjoy the little things in life, don't you? At least when the opportunity arises."
Taliesin: Ah. A fairy circle. Make a wish. Ah. Anyway. We were hoping to gather the clan and take you on a tour of the estate when you're prepared.
Matt: Pulls up his shirt and dabs at his mouth. It barely touches any of the actual food that's around his mouth area. He stops and goes, "Right, right, of course, of course. We'll just wait for old Ogden to find his way down. He's a bit of a stickler when it comes to his time. So be patient, sit down, let's have a meal! Why not get to know each other a little better, yes?"
Travis: We do gotta wait for Uncle OG. By the way, since I'm the tour guide, do you have any plume-y hats? You know? 'Cause if you take like a campus tour, they have a flag and they're like, "Over here!" In case you get lost. Or like when tourists walk around and they're like, "Don't get left-- mm." Do you have anything like that?
Taliesin: Let me check. I'll be right back.
Travis: Good.
Laura: I'll go with him.
Sam: What campus tours have you been on? (laughter)
Liam: Is Trinket here?
Laura: Yes.
Liam: Trinket, breakfast, right around the little guy there. Go on. Free food.
Matt: At which point, as you're having this conversation, the large bear starts lumbering up, armor clattering as it approaches the table with absolutely no care or interest in the gnomish guy at the table, who immediately goes, "Oh! My-my-my-my!" And he backs out the center of his seat as the bear immediately (impact sounds) paws up and (slurps) starts licking up the crumbs and pieces of wayward pastry that have not found their way to the gnome's mouth, at which point he stands up off of his chair and rights himself. "Hm. Well. I'm stuffed. Let's go see how Ogden's doing. Astra!" "I'll be-- let me just finish this." "All right, we'll pick you up in a second. I'll go check in on Ogden." And he gets up and walks past, up the stairs. You are searching for what?
Taliesin: Oh, well, I've gone into my sister's bedroom and have begun to raid the spring clothing to find the most ostentatious hat I can find and start shoving as many things into it as I possibly can.
Matt: Make an investigation check, please.
Laura: I was going with you. I had said I went with you. Mostly to get away from the gnomes.
Matt: So you're both searching?
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: So make an investigation check with advantage.
Taliesin: 15.
Matt: Okay. Takes you a little bit, and you're being careful not to be too loud, 'cause the last thing you want is Cassandra to come in and watch you tearing through her outfits. But you do find what essentially amounts to a wide-brimmed captain's hat. It comes almost to a tri-corner point at the front and curves upward. It's mostly used for costuming purposes, it's reminiscent of masquerade balls, it's used for-- you actually recall, when she was younger, it was part of her masquerade ball wear. There was a mask with a long nose.
Taliesin: Sure, and it'll be very ill-fitting now.
Laura: Ooh, are there any ribbons around?
Matt: Yeah, you find ribbons easily enough.
Laura: I wanna tie a big purple giant bow around the top of it.
Taliesin: Get a feather in there, get the whole thing really. So it's very hard to lose him.
Matt: Make a dexterity check.
Laura: To see if I can tie a bow? Okay. Oh, that's a saving throw. This is low, but that's a 12.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: It's a bow.
Matt: Oh no. You successfully-- (laughs) You successfully create what is a bombastic bow of varying layers that plumes out three times. It resembles ribbon candy, almost, in the way that it billows out multiple ways, but it is pinned to the top, so it poofs as it cascades down the sides of the hat.
Taliesin: Are we missing something? I don't know. Is it finished?
Laura: A big feather, like a white, plumey feather?
Taliesin: I think we probably have a white, plumey feather. Oh, wait--
Laura: Or any color, really.
Taliesin: I'm gonna look to see if I can find some bells.
Matt: Okay. Not in Cassandra's room, but there is the royal stable not far away, which does have bells available in case they want to have parade accoutrements for the various horses and other afforded creatures.
Laura: Are these like jingle bells or big cow bells?
Matt: No, they're like jingle bells.
Taliesin: All right. I'm actually going to send you on that one, since you have the broom. We'll need two. I'll find a feather. All right. I'm going to just take a quill, basically, and stick it in there. I don't even care.
Marisha: You're making a Derby hat. That's appropriate.
Taliesin: I know, it's wonderful.
Matt: So yeah, over the next ten minutes or so, between your journey and your finding the proper feather plume, you guys manage to cobble together a delightfully ostentatious hat for Grog's presentory tour of Whitestone.
Laura: I want the bells to hang from either side like around his ears. Right here.
Matt: Okay, okay, cool. There you go. He has a couple of dangly bells.
Taliesin: I needed this.
Travis: It'll be good, it'll be like Karate Kid with the toy when he starts spinning it.
Matt: Perfect.
Travis: Oh, bells in my face. (laughter)
Matt: This magnificent mess of a hat that you guys have created is on par, if not slightly beyond, the previous helmet that he had acquired while in Syngorn.
Taliesin: Yeah, the horn helmet was pretty spectacular, but I feel like we may have topped it.
Matt: So. With that completed, what do you wish to do?
Marisha: I turn to JB real quick.
Matt: Well, JB hasn't come down yet.
Marisha: Oh.
Matt: Actually, while they're doing this, you guys are waiting, kind of having your own meals, and getting the day started. Eventually, you see Johann come down the spiral stairs that lead back to the main entryway to the castle, and behind, you see JB helping Uncle Ogden down, step by step, he still has his walking staff as he makes his way down. And they slowly make their way into the dining hall, sit down, and a simple meal of very, very soft oatmeal is presented for Uncle Ogden at their request before resting the night before, and JB gets her breakfast, and Johann is proud of the fact that he managed to acquire them, though it was not much of an ordeal on his end. Goes and joins Astra, and they seem to be eagerly awaiting the eventuality of this tour that they're all excited for. So you now can approach JB if you'd like.
Marisha: My question has been answered by their arrival, so never mind.
Sam: Was it "What does JB stand for?"
Taliesin: "What does JB eat?"
Marisha: It was "How long does Ogden take to get ready in the morning?" But now I know.
Laura: What does JB stand for?
Travis: I have a question for Astra.
Sam: Junior Bacon Cheeseburger. (laughter)
Travis: Best name ever!
Sam: That is a great name.
Travis: New favorite. Asterix, look, is there anything in Whitestone that you would fancy? Like, do you have any particular interests, whether they be art or education or geometry or buildings?
Matt: "To be honest, I just kinda want to see the history. I wanna see how long it's been here, I wanna see makes up the entirety of this crazy place. I haven't been inside a castle before, so this is a new experience for me."
Travis: Right. Did you want to see just the castle, or did you want the grand deluxe Poobah tour, which is around Whitestone as well?
Matt: "Well, how could I say no to that, honey?"
Travis: That's what I mean, yeah, that was a really good deal. Okay. Let me confer with my subordinate and we'll put together a tour package.
Matt: "I'm excited!"
Travis: Okay.
Laura: She's a little bitch. (laughter)
Travis: Hey, Percy?
Taliesin: Yes?
Travis: So Asterix says that she wants history of Whitestone and the castle, so like, I need a hotlist of things that we're gonna show her, but can we make it sound like I thought of it?
Taliesin: Yes.
Travis: Okay, good. Just keeping you on your toes, mate.
Liam: He's not talking to himself. We all have earrings, he's talking to the others. If you were wondering.
Matt: "Right. I'm not one to judge. I mean, you've seen Ogden." And you glance over at Ogden, who's now in the process of trying to comb the oatmeal out of his beard while he's muttering below his breath. (incoherent muttering)
Liam: Are you coming with, buddy?
Matt: "What?"
Liam: Do you want to go on the tour?
Matt: "Of course!"
Liam: Huh. Can we borrow Trinket for that? Oh, Vex isn't here. I'm sure we could borrow Trinket for the day. You ever ridden a bear, old man?
Matt: (snoring)
Taliesin: We actually have a carpet we were thinking of using for this.
Liam: The bear's funnier, though.
Marisha: Hey, Vax?
Liam: Hello? Oh, I'm right here.
Marisha: Yeah, I'm sitting next to you.
Liam: Are we not actually in the castle right now? Go ahead.
Marisha: There's no ceiling. I think he fell asleep with his eyes opened.
Matt: Which he did. He's staring at you, beginning to snore loudly, and JB's like, "Ogden. Ogden." She flicks him in the side of the head, and he goes (chomps) and takes the spoon that she's holding out with the oatmeal and just--
Travis: I like him.
Liam: I thought I'd get you a bear ride, but I was wrong. I'm sorry.
Matt: "Get me a beer?"
Liam: Yeah. Can we get three beers in here?
Travis: Shit, we don't even need the servants for that. I just pop out the chalice, little morning beer. Sunrise.
Liam: There you go. Three beers for you, Grandpa.
Marisha: You know, I heard a recipe the other day for a beer-mosa. It's like a mimosa, but with beer and orange juice. Would you like a beer-mosa, Ogden?
Matt: "No."
Marisha: Okay. Okay.
Travis: Oh, shit. Oh god.
Matt: And JB's like, "Ogden." She helps him put it back down on the table. "Ah. It's been years since I've had a good drink."
Travis: Years?
Matt: "Yes."
Liam: Oh, shit. Well, we're all gonna die. Have another one.
Matt: And you can see JB's looking kind of nervous. She's like, "Actually, he probably shouldn't." And she takes him and pushes the drink toward Grog. He's like, "I'm a grown boy!"
Travis: He is, he's very grown.
Matt: She seems outnumbered and extremely uncomfortable in the circumstance, as you look over at Johann, who's like, (laughs) "Oh, this is gonna be a fun tour, boy." As he watches as Uncle Ogden lifts the, what by his size is rather large, cup of... beer-- that's the one, it's been a long week. Finishes it in three massive gulps, sets it down.
Liam: Man, I couldn't do that.
Marisha: You know, I'm kind of sad I'm missing this tour with you guys, now.
Travis: Yeah, you fucked up.
Marisha: Yeah. It's gonna be fun.
Liam: The Grand Poobah tour? Yes, you are.
Travis: Gohan, what happens when Uncle Ogden has too much, you know, (drinking sound).
Matt: "I don't know. Honestly, he's been off the wagon for about 20 years, so I'm curious to see."
Liam: Well, this calls for a celebration.
Marisha: What did we do? We're the worst!
Travis: Life begins anew in Whitestone!
Sam: You know, 20 years to a gnome is like five for a human.
Marisha: We are consistently the worst.
Sam: I'm just saying, it could be okay.
Liam: A very wise man once said that life needs things to live, so.
Taliesin: And one of those things it needs is beer.
Laura: He says, as we walk in the room.
Matt: Carrying a magnificent hat in your hand.
Travis: Does Ogden seem to grow younger as he finishes the beer?
Matt: No, he seems to grow the same.
Travis: Okay. Never know. Never know.
Matt: He seems relatively unfazed.
Laura: Grog! We found your tour hat.
Travis: Oh, you did?
Laura: And it's wonderful.
Travis: Oh, great. When do I get to see it?
Laura: It was sitting on a special shelf, labeled 'tour hat shelf'.
Travis: That's lucky.
Laura: Yeah. It really was.
Sam: Is that it? What you have there, Percy, that hat?
Taliesin: Yes, here we are.
Liam: Oh, shit!
Taliesin: Magnificent, isn't it?
Travis: Wow! This is-- it jingles! It jangles! This is an official Whitestone tour hat?
Laura: Yeah!
Taliesin: So that we can definitely find you no matter what.
Travis: Yeah! Now, is there a long history of distinguished tour leaders before me?
Taliesin: You would think that, but honestly, I don't believe that we've ever had an official tour guide before you. You would be starting!
Liam: First Vex, now you!
Laura: Grand Poobah and First Tour Captain of Whitestone!
Liam: All of This and That!
Taliesin: This technically falls under "This and That," doesn't it?
Marisha: Keyleth bows and I take Vax with me by hitting the back of his knees.
Taliesin: It's customary to show respect by jingling the bells.
Matt: As you both bow, and you say this phrase, you watch as Johann and Astra, they bow low as well.
Travis: Yes. Percy, you should tell them the short names for my titles. You know.
Taliesin: I think it's just so much more exciting when you say it.
Travis: What was it, like Silly Bean, and Sweet Chestnut?
Taliesin: Why not?
Travis: Yeah! (laughter)
Taliesin: Grand Poobah of All of This and That
Travis: Please rise, rise! It's going to be a lovely day. We have a lot ahead of us, we do. Please.
Liam: Jeez, that hat is busier than K'Varn's whole fucking--
Laura: I know, right?
Travis: Is it, like, well-balanced?
Matt: No! Not at all!
Travis: I have to hold it?
Matt: No, here's the thing  it was designed for a much smaller head. So, even for you to get it on, it's like squeezing a tiny rubber thimble over your thumb. So it's like (creaking, boop!). It pops up on the very, very tip. So it holds itself, but it only really covers the very, very top of your head.
Travis: I'd be worried about circulation up there, but it's not really a concern.
Matt: You feel like it might fall off, but eventually you find a little strap inside.
Travis: Ooh!
Laura: Hey!
Travis: Fuck you! (laughter)
Liam: Ding, ding-a-ling, doodle-ding!
Travis: I was cool until the strap came in.
Taliesin: Breaking point!
Travis: I hate those fucking straps!
Taliesin: The breaking point is right beneath your chin! Who knew!
Sam: Birthday hat!
Taliesin: Been searching for years!
Matt: And as the strap finds itself solid across your jawline, the gnomes, one by one, line up behind you, looking at you excitedly, Ogden and JB at the rear, and he's like, "What's going on?"
Taliesin: We pull out the carpet, and invite Ogden and JB.
Laura: Please, take a seat!
Liam: Yes, it's no bear, but it's pretty good.
Matt: You see Johann and Astra, arm-in-arm, walk to the side, and as JB takes the arm of Uncle Ogden, walks him forward. He stumbles up in your direction, looks up, and goes, "That's terrible! Where are we going?"
Travis: It is time for the tour of Whitestone!
Matt: "Yay!" (laughter)
Matt: JB pats him and is like, "He's not very good with the volume control."
Travis: Oh, that's okay. I like it when they're loud, actually, I relate.
Taliesin: I understand.
Travis: Yep.
Laura: Which one of you two will be riding the carpet with them?
Liam: Of the Grand Poobah and myself?
Laura: Of you and Percy. Percy's going with you as well, aren't you? Are you? Or are you coming with us?
Liam: The carpet's above my station.
Travis: Yeah, I can't ride; I've developed a tour walk.
Laura: Someone has to ride the carpet with them.
Taliesin: I'll ride the carpet so that you can stay free for, yes. Right.
Marisha: Oh, she's coming with us.
Taliesin: I know, I know.
Marisha: You're on your own.
Taliesin: I'll be fine.
Laura: My darling.
Taliesin: Yes?
Laura: You'll be fine.
Taliesin: Oh god.
Travis: All right, Percy, time to learn about your castle. And I take off in a walk where you don't bend your knees, your legs just stay straight? That's the walk I'm adopting for this whole tour.
Matt: All right.
Travis: I've decided.
Laura: Like, legs going out to the side there?
Travis: No, like you kick your heel forward, like--
Sam: Like a goose-step?
Travis: Like a military.
Sam: Goose-stepping?
Marisha: I don't think you want to do a goose-step.
Travis: No, I'm doing it.
Taliesin: I'm okay with it.
Marisha: You sure?
Taliesin: Let's roll with this.
Marisha: Okay!
Taliesin: I'm totally fucking down. I'm in.
Liam: As we head out, I run over to Keyleth and say, try not to be too jealous! And I give her a smooch and then I chase after the gang.
Marisha: Have fun!
Liam: Oh, I will!
Matt: All right. So the three of you find your way, borrowing the carpet temporarily, you gather the gnomes. So, wait, who-- the weight of all the gnomes, the goliath--
Travis: I'm walking!
Matt: You're walking.
Laura: It's just Percy and the gnomes.
Taliesin: It's just me like, like a gondola driver.
Marisha: Yes, and Grog is like sherpa-ing.
Matt: All right. So.
Liam: My plan is to act casual but to be watching all the gnomes for thieving things.
Matt: Okay. Easy enough. All right. So. As you all leap onto the carpet except for Grog, Grog, you begin taking them around the grounds. You begin through the castle. Where do you want to begin?
Travis: Oh this foyer of Whitestone Castle was defended by myself and these fellows against the onslaught of dragons, giants, and hordes of undead. It has been in the de Rolo family for millennia.
Sam: Millennia? That last word?
Travis: Is that what the word is? Yep. Yep. (laughter)
Travis: And then I take them outside to get some fresh air before I overwhelm them with knowledge.
Matt: (laughs) All right. The carpet glides you guys to the outskirts of the castle. You begin taking them along the grounds, around the perimeter wall, and then through one of the underneath gates to the back garden, which you've recovered, and are now starting to actually grow again. You have like a small hedge maze back there, some rose gardens, and a small pond. You've filled in the exhaust holes that were used for the distillation of the whitestone and the acid pits that were installed by the Briarwoods. Now it is actually a garden once more. And so as this happens, you watch as Astra gets really excited at the edge of the carpet and is like, "Ooh my, look at this place, it's like natural!"
Laura: (laughs) 'It's like natural.'
Travis: Natural beauty, it abounds. It all comes from the Sun Tree in the center of town. (whispers) Percy, help!
Taliesin: The gardens were originally constructed by Melanie de Rolo, who is actually one of more interesting de Rolos of the time. She was of the third generation to be born into this castle--
Matt: (snores) (laughter)
Matt: Uncle Ogden is just staring forward.
Taliesin: Don't know why I bother. Melanie is--
Travis: Asterisk is interested.
Taliesin: -- Melanie was actually fascinating. She was eventually removed from her position for accusations of witchcraft and raising of the undead. There's actually quite a bit of interesting ghost stories if that's your sort of--
Travis: No, no we don't, we don't, nope, no.
Matt: "No, please, that's interesting!" Johann is like, "Ghost stories, you say, huh?"
Taliesin: Oh yes, the strange materials that are mined in this part of the world have given rise to all sorts of stories due to its pale appearance, the fact that under certain types of moonlight it can glow with a strange phosphorescent supernatural glow. There are even tales of people--
Matt: (snores)
Taliesin: -- seeing several of the more notorious de Rolos as spirits wandering about the halls, Melanie just being one of them. But she was very excited by the notion of a garden and actually, originally, many of these paths were--
Matt: Both of the gnomes now turn back to Grog and go, "Anyway, what's next on the tour?"
Taliesin: Thank you. (laughter)
Travis: Enough with, like, the boring shit.
Taliesin: I could keep going.
Travis: Do we have like an armory that we can bring them, where they make weapons?
Sam: Yeah, yeah! Get to the good shit!
Taliesin: Well, actually, why don't we take them to target practice? I'm sure that the Riflemen are probably at least doing a round of target practice. That might be fun to see.
Liam: Do we get to see the Musketeers?
Taliesin: I'm not allowed to call them that anymore.
Liam: Well, I will. Let's go!
Matt: Johann is like, "I like the sound of target practice, that's right up my alley. Take us there, boy!"
Travis: Okay. We now venture along these roads cast through the ages of de Rolo descendants as we make our way to the annals of Firecracker Alley. (laughter)
Taliesin: It's a shooting alley. It's fun, it's got some moving bits, but I'm sure you can understand exactly what it entails.
Matt: They both shake their head. "I have no idea what you're talking about, but let's go!"
Taliesin: This is quite possibly the only one in existence, so this is quite exciting.
Matt: All right. As you guys make your way along the rest of the tour, the rest of you, who are not on this tour, what are you doing?
Laura: We're going to the Sun Tree!
Marisha: We're gonna go find Wilhand!
Ashley: We're gonna go find Wilhand.
Marisha: We're gonna go find Willhand!
Matt: Okay.
Ashley: Before I left, did I see Grog in his hat?
Matt: Oh, it was amazing.
Ashley: Grog, you look so distinguished!
Travis: Go on.
Ashley: You look so great in that hat! Where did you get this hat?
Travis: Apparently this is the official tour hat of the house of Whitestone.
Laura: It's the truth!
Travis: And apparently I'm the first.
Laura: Yep, it was made hundreds of years ago, and was just sitting on the shelf waiting for the first official tour guide.
Travis: How it's not covered in dust or decay, I have no idea.
Ashley: Oh, Grog. This is just the perfect job for you.
Travis: Does it fit well? I feel like it's a bit small.
Ashley: You know what? It's just supposed to be a little jaunty like that, I think.
Travis: Oh, it's got a little swagger?
Ashley: Yeah, just a little-- it's great.
Taliesin: Makes you look bigger as well.
Ashley: Yes.
Travis: Yeah, I am pretty tiny these days. I have not been lifting.
Marisha: Is he wearing like a Lolita hat? Is that what's going on?
Travis: Like a maid cafe?
Matt: Kind of, a very oversized one. It's wide-brimmed and floppy and it's got all these ribbons cascading.
Travis: I like the Derby analogy. That's what I was going for.
Marisha: Derby Week is this weekend, I think.
Matt: Timely. There you go, Grog.
Marisha: You look like an old Southern white woman.
Travis: All I aim for in life.
Matt: So Vex, Pike, Keyleth, Taryon. What are you guys doing?
Laura: We're heading to the Sun Tree.
Matt: All right. You make your way to the Sun Tree. It's about ten in the morning, time-wise, by the time you get going, and you see them kind of gliding around the outskirts of the castle, doing their slow traveling tour. As you approach the Sun Tree, where are you going? Heading to Westruun?
Ashley: Let's go see him.
Marisha: Do you know of a tree that's close by his house that we can just be right there?
Ashley: Yeah, I mean, in the backyard we have a pretty large tree.
Marisha: Can I get us to that tree?
Matt: You've seen it before. You've been to the house, you've stayed there, so you know the tree she mentions, yeah.
Marisha: Okay. That tree. Psew!
Matt: All right, as you guys step through the portal created on the outskirts of the Sun Tree, you step through into-- I wouldn't say it's a yard, it's not a big yard, it's more of a small-- what would be used as a storage space behind this building, but you have the two-story red brick building that is your-- and, for a while, Grog's-- home of upbringing. Wilhand is not in the backyard, however, you do see that there is a lot of leftover building materials from the reconstruction of the second story, which sustained damage from the original assault of the Conclave. But looking up at the roof, which last you saw was amid disarray, looks like it's been reconstructed and completed, and the home is once again whole.
Ashley: Well, this is nice to see. It's put together again. Well. Shall we?
Laura: Find out about that curse.
Ashley: (exhales) Okay.
Matt: You knock on the door. There's a slight pause. A little voice inside goes, "Eh? Who is it?"
Ashley: Oh, Wilhand, it's Pike!
Matt: "In the yard?"
Ashley: Yeah. Yeah, we-- I just went around. (laughter)
Ashley: Just went around.
Marisha: The gate was open, the side gate.
Ashley: The gate was open.
Sam: The dog run?
Ashley: And the dog run. Just went around the dog run.
Marisha: No, the back door, the back door!
Matt: Another moment passes before the back door opens, which leads into the small kitchen. It's a humble home, but as it opens up, Wilhand is there, looking as liver-spotted and grinning as he was last you saw him. His balding top of his head and the crazed white mane of hair behind has gotten even longer and unkempt as he's now on his own and doesn't have anyone to really groom him. So he's going a little wild-gnome right now. You see his face light up immediately as soon as he sees your expression. "Oh, Pike! Pike, it's so good--"
Ashley: Oh, oh, oh, I'm sorry, I'm very strong.
Matt: "I noticed. Well, friends."
Laura: Good to see you again!
Matt: "Dex'avlia?"
Laura: That's right.
Matt: "And that's Keyfen?"
Marisha: Got it.
Matt: "And?"
Sam: Taryon Darrington. In Gnome, I say, it's a pleasure to make your a-taint-ance. (laughter)
Matt: His eyes go wide. "Ah. I almost heard that. Well, come in, come in." He turns around and muscles his way inside. You've never quite been in a gnome home before.
Sam: You grew up here?
Ashley: For the most part. For the most part.
Sam: And you seem okay.
Ashley: (laughs) Yes. I'm okay. And Grog did a little bit as well.
Sam: That's hard to believe.
Ashley: Well, he-- we made it work, you know? He slept outside a lot.
Laura: He was smaller then, too, right?
Ashley: He was smaller then. He was smaller then. He, you know.
Marisha: I loved sleeping outside, though. Did you guys have like a tree canopy thing?
Ashley: Sometimes we would make forts.
Marisha: That's good living, Taryon.
Sam: That sounds fun, sleeping outside when you have a perfectly good home to sleep in.
Ashley: Well, it's-- I'm an outdoorsy type.
Sam: All right.
Ashley: People have different preferences, and that's one.
Marisha: It's very freeing.
Sam: I'll have to try it sometime.
Ashley: We'll try it sometime. I think you'll like it.
Matt: As you guys are having this conversation, you watch as Wilhand is rushing around the kitchen, frantically trying to make tea. He's like, "I wasn't expecting guests, my apologies! Hold on!" He's like, one hand he's filling this tea kettle, and the other hand's trying to find some flint, and he's like--
Marisha: I light it up with my flame hands.
Matt: "I did it!" (laughter)
Matt: Sets it down. "Okay." He goes and sets the kettle onto the flame. "Don't touch. It burns. Anyway. I'm so glad you could make it. It's so good to see you, Pike!"
Ashley: It's so good to see you. Sit and relax, I know where everything is, you don't have to-- I'll get tea ready for everybody. Just sit and relax.
Matt: "Okay." And he sits down at the table.
Laura: As she gets up, can I just kind of whisper, 'cause he can't hear very well. Wilhand? Can you hear what I'm saying right now? Okay. Is it going to be all right, bringing this up around him?
Ashley: Sure.
Laura: Sore subject? Maybe.
Ashley: I'm not sure. Bring it up very, very lightly.
Laura: I'll let you do it.
Ashley: Okay. Okay. Wilhand.
Matt: "Yes?"
Ashley: First of all, I wanted to come see you 'cause it's been some time, and I'm so glad that the house has come along so nicely.
Matt: "It has. There's been some fantastic volunteers who've come by. They've rebuilt a lot of the city."
Ashley: That's fantastic. Oh, I know what we were gonna ask you.
Matt: "Yes?"
Ashley: Oh, wait. No, we knew Fassbender was gone. Never mind.
Matt: "Okay."
Laura: Oh, but what did the man look like who came and grabbed the big robot?
Travis: (whispers) The guy that owned him.
Laura: I know, I just want to make sure it was him. Your big mustachioed metal man.
Matt: "Oh, yes. The broad stone one."
Laura: Yeah, that's the one.
Matt: "Ah. He was retrieved by his actual legal owner, of which I was notified of. I don't know how you procured it off of him. Older gentleman. Standard human fare. Taller than me."
Laura: Was he kind of a dick?
Matt: "Kind of a what?"
Marisha: A penis!
Travis: Wow. (laughter)
Travis: Jesus.
Matt: You watch as his head turns in a confused way. He goes, "Um." And he puts his finger in his ear and clears it out and goes, "I'm sorry, what?"
Ashley: Like not a very nice person?
Matt: "Oh, yes, he was--"
Ashley: Rude.
Matt: "-- a bit... he was not the kindest or most forthcoming of guests, but he seemed to be a busy man of much esteem and left before I could finish making his tea."
Laura: I hope he wasn't very mean to you.
Matt: "No, no, not mean at all, just extremely forceful." (laughter)
Ashley: Well, we came-- well, first, I wanted you to meet Taryon, our new friend.
Matt: "Oh! What's your name?"
Sam: Taryon Darrington.
Matt: "Taryon. Pleasure to meet you."
Sam: Yes, it's a pleasure to make your a-cunt-ance. A-cunt-ance.
Laura: Wow. Wow.
Matt: He leans over and goes, "You're making interesting friends these days, Pike."
Ashley: Well, okay, I'm just gonna--
Matt: "Sarenrae was very specific about making sure that you avoid the bad folk, and you're currently dealing with what looks to be some ruffians using some naughty language."
Marisha: Is 'penis' a bad word?
Laura: Just don't say that word again, Keyleth. I mean, it's not.
Ashley: You know, I just feel like I like to be surrounded by all types, to sort of, you know, get to know--
Matt: (laughs) "Just messing with you."
Ashley: Oh. I thought you got--
Matt: "What, you think I didn't get drunk and say the off thing here and there? Back in my day, I was a bit of a rabble-rouser, whether you believe it or not. Mm-hm."
Ashley: You were. (laughter)
Ashley: Well, I might as well just come out with it. I'm stalling. So we had some visitors in Whitestone, where we're staying right now-- I'm just really nervous. It was Johann and Ogden and JB.
Matt: "Hm."
Ashley: They came to visit, 'cause I had sent them a little money and a letter.
Matt: "Well, that's very kind of you."
Ashley: And they came to town to stay and to just see the town, and they told me something a little disturbing. Ogden said he's been having visions and dreams about something about a blood curse. Does this sound familiar to you at all?
Matt: "To be perfectly up-front, I kind of escaped the Trickfoot lifestyle when I was maybe about your age. So I'm not as keen on all the familial history, but I can say that there's been more than one curse thrown at our family name."
Ashley: This is true.
Matt: "I don't know. I haven't spoken with them in quite some time, or really anybody else. I decided that you, there was something special about you, and it wasn't right to have you grow up in such an uncouth environment, so I wanted to provide something different for you. I don't know if I succeeded, but I did my best, and brought you into the light of the one that saved me. And look at you now!" And he leans forward and grabs your holy symbol from the front and goes, "Why, you're the brightest star she has."
Laura: I'm gonna be terrible. Can I insight check him? I just want to see if it looks like he's hiding anything.
Matt: Make an insight check.
Laura: (high-pitched) I'm sorry, Wilhand.
Ashley: It's okay.
Sam: He's an old man. He doesn't lie.
Laura: 14?
Matt: 14? He's hard to read in the sense that he's lived long enough and seen enough things in his time that he's open, but he keeps his history guarded, by nature. He seems genuine, but at the same time, you're not getting the whole picture, because he's not revealing the whole picture. He also spends a lot of time alone, too, so by nature he's a little hermited. So that's as much as you can make out.
Laura: Wilhand, how old were you when you left the Trickfoot family?
Matt: "Oh, I would've been maybe in my early 40s."
Laura: Oh. (whispers) How old are you?
Ashley: Early 40s.
Laura: Okay. Okay. So he was around for a while. Okay. Did you know Theobold?
Matt: "Yes."
Laura: And so do you know what happened to him?
Matt: "In what way?"
Laura: Well, Ogden said he was affected by the curse, that he was killed by it.
Matt: "I wasn't around for that."
Marisha: Insight check.
Matt: Make an insight check.
Marisha: 24. No. Hang on, wait wait wait. I keep forgetting my insight went up.
Sam: Well. It seems to have worked.
Marisha: 26.
Liam: Oh, he turned around. (laughter)
Sam: Whispers. We have nothing to sell.
Laura: Yes we do! We have these shirts that are still in the store.
Sam: Oh! Those shirts there?
Travis: Been out for a week.
Ashley: You can even fold up the sleeves to make them super fashionable.
Laura: They're super cool!
Liam: And soft like the hoodie.
Travis: Show 'em the dice on the back
Laura: (squeaky) There's a Critical Role logo on the back. (laughter)
Travis: That's the house voice. When we go home, it's all that.
Sam: Really? That's how she talks at home? Oh, boy.
Travis: Yeah. That's what we call the Bailey switch. Got home and it was like, fuck.
Matt: "I'm sorry. I just, I don't deal with them much these days. They wander, they-- I'm just an old gnome trying to live his twilight years in peace and the joy of the Everlight."
Ashley: So, I don't mean to press you on this, Wilhand, but did you know how he died? I mean, even if you weren't there, did you hear about it?
Matt: "I know that he had passed and I heard it was around mysterious circumstances, but like many Trickfoots before me and many after, they tend to die under mysterious circumstances. It's kind of the life they lead."
Marisha: Wilhand, if you don't mind me asking.
Matt: "There we are, yes?"
Marisha: I know you mentioned to Pike before about a blood curse. Do you actually believe in the curse or do you believe that it's because of the life the Trickfoots lead? I know you've worked hard to get away from them.
Matt: "I don't know. I haven't delved too deep into the history of the family. That's more Ogden's fare. I just wanted to leave it all behind me. For the most part, I don't even tell people I'm a Trickfoot. They just know me as old Wilhand. Don't want to live under the stigma. Sorry, I wish I could be of more help."
Ashley: I'm struggling a bit.
Matt: "What bothers you, child?"
Ashley: I feel like you've told me so much about the family, and when they came to town I feel-- I almost feel bad about the way that I treated them. And I feel like they're just, if anything, they're just odd. I'm odd and you're odd and that's just the way Trickfoots are.
Matt: "That's the way family is. Those closest to you are usually the most odd."
Laura: It's very true.
Matt: "There've been very upstanding people in our family in the past, and there've been some downright scoundrels. We're as varied as any other folk in Exandria. It just so happens that some of the scoundrels had a higher profile in the past and set us on a path of expectation. Besides, for gnomes outside of Kraghammer, it's hard to make a living outside of farming or courier services and other menial tasks. Tinkering seems to be already a very cluttered business. So how else are they going to make their means, I suppose, than pilfering here and there? I don't blame them for that. I just don't want to live it and didn't wish for you to live it either."
Ashley: Well, I thank you for that. I couldn't imagine my life any different.
Matt: "I just hope it was enough-- you and the mountain man."
Ashley: Well, he's my protector for sure.
Matt: "Good. I was hoping he would be. He was my protector at one time, as well."
Laura: It might be a small comfort to know that Pike's doing a wonderful job of changing the Trickfoot name.
Matt: "Really?"
Laura: She's a hero of the land. Trickfoot is known as hero, now.
Matt: "Hero? What did you do?"
Ashley: Well. I mean, I didn't do it, we all did, but we killed lots of dragons, and, you know, we've done some pretty cool things.
Laura: She's saved a lot of people.
Marisha: Plus she single-handedly helped lead the rebuilding of a Sarenrae temple in Vasselheim.
Matt: "Way over in Vasselheim?"
Ashley: I've traveled very far.
Matt: "You've made the Lady of the Everlight very proud of you, then." (laughs)
Sam: She also owns a bakery. Co-owns a bakery. With the rest of us. And she is one of the finest bakers we have.
Laura: It's true. It's true.
Matt: "Where did you learn to bake?"
Ashley: It just-- I think-- (laughs) I don't know. I think over, you know, this past year-- (laughter)
Ashley: We would drink a lot, and we would just be in the kitchen sometimes without anything to do, us girls and Taryon, just throwing some shit in a bowl and seeing what we could make.
Sam: The best bakers make it up as they go.
Matt: "You're all very lucky."
Laura: It's not a very precise sort of thing, it's funny, mix things together and then it just turns out.
Sam: We don't even have measuring cups, we just kinda pour it all in and shake it up and see what comes out.
Matt: "That sounds amazing."
Ashley: Here, here, I have-- it's only half 'cause I ate half of it in our journey through the tree. (laughter)
Sam: It literally took five minutes to get here.
Ashley: But it's half of a blondie that was made yesterday.
Matt: "Did you make this?"
Ashley: Well, no, I mean, he was making them, but it's our recipe.
Sam: I made it off of a recipe that she had cultivated, and it's quite-- you'll taste--
Ashley: I go and get some tea, make the rest of the tea for everybody.
Matt: "Oh, the tea!"
Ashley: I got it, I got it. Sit, sit, enjoy. Here, here.
Laura: Oh, thank you.
Matt: "It's a bit stale. Mm."
Laura: Imagine if it was fresh.
Matt: "You're a very good cleric."
Ashley: You know, I know, thank you for your honesty, they're great when they're fresh.
Matt: "I'll finish this later."
Ashley: I'll bring you a profiterolo, 'cause that you will love.
Matt: "I've gotta cut down, you know, the diabetes." (laughter)
Matt: "But thank you, I greatly appreciate the offer. A bakery? Wow!"
Travis: The old gnome diabetes!
Ashley: I could maybe try and heal you of that. Well, just one more thing. So Ogden, in his visions that he's been having, and he told this to Vex, that he saw visions of me dying, basically, by a shadowy--
Laura: Shadowy being with eyes like burning coal.
Matt: "Well, you'd best be avoiding anything with eyes like coals."
Laura: Right.
Matt: "Dreams are dreams. Visions are different. Now, was it a dream he had, or was it a vision?"
Laura: It's a recurring dream, very constant, and it has him very worried, if he's telling the truth.
Matt: "Do you know if Ogden has found faith?"
Ashley: I didn't ask him.
Matt: "Well. I can't say. Some given the calling, they don't know why that is given. I'd like to think that even the most dastardly of characters can be redeemed. My memory of their family is a dark one, but who am I to judge, as I have not engaged with their path for hundreds of years now? Maybe you should ask him."
Ashley: Okay.
Marisha: Why do you think Ogden is dastardly? What did he do?
Matt: "I don't know him that well, I left before we got to become friends."
Marisha: Just going off what you said.
Matt: "Just meaning the Trickfoots in general."
Ashley: So would it be-- (laughs) Would it be different if he had these dreams or visions if he was a follower of Sarenrae or has found faith of some sort?
Matt: "Well, those are the only visions I've received, and they've kept you safe this long, yes? It's the only life I know. I can't speak for him, but that would put me at ease. But I also don't understand all this--" He glances over at Taryon's dragonhide armor and the giant metallic man behind him with glowing runes on his body that's writing this all down, and goes, "You know. Them. Arcane stuff."
Ashley: It's, you know, to each his own. (laughter)
Matt: "Tea?"
Laura: Sure.
Matt: All right. You guys stay for a bit and have some tea with him and catch up, and let him know more of the adventures that you've had since last you checked up on him in Westruun. Anything else you guys want to work out here in Westruun with Wilhand?
Sam: I'll just ask him, is there any message you wish to send to Ogden or the rest of the Trickfoots?
Matt: "I would tell them that if they have a penchant for sweets, they should curb that a bit. Apparently there's a family history of diabetes." (laughter)
Sam: All right.
Matt: "Just a word of advice I'm throwing out there for their own well-being."
Sam: Okay. Family history, got it.
Matt: "Yeah."
Sam: All right.
Matt: "And don't be penises."
Sam: Very good.
Marisha: Wise words.
Matt: "See? Told you." (laughs)
Laura: Wilhand? Should you remember anything about this curse that we've asked you about, please send word? We want to protect Pike as much as we can.
Matt: "I understand. I'll look into some books. If I hear anything, I'll send word."
Laura: Thank you.
Matt: "Of course."
Ashley: I'm sure it's nothing, but in case you remember anything.
Matt: "I will be happy to do so."
Ashley: Okay. I'll just take the rest of it. I'll probably have it on the way home.
Matt: "Are you sure? I don't mind, it was delicious."
Ashley: No, no.
Laura: We'll send some your way that are fresh, I swear they're very good.
Ashley: They're very good, I promise.
Matt: "All right."
Sam: In Gnome, I say, it has been lovely making your acquaint-anus. (laughter)
Matt: He responds with, "And you're getting better, but perhaps some practice, in time."
Sam: I'll keep working on it.
Matt: "Until then, avoid anyone of any sort of gnomish nobility for a while. That's my recommendation," he says to you in Gnome.
Ashley: We're working on it. (laughter)
Marisha: Pike, is there anything you need from here before we leave?
Ashley: I don't think so. Real quick.
Matt: "Yes?"
Ashley: I get up and I stand behind him and comb his hair out.
Matt: "It's been a while since somebody's done that for me. Thank you."
Ashley: It looks so great, just all natural, out, ready for the world, but I wanted to make you just look a little bit more coiffed.
Matt: "Thank you. It's a bit unbridled, I would like perhaps to... the word escapes me." And he takes another sip of his tea, thinks for a second, goes, "I wish to be less crazy-looking."
Ashley: Well, can I just say, I think you look perfect.
Matt: And he reaches up and pinches the edge of your cheek and goes, "Well, can I just say that I never thought blue would be your color, but it looks fantastic."
Ashley: It hasn't washed out yet, but it's fun for a little bit, just to try something.
Matt: "Just to try something. Ah, I remember those days. Anyway. Don't be a stranger."
Ashley: Okay. It was wonderful to see you.
Matt: "Wonderful to see you as well. And please, do send me some fresher treats."
Laura: I will.
Matt: "Thank you."
Laura: Thank you for your hospitality.
Matt: "Of course. Thank you for coming. And a pleasure to meet you, uh--"
Sam: Taryon Darrington.
Matt: "Taryon Darrington. Pleasure to meet you, yes."
Sam: Not a firm handshake at all.
Ashley: Okay.
Matt: All right, you guys make your way back to Whitestone?
Ashley: What's that?
Matt: You guys make your way back to Whitestone?
Laura: I guess so, yeah.
Ashley: Shoot.
Matt: You guys return.
Ashley: Finish the rest of the blondie through the fshoom.
Matt: Just (chomps) as you step through.
Taliesin: Stale blondie.
Marisha: Stale blondie.
Matt: As you guys return, stepping back into the main thoroughfare of Whitestone, you gather, over this time, the rest of your friends have done a relatively decent-- they're like three quarters of the way through their tour of Whitestone. It's very basic, they're not going through every single detail, but they're going in various sections, and Ogden has been asleep pretty much the entire time. JB, Johann, and Astra have been eager, for the most part, asking questions, and some of the time, when you're not looking, kind of flicking the back of the hat. But you've come around now, you're heading back up north after coming from the graveyard, and both the Pelor church and the Raven Queen shrine that have been built there, and you've made your way back northward into the city proper.
Liam: We said we were gonna do Firecracker Alley. See the Musketeers. Can we do that? I really want to do that.
Taliesin: I'm not allowed to say that word out loud.
Liam: Well, I'll hush up around your sister, but it's just us right now.
Travis: Yeah, either that or it's like a pub crawl through Whitestone, one or the other.
Taliesin: I think they may be drunk enough. Let's go see the--
Matt: Okay. Is there any specific individual that you've set as the captain of the Riflemen of Whitestone?
Taliesin: Your boy. What's his name?
Liam: Kynan.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Marisha: (gasps) What?
Matt: All right, so. As you guys approach, making your way towards the northern barracks of the city, you hear a cluster of small, controlled explosions, at which point the gnomes all kind of shudder for a second. In that moment, Ogden goes, (incoherent yelling) "We're under attack!"
Travis: It's all right, it's all right, it's all part of the tour. No, it's all right. Oh man. It's okay. This is Firecracker Alley.
Matt: "Okay."
Travis: All right.
Matt: "All right."
Travis: These my people.
Matt: JB wipes the drool from his mouth. As you guys approach, you see there's a line of ten men and women in armor with rifles; they're currently in the process of reloading them, and there you see at the edge is a leather-clad Kynan, who is in the process of instructing loudly the reloading process, the use of black powder, and the preparation for the rifles for a secondary shot. As they all prepare, he goes, "All right. And aim!" Arm up in the air. They all (clatter) up in front. "Fire!" (gunshot) They all go off again, these big plumes of smoke shoot out from the front. You watch as across the way there are a dozen or so hay targets with what looks like cloth and some figures drawn on them that have a number of holes blown through them in multiple places. The shots don't have extremely good aim.
Liam: How many rifles are we looking at, here?
Matt: You're looking at ten different people with rifles.
Liam: Queen's Grace, that's a lot of guns, Percy.
Matt: As you guys approach, gently, as they're preparing for the next shot, you see Kynan bring up his arm and look over and see the rest of you, and immediately changes his posture. He was already in a formal leader position, but as soon as you approach, it's almost like, oh, the boss is here to watch. And he kind of (inhales). "Hold. We have company."
Taliesin: At ease, at ease.
Matt: Turns around and jogs up to the edge of the perimeter of this training ground. And he goes, "Hello. By what pleasure do we have you--?"
Taliesin: We are giving a very rare tour of the grounds and we thought that, these being Trickfoots, as in the family of Trickfoots--
Matt: "Oh. Oh!"
Taliesin: -- we would show them one of the things that makes this castle so special, and one of the things that makes this castle so special is you and your company.
Matt: "Well, it is an honor to have the Trickfoots among us. I am Captain Kynan Leore. I am the, as to recently assigned, captain of the Riflemen of Whitestone." And you see him go from-- his whole, structured presentation begins to quickly fade as the nerves kick in. You can see his voice get a little quivery and his posture begin to fall a little bit. "These are my Riflemen... and women! It's called Riflemen, but it's men and women. It's a formality."
Liam: Kynan--
Matt: "It can be changed, it can be changed."
Liam: Hey.
Laura: Riflepeople.
Liam: Hey, it's been months. You're looking on point.
Matt: "Well, we're trying. They're very, very good people. Aren't they? Yes?" And they all don't know how to answer and look at each other and look at him and--
Taliesin: At ease. This man in command of you all is one of the few people who could actually do a little damage to us in our time. He has great respect.
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: He puts his eyes down, slightly sheepishly and guiltily as you say that, but--
Liam: That's old history. How are you getting on?
Matt: "Very well. Very well. I mean, very few get a second chance. I just don't want to mess this up."
Liam: Are you being of use?
Matt: Looks to Percival.
Taliesin: Very much so. I could not think of anyone better for this particular occupation. I am nothing but prideful.
Liam: Well, that's enough.
Matt: "Then yes, I have been of use."
Liam: (whispers) How's Simon?
Matt: "Oh!" He looks over at the rest of the folk and goes, "At ease! Go get some food." The men break and make their way walking out--
Laura: And women. Because there's men and women.
Liam: Sometimes I sound like my sister. I'm sorry. I just like equality for all.
Matt: But he leans in and says, "Simon is doing well." And he pulls up the front of his armor a little bit and you can see the snake belt itself is still on him.
Liam: (whispers) Can I say hello?
Matt: "I mean--" Glances over at the men not watching-- and women.
Taliesin: I'm showing off some trick shots to the Trickfoots while we're--
Matt: Okay, so as you're doing a whole Buffalo Bill-- (laughter)
Matt: I should say, Wild Bill. Buffalo Bill is a whole different thing. Buffalo Bill's a very different thing. (laughter)
Matt: I need to specify.
Taliesin: That's a very different show.
Matt: Yeah, no. It's a whole different pit in Whitestone to go to. He goes ahead and does a little whistle, and suddenly the belt turns into a snake and winds its way up the forearm and (hisses).
Liam: Oh, fuck! Buddy! Can I hold him for a minute?
Matt: "Yeah! Well, he's still yours."
Liam: Ah.
Matt: The snake leaps to your arm and coils around.
Liam: Hey! Hey! You are bigger. What is he feeding you? What are you feeding him?
Laura: "Belt!"
Matt: "Well, nothing. It's a--"
Liam: Well, I fed him. I mean, you don't have to, I guess.
Matt: "I can! I can feed him. I just didn't think-- It's a belt! I don't know-- I'll feed him."
Liam: When was the last time this belt was a snake, before now?
Matt: "When you give it to me. I haven't had to use it! And then should I let it out? I don't know. I don't know how these things work, okay?"
Marisha: Not everyone can be a dope adventurer, all right?
Liam: I'm conflicted here. I did give this to you--
Matt: "Right. You gave me a belt. And I've used it, and it's been great."
Liam: Can I insight check Simon to see how he's feeling?
Matt: Sure! With your extensive knowledge of magical snake belts, let's see how well this goes.
Liam: Hey, this is all bullshit, man.
Matt: I know. I love it!
Liam: That's insight?
Matt: Yeah.
Liam: No, I'm gonna use wisdom. Excuse me, I'm going to use Luck. Oh, that's much better.
Travis: Luck.
Matt: Blow that Luck, baby!
Liam: That's 18.
Matt: 18. Yeah. He seems fine. As a magical snake, it can transform back and forth. It doesn't appear to require food or water when it's in its belt form. It wouldn't necessarily be conscious of the time in between. So as far as Simon's concerned, it's been a very short period of time.
Liam: Kynan.
Matt: "Yes, Vax?"
Liam: You are happy here-- happier here?
Matt: "Very."
Liam: I'm very glad for that. You seem happy. And everybody deserves a second chance. And I guess what I'm asking is: can I have my snake back?
Matt: "Of course. Yes! Here, I mean he was-- I was just borrowing it for a while."
Liam: Okay. I feel silly. I mean, I gave it to you a year ago or so, but, I don't know, I missed him. I think I missed him.
Matt: "Okay. Yeah."
Taliesin: I'm so glad I can't hear any of this.
Matt: As he looks over at Percy doing all these trick shots in the air and throwing things up and, like, showing the spinning. And the gnomes are like, "Whoa! Whoa! Whoa!"
Travis: As you can see, Firecracker Alley was constructed after the revolt of the Haybales of 1874... 39.
Liam: I let Simon crawl down and form a belt.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: And I give Kynan just a gentle little clap on the cheek and say, I'm glad you're fitting in.
Matt: "Me too. And thank you. Sorry about not feeding your snake. I didn't--" (laughter)
Liam: I think you're well on your way to being that hero you dreamed of when you were younger.
Matt: "Well, thank you, I was-- " (gun noise) And his rifle goes off like in the ground next to him.
Laura: Oh my god.
Matt: A big plume of dirt next to him, and he goes, "Uh--"
Liam: Happens to the best of us. You got all your toes?
Matt: "Men!" And he goes running off toward the rest of his Riflemen. Yeah, you shook him a little bit.
Liam: All right.
Travis: So how do you feel your tour has gone so far? Are you feeling educated, enthused?
Matt: "All of that! All of it, honestly." Johann at this point is still enthralled and goes, "Where does one procure such a weapon?"
Taliesin: One does not, sadly.
Matt: "Okay."
Taliesin: They're very rare outside of this castle, and traditionally when they're found outside of this castle, they're collected and the owner is often killed.
Matt: "Good to know! Good to know, Astra." And Astra goes, "What?! I think it's sexy." And Johann's like, "If you have one lying around you don't need, just let me-- "
Taliesin: I will let you know.
Matt: "Okay."
Travis: Hey Percy, I feel like we should end with, like, a big bang. Like, you know, like, the goods of Whitestone.
Sam: The old apple-in-the-hand?
Liam: (whispers) Do you think Grog and I could shoot a gun?
Taliesin: Yes, I think that's a great idea.
Liam: Yeah? Grog, we're gonna shoot guns!
Travis: Really?
Liam: Yeah!
Liam: He just said, he gave permission!
Taliesin: I will say yes to this. Not one of my guns, but thankfully we have a couple of the ones that are a little wonky.
Matt: The standard rifles. You do have those, yeah.
Liam: But I, like, I don't know. I throw things. Can you show me how it works?
Taliesin: Kind of, yes.
Liam: All right.
Taliesin: It'll be fun.
Liam: (shouts) Gun, please!
Matt: Eventually you guys are outfitted with two rifles. They're not loaded yet. You can show them how to load it.
Taliesin: I'm showing them through the basics of loading the powder. I do this very quickly, so I know it's very difficult to see.
Liam: You're fast.
Taliesin: Very fast, yes. I load it for them.
Matt: All right. You load it for each of them?
Taliesin: One at a time.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: Because this could go poorly.
Travis: We're not loading it ourselves?
Taliesin: You're welcome to try.
Travis: I am a self-made man. I would like to try.
Liam: I will let Percy load my gun.
Matt: Okay, so Percy loads your gun. Grog, make an intelligence check.
Taliesin: I give him an ample amount of powder.
Travis: That's gonna be negative something-- (laughter)
Travis: 12!
Matt: Okay. All right. You give him an ample amount of powder, and he uses it. He uses it the right way. It's a lot of it. But I mean, overall, he got the gist of it, and he's-- (laughs)
Taliesin: This is going to be funny.
Matt: Yeah. Both rifles locked in. The iron balls properly packed into the rifle. You both take aim. I would like you both to roll an attack roll using your dexterity modifier. You're not proficient, so it's just a d20 plus your dexterity modifier. Grog, you have disadvantage on this one.
Travis: Not going to need it.
Liam: Plus dex modifier?
Travis: Seven.
Matt: What did you roll?
Travis: Five plus two.
Matt: Okay, so it wasn't a misfire, at the very least.
Liam: 17.
Matt: Okay. You pull it up, Vax, aim and (gunshot). You watch as the top of one of the hay targets explodes off. You managed to make a hit. It's a little off, but you managed to at least make contact.
Taliesin: Very solid.
Laura: Did his feet come off the ground?
Matt: No, but it does come up and you have to catch yourself.
Taliesin: There's a bit of kick to these. You feel it in the shoulder.
Laura: So there.
Matt: Grog does not move at all when it fires. (explosion noise) When you do fire, nothing reacts. None of the hay reacts, and there's a pause, and about 300 feet back, you watch as a small tree goes (cracking, heavy impact).
Travis: Was that the Sun Tree?
Taliesin: Maybe.
Travis: I'm so sorry.
Taliesin: It's all right.
Travis: I could go stick it up and cover it with tape and stuff.
Taliesin: I think that's a great idea.
Travis: Okay. I take off running. (laughter)
Liam: Vax, who was really giddy a minute ago, takes the rifle and hands it to you. These are dangerous.
Taliesin: Extremely.
Liam: There shouldn't be too many of these.
Taliesin: There should not, which is why if we find them outside this castle, it's taken care of, one way or another.
Liam: Fuck.
Taliesin: I'm going to do a quick load shot just to air it out a bit.
Matt: Okay. You do, and it's a really rapid reload. We're talking Schwarzenegger T-2. Spin the shotgun one-handed. (gunshot)
Travis: I'm a hundred yards away. Shouldn't he have to roll to see if he shoots me?
Matt: Are you shooting at Grog?
Taliesin: No. (laughter)
Taliesin: The rifle doesn't have a super long range, either. It's more of a stopping power weapon.
Matt: Go ahead and roll, with proficiency and your dex modiifer.
Liam: You don't shoot with your gun, you shoot with your heart.
Taliesin: Yeah, this is 25.
Matt: The same target, Vax, the impact of the head you hit, you watch as the entire upper part of its torso and head (explosion noise) explode into a spray of slightly seared and slightly burning hay.
Taliesin: I will never, ever outlive the shame I feel for inventing these. I put it back down. Walk away.
Travis: From 300 yards away, I yell, (muffled) it is not the Sun Tree! (laughter)
Matt: As he runs back, you can see as Johann's like, "Is there any chance that we could shoot one?"
Taliesin: You know what? I'm going to say yes.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: You see Astra's (squeals).
Taliesin: One at a time.
Matt: They both look at each other and they both jump off the carpet.
Taliesin: You'll have to be very careful. It's very dangerous. Not just for what you're shooting at--
Matt: They're not even listening. They're both picking up the two rifles.
Taliesin: They're both empty.
Matt: They pick them up and are looking at it and holding it upward and aiming it sideways. They don't really know how to do it.
Taliesin: I'm going to go a little Luciferian here.
Liam: I'm back in security guard mode.
Matt: Do you help them load it?
Taliesin: I'm going to load one at a time. I'm going to mis-load; I'm going to let the powder roll so it creates a flashpan. It's going to be a big, ugly, loud mess. It's not going to fire a shot. It's just going to be a big, ugly mess.
Marisha: You're making a blank?
Taliesin: I'm making a blank. I'm making a blank with a powder pop. It's going to be a little singe-y.
Matt: All right, so for the purposes of this... okay. No terrible misfire. The first shot is Johann because he pushes Astra back and is like, "Let the men do this first." Takes the rifle from you. Picks it up and aims it at a weird angle. "And I just pull right here on the thing? Right over here?" (explosion) Before he finishes, it goes off. It goes flying from his hand, and he stands there for a second with his hands open, and as he turns back towards you, you can see there's a little bit of singe on his eyebrows. The burst of the smoke and the flash seared the front of his face ever so slightly. He turns to you and goes, "That was amazing. Did I hit it?"
Taliesin: You hit something. Well done.
Matt: "I hit it! You're up, lady." Astra's like, "Oh!" and she runs up. Takes the gun. Same thing?
Taliesin: You know, just because I'm curious, I'm going to give her a normal shot.
Matt: Okay, so you load it properly. She takes it and aims at one of the other targets. (gunshot) She manages to hold onto it; this one doesn't blast out of her hand. You don't see any point of impact.
Taliesin: Good form.
Matt: She's like, "Ow!" and she releases her hand because of the heat of the barrel.
Taliesin: That, as well.
Matt: She puts it on the ground and goes, "That was fun. I'm good."
Taliesin: I figured.
Travis: (panting) I heard shots. What's the problem?
Matt: Grog, you look down and notice that there's a little bit of bleeding from your knee, and there's a small bullet hole that you didn't notice as you were running back.
Taliesin: The Sun Tree was angry. It may have taken revenge.
Travis: (whines, groans)
Matt: It only went in an inch. It wasn't that hard of an impact.
Travis: Mine. (laughter)
Matt: Eventually, as you guys are heading back now, after the rest of your tour, you meet up with the rest of the party. As you guys finish the tour--
Liam: A minor thing. As we're walking back, I sidle up next to Percy and I don't say anything. I just do that friend thing where you just go-- and I keep walking.
Matt: Vax bumps you.
Travis: Do we want to show them the sphere?
Taliesin: No, I think that we've had enough for the evening.
Travis: Really? That's the craziest thing in this town.
Taliesin: No, I have to fill out so much paperwork for that one. We'll do it next time.
Travis: Oh. You know, I do know how to write a few letters now.
Taliesin: If you would like to try and fill out the paperwork...
Travis: Well, let's not get carried away.
Taliesin: All right, then. I certainly am not up to it, so I completely understand if you're not.
Travis: Fine.
Matt: All right. You guys catch up with the rest of the party, and you all make your way to the castle at about the same time.
Taliesin: Just checking. None of the gnomes had even the slightest tinge of reaction when he said that? Or no.
Matt: Make a perception check.
Liam: Other than when I was shooting the gun, I've been watching them like a hawk, as well.
Taliesin: 23.
Matt: Okay. Vax?
Liam: 29.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: Even a twitch?
Matt: No reaction. No twitch. They have no idea what you were talking about, and they have not stolen anything. You've been keeping a close eye.
Sam: Except your heart.
Travis: Ain't that the truth.
Matt: As you guys all reconvene for a mid-afternoon lunch at the castle, everyone's made their way in. The meal's been placed. Less pastry-heavy than the breakfast that Johann originally ordered, but there are meats and breads, and it's actually pretty hearty for a midday lunch, and they keep bringing more in. You get the sense that the Trickfoots don't eat like royals often, and they're definitely making the best they can of the situation. You see JB eating her meal and helping Ogden as you guys settle in. What do you want to do?
Laura: What the fuck should we do?
Taliesin: Perhaps it's time to have a difficult conversation.
Ashley: I think so. I'd like to talk to Ogden again.
Matt: Okay. He's currently at the table, and he's tracing his finger on the side, while occasionally, JB goes, "Uncle?" and taps him. "Oh. Right." She goes and takes a piece of bread and soaks it in the soup for a second and puts it in his mouth. He chews on it for a bit, and as you walk over, he pushes JB's hand out of the way and goes, "Oh, young Pike. Hello."
Ashley: Hello. Did you have a good time today?
Matt: "I did. I haven't had a rest like that in a long time."
Ashley: Well, that's good.
Matt: "Your city gets very loud."
Ashley: It gets pretty loud here. It's true. I take it you went to Firecracker Alley?
Matt: "That's the one."
Ashley: Yeah, it's real loud.
Matt: JB peeks over Ogden's shoulder, listening in. "It was quite nice, actually. We got to watch them fire these--" "Anyway!" Ogden pushes in, not even paying attention to her. "It's so good to see you."
Ashley: Will you take a walk with me?
Matt: "But of course." He takes his stick and stands up. JB's like, "Oh. Where would you like to go?"
Ashley: Well... I just would love to spend some time with you alone, Uncle Ogden.
Matt: JB, you watch her face go--
Ashley: I'll spend some time with you, as well, JB. I just want to make sure I get time with everybody.
Matt: "Of course. Enjoy. I'll just--" And she goes back to her meal and begins cutting it up with fervor or frustration.
Laura: Can I take JB and ask her, did you happen to see my home on the tour?
Matt: "I don't know where you live."
Laura: Would you like to see? I'd love to show you.
Matt: She sidelong glances at Pike helping Ogden up as they begin to make their way out. "You know what? Yes. I would love that."
Laura: All right. I take her.
Matt: So you guys begin making your way. While they exit, because Ogden's a little slower, you and Ogden eventually make your way out to the front part of the castle, walking along the side grounds. He's with his cane, walking. "What did you wish to discuss, young Pike?"
Ashley: I'm blanking right now. Is there a temple of Sarenrae here?
Matt: You have definitely had one constructed. It's a smaller scale. The larger temples here are for Pelor and such and you've been away. Most of your focus has been in Vasselheim and Emon, so you haven't done the full temple construct here, but there's a small shrine that you've built so at least you can go there.
Ashley: I would love to walk you to something that I was a part of building and creating here in the city, if you'd like.
Matt: "Of course. Lead the way. I am your guest. I am here at your behest."
Ashley: I walk him to the shrine of Sarenrae.
Matt: Okay. There was a big building that collapsed during the Briarwood period. The lot was cleaned out, and it's a small standing shrine to Sarenrae at the time being, to eventually be the placeholder for the full temple's construction that you'll build around it. But for the time being, essentially a few small benches, set in a circular stone fashion, and there's a fountain-like carving. A simple carving of Sarenrae for people to pray to. You eventually walk him to that centerpiece. It's mostly empty this time of day. Nobody's currently in the process of upkeep; there isn't a need for it. Some fallen leaves, and it's a little dirty on some of the benches, but you brush it off and you both sit on the bench, looking up at the big winged statue of her. He sits down.
Ashley: Do you know where we are?
Matt: "No idea."
Ashley: This is a shrine of Sarenrae, who I follow, and I wanted to bring you here because I wanted to share it with you.
Matt: "Thank you. It's very peaceful."
Ashley: (sighs) How are you feeling?
Matt: After looking around for a minute, he leans into you and goes, "Pike, we need to talk. I've been tying together the missing pieces of our history for most of my life. This information has helped me once before, and as I'm sure has been discussed at length with your friends, there is a curse upon this bloodline. My research has brought me some knowledge, and I've been able to cast this curse out of one Trickfoot before, but I failed once before that. And I miss her to this day. Do you want to know the history of our curse?"
Ashley: I would.
Matt: "Over four centuries ago, when our kin still occupied the city of Witterbach, up in the Cliffkeep Mountains, long before our bloodline took the name Trickfoot, there was a wily rock gnome called OG Pipemender. Now, OG grew jealous of his brother, Lons, and his business's success, and his marriage, apparently. So, seeking a means of balancing their standing, bringing Lons down a peg or two, OG plotted to undermine and shame his brother, and destroy his life. Now, he was successful in this plot, at least from what I've gleaned. Lons was ruined, but not before it was revealed to Lons that OG himself was the culprit. Now, cornered and fearing for his life, OG lashed out and slew his brother. He fled Witterbach and wandered the mountains for weeks, scavenging to survive. On a full moon, he was visited by a vision of what is believed to be the Lawbearer, Erathis herself. At least, an aspect of her, at the very least. Now, this grave injustice he had committed did not go unnoticed by the Lawbearer, and it required punishment. And a curse was set within the very blood of OG himself. One that lay dormant from generation to generation, unless those carrying the seed fell to extreme selfishness and wanton destruction of others. Now, we Trickfoots may not have the best reputation, but what we do, we do it to survive. And we hurt no other in the process. Those that wander too far into the dark call up this curse and the shades within them slowly hollow them out, leaving a ravenous, selfish beast of a gnome. These visions that I've dreamt, I've had them before. They were not wrong. I saw the shades within my beloved, Ishma, but knew too little at the time to stop them. I caught the shades within others since. Within Johann here, even, years and years ago. And used what I learned to exorcise them out. Now, these visions I have now show you, young Pike. A darkness within you far greater than the others, and I don't know what has drawn them to you. You walk with such light, and I am worried what could be hidden beneath all the layers of silver and gold and blue and Sarenrae's blessing that could still draw these shades to you. Where you've been, what you've done, I know not. I know not the justice of the goddess, can presume not to know, I don't bother myself with such unknowable things. But I am here to try and help, if I can. If you'll have me."
Ashley: Wow. That's a lot.
Matt: "I've had an entire lifetime to think and learn and research and regret."
Ashley: How long have you been having visions, in terms of this happening with me?
Matt: "This is only over the past couple of years, but I knew not where to find you until you sent your letter."
Ashley: And what are your thoughts on JB?
Matt: "She is very dedicated. She's very sweet. She's a bit distracted, at times. She cares much for the stories of you and your friends. The poor thing's been at my side for the majority of her youth. I feel like a burden. She looks after me and not much else, so she lives vicariously through the stories she manages to assemble of you."
Ashley: And she knows about all this, as well?
Matt: "They all know. We've had time to speak. I was the one that insisted we come see you, and I do apologize for the rest of them. They are unique."
Ashley: Well, I think I was at first shocked, and I feel like I need to apologize for my trepidation and wariness at first.
Matt: "It's understood. Like I said, we have a reputation. One that you've, as far as what I've heard, been able to kick to the curb."
Laura: (sneezes)
Ashley: Bless you.
Laura: Thank you.
Ashley: Just little fairies, sneezing fairies, around here.
Matt: "It's adorable. I don't see them."
Ashley: You usually don't. You just hear them.
Matt: "I don't see much, anyway."
Ashley: It's okay. You said you've had some successes in releasing this thing?
Matt: "I've cast it out once before. I've been trying to define a ritual that can do so."
Ashley: How do you define this ritual? Is this under any sort of faith that you have?
Matt: "I find little in faith. However, the exorcism is based in divine magics and some bits of information I've gleaned from the Age of Arcanum, long ago, back when possession was a common thing and gods still walked the earth. What I've found--" And he leans forward on his stick. "-- is to perform this. Pardon me, it's the breakfast. All the oatmeal. It's good for the fiber."
Ashley: It sure is.
Matt: "What I would require would be the highest point on the highest mountain in the vicinity. As high up as we can go. Like somewhere in those mountains there." He points a broad stroke to the north, northeast, to the Alabaster Sierras that surround the Parchwood. "And when the moon is full, as that was when the original curse was cast upon us, there, we hallow the ground to prepare. Perhaps you or another individual of a clerical background could do so, and it does take some time to hallow it. But with the ground hallowed, and the moon is full, I can perform the exorcism. Now, should the shades be strong enough to survive the exorcism, as they have once before, it will be up to you and your friends to slay them while they're bound on that land. And if you cast them to the shadows where they came, the blood curse on you would be no more."
Ashley: But they'll come back again?
Matt: "They are passed on through the bloodline."
Ashley: Is there any way to get rid of them forever?
Matt: "From an individual, yes. Overall, I know not. That involves silly, crazy god stuff, and, well, they haven't been around often. There are a few things we need to prepare for the exorcism that I don't have the access of. If you wish to go through with this, let me know. If you find this all mumbo jumbo and you don't believe me, I don't blame you, either, and we can be on our way. Choice is yours."
Ashley: So you want to perform the exorcism on me?
Matt: "You're the one the visions brought me to."
Ashley: Well, this is something that I'll have to think about. We'll have to talk about it with everybody else, especially if it involves them, as well.
Matt: "Of course. Take your time. They're about-- JB? JB, how close are we to the full moon?" He's shouting out into nothing.
Marisha: Can I do a nature check--
Matt: You're not there.
Ashley: Do I know?
Matt: Make a nature check.
Ashley: Nature check?
Matt: Nature check.
Ashley: Okay.
Travis: Get it.
Ashley: Let me find a d20. Oh, ten.
Matt: You're not sure. You're not very involved or invested in the cycles of the moon.
Ashley: You know, I could talk to Keyleth about that. She would know.
Matt: "Very well."
Ashley: And thank you for telling me all of this.
Matt: "Thank you for being so kind to family that you owe nothing to."
Ashley: I'm very grateful that you're here, and even though our last name has a reputation, I'm proud to be a Trickfoot.
Matt: "That warms my heart, and to hear you say that, maybe one day I will be, as well, before my time is up."
Ashley: I think we can make that happen.
Matt: "I think so, too." He reaches out and pinches the air about a foot off of your face. "There it is."
Ashley: Well, let's go back. I have some thinking to do.
Matt: "All right. Your gray blob is very nice."
Ashley: Oh. Yes, she is.
Matt: "Thank you for showing me. If you don't mind?"
Ashley: Oh, of course.
Matt: (grunts) You guys begin to slowly make your way back to Castle Whitestone. That's where we're going to take our break. We'll come back here in a few minutes.
Travis: (laughing) Kill him, Pike! Kill the bearer of bad news.
Matt: And Flame Strike! All right, guys. We'll be back here in just a minute. We do have another Wyrmwood giveaway in the chat room. This is for this awesome--
Ashley: Are we still going?
Crew: It's still going.
Ashley: Oh!
Matt: We're still going. This is lacewood. Lacewood deck box.
Travis: Is it made of lace?
Matt: It's made of wood that is lacy.
Laura: It is really pretty. I haven't seen that one.
Marisha: I'm kind of jelly. Why didn't we get lacewood?
Matt: I don't know. Well, now you get to get a wood that everyone on here is jealous of. If you go ahead and enter, the code word in the Twitch chat is 'family', so when you're prompted, go ahead and put 'family' and see if you can win. See you guys here in a few minutes. [break]
Matt: Hello, everyone, and welcome back to Critical Role. First and foremost-- nice try, guys. First and foremost, we have our winner for the break. It is, and pardon me for butchering your chat handle, emiliaaldean. E-M-I-L-I-A-A-L-D-E-A-N. Emelialdean. Congratulations! You won your fantastic Wyrmwood card case. It will come to you, signed by the cast, for you to put things inside. Put things inside! Put many things inside. Now! Back into the game, guys. So, Pike. Having walked him back to the castle, we'll jump in for a moment as Vex, you've been leading JB.
Laura: I have!
Matt: She walks alongside you at a comfortable three-foot distance, but she's walking with you.
Laura: You know you can walk next to me?
Matt: "I am walking next to you."
Laura: Oh, I thought she was walking behind me. Is she walking next to me?
Matt: She's behind and to the side.
Laura: No, seriously. Come over here. I don't want to turn my head when I'm talking to you, dear.
Matt: "Right." She quickens her pace. You know, gnomish gait.
Laura: I walk slower. So this is my home. We just built it. Isn't it wonderful?
Matt: "It's beautiful."
Laura: Yes.
Matt: "What's it like having a home?"
Laura: Oh. I went a long time without one, as well. It feels wonderful to finally have someplace to settle down.
Matt: "That's very nice. We're always moving from place to place."
Laura: Yeah. Why is that?
Matt: "We can't afford to put stakes down anywhere, and it doesn't take long for people to figure out who we are."
Laura: What are you?
Matt: "Trickfoots?"
Laura: Well, yes. I know. I know that. But my experience with Trickfoots has always been pleasant.
Matt: "Let's just say that some of our family aren't the most subtle." She looks down and to the side and averts her gaze. "They're good people. They're very good people. Johann has done a lot for us, but he's more prideful than the rest of us. As soon as anyone starts any shit, he's the first to get in their face about it. He's a fiery one. It's why Astra took to him."
Laura: She's fiery as well, it seems.
Matt: "She's something."
Laura: If you could settle down anywhere, where would it be?
Matt: She looks around at the whole city. "Probably right here."
Laura: Whitestone is quite wonderful.
Matt: "It's very nice. People here are far less dubious than the folks in Kymal, at the very least."
Laura: Pike's buttered us up quite well.
Matt: "I miss her a lot. We grew up together. I don't know if you knew that."
Laura: I heard. How old was she when she left?
Matt: "I don't know the specifics of it, but me and her were both in our first decade."
Laura: What was that like, having Pike leave and you staying behind?
Matt: "We were friends. She was my only friend, at the time. I've always been a reader. They tell me the first of my kind, so I didn't take to making new friends very well. That, and Uncle needs someone to look after him, and I didn't really want to drop the ball on that."
Laura: Well, you're a good person.
Matt: "I'm a person."
Laura: Would you like to see the library?
Matt: "You have a library?"
Laura: It's growing.
Matt: "Yes, please!"
Laura: I don't know how big the library is right now.
Matt: (laughs) In Castle Whitestone?
Laura: I mean, it's my particular--
Matt: Oh, your personal library? It's not huge.
Laura: I'm growing it!
Matt: I know, but it took a while to construct it, and then some books have made their way in. It's maybe a third full, but as you show her, she's like, "What kind of books do you have?"
Laura: Oh, well, a lot of books about really terrible gods. Some good gods. Oh! I have something about the Feywild; I remember picking that up. Would you like to learn about the Feywild?
Matt: "Yeah. I've only heard a few things."
Laura: I go dig through my books and find it.
Matt: She takes her straightened hair to the side, and she nervously steps back with it and smiles with her little gap tooth. "Are you sure?"
Laura: Of course. Have you ever learned anything about the curse on your family? Have you seen that in books?
Matt: She starts getting a little dark and says, "Not in the books, no. Nobody really writes books about the Trickfoots. I know what Ogden's talked about, and why we're here. I think he wants to try and help."
Laura: Right. Have you ever seen anyone be affected by it, personally?
Matt: "Not in my lifetime. The last one Ogden went to was before our time, me and Pike. It doesn't happen often-- the vision, at least."
Laura: Well, that's good.
Matt: "I don't know if it's a coming of age thing or not."
Laura: But you've never had any visions.
Matt: "No. I wish I did. That would be interesting. Would be different."
Laura: You are quite different. That's something to be proud of.
Matt: She takes the book. (sighs)
Laura: You know, one of my very best friends, Taryon Darrington, is an incredible writer, and I bet if you told him about the curse, he'd be willing to write it down.
Matt: "Really?"
Laura: Oh yes. You would go into complete detail about it, and he would make it sound very interesting. Maybe we could have somebody draw pictures for it!
Matt: (stutters) "Okay."
Laura: Trickfoots could be legends.
Matt: "Well, you already have one."
Laura: Well, yes. But there are multiple chapters.
Matt: "Okay. Well, we'd have to talk to Uncle Ogden about that; he knows it better than anybody."
Laura: Of course, yes. We'll sit down with him, but I bet you know quite a few details, as well, having taken care of him for so long.
Matt: "Maybe. I don't know."
Laura: We should find Tary. Take that with you.
Matt: "You're sure?"
Laura: Yes, yes. We can talk about it on the way back.
Matt: "Okay." She follows after you as you guys head back to the castle. Eventually you guys stumble up to the castle, and there's Taryon with Doty. What are you guys in the process of doing right now?
Sam: He's combing my hair.
Matt: "Tary."
Laura: Tary?
Sam: 33, 34, 35. Oh, LE Girl. How are you?
Laura: Hi, darling. So, our dear friend JB, here. I told her what a wonderful writer you are.
Sam: Well, yes. Unpublished as of yet, as we all know.
Laura: It's a growing book.
Sam: Budding.
Laura: Yes. And I told her it might be fun if we wrote down a little about the Trickfoots and their curse.
Sam: Oh.
Laura: Something so other people can learn about them.
Sam: Like a short story or something?
Laura: Mm-hm.
Sam: I mean, sure, they could write something like that. I would maybe even read it someday.
Laura: No, I want her to tell you about it, and you can write it down. That way we have all the details.
Sam: Oh.
Laura: You know, you're such a wonderful writer, dear.
Sam: I am a wonderful writer, but, you know, my story has intrigue and danger and romance--
Laura: There's all those things in the curse, darling. Maybe just write a new book for the time being, just a small other book?
Sam: Seems like a bit of a downer, just a book about a curse, I mean. You know how it's gonna end. Someone's gonna get cursed.
Laura: Doty.
Sam: What? Oh. Oh! Yes. Yes! Of course. I would be happy to take down her story. Yes, absolutely, if she'll share it with me.
Laura: I mean, if she's willing.
Matt: "I mean, yeah. We should get Ogden, though. He knows more than I do about it."
Laura: Of course, of course, you can just tell us a little bit about it while we go get him.
Sam: We could call it an outline and then Ogden can fill in the details later.
Laura: Of course. Flourish.
Matt: "Okay." And she goes in to tell you what she knows of the curse, in fair detail, talking about how, long ago, there was people in the family that apparently killed a brother and pissed off a god, and ever since, the family was cursed, so they left what was once the gnomish city of Wittebach. And the curse seems to manifest when a Trickfoot falls too deep into the spell of selfishness or dark thoughts and habits, and manifests in these shades that eventually hollow them out to the point where they are nothing but a being of avarice and greed.
Laura: Of greed, hm?
Matt: "Well, it's part of the reason that we have such a bad reputation. Those that befell the curse kind of tore a path through the countryside."
Laura: Now, you say 'hollowed out by shades'. Do you still look like a normal gnome, or?
Matt: "I haven't seen anyone. I don't know. This is stuff that I heard from Uncle Ogden."
Laura: Wow. I wonder what that looks like.
Matt: "Hopefully we never find out."
Laura: Well, no, obviously. But just for detail, so we can illustrate it.
Sam: The curse only manifests itself in those who bring it upon themselves with greed, or?
Matt: "Those that draw too close to it, that's what I know about it."
Laura: Well, how can Pike be at risk, then?
Sam: That seems odd.
Laura: She's one of the most generous people I've ever known.
Sam: Unless she's doing things that we don't know about.
Laura: No. (laughs) No. It's Pike.
Matt: "I know. That's why I'm worried."
Laura: Yeah.
Sam: Well, your narrative was crude and the language not at all descriptive, but I think we have the building blocks to work with here for something that we could turn into, you know, like an essay. An essay of some sort.
Laura: A good short book with a lot of drawings--
Sam: Not a book, not a book at all, nope.
Laura: -- leather cover with embossing on it or something quite lovely.
Sam: I don't think it would be thick enough for that.
Laura: Gold filigree, probably, something just very beautiful.
Sam: A pamphlet, maybe. A big pamphlet.
Matt: She's nodding. "All right, yeah."
Sam: We'll work on it.
Laura: Yeah. Let's head back.
Matt: "Yeah, I should go." You join up with Pike and Ogden. You guys reconvene, now. It's getting later in the day, dusk is taking. What do you wish to do?
Laura: Don't worry. I got so many details about the curse, I know all about it.
Ashley: Oh, great. I got some details, too.
Laura: Oh.
Ashley: Well, I think-- I would love to get everybody together and just talk some stuff out.
Laura: Good call. Should this just be Vox Machina?
Ashley: Yeah, just like us.
Laura: Okay.
Travis: Percy. The string's leaving a mark in my chin and cheeks. I feel like now is a good time to put the hat back in its place of holding. Will you guide me to the hallowed area from whence it came?
Taliesin: How would you know that it's leaving a mark if you had not disturbed the string? It's very important.
Travis: It itches, and I feel deadening of the skin in this U-shape.
Taliesin: Are you saying that it's too difficult for you to wear, that it's not working?
Travis: Nope. It's staying on.
Taliesin: All right.
Travis: I just wanted to know if you wanted it back.
Taliesin: Let me know when you are finished with it, and when it is time to retire it, I will make sure that it goes back to its resting place.
Travis: Cool. Will do. (laughter)
Matt: All right. Meal is prepared for the guesting Trickfoots, specified to keep separate from wherever you decide to have your meal, but you manage to gather the rest of Vox Machina at your behest to have a discussion, I imagine probably in one of your chambers, separately from the rest of the castle, where you can talk in private. So as you all slowly gather within, we'll say Pike's room for the simplicity of this, close the door behind you, and you have all been brought together.
Marisha: You have a really big room, Pike.
Ashley: Yeah, it is very large.
Marisha: Yeah, not that I'm comparing, I'm just, it's very nice.
Ashley: I feel like I don't need this much room.
Taliesin: I think my sister likes you.
Ashley: Well, we do get along very well.
Sam: You've called us together for a reason?
Ashley: So I talked to-- and I know you got information, too-- I talked to Ogden, and he told me some stuff that's a little disturbing, but I guess, you know, way back in our family there were these brothers, and one of them sort of was overcome with jealousy, and he killed the other one, and basically, long story short, our family has had a curse because of that action, and Ogden wants to perform an exorcism on me to get rid of this thing. But I don't feel any different, I don't feel like I have anything, and he said, you know, we would all have to be a part of it and go on a mountaintop while there's a full moon, and I don't know.
Laura: This seems weird.
Travis: That's heavy.
Marisha: When you list it out like that, really weird.
Taliesin: Bit odd. Seems a bit odd.
Sam: Most times, family comes into town, you show them a couple sights--
Marisha: You drink a lot of wine.
Sam: -- yeah, they leave. This seems like a strange family visit.
Liam: There's a curse on you?
Laura: Yeah, JB said it was brought upon by greed.
Sam: And avarice.
Laura: Whoa.
Travis: What?
Liam: Listen, buddy, you just learned the letter 'u' to say 'u-shaped', I think you should call that a win.
Travis: I did.
Sam: JB said that you would have to bring this curse on yourself. Have you been up to-- be straight with us, we're all on the same team, here.
Laura: You're not doing any drugs like Scanlan was?
Ashley: No!
Sam: Are you sure you don't have greed in your heart? Lust in your heart?
Ashley: No!
Travis: Pike, you look me in the eye.
Ashley: No.
Travis: She's telling the truth. (laughter)
Travis: Not a lie in that little soul of hers.
Marisha: It's hard to take you seriously, ever, but even more so now with that ridiculous hat.
Laura: Yeah, maybe you should take it off, it's kind of annoying--
Travis: Heavy is the head that wears the crown. (laughter)
Liam: Don't let these people tear you down, Grog.
Taliesin: At what point will (strained) the lack of circulation begin to make you talk like this?
Travis: I'm gonna get you for this.
Liam: And also, I mean, if we take you at your word, and of course we do, so the curse, you-- you're very in tune with divine things and with curses and things of fiendish nature. You don't sense anything in yourself. It doesn't really add up. Is it possible-- I mean, they're family, and I know you love them to a degree-- but is it possible they're jerking you around?
Ashley: Anything's possible. I just-- I don't feel like they're lying. Unless.
Taliesin: I don't feel like they're telling the whole truth.
Ashley: Yeah. I don't feel like they're telling the whole truth, but I think something's there, and I can't seem to get to the bottom of it.
Laura: Have you prayed to Sarenrae?
Ashley: No. I haven't, yet.
Marisha: I feel like we're not one to speak on curses and bad things not existing.
Travis: Yeah, what about a second opinion? Like one time it was really burning when I was peeing, and the guy's like, oh, eat this and it'll be fine, and I was like, mm, I'm gonna get a second opinion.
Marisha: That was cranberry juice, Grog, and that was a solid opinion.
Travis: Yeah, it actually turned out to be true.
Ashley: That's a very good analogy.
Sam: What if we do this  what if we go up to the mountain, full moon, go through the motions, and Keyleth, you're super-powerful, you must have some sort of way of telling if this Ogden is telling the truth, right?
Marisha: Um. I could look at his face and his weird tics and deduce very hard.
Taliesin: Talk to his tics. Does he have tics?
Laura: When is the next full moon?
Matt: Make a nature check.
Liam: Am I remembering that incorrectly?
Ashley: Yes.
Laura: So maybe just try to cure yourself of this curse. Is that possible?
Marisha: 25.
Matt: 25. Four days.
Taliesin: We'd have to start right now.
Sam: The other option is-- and I've been holding onto it 'cause it's valuable-- I do happen to have a Potion of Mind Reading, so we could go up there with him and I could just read his mind.
Liam: You could also do that now.
Travis: But what if he thinks he's telling the truth?
Sam: That is the smartest thing you've ever said.
Travis: This fucking hat is magic! (laughter)
Ashley: What if-- how much of that potion do you have?
Sam: One. I have one of it.
Ashley: I mean, gnomes are small, what if we give them all a shot?
Laura: We take the potion, and then we read their minds.
Ashley: I understand. I think I thought--
Marisha: You thought it was truth serum, yeah. Yeah, I was kinda with you there. Okay, hang on. I mean, we're, as Taryon said, awesome.
Sam: I said that about you.
Marisha: I was being generous.
Sam: Thank you.
Marisha: If we just go through with this, is there any harm in that?
Taliesin: We should start, at the very least. My worry is, if I understand this curse correctly, the only person I think that could possibly be at risk from it would be JB.
Sam: Why?
Taliesin: Think about it. What avarice have any of us ever experienced from Pike?
Ashley: I don't even know what that word means.
Taliesin: I...
Ashley: Like, if you were to just define avarice.
Sam: You know, it's sinful in a sort of vague way.
Ashley: I mean, I don't even--
Laura: Trinket doesn't even know, and he knows everything.
Travis: Scholars maintain...
Taliesin: What I'm saying is perhaps--
Sam: Google? Maybe we could Google it?
Taliesin: Please do, actually. Google avarice.
Sam: I think it's having hate in your heart? I think?
Taliesin: Hate and greed.
Travis: I thought it was pride.
Marisha: Hate, greed, pride, any of the seven deadly sins.
Sam: What is avarice?
Matt: It's Tary.
Taliesin: It's a covet-ness, it's someone is--
Marisha: Man, I feel like we're really getting off the point.
Taliesin: The point I'm trying to make is, and I'm having a notion--
Matt: My apologies for using a word with a--
Laura: Five-dollar word.
Marisha: Why did you use an SAT word, Matt? Why?
Matt: I read a lot of books growing up, I'm sorry!
Sam: Doesn't say.
Liam: It's pronounced av-riggle.
Taliesin: The point I'm trying to make in all of this is that perhaps they're trying to save one of their own, and perhaps they need to move the curse to another Trickfoot.
Sam: Oh, it's just greed. It's just greed.
Travis: Like I said, greed.
Laura: So, wait, I have a question. What if all of them are actually cursed, and they're trying to bring you in?
Travis: Ooh. Ooh! That's a good thought. We kill all of them. No.
Sam: Yes. Yes! Of course. They'll be easily killed, they're half our size.
Laura: What did Ogden say this exorcism entailed?
Ashley: He said that we go to the highest mountain, we have to wait 'til a full moon, you have to have it be hallowed ground, and just sort of set up a ritual, and he said maybe we could get help from whomever, and I was thinking of Vax, and I don't know! This is so beyond anything that I know!
Laura: And then what would happen? We just send the curse out of you and all is well?
Ashley: I guess? This sounds so ridiculous as I'm saying it out loud.
Travis: I mean, do you want to go see another cleric and see if you even need to exercise or not?
Marisha: Very fit.
Laura: Very strong.
Ashley: I feel like I like the mind-reading serum. We could just see. We have four days 'til a full moon.
Taliesin: We should start consecrating the ground, at the very least.
Liam: Also, do we really imagine whatever trouble they might be bringing to Pike's doorstep is something we can't handle? I mean, we've dealt with pretty terrible things. I have a hard time imagining it could be worse-- I'm not saying it's not dangerous, it should be--
Travis: Avarice.
Liam: Oh, I got a nosebleed. We could just do-- I mean, Keyleth could do her trick of turning us into ladybugs or flies or whatever and we could all hang out and follow along. I mean, mind-reading first.
Ashley: I think you're allowed to be there.
Laura: Yeah, we can be there.
Liam: We can just be there, they don't care? Oh. I was shooting guns today.
Marisha: Ogden at dinner the other night said that each generation is affected by a blood curse, and he believes it's you in this generation? Because you and JB are in the same age, right? So you're the same generation. So maybe Percy's theory isn't quite wrong.
Sam: Percy's very smart.
Marisha: I don't know.
Taliesin: I tend to veer towards the worst-case scenario. Somebody has to.
Laura: Will JB be there at the exorcism?
Taliesin: That is a question.
Laura: We need to make sure she is, just in case.
Marisha: Or isn't, just in case. Right?
Laura: No. If there is a curse, and she is affected, it would be good to get it out of her as well.
Marisha: But what if it goes out of Pike and into her?
Travis: What if it goes out of her and into Pike?
Marisha: Man, so many variables.
Sam: We should all be there together, because stronger in numbers, and if Pike's lying to us we kill her, and if JB's lying to us we kill her.
Ashley: Well, hold on. Well, okay, yeah. If it comes down to that, everybody, we have to know that that has to be--
Laura: (laughs) We're not going to kill you.
Sam: No, if you're infected with evil, we might have to--
Travis: Yeah, what does it do? Do you turn into a crazy beast?
Ashley: I have no idea.
Travis: Like, do you get tentacles?
Ashley: That's-- I feel like that would be an upgrade.
Travis: That's not really that bad.
Ashley: No. I doubt that's what it is.
Travis: Maybe we're approaching this the wrong way.
Ashley: I'm intrigued by this mind-reading serum.
Sam: I've never used it, so it should probably work great.
Laura: How much was that?
Sam: About a thousand.
Liam: That's not bad.
Travis: Do it.
Marisha: I mean, maybe Ogden just isn't telling you things because he's so old, it's locked away and he doesn't remember. You know?
Laura: Maybe we just have to ask?
Taliesin: I would check both of them.
Travis: Do it.
Ashley: All of them. And Astra.
Marisha: How long does it last?
Sam: I can only, I think, investigate one person-- or gnome-- at a time, but then I can move the spell to other people. Let me-- Doty, give me my notes on the spell that I took. Hold on.
Liam: What time is it right now?
Matt: Pushing close to dusk.
Laura: 9 46.
Taliesin: We should perhaps do this while we're setting up the ritual.
Ashley: Yes.
Taliesin: Since it'll just be up there and it'll be natural to talk about this subject.
Ashley: And to not go when it's a full moon, so we don't actually have to do it, but we can set it up.
Taliesin: Exactly. It's going to take several days, and I'm sure we're going to need their help.
Sam: I can shift my attention to other creatures' thoughts, or go deeper into the same creature's mind. So I can do some surface scans, and then if I get a hit, I can go deeper.
Taliesin: Prod your fingers deep into the recesses, the nooks and crannies of their--
Sam: Of course, I still defer to you as my teammates. I don't have to be the one who takes this serum. I did pay for it, but if one of you wanted to do the probing, you could buy it off me, I suppose.
Ashley: Well, I feel like they wouldn't be as on-guard with you.
Laura: Yeah, plus we already said you're gonna write a book about it.
Sam: That's true. It fits.
Marisha: It's an interview.
Laura: That's really good.
Liam: We could also just take them out for a drink and get their guard down.
Marisha: You don't look like you're reading someone's mind when you're doing it, right?
Taliesin: You don't have to do this.
Laura: You can definitely do it to Ogden first, then, 'cause he won't be able to tell.
Sam: He can't see.
Laura: He can't see, so if you look weird, he won't know. Perfect cover.
Taliesin: In case you have to look weird. Do you have to look weird while you do this?
Liam: I mean, you are dressed like a Faberge egg.
Matt: You are welcome to look weird while you do it.
Sam: I feel like that's a compliment.
Liam: Let's go with that.
Ashley: Is there anything-- do one of you guys wanna-- can one of you guys check me to see if there's something in there that I don't know? Vax?
Travis: You look good.
Marisha: You don't look in her ear--
Travis: Why not?
Liam: I don't think so. I mean, you're the holiest person in this city.
Laura: Can you check yourself? Just pray to Sarenrae, see if she'll give you a little hint.
Marisha: Don't you have that Divine Intervention-y thing? That Dear Sarenwae-- Sarenrae.
Ashley: Deaw Sarenwae. (laughter)
Taliesin: Are you listening, Sarenrae? It's me, Pike. (laughter)
Ashley: Tonight I'll see if maybe I can get some answers. But should we-- do we do this tonight, this mind-reading serum?
Taliesin: I say tomorrow on the mountain.
Sam: I was gonna say-- it's four days, right?
Taliesin: Yeah, we've got to start right now.
Sam: Well, I think we do it while we're up there.
Marisha: Is it four days and on that night?
Matt: Four nights from tonight.
Marisha: Four nights from tonight.
Taliesin: So we have to start this immediately.
Matt: Pretty soon. Make a history check, Percival.
Taliesin: No one bothered to listen to any of my exciting stories about my home. All right, that's a 19.
Matt: Okay. As far as-- from what Pike told you-- as far as high up in the mountains, and a good place that you can imagine for a moonlit ceremony, there is a place. It's a rock shelf to the northeast of Whitestone on the Salted Bluffs. It's called the Dawn Table.
Taliesin: The Dawn Table.
Matt: It's a rock shelf used for prayer when the spring rolls around. A lot of fishermen go there and leave offerings. It's meant to bring-- I wouldn't say a good harvest, but a good season for catching fish and trying to bring food back to Whitestone, so that's pretty high up. It's gonna be probably about two and a half days' travel on foot.
Taliesin: But we can carpet or teleport.
Matt: If you have a way of getting there.
Marisha: Are there trees nearby? Are there trees nearby?
Taliesin: I'll see if I can recall if there's a tree nearby.
Matt: That part of the mountain is pretty-- they do have trees, but the trees are pretty thin. They're like pine tree, that wide at the most, and you need a pretty thick tree to Transport Via Plants.
Marisha: I can get us close.
Taliesin: We can certainly get closer.
Matt: You can cut off about half a day's travel, about a day's worth of travel, I guess.
Marisha: We can also travel via being clouds, like we've done in the past.
Travis: We really don't wanna walk? It's so lovely out. Danger is at an all-time low.
Marisha: Or we can just hike and enjoy the scenery. It is a nice hike. The canyons. Yeah. It's rained a lot this winter.
Laura: Is it okay to leave everyone here while we go?
Taliesin: It's only a few days.
Sam: We've got the Musketeers guarding the place.
Liam: Kynan's on it.
Marisha: So, okay. If it's two and a half days' journey, and we're planning on doing this, then we would have to take Ogden and the gnomes and all things needed for this ritual, right?
Laura: Yeah, I think so.
Marisha: It means we would at least be framing it like we're committing. I mean, that gives you a long hike to be able to talk and mind-read the gnomes while we walk.
Sam: It lasts for one minute.
Marisha: It gives you a solid good minute of hiking to read the gnomes.
Taliesin: Maybe during the ritual set-up because, I don't know, would it work while you're walking?
Sam: I mean, maybe, but I feel like we wait for the big moment, and then see what's going on in his head.
Marisha: All right.
Sam: It's more dramatic that way, anyway, for the book. And for our lives.
Ashley: And, just so you guys know, I've been discussing with what Vex knows about it as well. I think, from what he said, it's like a bunch of shapes come out, and we would all have to fight them.
Laura: Shades.
Ashley: Shades, shades, shades.
Sam: Way to bury the lede, Pike.
Ashley: I forgot about that. My b.
Travis: It's like, I'm cool with shapes, but.
Taliesin: Not a rhombus, anything but that.
Ashley: We don't know.
Marisha: Wait, shades coming from you?
Laura: Maybe the curse? JB had mentioned that the shades infest someone and hollow them out. I don't know what that translates to.
Marisha: You don't look shady. (strained laughter)
Marisha: Vax. Can you do a thing to look inside of Pike?
Travis: Yeah, x-ray her!
Laura: Try it, just try it.
Liam: The best I can do-- I mean, I can cast Divine Sense and Lay On Hands and-- I mean, I can-- poison and disease are things I can help with, but not--
Travis: Well, you don't even know. Give it a try.
Laura: Divine Sense? Divine Sense. That sounds like something real--
Liam: Let's find out if you're a fiend or undead.
Travis: Yeah.
Liam: And I do it.
Matt: All right. You sit there and you close your eyes and you focus in front of you on Pike's gnome form. Interestingly enough... ... you get nothing.
Travis: Oh, shut up, man, don't fucking do that shit. (laughter)
Liam: You're welcome.
Ashley: Okay.
Sam: She's not wearing a wire. She's okay.
Liam: Is there some embarrassing thing hidden, tucked away, that you don't like to talk about? Like, are you afraid of pickles or you don't want to be--
Ashley: No, I mean, I talk about everything with you guys.
Sam: There's no secrets that you have?
Travis: You don't chew on your own toenails or anything?
Sam: No singular secret that you've kept from the entire group the entire time we've known you?
Taliesin: I feel like chewing on your own toenails is the worst villain origin possible.
Ashley: Of course I chew on my own toenails. I mean.
Sam: There's not some deep secret that you're keeping from us?
Ashley: No, I mean, I think about one time with Scanlan--
Marisha: Wait, I feel like a story was starting!
Laura: She was about to say something.
Ashley: No, you guys know this. When I got in a lot of trouble for taking a shit on that bed. Or killing the guy with the mace. Or sometimes I'll go to a brothel. But I don't do anything that bad!
Laura: That's not bad.
Ashley: I don't know. I don't know if there's anything in there.
Taliesin: I'm highly dubious of this entire endeavor.
Laura: I think you need to talk to Sarenrae.
Ashley: Okay. Well, when should we leave?
Marisha: Well, two and a half days, I can teleport us closer, and then we can either hike or cloud the rest of the way.
Laura: Would you be able to cloud the gnomes too, though?
Matt: Probably not in one casting but you could do double-cast, like two trips and get all of you up pretty quick.
Sam: But then we'll be sitting there for two days.
Marisha: With the gnomes or the tree stride? Or Teleport Via Plants?
Matt: Well, Teleport Via Plants, whoever can fit through there in that short time, you can probably get you guys and the gnomes through, but referring to your Wind Walk, which, how many targets can that affect at once? Up to ten willing creatures.
Marisha: And there's how many gnomes?
Matt: There's four.
Marisha: Four.
Matt: So you'd leave one behind.
Marisha: Then we'd leave one behind. Okay.
Matt: Which, you'd have to talk to them about that.
Ashley: Are there any other clerics that we know?
Liam: Not in town on your level.
Matt: There's Keeper Yennen, but he's like--
Laura: Yeah, where did Kash go to in the last year?
Matt: Kash has been in Vasselheim.
Liam: I mean, and Vasselheim is chock full of clerics, so maybe we could find help there.
Taliesin: Gilmore's out of town.
Ashley: Okay. Maybe we go ask them and say--
Laura: Yennen?
Ashley: The family. I mean, it sounds crazy, but maybe we just go up there, go through the motions.
Travis: Yeah, it's your show.
Laura: Just do it.
Taliesin: Let's do it. I'm going to get some tents and some food put together, so we're at least comfortable.
Sam: Are we walking, or can we get some horses at least?
Taliesin: It's not really horse-accessible.
Laura: We'll be fine, Tary.
Sam: I'm worried about the big guy.
Taliesin: The big guy will be fine.
Sam: I guess he can just walk.
Taliesin: He can cloud-stride as well.
Laura: Well, no, Doty can't mist-form, right?
Liam: Can Trinket and Doty ride in your--
Laura: No, Doty, I've tried to put him in the--
Taliesin: One of us, in theory, should actually perhaps take the carpet so we can put Doty on the carpet.
Liam: I'm sitting on the carpet right now.
Laura: How heavy is Doty?
Sam: Let me look at Matt's statistics.
Matt: Doty technically counts as a creature, though it is, much like a golem or a construct of some kind, it would be considered a creature. It is a construct. So in theory, you would have to tell Doty, "Doty, turn into wind." And that probably would work.
Sam: I could do that.
Marisha: It would take a slot out of our ten.
Sam: How fast does this cloud thing move?
Matt: It moves pretty quick. 300 feet. Flying speed of 300, which is ten times as fast as you walk. And without-- going straight up the mountain, you could make the full journey, talking with Percy about this, from the base of the mountain to the Dawn Table in about two hours.
Taliesin: We wouldn't even need the tree-stride, to be honest, we could just do it.
Marisha: Wait, from here to the base of the mountain?
Taliesin: I mean, we could do from the base of the mountain to the top in two hours, three hours, but we could make the entire journey quite quickly.
Laura: So she could just double-cast.
Matt: The entire journey you could make in about six and a half hours.
Laura: Solid. So some people go up, you come back, turn the rest of the people in.
Marisha: With my tree-stride.
Laura: No.
Matt: Without tree-stride.
Marisha: With the gas.
Liam: Let's go glamping.
Marisha: Let's go glamping. But as long as I can sleep afterwards.
Taliesin: We'll bring tents, we're going to bring some nice tents.
Matt: It lasts for eight hours, so you'll be using most of the duration to get there, you could probably fly back if you want to, or tree-stride back if you had a tree you could find up there to do it. So yeah, you could do that.
Marisha: I do that.
Matt: Okay. So what do you do? You go and gather up the other Trickfoots? You approach the rest of them, Ogden, JB.
Marisha: We're not leaving tonight, right?
Matt: Whenever you guys want to?
Marisha: Tonight? This is the same night we got back.
Laura: Oh, right, it is.
Taliesin: In the morning.
Laura: Okay, we'll leave in the morning, yeah.
Sam: At dawn, we leave.
Ashley: So I'll go to them at dinner. Okay, so we've had some discussions and I think it'll take us a little bit of time to get up there and do whatever setting-up you need to do on the top of the mountain, so we were thinking, if you guys are okay with this, of leaving tomorrow morning.
Matt: You can see Johann and Astra kind of turn over to Ogden. Ogden goes, "Yes, that would be perfect. When is the next full moon?"
Ashley: It's in four days.
Matt: "Four days, all right. That gives us time to prepare. I need a few things for this ritual."
Ashley: Okay.
Matt: "I don't know how to retrieve them necessarily. I require a jug of water that has been blessed by a priest of the Moonweaver." The Moonweaver is one of the gods, largely elven worship. You guys have crossed a number of temples that worship the Moonweaver in Syngorn and some other-- you do find them occasionally in civilization, but they're more the kind of shrines that you find out in the center of the forest.
Laura: I can totally get that.
Matt: Goddess of the moonlight and autumn. He says, "Also, as part of a reagent for the exorcism, a diamond worth no less than 1,000 gold pieces that will be consumed by the actual ritual."
Taliesin: That's doable, I believe.
Matt: "I also need a solid pound of dried lavender, and a half a pound of powdered sulfur."
Taliesin: I'm pretty sure we have access to that.
Matt: "And, of course, you, Pike. And that should be sufficient to complete the ritual."
Laura: She's not going to be injured in this ritual?
Matt: "No, no. Either the shade is cast out and destroyed, or it's cast out and then you destroy it. Either way, you should be fine."
Laura: Just the one shade, then?
Matt: "Depends."
Travis: You've done this before.
Matt: "Twice. Three times."
Travis: And it's always gone right.
Matt: "It's gone right twice."
Travis: What happened the time it didn't?
Matt: "That was the first time. I didn't know what I was in for, and I couldn't save them."
Travis: Oh, shit.
Laura: Right. What do the people look like after they've been taken over?
Matt: And you see he gets really dark and focused in himself for a second. You see the glimmer across the glasses on his face, and he goes, "They begin to grow hatred for all those they once loved. They begin to strike out at the world around them, take whatever they like, and those that stand in their way are merely to be cut down. Eventually, at least from what I've seen, they continue to take until somebody cuts them down."
Laura: Do they just look like--
Matt: "They just look like themselves. But their whole personality changes."
Travis: Cool. I'm encouraged.
Laura: Maybe they just turned into an asshole.
Ashley: That just sounds like someone who's an asshole.
Taliesin: Nothing a little lavender and sulfur can't cure, in my experience.
Ashley: I don't feel any of these things.
Matt: "What I've seen are just the visions I've had. If you wish not to go through with this, that is up to you. We can leave and be on our way. I've just come to help if we can. If we do this ritual and nothing comes of it, then you're right as rain."
Liam: Do you have any inkling of what would happen if you do nothing? Pike does nothing?
Matt: "Perhaps not now, but someday in the future, when met with a terrible choice, if you choose a darker path, that may be the window needed for the shades to take hold and begin to install in their dark interests."
Travis: Are there any elements needed for this? Water, fire?
Matt: "Well, I need some blessed water."
Laura: Which I'm totally going to go get.
Travis: Right, you did say that.
Liam: I have the lavender.
Matt: The sulfur represents the earth, the diamond represents the refraction of the moonlight, and the water is the catalyst.
Marisha: And the lavender and sulfur?
Matt: The lavender is to be burned. The sulfur represents the earth in this place, but the lavender is burned as a sort of incense that helps provide a space of the hallowed ground to present a cage for this entity so it cannot flee and come back.
Travis: We gotta find a priest.
Taliesin: I'm going to go get a pound for good measure.
Laura: They have all that shit in Syngorn. I can just go. Right? To one of the temples of the Moonweaver or something.
Matt: You could probably get most of that in Syngorn with one trip, yeah.
Laura: Solid.
Marisha: What if what you're seeing, Ogden, and I mean no disrespect in any way, is a possible outcome or future that might not ever happen?
Matt: "Then Pike will be safe, I'll look the fool, and we'll go our separate ways."
Taliesin: What's a diamond?
Laura: What's a diamond for our dear Pike? It's a good price, I say.
Ashley: I say what you say that is what I say. I say, you know what? I'm bored and I think we should do it, even if it's hogwash. No offense.
Matt: "None taken."
Marisha: And as Percy and Tary, as the science bros have said several times, at least a negative outcome is still an outcome, or something like that.
Taliesin: Something similar to it.
Sam: Yes. Yes.
Marisha: Yeah. We'll learn things for science.
Sam: For science!
Ashley: For science.
Taliesin: Exorcism for science. Why not. (laughter)
Matt: That's a good bumper sticker.
Laura: I should probably go to Syngorn before it gets too late.
Taliesin: We'll get the lavender and sulfur together.
Liam: I have lavender with my armor.
Marisha: You need a pound of it.
Liam: I have a pound of lavender with my armor. (laughter)
Taliesin: I'm sure I can dig up a pound of sulfur. I figured, let's just get double what we need, just to be safe.
Laura: Just to be safe. Do you have two pounds of lavender?
Taliesin: We need half a pound.
Ashley: Do you just tuck it in to make it smell nice?
Matt: You can cause existing lavender to bloom stronger, otherwise the lavender you create in the space will vanish once the spell is done. But yeah.
Liam: It's not in my-- I keep it in a box with my armor so the armor won't smell like shit anymore, people. It's not-- is there a problem with a man having lavender in his possession?
Taliesin: You keep your armor in a box filled with lavender?
Liam: Yes, I do.
Laura: Yeah, so it smells fresh and clean.
Taliesin: Does it smell fresh and clean?
Liam: It does now, man.
Taliesin: All right.
Liam: I've had 12 months of downtime to figure my shit out. My armor is tight now.
Taliesin: Your armor now smells like a grandmother's bathroom.
Liam: Take your guilt trips and bring them back to dad. I don't need them.
Laura: What are you talking about? I'm on my way to go give those guilt trips.
Sam: I have little potpourri bags in almost everything I own.
Taliesin: He does, it's true.
Travis: Really?
Sam: Yes.
Laura: He started leaving them around the house.
Taliesin: He calls them sachets.
Sam: Let's do it.
Matt: All right, so you guys go to bed.
Laura: I go to Syngorn.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Can I attune to my blood axe instead of the thrower before I go to sleep?
Matt: That you can.
Travis: Thank you.
Taliesin: I'm going to let the castle know I'm taking a brief, brief run up the hill and grabbing supplies for this, so letting everyone know. Grabbing a few tents.
Matt: They have supplies for you at the ready. You gather them easily from the Pale Guard. They have some tents that haven't been used for a while, you take those with you. Supplies are given. You head to Syngorn. Make an investigation check.
Laura: I should probably have brought someone with me just in case I suck at this. That's cocked. That's cocked if I've ever seen cocked.
Liam: That's good. That's a good one.
Laura: Investigation. 20.
Matt: Yeah. Within a short time, as the evening draws in, it's not a full moon, but it's still a very big moonlit night and you find in Syngorn one of the larger temples to the Moonweaver, there's a night guide there named Nusem, and it's the temple of the Pale Light. And so, as you approach him and give your request, he's like, "A jug of our blessed water, that is an unusual request. We take no money, but offerings in trade of equal value as you honestly see fit."
Travis: Give him a high-five. (laughter)
Laura: Right. Well, I don't have very much on my person.
Matt: "Whatever you feel would be a viable trade within the eyes of the Moonweaver herself."
Laura: What do I know about the Moonweaver?
Matt: Roll a religion check.
Laura: Oh god. Imma roll my moonstone dice for this.
Matt: Do it.
Laura: What am I rolling?
Matt: Religion.
Laura: A religion, jeez. 11.
Matt: 11. You know that she is the goddess of the moon, the night, and of autumn. She is known as-- she doesn't fall on the good or bad spectrum, she's generally a bit of a trickster, but however tends to be used or at least called to by young love to bless trysts to not be discovered. That's kind of the gist of what you can pick up on that roll, yeah.
Laura: All right. I have a small flask of Courage. I feel like she would appreciate this.
Matt: Takes a moment, looks at it. "I think the goddess will be pleased." And he puts it in his robes and he takes the blessed water and hands it to you. It's a small, pretty heavy-- especially when it's filled-- clay pot that is sealed at the top with multiple rounds of rope and some sort of a dark black tar-like substance that seems to seal the top and he passes it over to you and you take it.
Laura: I didn't think this part through. Thank you very much.
Liam: Strength of seven.
Laura: That's right. What is my strength? It is seven. I'm as weak as Grog is stupid. (laughter)
Laura: No, I'm just a little bit stronger. Not quite as bad.
Matt: All right, so you gather that, you find your way back without issue. We'll say without issue.
Laura: You know what, I'm just gonna pass it over to Trinket and make him hold it.
Matt: Okay, so you attach it to Trinket's armor on the top. Easy enough. So you guys eventually make your way back to the town. You guys find an evening of rest, you complete, restore your spells, you, sulfur, go ahead and make a tinkering check. This is intelligence modifier and proficiency bonus.
Taliesin: That's okay. 19?
Matt: Yeah, okay. For you, 'cause most of the sulfur that you have currently has already been put in with the salpeter and other means of creating the gunpowder, so you have to reverse-engineer a lot of it. It's not going to be pure, what you have, or at least not all of it. I mean, you have some pure sulfur still, but to get the full half-pound of it, it's gonna be a little dirty. But you manage to get it to happen. And Vax is providing the lavender. Okay. All righty. And the diamond, who's giving the diamond? Or do you have one?
Laura: I've got a diamond.
Matt: How much is it worth?
Laura: I've got multiple diamonds.
Matt: Well, choose a diamond.
Laura: I'll choose one that's worth-- in my bag of gems-- no, that's not right.
Liam: "In my-- nah. Right here in my-- nope."
Laura: All right, fine, I've got two diamonds, both worth 1,500. I don't have a thousand-gold diamond.
Matt: All right. That'll suffice.
Laura: Yeah, but it's a waste. It's okay.
Ashley: It's a waste of 500.
Matt: All righty. So.
Laura: It's Pike. It's worth it.
Matt: As the morning comes, you all awaken, you gather your materials, you assess as a pool what you have at your disposal and presenting these various elements that you've gathered before Uncle Ogden, he inspects each one very carefully, sniffing the sulfur, feeling and tasting the lavender, takes the water and brushes his fingers through it, takes the diamond and inspects it, sets it all down on the table, and goes, "Yes. This will suffice. Whenever you're ready, let's make our way to wherever you find is necessary to do this ritual."
Taliesin: I think you'll be quite pleased.
Matt: "Very well."
Laura: Keep an eye on those goods, brother.
Matt: "Trickfoots. Trickfoots? Trickfoots!" They're all right around him, and he's like, "Hello? Anyone?" Johann reaches out and touches his shoulder. "Ah! Yes, there you are. Come, we have an exorcism." And so they follow you as you grab your materials. How are you doing this? You're doing multiple trips?
Marisha: I was tree-striding us all to the base of the mountain, right?
Sam: Nope, you were gonna gas us all the way there.
Marisha: That's what I'm doing? Okay. Double-gas.
Taliesin: It's a gas.
Matt: Okay. Early morning, with the Wind Walk, you can get ten creatures, which is you seven, plus-- you put Trinket in your necklace-- Doty, which is eight, and you can take two of the gnomes if you'd like, or would you prefer to leave with the four of them and them come back for them?
Taliesin: I would say, let's get all of the gnomes up there first so they can begin setting everything up.
Laura: Yeah. I'll stay behind.
Liam: I'll go with.
Sam: I'll stay behind as well.
Marisha: No, I'm gonna take Tary.
Sam: I bid you adieu. (laughter)
Laura: Percy can stay, right?
Taliesin: I'll stay as well.
Sam: Ugh, gross.
Marisha: I'm making a trip back. I'm gonna take Tary, Pike, the gnomes, Vax, me, how many's left? That's it, right?
Taliesin: Take Doty so he can set up the tents.
Laura: I think you can take everyone except for me and Percy, right?
Taliesin: Yeah, that should work.
Travis: Yeah, please, I wanna go with Pike.
Marisha: And Grog will go.
Matt: All right, so you guys go ahead, and utilizing the--
Marisha: Why don't you guys start off on the rug?
Laura: Oh, you know what, you can tree-stride us through, and then you guys head up and then we'll just meet you up there on the broom.
Marisha: That is a good idea. That's what I'll do. I'll tree-stride some through.
Laura: Just me and Percy.
Matt: All right, easy enough to do. You've seen these woods, or the perimeter of the woods, at least, so you know vaguely a tree in the direction that Percy points you towards. So with that, you touch the edge of the Sun Tree, the exterior of it opens into a doorway, and through that-- (laughs) The trust-fall that is Percival and Vex rushing through the Sun Tree before it closes behind. You trust that they are at the destination required and will meet you there.
Marisha: I'll meet you there!
Matt: It closes.
Taliesin: Lock the door!
Matt: And with that, with the supplies gathered, the rest of you all have the spell commence, and you are able to concentrate for a minute to turn your physical form into that of a white, cloud-like mist. You watch as the gnomes do so, and this is the first time you're doing this as well, Taryon, and it's a unique experience. You're about as giddy internally that you cannot express it through word because you are a cloud of mist. But you watch as the smaller gnome mists also kind of appear and some of them start swirling around excitedly, and one of them just seems to drift.
Laura: (laughs) Oh no. Oh no.
Matt: One of the other ones comes by and cuts it off and shows the direction. (laughter)
Matt: Eventually you guys start making your way--
Laura: He's sleeping.
Travis: (snoring)
Matt: Following towards the path which Percival pointed you guys. So. This is about a six-plus-hour journey as you're coasting over the entirety of the Parchwood Forest. And it is beautiful, it's actually not too cloudy today. You've come past Winter's Crest, it's been a few weeks since.
Marisha: (sings) Butterfly in the sky.
Marisha: (sing) I can fly twice as high.
Ashley: (sing) I can fly twice as high.
Matt: (sing) I can fly twice as high.
Matt: Yeah, so you get a few dotted clouds in the sky, but for the most part there is blue visible and there is sunshine coming down, Pelor's blessing upon the land of the Alabaster Sierras. After quite some time, and having to maybe go back a few times to keep everyone together as you have four people who have never done this before who are just awed by this, you lead them towards the northeast very, very top of the Salted Bluffs of the Alabaster Sierras, and you begin to see what Percival described to you, which is a shelf-like bluff at the very top, where you see a few clusters of rock and one large rock archway that comes up right to the cliff before it drops down into the sea to the north. And this is where these offerings were left. Eventually you guys make your way there, and given the speed, you still get there before Vax and Percy do.
Marisha: Really?
Matt: Yes.
Liam: Vex and Percy.
Matt: Sorry. Vex and Percy. Five years of this, and let this be a lesson for when you name your characters for your campaign. As you guys approach, you all condense back into your mist form, except for the four other clouds that are all circling and circling.
Sam: They don't know how to break it, do they? Damn it.
Matt: Eventually one of them kind of congeals and turns back and it's JB.
Marisha: I would've told them.
Matt: Well, you do now. And they all eventually come back. And you see before you, it's this clifftop flat entry with a series of rocks that jut out at certain places and rubble and some general erosion has occurred, and there at the very edge of the cliff-- and it is this cliff that shoots out over, you can look over the side and see the sea to the northeast, just above the Shearing Cliffs, you see the sunlight hitting thousands upon thousands of small, distant sparkles, as the waves catch elements of the sunlight down below. And as you come up to the edge and look down, it is a very, very long fall. Thousands and thousands and thousands of feet to rocks and ocean.
Liam: Right on the edge, looking down.
Matt: But there's a large stone archway there.
Travis: Are you wearing your armor?
Liam: I am, yeah. We left, we packed up. Some thoughts I just have inside my head.
Laura: Are me and Percy there yet?
Matt: Not yet, you guys are just making your way there. You do notice, the rock archway looks both ancient and very well-constructed, and it's impressive that even though the erosion and the nature of the strong, cliffside winds that come up there, it's kept as well as it has. You also see a number of long-rotted baskets and sacks and dried, decomposing fruits and fish bones. You can see where basically the remnants of different offerings were left up here as part of the Pelor blessing to the fishermen that walk through the Salted Bluffs. Eventually, Vex and Percival make their way up here as well, and you guys are now, full journey, about midafternoon, with three days until the full moon.
Sam: Three days to kill.
Laura: Hey. That cliff's really high.
Marisha: Well, time to pitch a tent and make it fabulous.
Laura: Let's not do the ritual site right next to that cliff.
Ashley: That's a great idea. Is there a way to move it sort of--
Laura: -- inward?
Matt: You can move back a bit, yeah. The bluff itself is maybe about 70 feet from one side to the other. It's flat. So you can move it further back towards this edge of the cliff, as opposed to being the one that's seaside.
Laura: Yeah. Yeah.
Matt: Okay. So you guys have a few days here to relax, get to know each other, ask questions and hear stories about young Pike, embarrasingly. Get to tell them of the tales of what you guys have done, and inform them from a firsthand basis of what Vox Machina has accomplished for the past few years. They all seem enraptured, JB more than anybody, and she seems to almost finish some of the tales. You get the sense that she's been very, very well-versed in what you guys have done and is genuinely invested in the stories as they happen. Anything else you guys want to accomplish in the three days in particular?
Liam: I think the twins will probably look around and make sure that nobody has been here recently other than us, or see if there's anything hinky.
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Laura: Yeah, we do that. Definitely. 23.
Liam: Eight.
Matt: Okay. You do note this in the first couple days: while it's been long blown-over and destroyed and scattered, you do see elements that seem like a large nest that have been wind-scattered up here and left for a long time. And as you look through the chunks and pieces, you see bits of dried leather, flesh, and with that in mind, over the next two days, you begin to see, way off in the north, what appear to be a number of flying entities that group in clusters that kind of exist over the cliffside, down along the actual mountain edge, and occasionally have apparently made distant nests and are still maneuvering in the distance.
Laura: Do I see the type of feather it is? Can I tell what kind of creature it was?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Laura: 32.
Matt: Using the combination of your broom and your ranger-like vision, you've encountered these creatures once before, at the Salted Bluff, but avoided them. There are small clusters of harpies that make their home here on the cliffsides by the ocean.
Laura: Yeah, they took all our horses.
Matt: Yep. They picked them apart last time you first made your way to Whitestone. So you're very careful to make sure that whatever camp you set up is camouflaged as best as possible. Since that is one of your specialties as a ranger, it's not too bad. Go ahead and make a stealth check, please. This will be your stealth check for the camp.
Laura: I can't cast Pass Without a Trace?
Matt: Not on your camp.
Laura: No, probably not.
Liam: Come on, rogue.
Matt: I'll say, for the purposes of that, no.
Laura: Do I-- (laughs) I'm scared to ask it. Okay. What am I rolling? What am I adding?
Matt: Add your stealth.
Laura: 22.
Matt: Okay. So.
Laura: But would I have used my-- what is that shit? Hide in Plain Sight? Could I have used that?
Matt: Not on a camp. For yourself, maybe. And it helps you-- it allows you-- your ability to camouflage elements of your space allows you to help and use your stealth for this whole endeavor. But two days go by, harpies don't seem to pay mind. There's a couple of close calls where a couple fly overhead, but you all see them coming and get low and tell the gnomes to go inside, and get behind the rocks, and they seem to pass without actually noticing your presence.
Laura: That's good, that's good.
Matt: Eventually, you make your way to the fourth day, and the sun begins to set. At which point, the gnomes begin to gather up with the rest of you, and Ogden hobbles his way in your direction, going-- waiting for her to cross camera. Okay. (laughs) "The time is nigh. We must prepare the ritual." And, for the purposes of this, can we bring in the battlemap that is on this side?
Sam: Battlemap? Just call it a map, Matt, don't call it a battlemap!
Matt: This side, please.
Ashley: Battlemap over there? That means there's another one over there?
Travis: There are several options, I think.
Laura: What? Here it comes. Here comes the battlemap. Here it comes.
Sam: Oh my god, what is this? There's color changes happening.
Laura: It's like the birthday cake coming out.
Matt: This way's great. (impressed noises)
Taliesin: Okay, that's a lot.
Liam: That is extra.
Sam: It's weird, the blue light makes it almost-- I can't even see what it is.
Marisha: It's hard to see with the blue light.
Matt: Is it really? That's a problem.
Sam: It's okay, we'll figure it out.
Marisha: It could be this monitor. I don't know.
Matt: All right, so. Here are the gnomes, clustered.
Sam: Matt, in preparation for this ritual, I would like to cast-- can Doty use an item that I cast magic into?
Matt: Doty cannot, I believe.
Sam: Okay. Well, then I'll cast Revivify into one of my coins and give it to Vex and say, use this on me if I fall. Oh, and also, I'll give her my five Needle Arrows that I made.
Laura: What are these?
Sam: They're just regular arrows that have a +1 to hit.
Laura: Badass.
Sam: So just a little extra accuracy.
Laura: Tary, you just keep surprising me.
Sam: You're worth it.
Ashley: With Ogden saying they're ready, can I just be alone in the tent for a second?
Matt: Sure. And actually, this is a point as well, because part of this was supposed to be hallowed ground, which requires the Hallow spell, which is a 24-hour casting period. Or, let me see the actual casting time on that. You would know this, and he would have spoken to you in advance to do this, so we'll say, yeah, Hallow, its casting time is 24 hours. The herbs and oils and incense required to do this one alone costs 1,000 gold, which the spell consumes, so that's 1,000 gold you have to mark off to do this.
Laura: That's party funds. We got you.
Matt: But you infuse this area with holy energy during this time period you guys are waiting. And doing so, this whole ground becomes hallowed. Now you get to choose a second effect of this, if you'd like, which is affected creatures can't be frightened while in the area; darkness fills the area, if that's what you want; daylight fills the area, don't know if that's going to affect the ritual or not, seeing as how it's a moonlight-based element; affected creatures have resistance to one type of damage of your choice, except for bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing; you can have energy vulnerability; silence. What would you prefer?
Ashley: I think to not be frightened.
Matt: Okay. Affected creatures cannot be frightened. So any of you, and any creatures that end up in the space, cannot be frightened. The 60-foot radius, which is pretty much most of this area, becomes Hallowed. So. As the night draws to a darkened close-- or as the day draws to a darkened close, you guys can choose your positions to prepare for this.
Laura: Oh, jeez.
Marisha: It takes Pike 24 hours to cast this?
Matt: Yes.
Marisha: So we have to protect her for 24 hours, yeah?
Matt: Yeah, we'll say this happened-- this isn't the ritual, this is a different spell to prepare for the ritual. So while you were doing this was during the time in which you managed to go ahead and avoid being seen and use your stealthiness. This was in advance of it. The Hallow spell has been completed, the area has been locked in. The spell is cast. Now the final ritual is mounting. So. At this point, you're asked for some help by Ogden to move some of these rocks out of the way. You guys slowly shift this pile of rocks over here. He begins to then, with the help of JB, take the sulfur and begin to scatter it around in a circle in this opening right here. So the other two are gonna stay back.
Taliesin: I think I'm gonna want some high ground up on that hill.
Matt: Up on there? All right, so Percival gets up onto the high ground there. All righty.
Laura: I'll get on the high part on the other side.
Matt: Over here? All righty.
Travis: I would like to stay near Pike if I can.
Matt: All righty. So you want to stay near this central rock there?
Travis: Yeah, as long as I'm out of the way of the ritual. Just near Pike.
Laura: Trinket stays near Grog.
Matt: Okay, Trinket's gonna hang next to Grog. Perfect.
Liam: I'm gonna play lookout and go out towards the edge past the arch, but sink in against the wall a bit and hide.
Matt: There a bit, right there?
Liam: Into the cracks of it, yeah.
Matt: Okay. So you're hiding on this side. Poking through. Keyleth?
Marisha: I'll go by that spire closest to you.
Matt: Over here?
Marisha: Yeah, little close to the stalagtite.
Matt: Over here?
Marisha: Yeah, thank you.
Matt: Okay. There's Keyleth. Taryon?
Sam: I'm just gonna stay where the gnomes are all within 30 feet of me. So close to the action.
Matt: Okay, so pretty much where you are? Okay.
Sam: Within visual 30 feet.
Matt: Got you. So Pike, the circle puts you at about there, in the centerpiece. You watch as the sulfur is drawn around you in a wide circle. All right. JB now begins taking the water and splashing it throughout the center of the circle. She opens the jug with the help of Grog and walks around with Grog and is just taking big handfuls and splashing all the blessed water to fill in the circle between-- oh god-- where the sulfur was, in the interior of it, all around. So it soaks all the dirt, you can see it actually goes darker in color as it absorbs the liquid, and it seems you can now very, very clearly see the circle. And at this point, as the night has really hit the moonlight, the full moon is plainly visible, and that bright, bright white moonlight is making stark shadows and a very visible perspective of everything on this field. So, Pike, you're asked to stand in the center there, as right over here next to Taryon, facing you, Ogden hobbles over, looks at you. He holds the diamond in his hand. "Pike. Are you ready?"
Ashley: Two seconds. Just quietly, just sort of muttering to myself, or not to myself, to Sarenrae, I don't know what this is, I just hope that you're here and watching, and please be by my side and guide this ritual if it is your will. Okay. I'm ready.
Matt: Okay. Ogden is holding the diamond out. "Close your eyes. Concentrate on the goodness within you." He holds the diamond out in front of him and just starts chanting slowly under his breath.
Sam: Okay. I'm gonna drink the Potion of Mind Reading.
Matt: Okay, you drink the Potion of Mind Reading.
Sam: Yes.
Matt: Okay. He's loudly--
Laura: What if he's stealing her soul?
Matt: He's holding this diamond forward and he's loudly speaking in a language I don't think any of you understand. (mutters gibberish)
Sam: I'm going to scan his surface thoughts, what is most on his mind in that moment.
Matt: Currently, at that moment, it sounds like a bunch of gibberish. (mutters gibberish)
Laura: What is he speaking?
Sam: As an action, if it's my turn again, I will attempt to probe deeper into the same creature's mind.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: He makes a wisdom saving throw.
Matt: Against a DC of?
Sam: 13. It's not very good.
Matt: Okay. As you focus your attention, pushing in to probe deeper, all you get is the gibberish.
Sam: More gibberish.
Matt: Natural 17, sorry.
Sam: Ugh! Waste of 1,000 bucks.
Laura: You can't try the other gnomes?
Sam: I believe that breaks the spell.
Matt: Is that what it says?
Sam: It says if I probe deeper, he makes a wisdom saving throw. If he succeeds, the spell ends. And! He's aware I was probing.
Matt: As he's chanting. (mutters gibberish, pauses, continues to mutter gibberish) Goes right back into concentrating again.
Sam: The plan failed! The plan failed!
Matt: What languages do you know?
Sam: I know Sylvan, Common, Gnome, Draconic, Undercommon.
Matt: Languages?
Taliesin: Common, Celestial, Elven.
Marisha: Common, Elven, Celestial-- sorry, Sylvan, Druidic, Primordial.
Liam: Common, Elven, and Abyssal.
Laura: Elvish, Common, Undercommon, Abyssal, and Draconic.
Ashley: Gnomish, Common, Undercommon, Dwarvish.
Travis: Come on. (laughter)
Matt: Barely Common.
Travis: I just have spoken Giant, that's it.
Matt: Okay. None of you know the language he's speaking. It just sounds like gibberish to you. Oh, and Dwarvish, because you have the belt. As he begins chanting, the diamond begins to glow faintly, a greenish color. Just very, very, on the inside, just ever-so-gently. He begins to chant louder and louder. (louder gibberish) As he does, the diamond flashes brighter and brighter green, and eventually the green coloration fades and the diamond vanishes from his hand.
Sam: Another thousand!
Matt: And he falls to his knees. (heavy breathing) "Look!" And as he points forward, towards Pike, you guys glance over and look at Pike, and you watch as from the ground around her, this black cloud-like mass begins to pour out of her legs and knees in a swirl around her person. You, Pike, look around you as it begins to fill the space around you and it begins to coalesce into this large cloud of darkness. It rumbles and gathers like a miniature thunderstorm, and you watch as the clouds begin to churn, forming dozens of screaming faces, all wailing in a discordant moan.
Sam: That don't look good. That's tall.
Matt: Roll initative. (yelling)
Laura: Oh my god, I totally thought he was gonna steal your soul and stick you in that diamond, I was like, this was a bad idea.
Matt: All righty. Who's at the top? We've got 25 to 20.
Liam: 21.
Taliesin: 22.
Travis: 20.
Ashley: This music.
Matt: All righty. 20 to 15.
Laura: 18.
Matt: 18.
Marisha: 15.
Matt: 15, Keyleth.
Sam: My plan was foolproof.
Matt: 15 to ten?
Laura: You really should've tried that when he was speaking English.
Matt: Ten to five?
Laura: Common.
Marisha: Oh, sorry, eight. Sorry.
Ashley: Pike fashion.
Matt: Tary, what'd you get?
Sam: Three.
Travis: (laughs) That happens a lot for you.
Liam: If it makes you feel better, I rolled a one and used Luck.
Sam: And then got?
Liam: 21.
Sam: Oh, jesus.
Matt: Percival, you're up first.
Taliesin: Just 'cause this thing's weird, first thing I'm gonna do is I'm going to hit it with a Sharpshooter with-- where's my runs? With a Deadeye. So I'm getting advantage on it and hitting with Sharpshooter. And let's see what happens.
Sam: What if it's good?
Taliesin: With Animus.
Sam: You don't even know if it's a good guy.
Travis: Is it surrounding Pike or is it just next to Pike?
Matt: It's pseudo-surrounding her and right behind her, like it's kind of forming behind her and adjacent to her body.
Travis: What did you do?
Taliesin: That's, yeah, 30 to hit.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and roll damage.
Taliesin: That's-- my brain is made of swiss cheese. Here we go. 1d10 plus 1d6, so that's-- yeah, that's nice. So that's, oh yeah, that's really good. 26 points of damage, plus six points of psychic damage, and just because I'm irritated by this thing, I'm gonna drop some Cabal's Ruin into it. Let's just drop-- where's my pen? Here's my pen.
Sam: Where's my pen?
Sam: They took my pen!
Matt: They took my pen!
Taliesin: Let's drop five points of Cabal's Ruin into that. That's 5d6, if I recall?
Matt: 5d6 of Kids in the Hall damage, got it. (laughs)
Taliesin: So that's, ugh, three, four, five. Ten points of lightning damage.
Matt: Got you. So as you fire-- this is with Bad News, or with your--
Taliesin: This is Animus.
Matt: This is Animus, okay. So as you fire and turn it over, you look down and watch as the bullet just seems to pass through it, and then almost catch the edge of the rock here and splinter off, and doesn't seem to affect it directly at all.
Taliesin: The lightning and the psychic didn't do anything?
Matt: Nope. You watch as the energy kind of crackles and dissipates amongst the rock.
Sam: Wait, no damage, it took?
Liam: Best you can tell.
Travis: Doesn't seem to have affected it.
Sam: Oh shit.
Taliesin: I'm going to-- I don't know what to do.
Marisha: You just shot at it, you didn't do anything?
Taliesin: I just shot at it. I'm going to attempt to Hex it with a bonus action. Does it catch?
Matt: Okay. You go ahead and attempt to Hex it. As you focus on it, nothing seems to hit.
Marisha: Including a Hex?
Matt: The Hex has no effect, and you don't sense any connection with this creature, you don't see any of the smoke or shadow surrounding it. The Hex has no effect.
Sam: Maybe it's not there.
Taliesin: Maybe it's an illusion. I'm going to-- since I don't have much left, I burnt a little bit, I'm just I'm going to reload, hunker down, and watch what happens. I'm also going to watch the gnomes, all of them. Are any of them doing weird shit? That's where I'm gonna use the rest of my turn, to just look at the gnomes and see what they're doing.
Matt: Okay. Right now, the two other gnomes are just waiting off to the side, watching aghast, and you watch as Ogden is slowly, with his staff, backing up, hand out, looking freaked out, backing into Taryon. Look over and noticing his presence, and then focusing back on the horrible thing that's surrounding Pike right now, and he looks genuinely frightened. Is that your turn?
Taliesin: That's my turn.
Matt: Okay. Percival's done. Vax, you're up.
Liam: Before I decide, what is the thing doing to Pike? What am I looking at?
Matt: It hasn't had its turn yet. You're watching this 12-foot-tall swirling, almost slow-moving tornado of black cloud and smoke that is starting to form all these horrible faces, forming this cacophony of sounds and screaming and moaning.
Liam: Okay. I'm gonna click the Boots of Haste. I'm going to flip out the wings. And then I'm going to fly-- not through, because I don't wanna go by the thing, but around towards Keyleth and around towards Pike and grab Pike and fly her up next to Percival.
Matt: Fly her up next to Percival? Okay. So you try and pick her up. Make a strength check, 'cause she is a very heavily armored tiny little--
Ashley: Tank?
Matt: Tank of a gnome.
Laura: Strength check.
Liam: I don't make those. 17.
Matt: 17. You do, and it slows your movement to half when you're carrying her, but you manage to pick her up. As you do so, you watch as the form sends this pseudopod of a screaming face and arm swinging out towards you. That is a 17.
Liam: No.
Matt: You just pull her out of reach as it swings out in your direction. For the rest of your movement, you pull her just up to the edge of the rock, there, and you can set her down if you want. Oh god! Is that your turn?
Liam: Yeah, that's the end.
Matt: Okay. That brings us to Grog.
Travis: Gonna find out what this thing is, get up close and personal. I would like to Rage. Just charge right at the thing that was towering over my buddy Pike.
Matt: Right there. You come up right to the side of it, and you can look up and see it now. It's forming this wall of screaming faces at you, and a lot of them are watching as-- all of them are facing Pike as she disappears, and all of a sudden, all at once, a hundred faces go (shhhp) to you, and (gurgling growl). What are you doing?
Travis: All eyes on me. I swing at it. The first one regular.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: 28.
Matt: 28 hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
Travis: We'll see what happens now. 24 points of damage.
Matt: 24 points of damage. As you rush up angrily, you swing your axe, with additional?
Travis: Necrotic, four.
Matt: All right, 28. All right, cool. You swing, and as your axe cleaves through the side of it, you watch as parts of it break open, sending chunks of it flying, and the creature (shrieks) seems to scream in pain from the impact.
Travis: Nice. It screamed in pain from the impact.
Laura: Okay.
Travis: So the second one, can I make it-- we don't know how high this thing is. Can I do a Great Weapon Master for the second one?
Matt: Sure.
Travis: Okay. Minus five. That's gonna miss. That's 18.
Matt: 18. You hit, go ahead and roll damage.
Travis: Oh, really? 18 hit? Okay. Shit. 36. 36 points of damage.
Laura: Did you add your necrotic?
Travis: Nope. Sorry, I haven't used the blood axe in a while. 39 points of damage. Three points of necrotic.
Matt: That Great Weapon Master, man.
Travis: I know. That's why I wanted the blood axe back. Missed it.
Matt: You swing with the second strike. This time, you watch as some of the faces implode at the impact, and you see a flash of dark matter just get strung out about three or four feet from it as you strike through, and it (shrieks) gives a horrible scream in pain as it does so.
Travis: Okay, that's it. No bonus action.
Matt: You're not going Frenzied?
Travis: No.
Matt: Okay, that ends Grog's turn. It is now the creature's turn. It's going to move, moving upwards and trying to catch up to Pike. But, because of the nature of the Hallowed ground, it gets that far and then stops and is held in place.
Travis: Do I get an opportunity?
Matt: You do. Go ahead and roll an attack.
Travis: Can I make it Reckless?
Matt: Mm-hm. Actually, I think Reckless has to be on the first attack of your round.
Travis: Okay, that's fair enough. Shit, I picked it up. I think it was a seven. So 23.
Matt: Yeah, you hit.
Travis: Okay. That's a 12 again. 26.
Matt: 26. All right. With it being downed by that movement, it moves in and makes its way towards Ogden. Ogden, who is backed up against you at this point, Taryon, you watch as the spectacles-- you push him forward? (yelps) As it swings forward, and you see two of the mouths reach out to attempt to-- that's a three. (laughs) Both snap, and the old gnome would've been bit, except you pushed him forward, and he kind of like catches himself, and both of them miss him by but an inch, and he turns around, glancing at it, still has his hand forward like, "No!" as he's clutching his staff at his side to keep his standing. That finishes the creature's turn. Vex, you're up.
Laura: Okay. I-- what is JB doing?
Matt: JB is over here by Trinket, and is currently seeing this whole thing occur, and is about to go ahead-- it's not her turn yet, but she's going to probably-- looks like she's heading that direction to dart behind the rock.
Laura: Okay. Trinket's gonna go run at-- I'm gonna Hunter's Mark it if I can.
Matt: As you concentrate, Hunter's Mark finds no purchase on the creature.
Laura: Fucker. All right, Trinket runs up. I have a feeling this is-- and he is going to-- I don't know, do I get one attack and Trinket gets one attack? Is that how it can work? Or he only gets a bonus attack if I take an attack.
Matt: You either give Trinket the full round of attacks, and then you get one attack as a bonus action, or you get two attacks and then Trinket gets a bonus action attack.
Laura: Okay. And I already tried to Hunter's Mark him.
Matt: You did, as a bonus action.
Laura: So I'm gonna have Trinket attack him down there.
Matt: Okay, so two attacks from Trinket. Go for it.
Travis: C'mon, Trink.
Laura: Okay, okay, okay, one is a 25, and the other one is a 19.
Matt: Both hit. Go ahead and roll damage.
Laura: Oh, that's not as very good. Nine for his bite.
Matt: Nice.
Laura: And then his claw-- oh, come on, Trinket. 12 for-- no, 11 for his claws.
Matt: 20 points of damage from Trinket, not bad. Trinket rushes out and bites into the smoky faces and pulls back, and you watch as some of the shadow gets yanked with the teeth and then disperses and then vanishes in the air. And then turns around, big raking claw, and part of its midsection shifts with the impact and has to reform.
Travis: (whispers) What is this thing?
Matt: You gonna stay where you are?
Laura: I'm gonna stay where I am, and I wanna keep eyes on-- ooh, I wonder if you have to be in the circle to do damage. Fuck.
Marisha: Was Percy not in the circle before?
Laura: No.
Marisha: That's interesting.
Sam: But Groggy-poo was.
Marisha: And Trinket was.
Laura: I'm gonna stay out. I'm gonna keep eyes on JB to see what she's doing.
Matt: Okay. That finishes your turn?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: All righty. Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: Am I in the circle of what I know-- Pike?
Matt: You are-- you have to move five feet further in to be within the sulfur and water line.
Marisha: Okay, hearing Vex figure this out, I'm gonna step forward just a little bit into the sulfur line, and then I'm gonna cast Moonbeam right overtop of him at fourth level.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: And see what happens. Moonbeam. So a shapechanger makes its saving throw with disadvantage, and if it fails, it instantly reverts to its original form. If it's a shapechanger. But I don't really know, I'm just guessing.
Matt: Okay. Five-foot radius. Yeah, so you can-- it basically encompasses the whole size of the creature. So you watch as, in the middle of the sky, the full moon that's partially almost at its zenith, you watch as almost a secondary moon appears next to it for a moment, and a single column of bright moonlight hits the ground.
Marisha: Kinda harnessing the moon, you know?
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: Yeah, moon goddess shit? Yeah.
Matt: And it's illuminating the creature from the inside, and where the smoke is, you can now see there are portions of it that are burning on the inside, like there's small holes being dug through it as the beam continues to focus on it. Are you gonna-- you can still move the rest of your movement, or you can stay where you are.
Marisha: I'll kind of shift towards the front of the column, so I have the column behind my back.
Matt: Right there?
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. You leap over some of the leftover sacks and offerings there and put your back against the column. All right, perfect. That brings us to the gnomes' turns. These guys, you watch as Johann and Astra just move behind the side of the rock. They're too entranced to look away, but you guys seem to have this handled, so they're watching from the side. You watch as Ogden begins to-- oh god!-- he hobbles back behind you, Taryon, and goes like, "Excuse me!" and pushes alongside you to move behind the rock here.
Sam: I get an attack of opportunity. (laughter)
Matt: The creature does, though. And (whoosh) just misses over the top of his head. The gnome's size is too small, and it keeps missing him by about a foot. And he backs up, going, (heavy breathing), holding onto his staff. That ends his turn, and you watch as JB rushes over behind this rock here and starts shouting up, "Ogden, are you okay?" That's going to end her turn. Pike, you're up.
Ashley: Okay. Am I able to get back into the circle? How far am I?
Matt: You can, yes.
Ashley: All right.
Matt: I'll ask you to make an acrobatics check, 'cause you're having to leap down from these large five-foot stone drops.
Ashley: Okay, okay, okay. Come on, Gil. Don't fuck me, Gil. You fucked me, Gil. Four.
Laura: Oh no.
Matt: So you leap down this one. As you leap down to there, as you hit the ground, it's just too much height with all the heavy armor and all the chaos going on, that when your foot hits, the rock sprains your ankle, for a second it kind of folds to the side, and you fall down to one knee. I'll say with that, your movement's going to get you right there. You're not in the circle currently.
Ashley: All right. Then I will cast Spirit Guardians into the circle.
Matt: Okay.
Ashley: And I will have them attack.
Matt: Okay. Spirit Guardians here.
Travis: I don't think we've seen that before.
Laura: I know, right? I think she's done Spirit Guardians one other time.
Travis: Okay. Sorry.
Ashley: It's okay.
Matt: So you're designating them as the creature, their speed is halved. When the creature enters the area or starts its turn there, it has to make a wisdom save or take the damage, right? That's how it works. Okay. So. That ends your turn, Pike, as you cast the spell. There you watch as a series of small, ghostly divine-focused creatures appear on the horizon of the circle, all looming towards this dark entity. That ends your turn, Pike?
Ashley: Yes.
Matt: All righty. Taryon.
Sam: Oh god. All right. I whip out my String of Beads and I pull off a bead and I will throw it down at the creature's feet, just behind it if possible, so it and only it is in the cube of ten feet.
Matt: Okay. Let me see here.
Liam: (whispers) Where does he get all these wonderful toys?
Sam: Money! Lots and lots of money.
Matt: Okay. The bead hits the ground and detonates, and you watch as there's a flash of arcane energy in the sphere. As it encompasses, it doesn't seem to affect the creature.
Sam: So there's just a big spherical ball there with nothing inside of it? Or does the creature look like it's inside of it?
Matt: It looks like it's partway in and partway out and unaffected by the bead.
Sam: Holy shit.
Travis: You're just losing money left and right.
Laura: Oh man.
Sam: This is an expensive trip. (laughter)
Sam: Well then, I will do the heroic thing. As my bonus action, click my Boots of Speed, and run. Just sort of run behind that rock with the gnomes and try to position Doty in between me and the beast.
Matt: Do you move Doty forward?
Sam: Just between us. Not forward, just in a guarding position.
Matt: Okay, there you go. So Doty just. "Tary." All right, so that's all Doty does, is just get ready?
Sam: He can't do a separate attack, can he? No.
Matt: Yeah, he can.
Sam: Oh, he can?
Matt: He acts entirely different than you, yeah.
Sam: Oh jeez. I'm not used to having these things. Then yes, I'll just have him take a swing at the thing, a bash.
Matt: Okay, he can make a bash and a headbutt.
Sam: He can make two attacks? This guy's awesome!
Laura: Wait, he gets a full action and his companion animal gets to attack?
Matt: Yep.
Laura: Motherfucker.
Sam: We're friends.
Matt: Also, how helpful has Taryon been in comparison to Vex in the past?
Sam: Very, I would say.
Laura: Well, Tary or Doty?
Matt: Both.
Sam: All right, Doty's going to make two attacks, then.
Matt: Go for it.
Sam: Bash and a headbutt. What do I do? I roll something. I roll a natural 20 on bash.
Travis: Doty got a natural 20.
Sam: That is nine points of damage.
Matt: Awesome.
Sam: And then going in for the headbutt, one.
Matt: Doty swings forward, fist goes through, you watch as the creature (gurgling yelp), and then, as it's recoiling, leans forward and gives it a big old hefty rune-covered Doty headbutt to the creature, and it seems impacted by it. Doty? Not in the circle.
Sam: Oh.
Laura: Doty's not in the circle.
Matt: Doty's just outside of the circle.
Sam: But still caused damage?
Matt: Apparently.
Sam: What is this magic?
Marisha: What was the bead thing?
Matt: That ends Taryon's turn. Percy.
Taliesin: I'm watching all this and highly confused. I'm going to turn on my boots, and I'm going to run down towards the creature, and I'm going to attack it with my silver-laced sword and see what happens.
Matt: Okay, you rush forward at this side, you come up to it with your silver rapier.
Taliesin: And I'm taking a swing.
Travis: Come on, buddy. See how the other side lives.
Taliesin: No, it's okay, 'cause this is pretty good. 17.
Matt: 17. That hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
Marisha: Is it piercing?
Laura: Slashing damage?
Sam: You have to be close to it, like you have to hit it with your fists.
Taliesin: Eight points of damage.
Matt: Okay. You watch as you go in to stab it with the rapier, as you do it, (shrieks), it retracts and you can see parts of it kind of carve open from the impact.
Taliesin: I'm going to take another stab.
Matt: Go for it.
Taliesin: It's a 24.
Matt: 24, that hits.
Taliesin: I'm also going to, out of curiosity, run d6 worth of Cabal's Ruin through it, just to see what happens. So that's-- wow, that really-- that's 14 points of piercing damage and two points of electrical damage.
Matt: Okay, cool. As you stab through with the sword, electrical energy coursing through, you stab through, watch as it carves a big hole in the side of its smoky physicality, and it kind of shrieks in pain and recoils, now some of the faces turning towards you, noticing the impact.
Taliesin: The shock definitely did a thing?
Matt: The impact did, yeah, you watch the weapon hit and you watch the shock burst off and the creature reacted to it.
Taliesin: Okay! Just for fun, I'm taking a third hit. I'm gonna take a third shot at him. And burn, yup. No, a third slice and I'm gonna add, just for fun, let's do one, two, three, let's do four more points of Cabal and see what happens.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: So.
Matt: Third strike, you swing through heavily and you watch--- How much damage is that?
Taliesin: That's 15 points of piercing damage.
Matt: 15 points of piercing damage.
Taliesin: Seven, eight, nine.
Matt: With?
Taliesin: And 13 points of electrical.
Matt: Nice. Okay. You swing with one wide arc, and as you do, it leaves this large spray of electrical energy that is left behind in pulses after the blade has already passed through. It's almost like a lagging slow-mo burst of electrical energy behind the blade as it swings, and as it does you watch as the smoke dissipates and retracts from the impact, screaming, and small faces you see turn to black mist from where the blade passed through.
Taliesin: Yeah, and I'll take three more hits really quick. I'm going to burn an Action Surge. Just do three more real quick. Just going for it. I'll roll them all at once.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: So. That's-- Yeah, that all hits. It's a 11, a 13 and a 17. They all-- they all hit.
Matt: Yeah. So roll damage three times.
Taliesin: That's 11 points.
Matt: 11.
Taliesin: 13 points.
Matt: 13.
Taliesin: And ten points.
Matt: Ten points! In a series of Zorro-type slashes, you just carve through. And you watch as it's starting to break apart and dissipate. The screams went from aggressive to now (groaning). This, like, deep sucking inhale. It looks like it's starting to look pretty rough.
Taliesin: This is very therapeutic.
Matt: That ends your turn. All right, Vax. You're up.
Liam: Okay. I'm gonna shoot up and do a small little loop-de-loop and then slam down right next to Percival. Right up against it, so that I'm in a flanking position opposite Doty.
Matt: Go for it.
Liam: And then dagger-dagger-dagger with a little bit of Smite.
Matt: All righty.
Travis: With a little bit of Smite.
Liam: First one is a 33.
Matt: That hits.
Liam: Second one is a natural 20. Third one is a 30.
Matt: All right, all three hit. Second one's a crit.
Liam: Yup.
Matt: So, Sneak Attack for the first hit?
Liam: Right.
Ashley: Get 'im.
Liam: Okay, one-- and this is Smite on this. That one's a seven-- Can I put the Smite on any attack I want?
Matt: Yeah, you can put it on the crit.
Liam: I'll save it for the crit, then. Yeah, seven, 11, 17, 19--
Matt: Yeah, the ridiculousness of paladins. Oh, a crit? I'm gonna pump a Smite into it. Oops!
Liam: 24, 27, 33, plus the psychic damage. 33 plus-- 41. 48 for the first hit.
Matt: 48! For the first hit! Shit, man!
Travis: That's not even the crit!
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Rogues.
Liam: Second attack. Four plus one is five. Plus the psychic damage-- Is he a fiend? Is he getting anything extra from this?
Matt: No.
Liam: Okay. Five plus eight is 13, 14, 15, 14, so 28. 29 for the second hit. Then the Smite.
Laura: Do you double it because it's a crit?
Liam: I did.
Matt: Okay, 29? Then, third hit.
Liam: Oh, wait! I didn't-- Hold on. Hold on. four.
Laura: Is eight.
Liam: Four plus-- There's no bonus. So it was four plus-- then I got an eight and a two, right? It was an eight and a two?
Matt: 18 times two, 46. Plus one.
Liam: Plus 12, 14-- Yeah, that gets me there. 28. Doubles to 28.
Laura: Plus one. 29.
Matt: 29. That's right, you got it.
Liam: And then one little--- Then one little, itty-bitty--
Matt: Little, boop! poke in the side.
Liam: For four points.
Matt: Four points, all righty. As you rush down and stab it in the back, as the blade hits and flashes, with just the blast, the creature (groans), and you carve down, and it feels like you're cutting through a cloud, through air-- but you watch it separate around as the blade carves down. You come up with the second swipe, this time hitting directly. There's a flash of divine energy as the burst goes off. You watch the creature take the impact and separate slowly after where it hit, the clouds being pushed back by like a slow-motion blast of the divine energy you pulse through. Third strike, and you swing past and you see it catch the edge of the side (growls). Reacts to it slowly, but it seems to be having an effect.
Liam: Feathers. Feathers.
Matt: Feathers rest to the ground. Okay, Grog. You're up.
Travis: Frenzied Rage. Reckless. Great Weapon Master. All up on him.
Matt: All right, go for it.
Travis: All right.
Sam: Everything.
Liam: What's the plan? Rush it!
Taliesin: Get her!
Matt: That is your whole plan, huh? Get her! Scientific.
Travis: No, 30 to hit.
Matt: That hits.
Travis: Three plus seven.
Taliesin: This'll end well.
Travis: (sighs) 11.
Liam: Do the thing, Grog.
Travis: 28 on the first one? No. 38 on the first one, because of Great Weapon Master.
Matt: 38 on the first one.
Travis: 27.
Matt: That hits.
Travis: Minus five. Okay. Ten, 24, 34, 38. Four points necrotic. 38.
Matt: Okay. Ooh.
Travis: Third one--
Matt: Third hit.
Travis: 30 minus five. 25. 10, 24, 26, 36.
Sam: Is that four hits north of 25?
Matt: It's three hits. And that's over 100 damage in one round.
Marisha: Wow!
Sam: That would have just straight-up killed me.
Ashley: That's like-- yeah-- oh no.
Matt: As you swing up and make three giant axe blows, you watch as each cleave is carving a line through this creature. And as you hit with each axe blow, you watch as its faces begin to disappear in smoke. It's almost like with each blow it's beginning to lose physicality in the world and it's beginning to shrink in size. It's still wailing and screaming in your face, but the impacts are making an effect.
Travis: Nice.
Matt: That ends your turn, Grog. The creature is now going to go ahead and swing in a wide circle in its desperation. It's going to go ahead and cause this--
Marisha: Top of its turn?
Matt: Top of its turn, yeah.
Marisha: It takes 4d10 of damage.
Matt: Well it has to make a save. All right. So what it does is the moonbeam hits down on it, and you watch as it seems to not really react to it. Like it burns a little bit and you see some kind of sparkling white energy, but it's not reacting directly from it at the moment. It seems to be like generally trying to avoid it but it's not seemingly taking any damage from it. Now, it's going to go ahead and do a big sweeping strike to try and hit everything around it. You watch as these pseudopods begin to spin like a buzzsaw in the vicinity. What's your AC, Grog?
Travis: Advantage against me, too.
Matt: Yeah, that's right!
Travis: 17 is my AC.
Matt: Misses you. Against Trinket.
Travis: With advantage it misses me?
Sam: With advantage!
Matt: Yeah. What's Trinket's AC?
Laura: Oh-- 21.
Matt: 21. Misses. Against Vax-- That's a natural one. And against Percy, that is a-- What's your AC?
Taliesin: 18.
Matt: That misses.
Travis: What?!
Laura: What?!
Matt: Oh, and against Doty as well. Doty-- What's Doty's AC?
Sam: 12.
Matt: Misses.
All: What?
Matt: It spins around and it manages to just have no effect on any of you. You move out of the way, dodge, it misses you, it just passes right through Doty with no effect.
Travis: Bad show, mate.
Matt: That brings us now to Vex's turn.
Laura: Has he hit anybody yet?
All: No.
Sam: He's literally the worst.
Matt: He's literally the worst creature that's ever existed.
Marisha: Is it safe to like over my earpiece say like--
Matt: Wait 'til your turn.
Marisha: Oh. Sorry.
Matt: It's okay. What're you doing, Vex?
Laura: I mean, if I'm looking at that creature, does it look like an illusion? Does it look like something we've seen before? Does it look like it's really there?
Matt: You can make an investigation check to see, you might have to go closer.
Laura: I'll come down closer.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: I'll have Trinket attack for my bonus. But I want to just--
Matt: Trinket has to attack as part of your attack action. Wait, let me double-check that.
Laura: Trinket gets my bonus.
Matt: I know, I changed that. That's how it used to be. So yes, you can do that. You can do that.
Laura: Okay. So I can have him attack and then watch?
Matt: You can have him attack and then watch him.
Laura: I want to watch while he's attacking and see. And like make an investigation check.
Matt: Okay. Okay. Have Trinket go ahead and attack.
Liam: Voyeur.
Laura: Yeah. I want to watch! Ooh! That's a good one. 27.
Matt: That hits! Go ahead and roll damage.
Laura: Okay. 12.
Matt: 12! Is it a bite or a claw?
Laura: That was a bite.
Matt: Trinket reaches out and bites and snatches through and you watch as the black smoke dissipates in the area and screams again in his face as he pulls back. You're using your action to investigate?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Roll an investigation check.
Laura: 24!
Sam: What just happened?
Matt: Pardon me, buddy.
Sam: Trinket just became a ghost.
Marisha: What's going on?
Taliesin: Don't! No! No! No!
Ashley: Don't you look, Travis!
Sam: Do it, Travis!
Taliesin: Travis Willingham, you're going to get in big trouble!
Ashley: Step back! Step back!
Sam: (laughs) Draw dick-butts all over it
Matt: All right!
Sam: Trinket's a ghost!
Matt: That ends-- that's the end of your turn, right?
Laura: That's the end of my turn. I moved-- that was my full movement to get up there?
Matt: No, you can move.
Laura: I want to move over back towards the edge of that rock towards me. I mean, this way--
Matt: This way?
Laura: Sorry.
Matt: This way?
Laura: Yes. Closer to the gnomes.
Matt: Closer to the gnomes. Okay. Well, since I left my-- imagine you're flying for this one. I left my pillars at Force Grey. So. I'm going to have those back.
Laura: Oh! Am I flying?
Matt: I figured you were since you usually are. Unless you don't want to.
Laura: No no no. I'm not flying right now.
Matt: Okay. Then you're back by the gnomes. All right, cool. That ends Vex's turn. Keyleth, you're up.
Laura: And I can I say anything over my head-- My earring? Without the gnomes hearing me, I want to go, it's not real. It's not real. They're fucking us.
Sam: (gasps) The gnomes are?
Matt: Okay. Keyleth. Your turn.
Ashley: Motherfuckers.
Sam: Kill them!
Marisha: What?
Laura: Play it out. Just play it out.
Sam: Okay.
Marisha: Play it out?
Sam: Play it out.
Marisha: Okay, I want to step forward a little bit.
Matt: Okay. You step forward a little bit.
Marisha: Can I make out details of the space? Of the faces that are in it?
Matt: There are multiple faces. They're all different creature faces. They all look to be humanoid. They're all shouting and screaming and shifting and roiling inside.
Marisha: Can I do a perception check to see if I recognize either Pike's face in there or Ogden's face or any of the gnomes' face? Do I recognize any faces?
Matt: Sure. This would be your action to do that, but yeah.
Marisha: My whole action?
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: Make a perception check.
Marisha: Great, 17.
Matt: Okay. Glancing at it, all the faces seem relatively blank and it's mostly the same face over and over and over again. So there's no real variation to them.
Marisha: Okay. And that's my whole action?
Matt: That's your whole action, yeah.
Marisha: Okay. That's my action.
Matt: Okay. So at this point, the gnomes over here are just staying where they are. You watch as Ogden takes another hobbled step back past Taryon and goes, "Protect me!" and puts his hand up to you and kind of hides partially behind you, Taryon. JB stays there. She seems relatively safe and watches as Vex approaches and is like (heavy breathing) and moves along the side of the rock. Pike, your turn.
Travis: The gnomes aren't doing anything?
Matt: No.
Ashley: Well, that's a turn of events. Okay. Am I close to-- Who's the closest gnome? Can I get to them?
Matt: The closest gnome to you would probably be Astra. She's over here.
Ashley: Okay. I'm going to--
Travis: (whispers) What if they did all of this to get us away from Whitestone?
Ashley: Go up to her.
Matt: So you walk up to Astra. Most of your movement there as you back up.
Ashley: And I'm going to put my mace up to her throat and say--
Sam: (whispers) They're robbing the bakery right now!
Ashley: (laughs) Yeah! How many pastries did you steal?
Marisha: How many fucking pastries did they take?
Ashley: I'm going to say, what the fuck is going on? I know this is not real.
Matt: Make an intimidation check.
Sam: To whom?
Marisha: Come on, Pike!
Laura: To mustachio and his wife.
Laura: Oh, I thought that was a natural 20.
Ashley: Where's intimidation? 11.
Matt: 11? As soon as you put the mace she goes, "Pike! What are you doing?! Pike! The creature's still alive!" And she points over in that direction, she's not paying much mind to your threat.
Ashley: Damn it. Okay. (laughs) Oh, shit.
Matt: You still have your bonus action.
Ashley: Yeah, I know. Can I-- How accurate can I be with a Guiding Bolt? Is that dependent on--
Matt: You can be pretty accurate with a Guiding Bolt, but Guiding Bolt is an action.
Ashley: Oh shit, yeah. Fuck. I'm gonna drop the mace on her foot.
Matt: Okay, so this is less of an attack and more of dropping it on her foot. As it hits, we'll say, 'cause you dropped it on it, she goes (yelps) and she picks her foot off, pulling it out from underneath and it's-- She's wearing a light leather boot. It hurt her toe pretty bad. She's like (sounds of pain) and Johann's like, "Astra, are you okay?" "Pike, be careful!" He's kind of helping her. Does that end your turn?
Ashley: I guess so!
Matt: All right, Taryon, you're up.
Marisha: So wait, that's Johann? Or what's-his-name and his wife?
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: Where the fuck is JB?
Laura: They're over by me.
Matt: She's right there.
Sam: Are JB and Ogden together?
Matt: JB is over on-- like ten feet to your left. Ogden's just right next to you, almost holding onto your-- the back of your leg for protection. And he's like, "Protect me!"
Sam: Sure. Sure.
Laura: Hands up, motherfucker.
Marisha: Yeah, right? What's that? What is that?
Laura: I know! He's been holding his hand up like woo.
Sam: I'm just gonna break free from Ogden.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: And I'm going to whip out another bead and throw it right at him. (laughter)
Travis: Yes! Yes! Yes! Yes!
Taliesin: That's a good call.
Sam: It's a dexterity save. 15
Matt: That is a no. That is a no-no-no.
Sam: Oh, yeah. Oh yeah.
Matt: That was a natural four to an addled old man. All right, so roll 5d4 force damage.
Sam: Okay. Four, one, four, three. Oh shit, I should probably be adding these. That's nine. That's 12.
Matt: As you throw the bead down, it bursts in a flash of energy and light, and you watch as Ogden's staff just gets fucking thrown 25 feet in the air from the blast. He's like (yells). He falls on his side and gets back up, and you see him now encased in this sphere of force. Immediately this smoke creature vanishes.
Sam: I'll say, Doty! Carry him to the edge of the cliff.
Marisha: Oh shit!
Matt: Can Doty-- I don't think Doty can move the sphere, can he?
Sam: The sphere weighs one pound, regardless of what is inside of it.
Matt: Okay!
Travis: Really? That's fucking amazing. Are you serious?
Liam: Gently!
Travis: How big can the sphere get?
Sam: It's ten by ten. I mean, encircled--
Matt: Yeah, it's a hamster ball.
Ashley: (groans) I'm so mad!
Travis: You can carry him to the cliff!
Laura: Maybe it was just to steal a thousand-gold diamond. Maybe it was just to steal the diamond.
Matt: He's just like-- at this point, he goes, "You killed it! That's amazing! Pike is saved!" The sphere gets picked up. "Wait! Huh?"
Laura: I pick JB up by her wrist.
Matt: Okay, she's just starting to dart off and you grab her by the wrist. Go ahead and make a grapple check. Make an athletics check.
Laura: Oh no. Athletics, huh? Eight.
Matt: Eight? You go to grab for her wrist, and as you grab she wrenches out of it and goes darting this way.
Liam: I'm blasting off after her.
Marisha: I'm going to go after Johann and Astra. And can I do an Entangle spell around her?
Matt: What's the DC, or the save on that?
Marisha: I haven't done an Entangle in a second-- give me a second.
Matt: I have it right here. It is a strength check against your spell DC.
Marisha: Beat a 20, bitch!
Matt: So! You watch as they both turn invisible. And then all of a sudden a bunch of vines go (crinkles) around a gnome-like form. (cheering)
Laura: I'm gonna Grasping Vine JB as she starts to run off.
Marisha: Do it! Do it! Do it! Ranger!
Matt: She gets some distance. What's the Grasping Vine--
Travis: Is Ogden the one in the sphere?
Laura: Spell save 15.
Matt: 15, dexterity. Natural 20.
Laura: Motherfucker!
Matt: You put the Grasping Vine out and she just-- (heavy breathing).
Taliesin: Okay, forget this.
Liam: Wait-wait! I already said I'm winged and Hasted, I'm already there! She can't go anywhere.
Matt: I know, all right. So as you aim, you watch as a raven swoops down.
Taliesin: That'll do.
Matt: Go ahead and make an athletics check.
Taliesin: I'm going to keep watching.
Sam: Oh, Matt is so fucking good.
Ashley: Fuck.
Liam: 19.
Matt: Natural one.
Laura: Yes!
Matt: You grab her and lift her off the ground and she's now screaming as you pick her up into the sky, the moonlight still kind of casting down. Doty is now carrying this sphere and walking towards the edge over here.
Liam: Yeah, I'll take her 100 feet up and give her a good view.
Matt: Okay, she's breathing super, super fast. And at this point you see, as he's walking over to the edge, Ogden's like, "You-- Look! You saved everyone! Good job!" (laughter)
Sam: He's committed to this bit!
Taliesin: Don't overcommit! Don't overcommit! No!
Sam: So you rush over towards him, as Doty's got him maybe ten feet from the edge and now you can see as he's like, "Oh! Pike?"
Ashley: Oh, Doty's not finished walking yet. Doty, keep going.
Matt: "Pike, Pike. We have-- You have been saved from the darkness of a family line of terrible curses."
Laura: Dicks! Motherfuckers!
Matt: He's walked to the very edge of the cliff. "Pike, Pike, Pike, Pike, what would Sarenrae think? What would Sarenrae think?"
Travis: He's so lively all of a sudden.
Matt: Yeah, more so than you've ever seen him. He's been crotchety and immobile this whole time, and now you watch him up against the glass and he's standing up straight, and he's like, "Pike, Pike, seriously, it's fine. It's fine. What would Sarenrae think?"
Taliesin: I'm gonna walk below the cliff and just stand on the cliff and start knocking on the ball on the other side and waving so he can get a nice view of the drop down.
Matt: "Oh. No-no-no! Seriously, it's fine. We're family."
Ashley: Ogden?
Matt: "Yes?"
Ashley: Where's the diamond?
Matt: "I-- it was used in the spell!"
Ashley: No, it wasn't.
Matt: "The spell that we used to summon the creature."
Ashley: It's-- Ogden. That was bullshit.
Matt: Make an intimidation check.
Ashley: God damn it!
Travis: Does his fear grant advantage?
Matt: I'd say you have advantage, given this circumstance.
Laura: Yeah!
Matt: Given this circumstance, you definitely have advantage.
Ashley: 15.
Matt: He goes, (sighs), and holds the diamond out in front.
Ashley: Is he still in the ball?
Sam: Yeah, he's still in the ball.
Ashley: Push him out further.
Sam: Doty, just hold him over the edge.
Matt: Doty goes and-- "Tary." "No-no-no!" He's now looking down at the sphere of force below him and looking down to the waves crashing at the very, very small, distant shore. "You can have the diamond back! It's just--"
Sam: What's the play here? What's the game? What were you trying to get? Not that diamond. There's more to it than that.
Matt: "Look. We don't have a lot. You have plenty. We hear of all the great deeds you've done. All the dragons you've killed. All the vast amounts of money and gold you've procured the past couple years of your adventures. And we get sent a measly sum! A small hint of nothing but a paltry pinch."
Laura: She didn't have to send you anything, you dick!
Matt: "She didn't! And yet, we came to offer you nothing but a fantastical story of redemption and the healing of a family, and you got to know your cousin who you've not spoken to since you left."
Ashley: I trusted you. I put myself out there and I trusted you.
Matt: The sphere dissipates. It's been a minute. And he goes (screams) and just plummets off the side.
Taliesin: I was technically right below it.
Laura: That's true.
Taliesin: I'm gonna make a grab.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and make a dexterity saving throw.
Taliesin: I was kind of prepared for this.
Liam: I'm way up high and I say, I don't know what's going on, but it does not look good here. (laughter)
Taliesin: Dex saving throw? You know. I'm going to re-roll that.
Sam: What? You can just do that?
Taliesin: I'm going to use a Resolve. Yeah. It's the exact same roll.
Matt: What is it?
Taliesin: Dex saving roll-- it's 11.
Matt: (whiff) (screams)
Liam: Wait, in that second I can go 500 feet in six seconds, so can I blast down towards the cliff and dump her ten feet and keep going?
Travis: That's going to be the most gnarly drop-off ever.
Matt: Not safely?
Liam: Safely?
Ashley: She's gonna break some legs. it's okay.
Liam: Safely? Safely? I will go (whoosh) and let her take a little damage and hit the bottom. You know, I'm not gonna--
Matt: Where are you dropping her? You're over here right now, you picked her up and went over this way.
Liam: I can go like (plane sounds). I'll take a little turn up and let her-- she can take some damage.
Taliesin: She can take some damage.
Liam: Or we could let the dude die, but I'm already doing it.
Matt: She tumbles. Stops about five feet from the edge. She's still hyperventilating.
Liam: I've got 400 more feet to go.
Matt: You dive down. He's just like (screams). Just tumbling down as he falls faster towards the cliff rocks and you can just barely see the waves crashing from the moonlight that's hitting him as you're just in a full-on raven dive towards it.
Liam: Bullet train, baby.
Laura: Oh God!
Marisha: Can I take her and Grasping Vine and throw her into my entanglement and just keep all of them entangled?
Matt: Grasping Vine is a concentration spell, you'll lose the entanglement if you do it.
Laura: That's okay. I'm going to use the Rope of Entanglement that I have and use it on her.
Matt: And with that, without even really much of a resistance from her, she's tangled up in the rope, and falls on the ground on her side. Go ahead and make a dexterity saving throw.
Liam: Saving throw? Okay.
Matt: Actually, for this in particular, because it's less of a reaction, this is a-- make a dexterity check. This is just a plus your dexterity bonus.
Liam: Okay. I have Luck. I've got one Luck left. 20.
Matt: You reach out once and grab a section of the cloth and it tears-- and he keeps plummeting. You watch as the stones below-- it's a jagged base of the Salted Bluffs. About ten feet before impact, as his screaming has stopped-- and you grab him and just (whff) right across the surface of the water, but inches! His toes-- the tips of his feet skid across the surface of the water as you (whoosh) and rocket him straight back up towards the top of the cliff. It's going to take you a little while to get up there now.
Liam: Sure.
Matt: Diving is one thing. He is unconscious in your grasp.
Liam: And the Haste is gone by the time I've gone through all that?
Matt: Yeah. So you're slowly flying your way back up. You guys are bent over and you can see the raven wings-- you can't quite see whether or not he got him, but all you see is Vax slowly making his way back towards the top of the cliff.
Taliesin: Should we tell them if he survived? Or do you want to surprise them? I say loudly enough for everybody to hear.
Ashley: Surprise them!
Laura: How about you tell us.
Taliesin: I'm pulling back up. Oh yeah, he's fine.
Ashley: I'm going to walk over to JB. She's tangled?
Matt: She's wrapped up in the rope and she's like (breathing heavily).
Ashley: I'm going to slowly start untangling her.
Matt: "Hi, Pike."
Ashley: Hi, JB. For starters--
Matt: "I'm sorry. I'm sorry."
Ashley: Okay, that's fine. I'm sorry I didn't spend more time with you. But this is unacceptable. This is not how you treat family. And if anything, I hope you learn from this. What do you want? What do you want from me? Tell me and I'll give it to you.
Matt: "I don't care about the money, that's what they wanted. Honestly, I just used this as an excuse to get to see you again. It would have been fine if no one had found out anything. We would have been heroes. We would have had no reason to not be friends again. We would have saved you, as far as you know, from a terrible curse, and maybe that would have-- maybe then I would have been a hero to you. But I'm nothing. I'm a caretaker to a swindler and move around too much to make any real friends, so that's just my lot in life, I guess."
Ashley: It doesn't have to be.
Matt: "That's all I know."
Ashley: But you're very smart. I think there's more for you in this life than you know.
Matt: You can see now, she's just tears now, at this point.
Ashley: I'm going to walk over to Johann and Astra.
Matt: Okay. Yeah, they've let the invisibility down at this point. They're both just entangled. "Oh! There's some sort of misunderstanding here. We were under the impression that there was a terrible curse."
Ashley: "Money?"
Matt: "No! No! We-- Look. Look! Okay. Look, we have been following--"
Marisha: I tighten the grasp on them.
Matt: (squeals) "We've been following that man because he is-- He's my dad. And we're really broke. And we blew through all the money you sent us very quickly. I mean, come on. How much do you guys got? Like ten thousand gold? That's more than we'll see in our lifetime. Drop in the bucket. Changed our life. You would have been fine! You would have been great! You wouldn't have known any better. Our lives would have improved drastically. We would have gone our own way. But maybe stayed for a week! Made you dinner. But here we are. Are we bad? Are we evil? I don't think so. But that's up to you, Miss Priest." At this point, Astra's like, "Shh. Honey, honey! Just calm down." And he's like, "No! No-no-no-no. No. Okay. She can think she's better than us, that's fine. You want to fight the Trickfoot name, that's great. You're still a Trick--"
Marisha: And I go, and down.
Matt: He hits the ground and all you hear is muffled, "But she's still one of us." (laughter)
Matt: And Astra goes, "You did kind of drop a mace on my toe."
Ashley: Oh, I know. That was on purpose.
Matt: "Yeah, I gathered as much."
Ashley: Oh! I'm so mad!
Taliesin: Yeah.
Travis: Don't rush it. Don't rush it.
Ashley: Where's Ogden?
Matt: You wait another few minutes. It's a long flight up at this point without the Haste. I mean, the winds do help a little bit, because the winds are hitting the cliff and heading upwards. So the updraft does help a bit, but it takes about five or six minutes or so for him to eventually get his way back up to the top. Probably longer than that, even. Then eventually you watch as Vax returns and drops an unconscious, unmoving Ogden onto the rocky cliffside floor.
Liam: Old bugger looks so sweet when he's sleeping.
Ashley: Does he still have the diamond with him?
Matt: Funny thing. When that orb disappeared, and he fell, so did him and the diamond.
Liam: Windmill.
Matt: So he is not with the diamond. The diamond is nowhere to be seen.
Laura: That'll make someone's day, eventually.
Marisha: It was more the principle of the matter.
Ashley: Well, I'm sad.
Laura: Pike? If you send them on their way, think about JB. That's all I ask.
Ashley: Okay. Ogden?
Matt: He's unconscious.
Ashley: You're not listening to me because you're unconscious. (laughter)
Travis: Don't one of you people have the touch?
Ashley: I'm going to go over and backhand his face.
Matt: Okay.
Matt: "I've, uh--" His glasses are gone. His eyes that were once beady are now wide and he's like, "Oh. Hi, Pike."
Ashley: Hi.
Matt: "Hello."
Ashley: Listen.
Matt: "Gotcha!"
Ashley: Yeah. Okay. So this wrecked me. So here's what we're going to do. I'm going to send you guys on your way. I'm going to take out my purse of money. I'm giving you all my money. Stop. Don't say anything. I want you, and I want Astra, and I want Johann to leave and I never want to see you again. JB is going to stay here with me.
Matt: He glances over at JB, who's, right now-- head is down, just looking at the ground. You can see a little bit of moonlight that's coming by, you can see the wet streaks on her cheeks. He goes "That's very, very fair. That's very kind, and very fair."
Ashley: We're going to teach her things. I will put her through school. And her and I together will change the Trickfoot name. But if I ever see any of you again, I will fucking kill you all.
Matt: "As you should! Right, understood loud and clear, young Pike Trickfoot." He takes the coins. "So. Sorry. And how do we get back?"
Laura: You'll find your way. I pat them all down and make sure they didn't steal anything from us on the way out.
Matt: Okay, make an investigation check.
Ashley: Good call.
Laura: Wish I remembered my number. 14.
Matt: 14. Okay. I mean, they're all pretty prostrate at this point. Feeling through Ogden and Astra and Johann, you find about 400 gold worth of silverware. Various other coins.
Ashley: Bastards!
Matt: You find some random odds and ends from the castle that have all been pocketed and hidden in boots. Hidden in hidden pockets.
Laura: What is it with people and our fucking silverware? You can take the money! You can't have the items! These all have very sentimental value, including those fucking dresses you destroyed. You little--
Taliesin: And as a bonus, there is a diamond at the bottom of the cliff, if you're feeling nimble.
Marisha: I release my spell.
Matt: Okay. Entanglement drops. Gets up. "Okay, well. I guess we have a long journey ahead of us, isn't that right, Dad?" And Uncle Ogden is now standing without the hunch and is like, "I believe so. I think we have quite the journey ahead of us."
Travis: We're not killing anything?
Laura: Sinaeth, Grog. Sinaeth.
Marisha: Where did Ogden's staff go when it got jettisoned out of him?
Matt: It's about, maybe, 25 feet this way. It clattered against the rocks here and fell to the ground.
Marisha: I'm going to go gather it real quick.
Matt: Okay, you go and grab it. It's the same gnarled wood still--
Marisha: I'm going to cast Detect Magic on it.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: No. I don't have that. I have Dispel Magic. Hey, Tary?
Sam: Oi! What do you want?
Marisha: Does this look like anything to you? Does this look magical? Can you tell?
Sam: I will Identify it.
Matt: Okay. It is a Staff of Major Image.
Sam: Ooh! That seems useful.
Marisha: Here you go, Tary!
Sam: Ooh! Thank you! This will help make up for the 3500 gold I spent on this fight! (laughter)
Taliesin: I'm going to walk up to Ogden. Give a little-- When you make it down the hill, you will find your cart outside the city limits in perfect working order, searched for anything else you might have tried to stash away from my city. I'd also like to remind you that the Riflemen have seen your faces up close, and the next time you come anywhere near our castle, you will be shot on sight.
Matt: "Read loud and clear, Percival."
Taliesin: I release a low charge of Diplomacy right into him. Just so we're clear.
Matt: (panting) "Crystal."
Taliesin: Excellent.
Matt: "Well-- despite circumstances, and given that there's no reason to be false, it strangely has been a pleasure to meet you all. And Pike, it's good to see you doing so well for yourself. Come! We're leaving!"
Laura: Oh, and Johann!
Matt: Johann's like, "Uh, yes?"
Laura: Stay away from those sweets.
Matt: "All right?"
Ashley: There actually is a curse on our family. It's called diabetes. (laughter)
Ashley: So watch out.
Travis: Holy shit!
Marisha: There it is!
Matt: And with that, the rest of the Trickfoot family begins to make their long, meandering way down the mountainside, leaving you guys there.
Travis: You dropped a grenade, man. (laughing)
Matt: As you make your way back to Castle Whitestone with JB, we'll pick up that next time, as it's getting really late, and you can't really beat a button like that on an episode. Jesus. All right, guys. We're going to end tonight's session there. Thank you so much for watching. (laughter)
Ashley: Oh man!
Laura: Assholes!
Liam: And they were so tore up to hand over JB! It was like Les Mis.
Laura: I know! They didn't even give a shit!
Liam: "What to do? What to say? Can you carry our treasure away?"
Ashley: I was-- After the last game I was like, I feel so bad I treated them so badly.
Sam: Matt is so good! You played us! Every time! We're so stupid! He was rolling every time-- "Oh, he missed again! Oh! Wow, this guy can't roll real good, can he?"
Travis: Yeah, you fucking son of a bitch! You son of a bitch!
Sam: We were so stupid!
Travis: "Oh, he missed you with advantage? Yeah! He misses you! What's his AC? 12? He misses you!"
Matt: Interesting note, all of the attacks that didn't affect him were all the attacks that Ogden couldn't see happen.
Laura: Right?
Travis: Were you even writing down damage?
Matt: I was! 'Cause I wanted to make it look realistic.
Sam: Oh my God, this guy.
Liam: You're a liar!
Taliesin: How much damage did we do to your little fucking marionette?
Matt: I don't know, a lot.
Travis: "I wrote down numbers!"
Matt: I'm sure Critrolestats has a number of damage that was dealt to the air.
Taliesin: You were just doing the John Stewart bullshit, like "Ah. Ah!"
Matt: I wrote them all down.
Marisha: I'm like, this motherfucker has more hit points than a fucking dragon. What the shit is going on?
Taliesin: Are we healing it? What the hell?
Travis: Yes. Good investigate.
Matt: There was a little part of me-- a little part of me that was wondering, because-- my little hope was that Taryon was going to investigate, I tell him. And then keep it to himself until everything happened and they went off on their own. And then as they were walking away be like, "By the way, that wasn't fucking real." (laughter)
Matt: I could totally see you doing that.
Taliesin: Wow! That I could totally see playing out. I completely believe that you would do that, you son-of-a-bitch.
Sam: I-- How am I getting a "son-of-a-bitch"? He's the son-of-a-bitch! (laughter)
Matt: Anyway, guys, have a wonderful night. Rest well, tomorrow's another day. Pick up, move on.
Ashley: We all have work early, so we're in the same boat.
Matt: Love you all very much. Thanks for coming along with us. And is it Thursday yet? Have a good night. [music]

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Welcome back, everybody.
Sam: Are we in sync?
Matt: Hopefully. There it is. Okay. Anyway, welcome back! Thank you again for your patience, we're going to kick into this really fast. However, back to the matter at hand, we are sponsored tonight by Marvel Puzzle Quest. Sam, once again please.
Sam: Once again, I hope people can hear. Marvel Puzzle Quest is an awesomely addictive role playing puzzle game where Marvel's fearless superheroes come to life! You can download it now on the iTunes, the Google Play, the Amazon App Store, and the Steam. And now, a rare 5-star Spider-man has arrived in Marvel Puzzle Quest just in time for Spider-man: Homecoming, the movie. You can recruit Spidey and play in two new boss missions featuring the Sinister Six. Face the Vulture, or recruit him as a supervillain for your team. Now, to celebrate the awesomeness that is Marvel Puzzle Quest, I have another one of my famous puzzles for Taliesin.
Taliesin: All right! Bring it!
Sam: Which of the following is an actual enemy from the game Marvel Puzzle Quest, and which is the name of an actual movie starring Jean-Claude Van Damme.
Taliesin: Oh no. I am genuinely in trouble!
Sam: Hitman!
Taliesin: Oh no, that's a DC character.
Sam: That's an enemy. Brawler!
Taliesin: That's a Jean-Claude Van Damme.
Sam: No. Timecop!
Taliesin: That is a Jean-Claude Van Damme! (laughter)
Sam: Century Fighter!
Taliesin: That's--
Matt: What is it, Taliesin?
Taliesin: I don't know! JCVD! This is so painful.
Sam: Game enemy.
Taliesin: Oh my god!
Sam: Kickboxer!
Taliesin: That is a Jean-Claude Van Damme.
Sam: Bloodsport!
Taliesin: Also a Jean-Claude Van Damme! And also, I think a Marvel villain, as well.
Sam: Cyborg!
Taliesin: That's a DC hero.
Sam: That is also a Jean-Claude Van Damme. I'll skip a couple of these. Okay. Defender!
Taliesin: That is a--
Sam: Actual enemy from the game.
Taliesin: Yeah, Marvel enemy.
Sam: The Expendables! Double Impact!
Taliesin: I'm not even going to-- yeah okay.
Sam: JCVD! (laughter)
Taliesin: The only Jean-Claude Van Damme film I've seen.
Sam: Okay. And one more for bonus. Killing Machine. That's a trick; it's a Dolph Lundgren movie.
Taliesin: I have never been so baffled in my life! That was amazing!
Sam: Marvel Puzzle Quest! Marvel Puzzle Quest.
Taliesin: Marvel Puzzle Quest.
Laura: Go play it!
Matt: Thank you guys so much. All right so, merch updates, Laura!
Laura: Yes! Okay, you guys. I gots, you know, just a few, just stuff. So, you know the David Mack poster? It looks like some people have requested, so the poster-- not the signed one! But the unsigned one is going to be for sale for a few days extra, so there's that, that's happening.
Sam: Hey, that's good news!
Laura: That's good news. Also good news is that some stuff is out of stock in the store, but all of it is going to the manufacturers right now, so things are getting made! So things'll be back in stock very soon.
Sam: Laura, is something wrong with your head?
Laura: And! Actually, I think that's about it. There's still like, the shirts. Some sizes are available but some of them are out of stock, and that's all being reprinted. So you guys, it'll be back in the store very soon. Go check out the store!
Travis: That was the bubbliest she's ever been over a three-month span.
Taliesin: I'm blaming the shirt, man.
Laura: It's the strawberries.
Matt: Something that they recently announced in regards to the podcast. Right?
Marisha: Oh my gosh, guys! Episodes 11 through 21? 21.
Travis: 20.
Marisha: 20? Yeah. 11 to 20 are out, right now. The other next batch of 10 should be out in a couple of weeks or so. But you can find that on iTunes and Google Play.
Sam: Yay!
Travis: I listened to it on my ride today. Your ads are funny. You introduce an ep, I introduce an ep.
Laura: Aw, that's exciting.
Taliesin: Oh, that's right. I'd forgotten about that.
Matt: We have another announcement. Travis, you want to take this one?
Travis: Yeah! Yeah. We went and lost our collective damn minds for a second year in a row and at GenCon this year, we gon' be doing Critical Role live once again! It's coming back. Second year. This time it will be Friday August 18th, at the Murat Theater at Old National Center. It's going to be broadcast on both Twitch and Alpha, and we're going to have general admission seats and VIP package seats which will be the first like, few rows of the theater. You guys'll get like, a whole hour show before the actual show starts, so you'll get early admission. Brian Foster from Talks Machina will be in there.
Marisha: (gasps) Brian Foster!
Travis: We're going to have a whole pre-show specifically for the VIP seats. We're going to have a gift package! A special gift bag. And the tickets go on sale tomorrow morning at 10:00 am Pacific. What's PDT?
Sam: Pacific Daylight Time.
Travis: Oh! That one! 10 00 AM PDT.
Sam: When we're in daylight savings time, it's DT. PST is when we're not in daylight savings.
Taliesin: I just learned that.
Travis: I just did too, that was great! And a ticketing link can be found on geekandsundry.com tomorrow morning 10 AM B-- no PDT! Help me. I'm stroking out.
Laura: Tickets are on sale tomorrow!
Travis: Tickets on sale tomorrow! General admission and VIP seats! VIP seats are limited. So it's first come, first serve.
Laura: Well, yeah.
Matt: All right, awesome! Thank you, Travis! So excited about that, guys! So we'll see you guys at Gen Con. We have some fun stuff coming up there at San Diego Comic-Con! We announced the panel we have. That is on...
Travis: Saturday, 10 30.
Laura: It's 10 30?
Travis: 10 30 AM.
Laura: Sweet.
Travis: It's at room 3 letters. BCD?
Taliesin: PDT (laugh)
Marisha: PDT (laugh)
Matt: We put it out on socials, so keep an eye out for that. We'll have our schedule up here and stuff, for Comic-Con available up. So hopefully we'll see you guys there! Let's see, we have this week's Signal Boost went up with our buddy, Mischa Pollack.
Marisha: Oh yeah, Mischa!
Matt: Been friends with him since high school, and he's an awesome gentleman. Extremely talented, extremely smart man, so check out his episode of Signal Boost. I like it a lot. Wednesday Club! Thank you for having me on last night.
Taliesin: Thank you being on our show! It was fun.
Matt: New episode next week?
Taliesin: Yeah, we're going to be doing, in honor of the new sets that have been happening everywhere, we're doing a secret headquarters where we're going to be talking about famous superhero headquarters and everything from like, old school stuff and the League of Extraordinary Gentlemen, to the Titan's tower, all the fun stuff. It'll be cool.
Matt: And the new series Dread went up today! Taliesin and I were players in the awesome Dread show that Ivan Van Norman runs. My mic is whack?
Sam: Yes, your mic is whack.
Matt: Where'd my mic go?
Travis: They're working on it.
Marisha: You guys can send in Chris to adjust it. It's okay! They know we're a show with a sound guy. There's no real illusion. Sound guy Chris!
Travis: Chris is a Libra. His interests include underwater basket weaving.
Laura: Yes, long walks on the beach.
Sam: He has more than one nipple, but less than five. (laughter)
Liam: It's an interesting tech night. Ash and I are Skyping in from the USCSS Nostromo, which is a Weyland-Yutani vessel and if we fart out it's because we've been eaten by xenomorphs. Sorry.
Sam: Can't hear Ashley at all. Liam is totally overpowering. I love it
Liam: (creepy voice) Samuel.
Matt: All right guys! Well, that being the case, let's dive into tonight's episode of Critical Role! [dramatic music]
Matt: Hello, everyone, and welcome back. Hopefully with a fixed microphone?
Sam: We'll find out!
Chris willmott: We're good!
Matt: Ah, perfect, awesome! Yeah, I love it! All right, so to get you guys get caught up to speed with what we did in recent episodes. (muffled dramatic music)
Sam: Is that you, Liam?
Matt: Anyway. Last we left off, Vox Machina had confronted the Whispered One, the Undying King Vecna, in the Shadowfell. The battle did not go in your favor, with the death and very faint recovery of Vex, and the disintegration of Vax during this confrontation. Realizing that it was not going in your favor, you Plane Shifted to the Feywild, where you began to come up with some sort of plot or plan to try and bring your friend, Vax, back without a body. During this time Vax had a conversation with his patron, the Raven Queen, and was given an offer where he could return along with powers that would aid in this coming final confrontation. However, the deal came with some drawbacks, and upon his friends awakening the next morning in the Feywild, they found Vax returned to them, whole. Seemingly alive, returned, though missing his equipment. Equipment returned, and a brief period of figuring out what possibly delivered their friend back to this space. It was decided that based on his experience with his patron that the powers beyond the Divine Gate-- the Prime Gods that lay claim to the divine beyond the Prime Material plane will probably be the next best bet in gaining some sort of power, information about how to better prepare for the coming struggle with Vecna, the Whispered One. You then made your way to Vasselheim, where Pike went to her temple of Sarenrae which she had helped raise and reconstruct, and had a vision from her patron deity asking her to come visit her at the Island of Renewal, and was granted, through this vision, an object that would link, via your spell, a way to traverse past the Divine Gate and directly to her location on the plane of Elysium. Also, Grog and Scanlan had a little excursion in the city of Vasselheim and a minor altercation with the guards, which led to a larger altercation with the guards, which led to a much larger altercation with the guards, which led to them barely escaping and deciding it's time to go.
Travis: We can't go back.
Marisha: Vasselheim's most wanted?
Matt: Yeah. You guys then clasped hands, and using the Plane Shift spell found yourselves stepping down on the crunching sand-like shores of the Island of Renewal. There looking past the clusters of stone and trees that mark the perimeter of this interesting, beautiful, strange distant landscape. You can see beyond the tree line and the hills that jut up from the floor the crystalline structure that seems to mark the center of the Island, and that is where we left off. What would you guys like to do?
Laura: Did you say the sand is made of pearls?
Matt: It appears to be, yeah. The granules of the sand are too big to be tiny sand granules, they're about pearl-size, maybe a little bit smaller. And they're smooth, and they seem to reflect the light in a very beautiful way.
Laura: I just want to take a handful and look at them.
Ashley: Oh, can we make a body scrub?
Laura: Good idea, Pike. I'm going to take a good handful and put it in a pouch and save them.
Sam: Microdermabrasion.
Laura: They're micro-plastic beads that have washed up on the shore.
Ashley: I'm going to take a little bit, too.
Matt: Okay, so you gather up some of these pearlescent beads of some kind and fill a small pouch of them and put it amongst the rest of your belongings. All righty, anything else you guys wish to do to prepare? What do you want to do?
Sam: Oh god. We're going to go see Sarenrae, right?
Travis: Yeah, you know, like one does. Fucking jauntily walk up.
Liam: (distorted) And you said that that tower was full of some sort of flame, right?
Sam: Sorry, robot Liam!
Marisha: No, I wanted two cheeseburgers. What did you say?
Liam: (in speak-and-spell voice) I am richer for having known you.
Travis: Thank you! Much better!
Matt: What did you say?
Liam: I said (robot noises). You said that that tower had, was full of some sort of flame, right?
Matt: Yes, and the, what little you can see, it seems to form this torso of a feminine structure, the body of which gives out these wings that curl upward. Held amongst the center of these wings is a large, gem-like flame. And you see within the actual crystalline-- we'll call it like a palace, if you will-- it looks like there's a light source within that flickers and dances like an eternal bonfire or flame, and it seems to have a pulse to it.
Liam: I'm sure this is unnecessary, but I'm going to start thinking about setting the Death Walker's Ward to fire damage.
Matt: Okay, so you guys want to take a short rest to do so?
Laura: Oh.
Sam: Oh.
Marisha: Do we need a short rest?
Liam: It's a 20-minute thing. Well, I don't have to, if everyone else wants to start.
Sam: We're not in a rush, right? 20 minutes won't kill us.
Laura: I guess. Sure.
Matt: Okay. So you take the better part of an hour, half an hour or so, 40 minutes or so, for a short rest to reset your armor to fire resist. Any other preparations?
Sam: Yeah, well hey. I'm no expert on the religious arts, but we have this eye of doom with us. Should we really be bringing this into a holy place of goodness?
Laura: I don't know.
Taliesin: I think, if anything, it might be even less effective here.
Sam: But what if it knows where we are and can somehow get an advantage and kill Sarenrae or something? I don't know.
Laura: I feel like we should definitely ask Sarenrae about it. But it's a little late to get rid of it now.
Taliesin: Other than your pocket dimension.
Marisha: It's in the Bag of Holding, right?
Travis: Nope.
Ashley: I have it. I have the eyeball in the box.
Sam: Is it still in the box? Can you shake the box and make sure there's something still in there?
Laura: Don't open the box!
Sam: Don't open the box! Just shake it.
Laura: Does it feel like there's an eyeball if you shake it? Just shake it and feel. Does it shake around?
Matt: (rattling noise) It does rattle a little bit. Like a peeled wet grape, you hear it sloshing around inside.
Ashley: (laughs) Ew.
Taliesin: Best Halloween trick ever.
Travis: Can you crush the tiny granules on the ground in between your fingers, if you try really hard?
Matt: Do you try?
Travis: Yeah, I try real hard.
Matt: Okay, you pick one up, and you (grunts) push. Make a strength check.
Travis: 23.
Matt: (grunts and strains) No.
Laura: Whoa! They're titanium pearls!
Marisha: It would be good for microdermabrasion!
Laura: It really would. Wow.
Ashley: Could I put my hand in the water? Just a (doot).
Matt: You step back a bit to where the shore is. The water is gently brushing against the shore and then pulls back. There's no heavy waves. The current is this steady, almost relaxing, undulating sound. This (steady whoosh). You reach over and place your hand within, and you feel the water soak into the inside of the plates of your gauntlet. It's warm. It's probably the equivalent of a good 75, 80 degrees. It would be wonderful beach water.
Ashley: Okay. Guys, it feels so nice. Should we go for just a little bit of a swim while he attunes to his--
Sam: Probably, yes.
Marisha: I walk over to Pike and put my feet in the water with her, stand on the edge.
Travis: Me, too.
Taliesin: Oh, also.
Liam: I put my cold feet in, since I have no shoes.
Taliesin: Wow!
Laura: Shameful.
Travis: Is there a sun? A point of light in the sky?
Matt: The sky is gently dappled with faint wisps of cloud and is blue and beautiful, but you do not see a particular sun in the sky. Though the light seems to be ever-present, what faint shadows you see seem to be almost from multi-directional light. There is no actual sun in the sky that you can see.
Travis: The light appears ever-present. Strange.
Laura: Wow, Grog.
Travis: Ow.
Laura: I'm going to keep an eye out, see if there's any movement in the fields while he's attuning his armor.
Matt: Perception check, please.
Laura: 24.
Matt: All right. As you guys sit there waiting on the edge of the shoreline, keeping a watch across the waters and the edges of where the beach begins to slowly form into the rolling hills and the sparse bits of trees that you see marking the interior of the island, there's no change. It's almost like whatever pattern is here is a set pattern, or at least, any alterations or changes would be over a very prolonged period of time. You see no signs of any other life. You see no signs of any other beings walking within your immediate eyesight.
Laura: Does it feel nice?
Matt: It feels nice. It feels comfortable. It's welcoming, if a little quiet.
Travis: When this rest is over, do we know what direction we're going in?
Laura: Towards the tower.
Marisha: Towards the tower.
Taliesin: Towards the tower.
Travis: Jeez, not everybody at fucking once. All right. Shit.
Marisha: Well, you had such good observation skills with the whole ever-present light thing.
Travis: What does that mean?
Marisha: Man. You're always a surprise. And after so many years.
Travis: Thank you.
Marisha: I look at Pike. I say, Pike, this place is beautiful. It's incredible, and I don't think we would be here if it wasn't for you and your connection to Sarenrae. And I'm honored to be here with all of you all. And to see this place with Vax. This makes me happy. Just this moment. This is nice. (sighs) I love you all.
Sam: We love you, too.
Laura: We love you too, Keyleth.
Ashley: I love you, Kiki.
Sam: Just to be clear--
Marisha: And I use my inspiring leader feat. (laughter)
Sam: I was just about to ask, was that well-thought-out speech inspirational?
Matt: All right, so level 18 that you are, with no charisma modifier, correct? Everyone gains 18 temporary hit points.
Travis: Damn!
Laura: Are we all healed up and healthy now?
Matt: You did take a long rest. Yeah.
Taliesin: Oh, we did take a long rest.
Matt: There were some healing spells spent on Pike's end and dealing with the eye that was recovered, I think. And then you with the Plane Shift.
Sam: Me and Grog got shot a few times.
Matt: Yeah, you got to heal a little bit.
Sam: But I can use some hit dice.
Matt: Yes, you can, during the short rest.
Laura: These Boots of Haste, I don't have to attune to them? They're not attunable, right? Or do I have to attune to them?
Liam: Yes, darling, they are. They're attunable.
Laura: Okay, that's fine. Then I'm just going to unattune my bracers and attune my Boots of Haste that I have on. I'm going to spend the next ten minutes cleaning them up and making them look really pretty.
Taliesin: You know you're going to get them back next long rest.
Matt: All right. So you've attuned to the Boots of Haste.
Sam: Yes.
Laura: I'm going to get so much shit online.
Matt: Broomgate 2.0. (laughs)
Liam: No. It's exactly what you would do when you almost lose somebody.
Travis: (laughs) Keep it coming.
Marisha: I'm so proud. He's as cold as his skin is right now.
Laura: Don't die anymore.
Liam: It's in character. I mean, don't give her a hard time.
Matt: All right, so you guys finish resting. It is comfortable. It is nice here and especially, in the rush of the current state of things, this brief moment of respite feels so removed from that race, that chaos, that ever-present fear and doubt. And later you know, whether it's the surroundings or the general nature of the plane that you're in, but it's soothing. It's comforting. As you finish your attunement to the item, you finish your new attunement to your resistance, you guys gather your things, step out of the water, put your footwear back on, and what would you like to do?
Sam: Walk towards the busty lady.
Matt: What's the marching order?
Taliesin: Oh, really?
Laura: We're going to have to fight things in this beautiful place?
Ashley: I'll go first.
Taliesin: Ash in front.
Matt: Okay, Ashley's in front. Who's next?
Travis: I'm with Pike.
Matt: All right, Grog's right up there with Pike.
Laura: I'll be behind Grog.
Taliesin: I'll be with you.
Laura: Lovely.
Liam: I'm going to trail sheepishly behind Keyleth.
Marisha: I was about to say, I don't leave Vax's side.
Laura: Trinket is out.
Matt: Trinket is out?
Laura: And he is walking between-- behind me and Percy. Yeah.
Sam: And as always, I'll enjoy the rear.
Travis: Yeah, you will.
Matt: Okay, then. All righty, so with Pike leading on and approaching the pathways that lead towards the center of the island, the rolling hills ascend higher and higher, the further towards where the distant crystal monolith resides. Up from the soft, pearl-like sand to reveal large obelisks of carved rectangular stone at off-kilter angles, jutting out of the ground in places. You had seen some of these at a distance when you arrived and you as well in your vision, Pike, earlier. The trees you walk past begin to slowly thin out to replace some of these stone structures. You can see what's almost this outer ring of nature that encloses the inner portion of this island. The wind is now warm against your skin as it begins to whip through this area and you can hear it tear through some of the openings between these ever densely growing clusters of stonework. Occasionally, these stone structures resemble figures of old ancient figureheads from the Age of Arcanum, who bore the embrace of the Everlight with them before her following fell from grace. You can see the ravages of time and the diminishing of her influence following the Divergence are shown on some of these figures as they appear to be sheared or cracked or broken in places. But still, no sign of anything else moving on the island.
Taliesin: Does it look like people are avoiding us or does it look like this is not a place of--
Matt: Make a perception check.
Taliesin: All right. I had a funny feeling you would say that. 12.
Matt: You see no signs of any movement, any foot tracks. No signs of anything in the vicinity that would lead you to believe that you're being avoided or being watched.
Liam: Does it look like anyone has been here for a very long time?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Liam: Oh, I'm not going to waste Luck on that. That's a one. I have no idea what's going in this fucking place.
Matt: Pike, you lead on. You make your way through these tangled paths and they shift and curve and turn and the light never seems to change overhead and as you hike along and chat amongst yourselves and keep open to the vicinity around you and you're breathing in the clean air with hints of seaspray and saltiness that eventually makes its way through the breeze. You can feel parts of you sweat beneath your armor, from the general warmth of the atmosphere, and you travel for about an hour. Pike, and Vex and Vax and Keyleth, you pick up on this, too. The crystalline structure in the center of the island doesn't appear to be any closer.
Travis: Shit.
Marisha: Didn't we go through something like this before?
Taliesin: We literally went through this before.
Laura: We had really think about being there, is that what we had to do?
Liam: Yes. Pike, do you think you need to talk to her somehow? Or call to her somehow?
Ashley: Yeah. Okay, I'm going to pull out the key again.
Matt: Okay. The metallic loop. The curved piece of metal. Okay.
Ashley: Yeah.
Travis: (quietly) There is no spoon.
Ashley: Sarenrae, we have travelled very far and we are here and if you could give us any guidance to get closer to you I would be forever grateful.
Matt: You say this out loud?
Ashley: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. You look out before you, still staring at the crystal structure. No response.
Ashley: Okay, I repeat that again in my head.
Matt: Okay, so you say it back to yourself in your head?
Ashley: Yeah.
Travis: Ticking them off, one at a time. Here we go.
Matt: Okay. So you look forward at the crystalline structure, looking at its form, and focus on those words on the inside of your head. No response.
Laura: Maybe we have to let her know we're here.
Sam: Pikey-poo. Pikey-pants. You had a religious thing and talked to your god, right?
Ashley: Say again?
Sam: You talked to Sarenrae briefly, right?
Ashley: Yeah.
Sam: Did she invite you or all of us?
Laura: Oh shit. Is this a thing where you think you're invited to a party, so you bring your whole crew and then maybe realize they weren't invited?
Sam: Do you want to walk solo for ten minutes and see if you are, solo, getting any closer?
Taliesin: We'll keep you in ear contact.
Liam: Is this like party hopping at Comic Con?
Laura: Yeah. Get us on the list. Once you're in there, then we'll join you in line.
Taliesin: See how many wristbands you can get.
Ashley: Okay. I'll keep walking and I'll keep looking back, thumbs up, and I'll see what I can find.
Matt: Okay. You walk forward and you can look back at your friends and you continue to walk forward towards the structure. You eventually begin to weave between these stone obelisks, which get dense and overlap to the point where maybe about a hundred feet ahead, you lose sight of Pike.
Laura: I want to get on my broom and fly up in the air and see if I can see her from the air.
Matt: Okay. You fly up in the air and you look down and you see her. She's right beyond where you lost sight of her originally, and she's walking forward.
Laura: Okay, okay. How you doing, Pike?
Ashley: Good, good. Just traveling over these stone structures.
Matt: All right, you watch. Pike, you walk for another ten minutes or so on your own, and you watch her travel, and as you focus, she's travelling, but she's still the same distance from everyone else she was when she left. She went just beyond eyeline and then it's weird. Like it doesn't make sense. You watched her maneuver and change and shift around things, yet she hasn't gotten any further or any closer.
Marisha: So is it like a side-scrolling background?
Matt: In a way, I guess.
Laura: What? And I turn around and the ocean is still where it was, behind us? Pike.
Ashley: Does it look like I've gotten far? I feel like I've gone real far.
Laura: I don't think you've gone far at all, dear. I think you're in the same place.
Taliesin: I've got a weird theory.
Marisha: Is the terrain repeating itself? What was your theory?
Taliesin: Maybe this is vision-based. Maybe we have to close our eyes.
Laura: How did we do this before?
Travis: I like this. Let's walk with our eyes closed.
Laura: Maybe we just have to think really hard about being at the tower.
Travis: I close my eyes and I start walking straight ahead.
Matt: (laughs) As Grog closes his eyes and starts walking.
Laura: I close my eyes and think really hard about being directly in front of the tower.
Matt: Okay. Anybody else want to do anything?
Marisha: I start walking the opposite direction.
Travis: Eyes closed or open?
Marisha: Away from the tower, with my eyes open.
Liam: I stand confused and watch Kiki leave us.
Matt: Okay. Keyleth turns away.
Taliesin: I spin three times in a circle.
Matt: What are you doing, Pike?
Ashley: I'm going to stand there and think about being closer to the tower with my eyes closed.
Matt: Okay. You all begin to close your eyes and begin walking and start wandering in different directions and bumping into pieces of stonework.
Sam: Bunch of cockroaches when you turn on the light.
Matt: Pike, you close your eyes for a moment and concentrate, and your vision is dark. You don't see the world around you, but within a few seconds of embracing this darkness, a sudden burst of light appears ahead of you, and you see a burning beacon visible in the direction where the crystal palace was before you.
Sam: Just Pike?
Matt: Just Pike.
Ashley: So I'll try keeping my eyes closed and start walking towards it.
Matt: Okay. As you guys are figuring yourself out, and you are concentrating so hard on being there--
Marisha: I turn around. Is the tower any closer?
Matt: Nope.
Marisha: Is it further?
Matt: Yep.
Marisha: Shit. I walk back.
Matt: Okay. You join the rest of the group and you watch half your party still stumbling into pieces of stone. Pike, you with your eyes closed, still seeing this burning beacon, this circular sphere wreathed in flame that just licks up as the flames slowly burn out of the bottom of this structure and flicker off into nothing. You step for about two minutes or so in its direction, and the heat gets warmer and warmer and warmer, and then you open your eyes for a moment and you're right in front of it.
Ashley: Hey, guys, can you see me?
Laura: Can we hear her?
Sam: Can we hear her?
Matt: You guys can hear her, yeah.
Laura: Oh shit. I open my eyes.
Matt: You look down and she's right in front of the crystal structure.
Laura: She got all the fucking way there? What did you do, Pike?
Ashley: I just thought about it. I closed my eyes and I started walking.
Laura: That's what I fucking did.
Travis: Yeah, I did, too. Ow.
Laura: Open your eyes, Grog.
Marisha: I walked the other way, and it definitely didn't work.
Sam: What is she doing that we're not doing? Her hair is partially blue. Maybe we should dye our hair blue, as well.
Ashley: Maybe you can only get here if you're a believer of Sarenrae.
Sam: Oh. I'm a believer. Can I try?
Ashley: (singing) I'm a believer.
Sam: All right.
Matt: You close your eyes?
Sam: Yeah. I'm going to clutch my symbol of Sarenrae and I'm going to close my eyes and I'm going to see if anything happens.
Matt: You sit there in silence for about a minute and a half as the darkness is there before you, pitch black. And you're clutching the symbol as hard as you can with your fingers, to the point where it's almost hurting your hand, and you see the faintest distant flicker.
Sam: I'm going to go towards it.
Matt: You guys watch Scanlan, eyes closed, begin walking towards the crystalline structure.
Laura: It's working for him.
Taliesin: I'm going to follow him.
Laura: I'm going to try to follow him. I'm not going to aim for the tower, I'm going to try to get to Pike.
Matt: Okay. So you're going straight for Pike?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. And you're following Scanlan?
Taliesin: Yeah. Just nonchalantly.
Matt: Okay. Vax? Keyleth? Grog?
Marisha: What do we do?
Travis: I'm not going anywhere.
Ashley: Come on, Grog.
Travis: I'm confused. I want to see what happens to those two when they follow.
Matt: So what are you guys doing?
Liam: How is it working? What are you guys doing?
Marisha: They're believers.
Sam: Maybe you guys have to believe.
Liam: Well, I think that the existence of a pantheon of gods is a well-established fact in our world, so I believe.
Sam: So poetic.
Marisha: Do I have to believe deeper than that?
Taliesin: I think, perhaps, you need reverence.
Matt: Scanlan and Percival disappear into the brush ahead of you guys as you're having this conversation. You, rushing towards Pike, as you're going towards her, you're not getting any closer. You can see things rushing past you, but there's some disconnect, that as soon as you begin to change focus, you're right where you were. Grog and Scanlan. Scanlan, you step forward, and that beacon becomes brighter and warmer, and you feel the warmth and you open your eyes, and you're there next to Pike, in front of the palace. And Grog, you walked alongside Scanlan, and you walked as he watched and you went past the brush and suddenly, you're at the palace.
Travis: I'm there?!
Matt: Yeah. Sorry, not Grog. Percy was. You stayed back. I misremembered.
Liam: I grab Keyleth's hands.
Matt: Percival. That's my fault. So Percival, you made it past the boundary with Scanlan.
Laura: How did you-- how did-- Shit. We should have followed Pike.
Marisha: But Percy, you don't believe in anything. This is bullshit!
Taliesin: I believe in plenty of things. But, yeah, no, I agree. This is bullshit.
Laura: I'm going to close my eyes and be like, Sarenrae, I really believe in you. You're so holy, and very divine and beautiful, and I think you do really good things for Pike, and I'm very happy about that.
Matt: You concentrate. A minute. Two minutes. Five minutes.
Laura: Fuck. This is not working!
Taliesin: Pike. Pike, do you want to collect the rest of them and lead them back here?
Liam: I scoop up Keyleth's hands and I say, you trust me, right?
Marisha: Yeah.
Liam: Yeah, yeah, you know that good feeling that you have when you hang out with Pike? You know that warm feeling you have. Toasting marshmallows with her around the fire, that kind of feeling?
Marisha: Yeah.
Liam: You know that comes from Sarenrae, so focus on that with me. And we'll go to Pike. Focus on Sarenrae and that marshmallow feeling.
Marisha: But that comes from Pike, not from Sarenrae.
Liam: You know that's partially true, but not all true. Come on, give it a shot.
Marisha: Okay. I try really hard.
Matt: To?
Marisha: Think about the marshmallowy goodness that is Sarenrae.
Matt: Okay. Vax and Keyleth do this. And then what do you do?
Liam: Close our eyes and show reverence to her.
Matt: Okay. Another five, six minutes of darkness passes. Your eyes are closed. No beacon. Nothing.
Ashley: Okay. How long will it take me to walk back to them?
Matt: Do you walk back to them?
Ashley: I want to walk back to them.
Matt: Okay. A minute. You emerge from the brush, and you walk and see Keyleth and Vax, eyes closed, clutching hands, just hoping. And Grog, looking bored as hell.
Ashley: Okay. Where's Vex?
Laura: I'm up here, dear.
Ashley: Okay. Come here. I have an idea. Okay? So everybody, hold onto me somehow.
Travis: Hold hands? Like preschool?
Ashley: Yeah.
Laura: Like a train?
Ashley: Yeah. Just don't let go. And I'm going to think real hard, and maybe we'll all be there together.
Laura: Okay.
Travis: Okay.
Marisha: Okay. We have to walk, though, right?
Travis: Eyes closed.
Laura: All right. I'm not closing my eyes. I'm just holding onto Pike's hand.
Marisha: I'm still thinking about marshmallows, though.
Travis: Thinking about bacon.
Liam: I grab Pike by the earlobe.
Ashley: That tickles.
Matt: And Pike, do you close your eyes and follow that beacon once more?
Ashley: Yes.
Matt: Okay. As you guys walk alongside, focusing on Pike and her leading this small pack of friends along through the heavily rolling hills and the pieces of stone obstruction that force you to make your way around. You help guide her around these various obstructions that get in the way. Pike, you're concentrating on this burning beacon of warmth ahead of you. And within three minutes of travel, it seemed almost closer than when you saw her disappear before. You guys look at her, and glance up and you've just come across the threshold of the stones, and you're now in this open sandy patch at the base of this large crystal structure.
Laura: Nice! Good job, Pike.
Travis: Pikey-poo.
Ashley: Look at this.
Matt: So now standing-- (laughs)
Laura: (laughing) It's beautiful.
Ashley: It's so much more beautiful up close.
Matt: Standing before this magnificent glass-like structure, you can see the winding shapes and edges clearly ascending in the form of a female torso, rising from beneath the sands to a staggering height. Two wings of glittering crystal curving upward to frame a massive round red gem that shines above the head of the woman, with flames curling from the inside of the facets. This red gem would probably be about twice the size of Grog. It's hard to see the actual height of it here, but it's probably close to a hundred feet tall, the entire structure. Now, you see the shifting flicker of the intense fire that burns within the palace, now, it's causing the shadows cast by all nearby things to dance behind you, and in the inside you can see what appears to be a heavy bonfire almost that is visible beyond a 20-foot domed doorway right at the base of the torso. As you begin to approach the entrance to this crystalline palace-like statue, the heat of those flames that you see inside, roaring and burning quickly, get hotter and hotter on your skin. And as you begin to enter the interior of this structure, the heat feels like it should be getting close to unbearable, but it never hurts. You acknowledge the temperature change, and you're used to knowing this much heat should hurt, but it never does. It's just hot and welcoming. You now stand within the hollow interior of this incredible wonder, looking at a spiraling red tower of orange-red flame that reaches up about 60 feet or so, in this spiral. It's all flame. This large bonfire in the center of this structure. It flares rhythmically, like a very intentional heartbeat. (roaring flames) Giving these whipping sounds of the heat, and the wind and the air that it's tossing upward and out into the rest of the island around you and you now begin to acknowledge the warm winds that were blowing through the island, all seem to be centering and spiraling out from the center of the island. And it's at that point that you see something in the flame begin to take shape. You watch as this dark outline begins to open up as two large wings unfurl from within, revealing feathers of ivory and pearl, like the beach you arrived on, as this 15-foot-tall feminine vision of Sarenrae emerges from the roaring pyre, long curling flames burn as her hair from her beautiful dark skin framing a warm and motherly smile, her eyes gold and brown like the most polished brass. Her robes of light blue unfurl in endless strands that almost seem to tether her to the inferno behind her, and as she emerges from the flame, you can't help but find yourself stunned and awed at the presence. Her standing there unsinged from the flames, slowly descends, still floating above you, her arms out, her wings and hair unfurled, almost like a canopy above the group as you look up at her. Her face turns and smiles onto small Pike on the ground, and you hear her voice for the first time for all of you, but not the first for Pike, who has heard her voice for a very long time. "My Pike, you come to me after all this time. Such a beacon in a very dark world. Welcome."
Ashley: I take a knee. Thank you for letting us come here. It's just such an honor to be in your presence and to meet you in person. I've been a believer of yours for my whole life, and to actually be here in front of you is very humbling.
Matt: She descends faintly. Her massive form slowly seems to-- not shrink, but shift perspective a bit, where once she was this massive entity before you, seems almost human in size as the hand comes down and reaches and touches the top of Pike's forehead and just runs down the nose, onto her chin. And you see the brow furrow a bit as she says, "You vanished from my sight. You walk paths cast in shadow. My sands whisper thoughts of sorrow and foreboding. I must know from you all, what dark tidings bring you before me harboring such emotion?"
Ashley: Well, I think last time we spoke, we took on a battle that we were not able to complete and we need your help.
Matt: "What type of foe do you face?"
Laura: You know Vecna?
Matt: She looks to you a bit. There's a faint bit of recognition. "This entity, this Vecna, is clouded, even in history. I know little myself, and with my sands, they know little of this undying king. I imagine by his own design."
Laura: He deals in secrets. It's kind of his thing.
Matt: "What can you tell me?"
Taliesin: We have a piece of him.
Laura: We do.
Sam: Yes. Maybe. Well, we can tell you that he is awful, evil, pure evil incarnate, and he wants to be a god.
Liam: He has eyes on your territory.
Marisha: He is something of a demigod now, you could say, and well on his path to ascension.
Matt: "Ascension?"
Marisha: He wants to be like you.
Matt: "How?"
Marisha: Or I guess he wants to be like the Raven Queen.
Matt: You watch the flames grow a little more cool, a little more of a deeper red in color, and the brow furrows more and she pulls back a little bit from Pike. Not in a retraction, but a worried sense that seems to fill the room. The brightness of the outside sky seems to dim ever so slightly. "Ascension? The Raven Queen, you say?"
Marisha: He could tell you more, but I know she was a mortal who rose to her godhood, and I know he's looking for a similar path.
Matt: "Impossible."
Marisha: We've seen it.
Laura: He's been working on it for a very long time.
Liam: And obviously hungry for power.
Matt: The wings, still unfurled, the tips seem to almost curl in a bit as she, as opposed to floating above you out and about, is now standing tall floating above the ground about five or six feet. Her vision, her eyes seem to drift from you and look out past the glass and crystal to the distant shores beyond as she speaks out, exclaiming the thoughts as they come across her mind. Sarenrae says, "The Ritual of Seeding is one of the Matron of Raven's design. It is the secret rite that rebirthed her from her mortal trials and granted her the powers to take her place among the Prime Gods and become custodian to the realms between life and death, fate and the cold of winter. But this ritual was summarily cast from all knowledge and sealed, intent for eternity, by all who walk the paths of divinity. None should know this. None should know this."
Laura: What about the goddess Ioun? The goddess of knowledge? Would she have known?
Matt: "She was the one who spearheaded its destruction."
Laura: Vecna's been taking over her chapels? Temples?
Matt: "I know not where Ioun is. She is hidden away. The Dawnfather would know more than I. They were together when she was wounded. If this ritual has come into the hands of another mortal, where is this mortal now?"
Taliesin: We have his eye in a box. It's powerful and intelligent.
Ashley: I take out the box.
Marisha: He's slowly staked out on the Prime Material plane. Just north of Vasselheim, about 350 miles.
Laura: Recently completed a ritual in the Shadowfell.
Matt: "If he's finished the seed, he's already on his way."
Laura: Oh no.
Marisha: What does that mean? How can we stop him?
Matt: "The ritual takes some time, from what I recall. I don't know how long. I was not its architect. I was not the one who sealed it. Ioun would be the one to ask. However, if this is completed, then the Accord of the Divergence is in danger. If we will have one god on one side of the Divine Gate and the others on the other, we could not stop him. Understand, in order for any of us to directly interfere to seal a god like we did once long ago, we would have to tear down the Divine Gate and that would release an entirely new armageddon upon your world. So either you stop him and seal him, or you live amongst the only god we cannot stop."
Laura: How do we seal away a god?
Matt: "I don't know. I was betrayed during the Calamity. I was not present when they began to seal the Betrayer Gods. You'd do best to speak with maybe some of the others who were more prominent in that time. You walk in Elysium. This is the realm also of Pelor."
Laura: The Dawnfather?
Matt: "Yes."
Travis: Might I ask, does Kord reside in Elysium?
Matt: "No, but you could perhaps speak with him, too. I don't know much about Kord. We don't see eye to eye." And if you could see a goddess glance sidelong with embarrassment, this is the closest you'd ever see. "I've fallen from import over recent years, until recently."
Sam: You?
Travis: No.
Matt: She looks down at Pike for a minute. "Until recently." And turns back to Scanlan and says, "And don't think your prayers have gone unheard, as well."
Sam: You heard? I'm new at praying. I'm sorry for all the cursing at first. I had a lot of emotions, and I didn't know if anyone was listening. Apologies, but you heard me at night?
Matt: "When your heart was true to it, yes."
Sam: Wow. You won't tell anybody, will you? Because some of that is personal stuff.
Matt: She smiles and averts her gaze from you. "Do you know if this mortal, this man, this Vecna, do you know in your heart of hearts, Pike, that this man is beyond redemption? Is there any spark of hope in his heart to turn him back to the light?"
Ashley: Well, I would always hope that in somebody, but at least the time spent with him that we have, it doesn't seem that that's his path.
Matt: "Well, I trust in your insight, and this is your judgment to make. The greatest judgment you may ever make. As you walk this path, closer to conflict with this entity, search yourself for any glimmer, and if there is no redemption to be had, then smite him with all the might I have granted you."
Ashley: Okay.
Laura: He's not doing a lot of talking to us.
Travis: A lot of killing, disintegrating.
Sam: How will we know if he's a god or not?
Matt: "You'll know. We all will know."
Laura: So it hasn't happened yet?
Matt: "Not yet."
Laura: Okay.
Marisha: How long do these seeding rituals usually take? How much time do we have?
Matt: "I don't know. You would have to ask those who were responsible for sealing it."
Travis: Dawnfather.
Marisha: I'm so confused. That's it? We didn't walk away from him unscathed the first time, and we're just supposed to try again?
Matt: "Even in the dark days of the Calamity, the might of our weapons could only diminish the betrayers who rose against creation. The two that orchestrated our victory and designed the means of sealing away such terrible evil, I've already mentioned. They would be of more aid than I. The Knowing Mistress Ioun, as wounded and hidden away as she is, and the Dawnfather, warden to the Chained Oblivion. His fortress across the fields of Elysium. I could send you there."
Taliesin: That would be quite helpful.
Travis: It was hard getting here.
Laura: Will he be as accepting as you?
Matt: "I don't know. I haven't spoken much with the others in some time."
Laura: You should throw a party. Invite them all. Get to know them again.
Matt: She looks down at Pike once more. "My Pike, you've done more than you know. You've been a guiding light for these wonderful champions and so many more." She reaches down and lifts you off the ground a bit, looking at your face, the bit of sadness that creeps across it as she lifts you up and you guys watch as she glides, passing through the crystal, Pike being brought below the archway as she just lifts her out beyond this crystal structure. She ascends upward about 25, 30 feet or so, holding Pike in her hands out in front of her. And just chucks her. (laughter)
Matt: No. Holding her close-- and by this point, Sarenrae's form has expanded to almost the size of the crystal structure you came to. You can now see a parallel between her wings and her form and her torso as to the actual incredible presence of this god before you. And leans in, as she shows the island to Pike below and whispers close to your ear, "I'm not lonely here, Pike, for my sands remain with me, speak with me, and we learn from each other. Look." As she extends her arm, Pike, you look out, and all of the light of the sky seems to shine at once through every pearl, every grain of the beach sand that you've walked across. And where once you saw what was just a barren landscape, you now see thousands and thousands and thousands of people. Opaque. Translucent. Souls of those that have come to Sarenrae since the dawn of creation. Those who swore themselves to good under her banner and at the end of their lives came to become part of the Island of Renewal and forever live with her and amongst the rest of the community of people that are warmed under her light. They all seem to look up at once at you, and you sense them smiling, as the vision fades and the island goes back untouched. She drifts back down and places you on the ground. "You see, one day, you will join us, too. And we will all have so many stories to share." You now see her hovering over all of you as you step out of this to join Pike on the exterior of this tower. "While I am diminished, my powers limited, you do possibly face something terrible, unseen since the Calamity. And for this journey, Pike, I grant you my blessing." And as she reaches her hands out and they expand, her head lifts up, her eyes close, and her wings flare into a phoenix-like flame that just emblazons the sky with light and fire. The heat is more intense than anything you've felt, yet still there's no pain. It's just all-consuming. It's like the rebirth of a phoenix and you're all surrounded by it. For a moment, it's all there is in existence, just this incredible entity. And then the flames slowly die away, except for the flames that currently engulf Pike's gnome form. And as the flames burn away, you can see on Pike the familiar set of wings you've seen her spiritual form hold, which fold in and then dissipate. You now have the Blessing of the Everlight. (cheering)
Ashley: Oh my goodness! What is that?
Matt: You get a plus-two bonus to your constitution.
Ashley: Okay.
Travis: We'll take a picture and text it to you.
Ashley: Okay.
Matt: As a bonus action, you can summon the wings of the Everlight, granting you a flying speed of 40 feet for up to ten minutes. And while you have these wings, any spells you cast that cause creatures to regain hit points heal an additional ten hit points. (cheering)
Matt: But once this ability is used, you can't use it for another seven days.
All: Oh.
Ashley: Man, I love her so much.
Matt: So if you want to take a picture and send that to her. Here we go. Hold onto that and give it to her.
Marisha: Is Sarenrae gone?
Matt: No. Sarenrae is still there, just the flames have burned away.
Laura: I'm going to send this to you, Ashley.
Taliesin: I'm right here, guys. It's really not cool.
Ashley: Oh man!
Laura: Since Sarenrae is still standing there, I want to say to her-- shit.
Travis: Good start.
Laura: Shit, sorry. I want to apologize. This feels so stupid. I want to apologize for never realizing what you are and what this could be and for not showing you the reverence that you deserve. And I hope to change that in the future, and I will certainly think differently from here on out.
Matt: As you look down and look up, where once she was this large entity above you, you look down and look up, and she's right before you. "No apologies necessary. The creation of Exandria, the peoples that populate it and develop and design, innovate and worship, was with free will to make your own path. Faith is important to some, but the intent was to instill you with the means of doing and choosing whatever and however you like. We do not wish reverence of all. Just those who find us. At least, I speak for myself."
Laura: Well, I think you're pretty wonderful.
Matt: "There is balance to everything."
Laura: And I took these from your beach. It doesn't seem right.
Matt: She takes the pouch from you and pours it out, and as the pearls are about to land, they drift off and dart off back to the location where you originally found them.
Ashley: Same. I just thought I wanted to take a little piece with me, but I already have that. I didn't know what it was.
Matt: As you empty the pearls, they also dart off towards the beach where you first landed.
Laura: I just thought they were really pretty.
Ashley: I would have told you before we left, you know.
Matt: "It's all right. But for everything great that we may have created, you continue to create far better. Our existence brings threat. We've brought two calamities before. We try and avoid a third. Whether we diminish in time or just maintain this balance, it's you, and your children, and your children's children, that hold the keys to the future of your lives, your people, your culture, and us. So don't apologize."
Travis: Would you say Sarenrae's attractive?
Matt: Are you asking her, or is this a question to me as the DM?
Travis: Yeah, that one.
Matt: She's beautiful. I wouldn't put it in terms of any sort of a sexual object.
Travis: She's just beautiful.
Matt: She's just an incredibly beautiful, powerful, feminine form. And, to the extent where Grog, who usually being a man who's driven by base needs, not a single thought comes across you in any base or defacing way, it is too powerful. It overwhelms it.
Travis: Yeah, no, she's beautiful.
Marisha: What are titties?
Laura: What even are titties?
Marisha: What do titties?
Travis: I'm keeping my little pearl from the beach.
Marisha: (laughs) That you've been trying to crush?
Travis: Yeah.
Laura: Terrible. Matt's like, shady shit.
Travis: We're going to need one, y'all gave yours back.
Taliesin: It's going to be like the Wonka factory, it's just it's going to turn on you.
Matt: You stole fizzy lifting drinks. You now have to be watched.
Taliesin: Pearls from the beach, you get nothing, sir! Good day!
Matt: (laughing) Good day, sir!
Travis: It's just one!
Matt: I know. "You have my blessing, Pike. Do this for me, do this for them, do this for you. Do this for all of creation. And do it soon. The longer you wait, well, the longer you wait. Do you wish to be off to the Dawnfather?"
Sam: Yes, time is of the essence. We should go right away.
Marisha: Is he as warm and welcoming and nice as you are?
Matt: (laughs)
Marisha: Okay, that's a good answer.
Matt: With a bright white flash emanating from her torso and arms, your vision just goes white and you all blink for a moment as your head spins for but a brief instant. Your feet touch hard ground and you all immediately reach up and rub your eyes, and as your vision slowly coalesces once more, you find yourself standing in the deep center of some vast orchard, surrounded by an endless sea of fruit-bearing trees of all sizes, shapes and colors, intertwined, the canopy broken and sparse in places where you can see above a clear, blue, cloudless sky. You're no longer on the Island of Renewal, that's for sure.
Laura: Oh, I thought, but isn't that where the Dawnfather is?
Matt: Island of Renewal is where Sarenrae is. The blessed fields of Elysium is the plane. He existed elsewhere in there.
Laura: I understand now.
Marisha: Is there the same ever-light sky?
Matt: Make a nature check.
Marisha: Ever-present, sorry. Ever-presence in light. I use my druidic die. 29. Sorry, 31.
Matt: It's hard to see from down low, because the canopy does choke it a bit, you can see bits of the sky that appear blue, cloudless, whereas you saw wisps of cloud over the island, this appears clear, you can climb up a bit and try to get a better look if you want.
Marisha: Sure.
Matt: Okay, so you begin to leap up through the branches, and a lot of the trees here have winding and knotted branches, so it's pretty easy to find your way up the canopy after maybe a five minute climb. You get up and peek over and you can see now this orchard goes on for miles and miles, and miles, filling this vast valley that you can barely see mountains that crest the edge of it in the distance near the horizon. You also see there is no cloud in the sky, and there is no sun, but there is a single pillar of light that streaks down from way way up, the zenith striking down in the center of this orchard, where there you see before you this awe-inspiring sight of the Dawnfather's home: a gold-plated citadel of many humongous towers and spires that both resembles a military fortress and the largest-steepled church you've ever seen. It's hard to gauge distance with so many trees between you and it, you don't know if it's miles off from you, if it's maybe a thousand feet or so, but even at this distance, it's incredible in its scale.
Marisha: Oh. Hey, guys, Pelor's not messing around.
Travis: They make really tall things here.
Laura: I fly up next to Keyleth so I can see. Wow. Do you think this is like Sarenrae, where we can't get to him unless we have him in our heart?
Marisha: You know, I feel a little bit more connected here. This I can-- it's trees. I'm surrounded by trees. This I can relate to.
Laura: I mean, I've tried to talk to Pelor before.
Marisha: I've talked to the Sun Tree. (gasps) I wonder if the Sun Tree is here? Maybe he's got a twin here like you have a twin!
Laura: Maybe.
Taliesin: Do I recognize any of the fruit that's growing on the trees?
Matt: Make a nature check.
Taliesin: Yeah. 15.
Marisha: Decent for a city boy.
Matt: It's interesting. This orchard-- various fruits thrive in various climates. As you begin to walk a little bit through, it is a peppering of all sorts of trees and fruits. You see apples of all shades, you see oranges, you see rare passion fruits, you see floral-based growing fruit. It's a perpetual harvest here.
Laura: I rush down and say, don't eat the fruit!
Sam: Might be souls?
Laura: I think it might be souls!
Travis: No, it's fruit! Souls don't grow on trees.
Marisha: Souls also don't wash up on beaches, but apparently they do.
Taliesin: That may be the most interesting thing I think you've ever said, is souls don't grow on trees.
Marisha: Souls don't grow on trees!
Taliesin: Souls don't grow on trees!
Marisha: At least he knows the dangers of monocultures. This is very impressive.
Taliesin: Yeah, this is, there's a lot of variety.
Travis: What?
Matt: What're you guys doing?
Liam: Vax is off on his own, by the way, sitting on his ass having a moment, because it wasn't too long ago when he had a thing for Sarenrae, and that was pretty bittersweet so he's staring off into space.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: One piece of fruit? One piece, just one little piece. An apple.
Sam: No.
Travis: We're in Elysium! Oh my god, please.
Taliesin: If you do eat anything, and you shouldn't, but if you do eat anything, eat something you don't recognize, it'll be funnier that way.
Travis: Is there any fruit that I don't recognize?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Taliesin: (deadpan) No, don't, stop.
Travis: Something I don't recognize. 12.
Matt: Yeah, actually, you guys walk for about three or four minutes in the direction of where you saw the fortress, and you come across what looks to be a small bush that's clustered near this dark wooden tree with a thick, gnarled exterior, and this bush has these small ripe plum-like fruits that come to a point at the bottom that you've never seen before.
Laura: Grog, do not. Do not.
Travis: What? Pick this?
Laura: Don't! (gasps)
Marisha: (gasps) Grog!
Taliesin: I dare you not to eat it.
Marisha: Don't say that. He'll do it! You know that's what happens!
Travis: No, why don't we say, are you a person?
Taliesin: (whispers) Grog.
Travis: Nothing? Nothing. You want to check it for magic?
Laura: Yeah, I'm going to check it. Hello, are you a soul?
Marisha: Yes, I'm a soul.
Laura: (gasps) Oh my god, it is a soul! It just spoke to me. Oh my god. What's your favourite color?
Marisha: Blue, like your feather.
Laura: It said blue, like my feather! Did you hear it? It was talking, Grog. It was talking.
Travis: Hey, Pike?
Ashley: Don't eat it.
Travis: What?! (laughter)
Ashley: Just in case!
Travis: What do I do with it? I already picked it!
Ashley: I have an idea! Why don't you hold onto it. Keep it in your pouch.
Laura: Not in the Bag of Holding, keep it in your shirt pocket.
Travis: When have I ever worn a shirt?
Ashley: You can ask him if the fruit is edible, and make sure it's not people.
Travis: That's fair. All right. I will hold onto the pointy plum.
Matt: (laughs) Okay.
Laura: Are we getting any closer to the citadel?
Matt: You guys keep walking towards it?
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: Yeah.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: All right, you walk on.
Laura: Are there any people? Does it look like there's tracks in this orchard?
Matt: Actually, Vax, Vex, and Keyleth, you notice fairly quickly in that you begin to see movement ahead. The air itself, which by the way, the wind here is carrying a very sweet and fragrant, almost like honey flower whiffs that come through in waves that hit you, the whole atmosphere here makes you hungry, it makes you comfortable, it reminds you of childhood in a strange way. It's a very good, positive atmosphere. You begin to see as you approach, figures, moving. Pike, you recognize this because these are similar to the vision you just had from Sarenrae. They are entities. They are souls. They are people that walk the fields of Elysium, and you see them walk with small satchels, and you see them picking the fruit. And gathering, and harvesting. They don't seem to pay you too much mind, and as you begin to get close to some of them, they just stop and watch you. It's very Spirited Away, in a strange way. You see these somewhat translucent entities that barely acknowledge your existence and then as you pass by, they go on to whatever work they were doing. No speech, you don't even see eyes or faces, you just see the outline of the human-like shape, various heights and sizes.
Laura: But they're picking the solid fruit?
Matt: They're picking the solid fruit, and gathering them.
Taliesin: Are they eating the solid fruit?
Matt: You don't see any of them immediately eating it.
Taliesin: None of them are eating the fruit.
Marisha: I have a feeling it's an offering.
Travis: I have a feeling it's fucking fruit.
Marisha: Are we getting closer?
Matt: You continue to walk and make sure to avoid some of the larger clusters of these various harvesting entities, these harvest souls. You, who's leading the charge this time, who's leading you through the orchards?
Taliesin: One of you two. Is this technically favored terrain for you?
Matt: It would count as a forest for you.
Laura: Yeah? I guess I'll be in the front. Percy, have you done a lot of talking to Pelor?
Taliesin: Not really, no.
Marisha: Percy, how do you feel about gods these days? Last time we talked we were both not optimistic, I feel like.
Taliesin: I know how to be polite. I'm very reasonable at that.
Marisha: Reverence.
Taliesin: Reverence.
Liam: You can certainly acknowledge when someone can squash you like a bug.
Taliesin: Yes.
Marisha: But a lot of things can squish us like bugs. I don't know, this is complicated. Let's just keep going. I'm going to keep an eye out while we're walking, for anything that resembles the Sun Tree.
Matt: Okay. All right. Are you leading the way?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Because you have no sun to keep tabs on, you're just going to have to fly up above the canopy and keep an eye on it, so you're cresting and descending through the orchard as you progress. You travel for about an hour and a half to two hours, and you notice you are getting closer, but it is a long way away, you probably have another three, four hours of travel before you get there on foot.
Laura: It's a long trek. We've got a while.
Marisha: I wonder if we believe harder if we'll get there quicker.
Taliesin: I don't believe that'll work.
Sam: Well, let's just go.
Laura: Just keep on pushing on?
Sam: Yeah.
Laura: Right? We don't have anything that'll make us move faster?
Taliesin: Well, we have misty, but that seems--
Laura: That seems stupid.
Taliesin: It's a nice walk.
Laura: Yeah, it's beautiful.
Matt: You guys continue your trek, and as you get closer and closer to the fortress of the sun, you do notice the trees of the orchard grow taller and thicker. And it's like whatever fertility enchantment that runs this section of the plane, the closer to the central portion of this fortress you get, the more the rampant wild growth seems to gather and expand to the point where it, in some places, almost resembles the Feywild, though nowhere near as mysterious and threatening in some cases. But you've never seen apple trees that grow four stories tall. But here you see them. And the scale is immense but the branches are as dense with apples and leaves as they would be elsewhere. It continues to go. It's an impossible size to some of these trees and plants and bushes. It dwarfs your size by comparison to where you really get a sense of scale of how small you may be in this realm versus some of the creatures that call it home.
Marisha: See, this tree can squash me like a bug. If it fell on me, yeah.
Laura: I wonder if its apple grew as big as the actual tree. If it fell, you'd be doomed.
Matt: As you progress, a few more hours into this trek, eventually, Vex, you begin to notice the light ahead begins to grow brighter.
Laura: Hey, I think we're getting closer.
Sam: Awesome.
Marisha: Does this feel like sunlight? Does it register like sunlight or is it a whiter light?
Laura: Like should we put some sunblock on as we walk towards it?
Marisha: Yeah? Is it sunlight temperature?
Matt: It registers as a sunlight. It is a pure light.
Taliesin: Like kitchen light white or like reading room light?
Matt: Like noon daylight light.
Travis: Arizona or California?
Matt: And as you push closer and closer to where this brightness continues to expand, and it's brighter than you anticipated. You're getting to the edge of a clearing where the tree line comes to a halt, but as you do, it hurts your eyes a little bit. You have to adjust from the dark interior of the forest to the outside. And as you finally breach the edge of the tree line and look out, you can see this open clearing, and immediately you can see the column of light that's cracking down from the center of the sky is what is lining this clearing; where the light touches, the trees stop. And it hurts a little bit to look at it because the light is reflecting off of this bright gold brass-colored citadel before you. You thought the crystal structure that Sarenrae was in was, you know, impressive. This is four times larger than the largest structures in Vasselheim or Emon you've ever encountered. And you watch as this massive citadel-- It has maybe two dozen separate towers of different heights that stagger and shift and they all come to these steeple-like points. And there in the center of the structure is one thick, massive tower that crawls upward and upward and upward and upward for, even at this point, surmising 15, 20 stories before the tip vanishes into the bright light that is descending from the sky above. You see the outline of a few sparse trees that catch your attention. You do see some trees that litter this open space within this bright light that are of the same type of tree as the Sun Tree that resides in the center of Whitestone.
Marisha: He does have a twin.
Laura: Do you think this tower is compensating for something, or maybe it's a representation. Hard to tell.
Travis: Basically we'll know Vecna's a god if another skyscraper forms in Elysium somewhere.
Marisha: How close are we to the column of light?
Matt: You're stepping beyond the treeline and into the light, so you're just at the edge of the tree line.
Marisha: I Druidcraft a little twig and hold it into the light column.
Matt: Okay. Doesn't seem to affect it at all.
Marisha: Nothing? I'm going to touch it.
Matt: It's warm. It's like warm daylight.
Marisha: Okay, we're not going to die.
Laura: That's good.
Travis: Are you sure?
Marisha: No.
Laura: (laughs) I'm going to look at the citadel with my eyes wide open for five seconds, and then close my eyes really fast to see if I can see better details of it like when you look at the sun.
Matt: (laughs) You do, actually!
Liam: I swat my sister in the forehead.
Laura: Hey, I'm doing stuff here; it's science.
Matt: In closing your eyes, yeah, you can see the shape and the outline of the spires that go off, and you can see the plating and the large, heavy structures. And you can see the various windows that dot the outside on multiple levels. It looks like there's at least seven or eight different levels of the actual fortress. You see lines of windows and looks to be balconies that adorn it at these different stages. And at the top of that, the towers go higher and higher. It's almost like a city of a fortress in its own right in its scale. It's impressive. It's like if you took part of the City of Brass and jammed it into one structure and made it pure gold.
Travis: Pure gold?
Matt: It's gorgeous.
Laura: This is beautiful!
Matt: (laughs) But it does burn the shit out of your eyes if you stare at it that long.
Laura: Worth it! Worth every second! I like Pelor. I like him a lot.
Travis: Someone should go in and test out the light.
Sam: Yeah, let's just go in. It's just light.
Marisha: Maybe the light will take us there, straight to him.
Travis: I push Vax in.
Marisha: I jump in.
Matt: You push Vax in? All right.
Liam: Oh, warm again! (laughter)
Matt: It's very warm. And with your dark leather it's like the goth kid in summer. Little sweaty.
Liam: I was never the goth kid.
Matt: You guys begin to make your way on foot, trekking towards the center of this clearing, towards the fortress of the sun. As you begin to make your way beyond the various trees with their blossoming, beautiful white, pink, and purple blossoms that mark the Sun Tree during the spring and summer, you can now see along the perimeter of this what appear to be hundreds of figures. Hundreds of figures that just dot the outside of the fortress. And as you get a better look at some of the spires you can see that on the upper levels, including the one central tower, you can see these beautiful medallion-like circles of stained glass, mosaics of color on a scale that is impressive. You can only surmise maybe the smallest one being 20 feet in diameter and going up from there on the scale on the central portions of it. And what's interesting is, usually with stained glass the bright exterior, the color is darkened and shaded because the light is once you're inside the structure, but the color is so vibrant in the stained glass, you get the sense that there is a light source within the actual fortress that is as bright if not brighter than the column of light that is descending from the sky.
Laura: Should've worn sunglasses here.
Matt: As you begin to get closer and closer to the citadel, once again the scale seems to build and build. What should seem to be a shorter walk gets longer and longer as you begin to see how massive and far away this is, compared to where you thought it was. And about 30 minutes since you left the treeline, you begin to just get past the final bit of Sun Trees that are planted around the exterior.
Marisha: I touch a few as I walk by. See if I feel anything.
Matt: They're alive, they're vibrant and similar in texture as to the one you've spoken with in Whitestone.
Laura: You going to try talking to them?
Marisha: Should I?
Laura: I don't know.
Taliesin: I don't know.
Travis: Do you know this tree?
Marisha: I don't know. Maybe he's like a distant relative of the Sun Tree. Maybe I know him by proxy.
Laura: Maybe they're like, oh yeah, Sun Tree I remember him, he got taken away as a seedling, but he was really great. How's he doing?
Liam: I mean, you know you want to.
Travis: It's an Elysium tree, just saying.
Laura: Maybe they don't even speak our language. It's possible.
Liam: This is a once in a lifetime opportunity, Kiki.
Marisha: I'll try and speak to one of the Sun Trees that looks the most friendly.
Travis: (laughing) Amicable tree.
Matt: Make a nature check. See which one seems the most approachable of all the other trees.
Travis: Weigh the nuts.
Marisha: That's a natural one. I don't know.
Matt: You see one tree that looks definitely the most amiable of the ones in the field and you approach it.
Marisha: Amiable?
Matt: Amicable. Pick your term.
Marisha: Amicable, amiable. All right, I'll talk to a tree. That's what I'm going to do.
Matt: As you finish your spell and reach out, your finger touching the warm exterior of the tree. The light's still a little blinding, but you've adjusted to it now, where you can make out shapes and color, as opposed to the blaring white. What do you say?
Marisha: Hey, Sun Tree bro. Are you a Sun Tree bro? Are you a Sun Tree brother? What's your name?
Matt: "I'm a tree of the sun. And I'm not your bro."
Marisha: No, I didn't know if you knew the Sun Tree that grew in Whitestone on the Prime Material Plane. I didn't know if you knew him.
Matt: "So because I'm a tree of the sun, you assume that I know all other trees of the sun. Is that what this is? It's one of those things? We all look alike, don't we? Just all of us trees of the sun, right?"
Marisha: Can you tell me a little about this plane? How do we talk to Pelor? How do we see him?
Matt: "I recommend probably going towards the giant golden fortress that is right behind you. It's probably a good place to look, where all the light's coming from."
Marisha: Okay. Yeah. Wow. I have a friend who wants to know about the fruit. He's wondering if the fruit is souls? If he can eat the fruit.
Matt: "The fruit is not souls! It's fruit."
Travis: Vindication!
Matt: "The Dawnfather is the god of the harvest. Good luck. Sorry if I came off a bit brusque. It's been a long time since anyone's talked to me."
Marisha: No, I'm sorry. I didn't mean to offend you.
Matt: "Apology accepted."
Marisha: Would you like a hug?
Matt: "No. I would most definitely not like a hug."
Marisha: Okay. Well, it was wonderful meeting you. Absolutely. Thank you. All right, bye. Okay, bye.
Matt: "Good day."
Taliesin: What a beautiful tree you've found. It casts so much shade. (laughter)
Travis: Yes! Oh my god.
Marisha: You were waiting the whole time to use that, weren't you? The whole conversation.
Taliesin: I was just sitting, like knitting, crochet?
Matt: As soon as you rolled that one, I was like okay, then.
Sam: New NPC  Dick Tree. (laughter)
Matt: It's more ornery than anything. (laughs) All right, as Keyleth returns from her conversation with the tree.
Liam: You don't seem as blissed out as you normally do. Did it go okay?
Marisha: Yeah, it was fine. Just can't talk to everybody, I guess. It's fine.
Travis: What did you ask him?
Marisha: Nothing. Just asked if he knew the Sun Tree, and he got super offended. You know what? Let's just go.
Taliesin: You've never been rejected by a tree before, have you?
Marisha: No, I have never been rejected by a tree. Most trees like me. People don't like me, but at least trees do, except for this asshole.
Liam: I start to smooth out her mantle, which is wiring up like a cat's.
Marisha: My leaves are prickly.
Laura: Maybe he was just pretending he didn't like you because he felt uncomfortable because he likes you so much. Like Kash!
Marisha: That's nice, Vex. Thanks. You didn't talk to this guy, okay? You don't know.
Travis: Did you ask about the fruit?
Marisha: Yeah, he said it's fruit. It's fine. You can eat it, too. You're right, Grog. You were right! Eat the fruit! Let's go! Come on.
Sam: Yikes.
Laura: Breathe in, breathe out.
Matt: All right, you guys begin making your trek back towards the Fortress of the Sun. As you're walking--
Marisha: I rip off an apple as I go, and I start aggressively eating it.
Matt: The Sun Trees here don't bear fruit.
Marisha: I fucking spike an apple that I had earlier!
Matt: Okay. If you have an apple with you, you're welcome to eat it if you wanted to.
Marisha: No! I just want to go in the tower.
Liam: I lean over to Percival and say, this is one of those times when it's best just to keep quiet.
Taliesin: I'm so quietly delighted by this.
Matt: All right. As you guys begin to approach the fortress, you watch as those hundreds of figures you saw at the base are beginning to collect towards the front of what appears to be the large doors that lead to this side's entrance to the actual structure. As they gather, they begin to push in your direction. You also see other figures up on the higher floors, balconies, almost. (wingbeat, whoosh) Glide and then flying in your direction rather rapidly.
Laura: I hope they're friendly. He's definitely not as solitary as Sarenrae, is he?
Matt: At this point, you watch as these winged entities, three of them, approach faster than the rest of the horde that seems to be pushing in your direction. You can see long, golden-white wings. You see very intense-looking breastplates made of gold and brass, with rubies marked into it. Similar, but not as well adorned as the armor that Pike wears. Holding spears, various other weapons or shields, but as they fly in and land, (impact noise) landing. They all stand about five or six feet taller than all of you. Humanoid, muscular, almost Roman in physique, but their skin is a very faint light blue. Their eyes are white.
Laura: Hunin and Kyor!
Marisha: Are they devas? Celestials? Angels!
Liam: Celestials.
Matt: They have similar traits, though apparently purer and much stronger than the half-blood celestials that you had met previously in the City of Brass.
Laura: That we rescued. Didn't just meet them. We saved them.
Matt: You did, and you gave them a new life under the remaining family of--
Laura: Hunin and Kyor. I even got their fucking names right!
Matt: You did, which is awesome.
Liam: The third time, yeah.
Matt: So as the three of them land (impacts) around you, spears not aggressive, but at their side, and powerful entities. They triangulate around you, all standing so much taller than you do, their wings still unfurled in a very prominent display of power. Their helmets covering everything-- the helmet comes down over the nose and reveals the eyes. It's very Roman in structure. One of them yells out, "You who approaches the fortress. What is your business here?"
Travis: Guards. Best to let Scanlan and I take this. (laughter)
Liam: Percy, do you want to flash a little Whitestone bling, at the moment?
Taliesin: You're pretty Whitestone blinged.
Laura: We're Vox Machina. We were sent here to speak to Pelor by the goddess Sarenrae.
Matt: "Sarenrae sent you?"
Laura: Yes, she did.
Matt: "With what business?"
Laura: To speak about a very big evil growing on the Material Plane.
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Laura: Oh no. Okay. 22?
Matt: Okay. The one guard that you were talking to looks over to the guard that's to the left of all of you, and he gives him this slight head nudge. That one, who's a little bit smaller than the other two, walks past and his pupil-less white eyes, which emanate this faint white glow, seem to look past each of you. I say past each of you. It almost is a piercing gaze. As it looks at Scanlan, it gives a little bit of an upturn of the nose. A neutral disapproval of Percival. Keyleth, less so. Grog, almost a sneer for a moment. And then to Vax and Vex. And then to Pike, a nod.
Sam: Oh, a nod.
Laura: She's good.
Matt: He looks back to the first guard, and says, "There is no evil among them."
Laura: Hear that, Grog? You're not evil.
Travis: Yeah, I knew that. Why didn't you just ask?
Taliesin: We do, it should be noted, carry a dangerous artifact that we should warn you of.
Sam: Check in our weapons. Yeah.
Matt: The one soldier that you were first speaking to steps forward, his heavy footfalls from his armored boots. He puts his hand out. "We will take this artifact."
Laura: (hesitant noises) Will we get it back?
Sam: (hesitant noises) Will we get it back?
Matt: "What need do you have with a dangerous artifact?"
Laura: Well, it belongs to the great evil, and so it's possible that we can use it to defeat him, so if we don't have it, we might not be able to do that.
Travis: It may give us an advantage.
Laura: Could be really great.
Matt: "The Dawnfather will be the judge of that."
Laura: Okay.
Taliesin: I'm all right with that.
Sam: Don't look at it, though. It'll turn you super evil, and you'll rip out your eye.
Matt: "Noted." Such a big thing, and yet you shook it a little, strangely. "Very well. Follow us, please."
Sam: How's that fruit?
Matt: Their wings fold behind them, and they walk alongside you, matching their gait to yours. As you move forward, even with your brisk pace, their gait is so long that they're having to make long, slow strides to keep up with your slow pace.
Laura: I hold Percy's hand as we're going in.
Taliesin: Yeah, we'll do this together. I'm all right.
Matt: At this point, the mass army that's been approaching you, you can see now, are hundreds of armored spirits, similar to those that you saw in the orchard. As they approach, the three planar entities that are walking alongside you put their hand up in a dismissive motion, and the army parts, leaving a singular path that leads you right to the front of the fortress. And the path, because there's so many, goes on. It's like walking through a parade of silence. As you all look around, you can't make out any faces. You see hundreds of sets of glittering golden armor with the somewhat-visible form of these translucent spiritual entities that take up the space. You don't sense any hostility, animosity. You don't sense any welcoming. You don't sense anything from them. They're present and letting you pass.
Laura: Is the armor solid?
Matt: Yes, the armor is solid, and the spirits that inhabit them are pseudo-material. It's hard for you to gauge; you haven't encountered this type of creature outside of your spectral encounters with ghosts and other spirits. As you step forward, being flanked and escorted by these winged guards, you are brought to the base of the 50 or so steps that ascend to the front 40-foot-tall double doors that now (loud creaking) creak open to reveal the interior of the palace, which is as bright, if not brighter from the inside as the outside pillar of light you're leaving. As you prepare yourselves to adjust your gaze, you ascend step by step to eventually take in whatever the interior of the Fortress of the Sun has to offer. And that's where we're going to take our break! We're going to return back here in a few minutes. We're going to use the restroom and get snacks and stuff. You guys can rest here for a minute. We have a giveaway.
Travis: Fruit.
Marisha: Fruit.
Taliesin: Don't eat the spiky bit.
Matt: That's right. Make a wisdom saving throw real fast.
Travis: Really?
Marisha: Wait, really?
Matt: Yeah.
Liam: Everybody?
Laura: No, just Grog, because he's an idiot.
Travis: 13.
Matt: 13. Okay, good to know. All right.
Marisha: Maybe you would have gotten smarter. Maybe it's super fruit. Maybe it's acai berries.
Matt: All right, so our friends at Wyrmwood have this awesome black walnut personal dice tray with a leather interior. It's pretty badass. We'll only have one lucky winner over in the Twitch chat. The key word for tonight is latency. L-A-T-E-N-C-Y. Like the kind that you get when you have two people on Skype guesting in. So to win this, find your way over to Twitch chat, follow the instructions, and when it's time, put the word 'latency' in, and one lucky winner at the end of the break we'll be able to give this away to and announce. Enjoy, rest. We'll see you guys back here in a few minutes. [break]
Matt: Hello, everyone, and welcome back to Critical Role. First and foremost, the winner of the chatroom contest-- and I hope I'm reading this right-- is n-nailhammer. (laughter)
Travis: Wait, one more time.
Matt: Nnailhammer.
Taliesin: Is it Nine Inch Nail hammer?
Matt: It's two N's, ailhammer. So nnailhammer. Congratulations, nnailhammer. You won the giveaway. Denobo will contact you and get you the info. Congratulations! All right, so back in to where we left off. As you ascend the remainder of the stairs and step into the entryway to the Fortress of the Sun, you're led through a series of gorgeous silver and gold archways, dozens of feet above you. The intricacies of the interior, scrolling trim and inlay across every wall, pillar, and bannister is incredible. Not gaudy, just magnificent in purpose and history. Glancing across the marble floor, you can see the construction here is immaculate. There isn't any sort of smudge or damage dealt anywhere. These arches themselves, even as you glance over and look, the detail seems to fractal smaller and smaller, in places, where you can't imagine a craftsman's hand could have built this. Only through the will of a god could such a thing come into creation on such a vast and minor scale. You also notice as you walk in, there's no shadow or shade. The walls seem to almost emanate light on their own.
Marisha: I beg to differ.
Matt: The outside's a different story.
Marisha: Go to the courtyard.
Liam: Just you wait!
Laura: No shadow underneath us?
Matt: No shadow underneath you. Looking around you, and looking at your hands, you can see very faint shadows can be cast between your fingers and things that are very close, but it's like there's a diffused light throughout the entirety of the interior of the fortress that casts away any darkness or shadow. There's no umbra; there's no place where light is absent. It is just light everywhere. You hear this soft music played, the deeper into the fortress you get.
Marisha: Club's over here, guys.
Matt: Rocks fall; everybody dies. (laughter)
Matt: It's okay.
Liam: Benny Hill music commences.
Matt: Soft music you hear playing throughout the interior of the fortress, like this distant sound of a thousand soft choir voices accompanying the inspirational sight of the building that you now walk through. You see other entities adorned in armor, still opaque and pearlescent in their spirit form. Some of them have flowing robes of gold and white that trail behind them and drift across the floor silently. The further in you walk, you begin to see where some of these spires and spiral staircases twist upward. The rooms have purpose in construction, but the scale of those that walk through the halls is so varied that you see staircases on large scales and small scales. They almost seem to wrap around each other in places. It's surreal, almost Escher-esque in some of the interior construction. You see archways and doorways on different levels: some that appear to be reached only by those that can fly versus those that can just walk and climb. Occasionally, you look up and you can see skylights across the top: some open glass and crystal, some appearing to be a small window of stained glass that glitters down in bright blues, purples, reds, oranges. There's definitely a stained glass motif in a lot of the interior of the fortress, which you've seen in some of Pelor's imagery, and the symbol around him is like a circular stained glass structure that spirals in with the actual star and the sun in the center. The music continues to grow louder and louder the further in you walk, and you feel like you're being led along for a good 15 minutes straight. This structure, this hallway, just goes on and on, the arches passing one after the other after the other. Your eyes have adjusted to the brightness of the interior now. Eventually, you come to another set of large doors. These doors themselves: no wood, no stone, just pure, vibrant platinum and gold. The symbol upon them seems to be the same circular motif as the symbol of the Dawnfather, with the star in the center, but the detail and intricacies. You get close, and your eyes-- especially you, Vex and Vax-- you glance and you can see, on every small scale, even just a simple bar of the star and the sun has writing, and has artwork, and then as you look closer, even on a smaller scale, that writing is comprised of smaller artwork and smaller writing. You're thrown off by the level of detail and intricacy of this place's construction. You're in awe. Your jaw drops as these reveals seem to barrage you with each step into the structure. At that point, the doors (scraping noise) open, and you wince once again, as the light that fills the room from the inside is near-blinding. You close your eyes a bit, and all you hear is this deep, resonant voice say, "Come."
Laura: This has to be Heaven. The doors just keep opening.
Marisha: This must be the bright light that everyone sees when they die.
Travis: Don't steal his doors, or anything.
Sam: You want to steal the doors?
Travis: What a terrible thing to say in the presence of the Dawnfather.
Liam: (muffled) All right, one foot in front of the other. Here we go.
Sam: Oh, we can't hear Liam.
Liam: "One foot in front of the other. Here we go," I said.
Taliesin: Let's go.
Matt: You shield your eyes, upon stepping into the actual chamber, because otherwise, even closing your eyes isn't enough; the light is so intense. It still hurts through your eyelids. As you step inside and look off, you can now glance around the interior of this chamber. The same level of fractal-like scrolling detail you saw in the doors lines every inch of the wall on the inside of this large, square chamber, hundreds of feet across on each side. It's incredible. The floor is almost mirrored in its polish. Glancing down, while there is no immediate shadow, behind you, the bright light does cast a bit behind you. You can see your reflection almost perfectly in the polished floor below. You glance up, and you see the interior of that giant steeple-like tower that's sat at the center of the fortress in the distance, and you look up almost endlessly. You can see floor after floor with an endless spiral of various stained glass structures and reliefs and small statues that protrude from the edges, and this tower is seemingly hollow, just leading up, and you can't even make out the top of it from this distance. It looks like a tower that is infinite, almost, from this perspective, it's so big.
Laura: Is the light coming from the tower?
Matt: No, the light's coming from the center of the room. As your eyes slowly adjust and you glance past your fingers and your hands, you see there in the center of the chamber is a 25-foot throne of gold, brass, silver, and ruby. Sitting upon that throne sits a mighty being, wearing the most intricate and beautiful golden plate armor you've ever seen. Similar in detail and design as the interior of the chamber around you, it almost blends in if you didn't see it shift. A white cloak encases the shoulders of this entity and sways gently at their side like it's been brushed off and dangles over one of the arm rests. And where a head would be, instead there is a burning star, so bright that you can only look but a second before you have to avert your gaze and shut your lids out of the pain. Just enough time to barely make out the outline of what appears to be a male head, almost featureless, burning within the corona. This, you can only imagine, is the Dawnfather himself, Pelor. As you step into the chamber, the door (boom) closes behind you, and the winged planar entities that pushed you in are not in the chamber. It's just you... and the Dawnfather.
Sam: Look how far we've come, guys. (laughter)
Sam: From throwing shit at people...
Laura: Didn't you do that just last week?
Sam: I did. I do that most weeks.
Laura: Grog--
Travis: Yes?
Laura: Next time we visit the Dawnfather, wear some underwear. This floor is like a mirror.
Travis: But I don't ever-- oh, okay.
Taliesin: What are you-- oh god.
Sam: Ooh! You mean I can-- oh, sorry. (laughter)
Matt: "Vox Machina."
Travis: Oh shit. (laughter)
Travis: Little bit of pee comes out. A little bit.
Marisha: You guys, he knows our name.
Matt: "You come with purpose. I can sense your determination. What would you tell me of your purpose?"
Taliesin: Vecna walks the earth.
Marisha: We are here to prevent the coming of a third Calamity.
Travis: We seek the means to destroy him and all he stands for.
Marisha: He seeks ascension into godhood.
Liam: And all your children are in danger, and we have begun communing with the gods. I extend slowly the wings and bow my head in deference to him.
Taliesin: The Divergence is threatened. Your guards, your creatures, have some of our proof in their care, at the moment.
Matt: "Another seeks the path of the Matron of Ravens. A flaw in our annihilation of her hubris. That it still exists is dire news. That it exists in the hands of such a slippery, vile mortal as Vecna, even more so. I thank you for your haste in sharing your findings. I shall ponder a strategy." He leans back in his chair, brushes his hand like this, and the doors behind you (boom) open.
Laura: It was you that I was speaking to, in Whitestone. I had no idea. We have the eye of Vecna.
Matt: His form shifts a bit, seems to lean forward on the throne, resting the bright, burning, star-like head on the edge of his gauntleted fist, leaning forward in your direction. You try and glance up, but it hurts in the presence. "Present the artifact."
Sam: Well, we gave it to--
Laura: No, we still have it.
Sam: Oh, we do?
Laura: Yeah, he kept it with us.
Ashley: Oh, I have it, actually.
Sam: Could you guys turn them up? We can't hear them at all.
Laura: Please.
Matt: So as you place the box on the ground--
Ashley: I'll try to take it over-- I'm going to leave it on the ground; it's a little hot over there.
Matt: Okay. As you leave it on the ground, you can't see his eyes, you can't see where he's facing necessarily, but you can sense his attention; it's like a beacon across the room. It's ever-present, but there is definitely a focal point that you can sense when it comes to you, it's like having a spotlight on you amongst a theater of thousands of people. It's intimidating, but also exhilarating. The beacon shifts in the direction of the small box you placed on the ground. Immediately the box flips open, and you watch as the eye levitates out on its own, twitching and looking around in all directions. It has no lid to close, and the tiny slit-like iris of it seems to retract best it can, in the presence of such bright light. You hear this low, ruminating (hums). "Do you have purpose with this?"
Sam: Only if it can help us destroy Vecna.
Matt: "Do you know how this would help you destroy Vecna?"
Marisha: We don't know how to destroy Vecna.
Taliesin: We seek knowledge and power.
Marisha: And assistance.
Matt: "I could destroy this right now, only if you do not need it. Its existence is a threat. But the choice is yours, since you brought it before me."
Laura: Do you know what help it would be to us on the Material Plane?
Matt: He stares through you. The beacon finds you.
Marisha: It's not the only one in existence. There are others.
Taliesin: I think it might be, yes.
Marisha: Right?
Liam: That's his eye.
Matt: There are other people missing eyes, but this is the only one--
Liam: It's his. And it should be destroyed.
Sam: Right now?
Laura: Maybe it'll make him weaker, if it is destroyed. He obviously put it in his scion. We destroy it, we keep someone else like Delilah Briarwood from coming into power. Right?
Taliesin: Yes, I think...
Laura: I say destroy it.
Liam: Delilah was obviously his pawn and she was using it. Fuck it. Destroy it.
Taliesin: We stand with... a master of the Grey Hunt. She is the one who can speak for Whitestone on that level. If you say destroy it, we destroy it.
Matt: The beacon comes back to you again. The stage beneath you, everyone around you, seems to vanish in the light that's the attention of this entity, this god, ancient beyond all thought and reason that you would contemplate, awaiting your answer.
Laura: You know so much more than we do. If you believe it is unsafe, then we trust your wisdom in destroying it.
Matt: "The wisdom of the creators is to instill their creations with the choice of their own destiny."
Laura: Then I say destroy it.
Marisha: What if we can--
Matt: "The choice is made." And with that point you watch as, without leaving attention from you, the eye begins to lift up out of the box once more. The hand that was under the chin unfurls into a clasping set of fingers, and as they clench together, you hear the metal clink and grind, and you watch as this light begins to flare around the eye. And if you could hear a squeaking scream from a powerful artifact, you watch as it just burns in a flash. And (shattering noise) the shattering sound echoes throughout the room. You see a burst of greenish dark energy, and for a moment, the light in the room seems to dim, like a very faint, almost brown-out.
Travis: (quietly) Shit.
Liam: Good.
Laura: I think that's a good thing.
Ashley: I do, too.
Liam: It is a good thing.
Laura: Yes.
Liam: Vecna's a puppeteer. He used that to move Delilah. It's gone.
Matt: "Now, if you have no further business..."
Laura: We seek out the goddess Ioun, the goddess of knowledge. The ritual of seeding was lost to time, and we know that the goddess Ioun is one of the only keepers of that knowledge.
Matt: There's a moment of contemplation on his end. "She is safe. She recovers, hidden away. I know elements of where she resides, but this information only belongs to those trusted."
Marisha: We know you and her helped seal away the chaos of these secrets before. We may need your help doing it again.
Matt: He leans forward towards you, and you feel the beacon of attention shift towards you this time. And you, Keyleth, who have spent most of your life trying to dodge and dive from the attention of the masses, trying to buck the destiny that has been thrust upon you since childhood, here in this moment, you have the attention of one of the prime creator gods of Exandria, and you feel yourself weaken and strengthen at the same time. You're not sure whether to run or stand, and the voice comes out once more. "I have champions across all of Exandria who have lived longer and proven themselves worthy, capable. My consecrations are taxing, and I will not have it wasted on those set to fail."
Laura: How can we prove ourselves to you?
Matt: "You have not one faithful among you, yet you beseech my blessing."
Marisha: I could be your champion. You could teach me to believe. I, arguably, am faithless. I know you all know that. I believe, and I have respect, and I am awe-inspired by all of this. But faith, I still don't know if I have, but I... I believe you could teach me.
Matt: "Is there anyone else who would challenge this proclamation?"
Laura: I don't want to challenge you, Keyleth.
Marisha: What? We already have one champion of the Raven Queen. Why not?
Taliesin: Once, you blessed Whitestone.
Matt: "Whitestone is under my watch and keep. It was created through the battlefield in which I sealed Tharizdun himself. It was the grounds in which Ioun was wounded in the Calamity. There was much sorrow in those lands. Yes, it is under my watch."
Marisha: I'm friends with the Sun Tree. We talk occasionally.
Matt: "A faithless stands to try and accept the champion's mantle. I ask once more, is there any to challenge this claim?"
Laura: Keyleth... let me? I've never felt this before.
Marisha: You are the lady of Whitestone. It suits you.
Matt: "Very well. You step forth with the growing bud of faith. That befits the growth of a champion. I will see you show me your quality. You, as the vessel, kneel before me."
Laura: I kneel.
Matt: He leans forward at the edge of the throne, you hear the metal clinking as the plates shift and move. And you can hear now, at the proximity as he leans down towards you, the faint flicker of the surface of the sun-like head that is the beacon of the Dawnfather's face. "You would accept my trial, brave soul? Then you and your allies must ascend the Tower of the Zenith. The chosen among you, Lady Vex'ahlia, you must reach the top of the tower before this time runs thin." As he lifts his hand you watch, as apparating in the air, a container of glass with sand across the top. He lifts his other hand. Another one appears. And these two hourglasses now held aloft, gliding slowly above the space where you stand. "Ascend to the zenith. Embrace your faith and throw yourself in the Fires of Dawn. Should you be strong of heart and your faith be true, the flames will grant you my blessing."
Laura: Just me, or the group of us?
Matt: "You must jump into the flames. They can help you ascend. However, your trial begins now." And you watch as one of the glasses suddenly shifts, and three of the winged planars appear in the room, armored around you, arms crossed, and they look to be trying to block the passage into the tower as they fly up. You look up to the seemingly endless beacon above you, to the top of the tower that you cannot see at this distance, and you know immediately, somehow, quickly, you have to get there. So. What are you doing?
Travis: Oh god!
Marisha: I. Hate. Timed. Challenges.
Laura: Well, I've got the boots, but I-- okay, I'm going, I take off.
Sam: Wait!
Liam: Click your Boots of Haste.
Sam: I'm going to to turn her into a red dragon.
Travis: Do you want that?
Laura: Sure. I click my Boots of Haste before he does it.
Matt: Okay, so you click your Boots of Haste. They come into you, you feel the surge of energy, the rush, the burst of adrenaline through your body, as you begin casting?
Sam: True Polymorph.
Laura: Oh my god. Does that ever end? Do you have to cancel it?
Sam: Yes.
Matt: All right, so as you begin to ascend, you watch as the three planar begin to rush towards you, their arms out to grasp. Anyone else going to do anything?
Travis: Yeah, I would like to smash my gauntlets together and cast Enlarge.
Matt: All right, so you go into your larger form now.
Travis: And rage. I'll charge one of them.
Matt: They're up in the air. She's flying up.
Taliesin: You've got the carpet.
Travis: And I pull the carpet out.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: I click my Boots of Spider Climbing and spend an action surge to draw and start taking shots at the wings. I want to drop them out of the air.
Matt: Okay, go for it, make three shots. Very quickly. As you're ascending on the broom as quickly as possible, and they begin to converge on you, you feel this tickle of energy in the back of your mind and you watch as your hands begin to suddenly grow claws and scales, a red color.
Travis: Vax! Do something!
Liam: I cast Shield of Faith on my own ass.
Matt: Okay. Shield of Faith cast on Vax.
Laura: Can everybody fly?
Taliesin: I'm running up the wall.
Laura: Before I Polymorph, I toss you my broom.
Sam: Are you going to allow that?
Matt: Sure. So you throw the broom off the side, and you begin to plummet immediately through the air. As you're concentrating on the spell to cast it, you finish it off, and you plummet back about half the distance, and then (whoosh) these giant leathery red dragon wings whip out of your form, and you catch yourself. The broom clatters to the ground, and Scanlan marches over and grabs it, manages to get it under his grasp.
Laura: You know that word!
Matt: All righty. So you begin to ascend upward, right as they begin to descend on your dragon form.
Taliesin: 20, 24, and 36.
Matt: 20, 24, and 36, they all hit!
Taliesin: That's a strength saving throw, or they fall a little bit.
Matt: Strength saving throw, all right, that is an 18?
Taliesin: Nope. They fall.
Matt: 21?
Taliesin: That's okay.
Matt: And a 12. So two of them. You shoot two of the wings out of the way and they plummet down, and you manage to coast past two of them in your dragon form. One of them does manage to grab onto you and get its hands, big strong hands on the back of your head and try and steer you to the side.
Laura: Can I cast Frightful Presence?
Matt: We'll get to that in just a moment. It's going to attempt to-- no. It tries to pull against you, but even with its extremely strong planar strength it cannot guide you away from the path, and you push past. You are now outside of the chamber in the base of the tower, just flying upward. You can go ahead and use your Frightful Presence. All right, so that's your action.
Laura: All of the creatures-- no, of my choosing, so all the bad-- not bad guys, but you know, people we're fighting.
Matt: As you roar loudly and it echoes, filling the entirety of the chamber, the music of the surroundings now merging and shifting with this horrible dragon roar. None of these angelic entities seem even remotely affected by it.
Laura: Oh, really? They don't even have to make a wisdom saving throw?
Matt: They are immune to fear. Or being frightened, sorry.
Laura: That makes sense.
Matt: But do you continue flying upward? Okay! So you finish your spell, you take your shots, Keyleth, Pike, anything?
Ashley: Am I close enough to Grog to hop onto the carpet, as well?
Matt: Okay, so Pike and Grog get onto the carpet. Keyleth, what are you doing?
Marisha: Are people clustered up together by now?
Laura: Do I take the alignment of the animal that I'm polymorphed into?
Matt: Not the alignment, just your mental scores.
Marisha: Are people super clustered, or is she now clustered with them?
Matt: No, she's above everybody. She's way past all you guys; she shot straight up.
Marisha: So the angel dudes are all clustered together?
Matt: Two of them fell a little bit, one of them's on her back. She's making her way up, guys. The first stained glass is starting to run out.
Marisha: Throw up a big level five Flaming Sphere. Ah, wait can I do a, with my spear can I do a higher-level Fireball? And just do more charges out of it? Or no?
Matt: I'll say no because you can't spend more charges to increase the level of the spell.
Marisha: Then I will do a 5th-level Flaming Sphere.
Matt: Okay, so the Flaming Sphere slams upward against the side there. Saving throw. Rolls a one on saving throw. So it takes damage. Flaming spear hits it, however--
Marisha: It doesn't hit both of them?
Matt: No, you can slam it into one creature per turn. The one that's on her back, you mean? What's the range on the flaming sphere?
Laura: Come on, the time is running out!
Matt: No time for a book. Never mind; it doesn't matter. The flaming sphere slams into one of the ones that's not on her back. It's too far out of your range. All right, so. Who's doing what next?
Travis: We're rocketing up on the rug.
Matt: Okay, the rug, not very fast, and her speed is much faster as a dragon, so you guys are coming up behind and you're just watching the dragon (flapping).
Travis: Are we close to any of the other two that are at the bottom?
Matt: No, but as soon as that timer went out, the chamber's roof above you slams shut. You're all cut off from Vex.
Taliesin: I was running up the wall. I didn't make it in time?
Matt: Not at your speed, no. It's a big chamber.
Laura: Okay, I'm going to haste, as fast as I can. When I clicked my boots, do I still get a hasted action?
Matt: Yes, you do.
Laura: Okay, cool, then I can go 160 feet.
Matt: Yes, you can. The planar is still holding on to the back of your head, it's going to make another strength check.
Laura: I'm going to try to tail whip him. Is that a thing I can do?
Matt: Make an athletics check.
Laura: Okay. Oh, I have a red dice, it's so perfect and I never choose this one.
Matt: What did you roll?
Laura: Oh, okay, well. What am I adding to it?
Matt: Add your strength modifier. If there isn't an athletics score, then whatever your strength modifier is.
Laura: That would be plus five?
Sam: Are you talking about hers or the dragon's?
Laura: Oh, a plus seven. So 13.
Matt: 13. The planar grabs one side of your horn and causes you to slam into the side of the tower, and you skid across and smash into one of the stained glass windows which (smash) fires out the side and you end up slowing down a bit and it actually takes you a moment, it halves your speed for this round. You try and get your wings back up. Are you going to do anything about the guy on your back or are you going to keep plugging as fast as you can upwards?
Laura: He's on my back, or he's like hanging onto me?
Matt: He's on your neck and head. He's holding on and trying to steer you off to the side by controlling your movement.
Laura: I'm going to spin and try to slam into the wall and knock him into the stone.
Sam: Can she do like a wing thing?
Laura: Yeah, I'm going to use my wings to thrust me faster into the wall.
Matt: Okay, go ahead and make an athletics check.
Laura: No, no. Okay. Athletics check, was a plus seven, so 19.
Matt: 19? 17. so you slam into the wall and you hear (groans) behind you. The stained glass that shattered, reforms right where you left it, and you continue to ascend upwards. Still holding onto you, but it's now disadvantaged on its next roll because you slammed it into the wall. So (flapping) making your ascent upward as fast as you can, you watch as the tower slowly pincers closer and closer. You watch as another layer begins to close above. All right. He's going to attempt to try and slam you into the wall again. Go ahead and make another athletics check. Roll a d20 and add your strength modifier. Go for it.
Laura: Okay. That one didn't count.
Matt: You didn't intend to roll it.
Laura: Okay. Ooh, okay, 21.
Matt: Yeah, you beat him. He tries to pull you off to the side and you begin to skid into it. Your wing hits the side of the tower (scraping noise), but you keep pushing forward. The pain hits you, you end up taking about 25 points of damage, just grinding into this divine golden side but you keep flying up (flapping) the tower gets tighter and tighter and tighter. You now can see as the planar is going to attempt to--
Laura: Wait, can I--
Matt: What are you going to do?
Laura: Is he hanging onto me with one arm now? What is he doing, because I knocked him into the wall, right?
Matt: Yeah. What are you doing?
Laura: I'm going to just dash. I'm going to fuck him and just dash.
Matt: You're going to go double speed, all right.
Laura: Double speed!
Matt: You shoot up. That gives him a full round to go ahead and try and scare you off. Roll again with your strength.
Laura: 15.
Matt: (crash) Slams you into the wall. You skid and slow down a little bit. You can see it's closing. But you are dashing so you get a second speed run, which does get you up towards where the wall's closing now. You can see now the bright light is getting brighter and brighter. Your eyes are hurting in its presence, you can see a large brazier at the top of the tower that is now in flames, before you. You're not quite there; you have one more round. He's going to go ahead and now turn around, and now the angel turns around on your face. He is going to attempt to punch in your eyes.
Sam: Do you have legendary--
Laura: I'm going to use my legendary resistance.
Matt: Well, it's a physical attack on you. What's your AC?
Laura: 19. Natural.
Matt: Yeah, it hits you, you take disadvantage on your next strike. Go ahead and roll an athletics check to try and buck him off. One last time, this is the only one you have time for. Disadvantage because he punched you in the face.
Laura: Okay, 14.
Matt: 14, all right, you're slowing down, you're slowing down, you're not quite getting there, he's bashing you in the face--
Laura: I'm going to take my claws up and rake him!
Matt: Okay, make another strength check.
Laura: What is it, 18!
Matt: 11! You thrust him off your face! As he falls off down below, (flapping) you make it up to the top, and you now see the brazier is about the size of your dragon form. It's physically your size and you can see now the tower's beginning to close around you, what are you going to do?
Laura: I'm going to reach the tower thing and push myself up through.
Matt: Okay, you pull your way up to the top, and now you're right above the brazier and the flames. You look down into the brazier, the fire there burning is ever-present light--
Laura: I rush into the fire!
Matt: You dive into the fire. Your dragon form. which resists it at that point, it immerses your entire form, at which point you hear the tower, guys, above you crack and you hear this echoing (smash) sound, of what sounds like shattering of a thousand windows at once. You, as you dive into the flames, feel this moment of searing bright pain in your eyes, in your mind. Your dragon form is immune to flames, but your form suddenly shrinks, the spell dispelled, the dragonoid form cast away. You sense this kind of lost nothing; your whole body is numb at this point, and you are just surrounded by a white light. Much like where Vax, in the plane in his communion with the Raven Queen is shrouded in darkness, this is endless, every color. You have no sense of personal form. You have no sense of time, place, and for the first time in a long time, you don't remember your name. For a brief instant, you think, what bit of conscious thought you can make, is this is what oblivion feels like? Did you make the right choice? Were you led astray? Were you strong of heart enough? The flames were intended to cleanse away sin, darkness, possibly those who are unworthy. Is this it now? Did you fail? You guys down below watch as the chamber doors that closed off above you (scraping noise) open up again to reveal the tower. And you can see there, suspended in the middle of the air, thousands of shards of stained glass that had shattered inwards from the impact but frozen, held in place. As they all slowly retract back, reforming the windows that were once there. Whatever impact or shock wave had scattered them below reversed and repaired. And you watch as they do so, ascending, until the tower's back untouched as it was. The one planar that had ridden the dragon form of Vex towards the top of the tower slowly descends (flapping) and lands next to the three others. And they all give a nod towards the Dawnfather, who's still there, not looking upward, just looking at the rest of the remaining members of Vox Machina, his beacon of attention just shifting from one to the other. The three planars leave the still-open doors. "What does she mean to you?"
Sam: To us? Oh god.
Matt: "To you, all of you."
Marisha: I told you that I was faithless, which might be true when it comes to the gods, but not with Vex'ahlia, not with Vox Machina. She gives me my power.
Sam: Her name is Vex, and she is greedy and mean sometimes, and she can steal a lot. She's a little bit not the greatest person, but her flaws highlight everything that is right about her, which is she does all these things to protect her friends and her family. She would give her life for any of us and for anyone who was truly in need. And she's not perfect, but she's the most perfect of all of us.
Travis: She believes in me. She tries to teach me to use my brain, which I don't do very often. She tries to teach me to learn from the world. And she always cheers me on, which not a lot of people do. I believe in her.
Matt: The beacon shifts to you, Pike.
Ashley: I don't have a real sister, but I consider her more of my sister than I've ever had. She's family, and if you take her from me, there will be hell to pay.
Matt: The beacon shifts to Percival.
Taliesin: She is Mistress of the Grey Hunt of Whitestone, Baroness of the First House of Whitestone. She is my heart and my judgment and the future that I have chosen, and she is the one that I have betrothed to.
Sam: What? Betrothed?
Matt: The beacon shifts back to Vax.
Liam: She is every hope I have. When I am gone, she will make the world right. She has the intelligence and the savviness and the heart to make real-world decisions. She is me, but better. She is your champion.
Matt: "Then there is hope." And you watch as in the center of the chamber, a second star seems to be birthed before you, this bright point of light that begins to swell in equal intensity as the head of the Dawnfather himself, as a flash consumes the chamber, and there before you, you see, now reborn, hair scattered back, intact, slowly descending, eyes closed, consciousness not yet drawn from within: Vex'ahlia. As her feet touch the ground and she falls to her knees, she breathes in. Your eyes open. You look around and see the faces of your friends, your family. And you're immediately aware of the presence of the entity behind you. As you spin and look, whereas there once was a burning star-- and to the rest of you, you see the painful, endless light that averts your gaze-- it doesn't hurt your eyes as much, and you can see the faint features, the soft cheeks, the hairless head, and the bright warm eyes of he who brings the dawn. And you can see the smile there, behind the light. "There is hope." Get your blessing of the Dawnfather. (gasping and cheering)
Travis: Holy shit, Super Saiyan.
Laura: What did I get? What is it?
Matt: You naturally have resistance to necrotic damage.
Laura: That's good for me. That fucking Finger of Death.
Matt: And if you want to read the rest of that, you can.
Laura: As a bonus action, you channel the light of day into your being. For one hour you admit, emit-- fuck me running, you emit bright light in a 120-foot radius, and any evil creature within that 120-foot radius that hits you with an attack or spell immediately suffers 4d6 radiant damage and is knocked prone.
Marisha: Wow! You're a walking nuke!
Liam: Shine bright like a diamond.
Laura: (laughs) Once this blessing ability is used, it can't be used again for seven days.
Ashley: Yeah!
Laura: Holy moly.
Ashley: Blessings of the gods!
Taliesin: We'll have to add a sixth star to the de Rolo crest. Fucking excited.
Laura: Thank you. Thank you for allowing me to represent you.
Matt: "If what you say is true, then we are too late to prevent his ascension. Know that killing a god is beyond even most deities. To destroy is to diminish one low enough to seal them away for eternity, as I have done once before. Such a technique I used to banish the Chained Oblivion once, after it nearly slew the Knowing Mistress. Having brought it low in battle, Ioun had devised something she called the Prime Trammel."
Sam: The Prime Trammel.
Matt: "Guided by a sizable sliver of a god's power, one such device could be formed, and when enough are affixed to a wounded god, seal them away in a plane beyond the Astral Sea. Such a method could perhaps force a new god back through the Divine Gate and beyond the reach of your world. Ioun, however, the one who has the design for such an artifact-- she has been in hiding since her wounding. She heals still, the wounded god, and has feared for the past eight centuries that her enemies seek to finish the job. We communicate on occasion through missives and emissaries. All that I know is the key to her hidden realm is within someone. The last word from the mistress from nearly a century before granted me this." The gauntleted hand extends and opens, and there you see, apparating in the space above, what appears to be a three-dimensional topographical map of some kind. It slowly rotates, made of pure sunlight and flame. It's a mountain range with a glowing light within a small, hidden house or hovel within a forest. Make an investigation check. I would say Keyleth, Vex'ahlia, Vax'ildan, and Scanlan.
Sam: Natural 20.
Laura: Oh, good, thank god. Because mine sucked.
Marisha: Also a natural 20.
Sam: It's a real good map.
Matt: Yeah. What did you get, Vax?
Liam: Not a natural 20.
Matt: Okay. Glancing at it, both of you recognize, as it pulls back and shifts inward, this is deep within the Cliffkeep. This is far north of Kraghammer. This is in a forested region outside the Pools of Wittebak.
Marisha: Pools of Wittebak?
Matt: Wittebak. Once a gnomish home, it befell to a terrible natural occurrence sparked by unnatural means, and since has become a series of acidic and toxic natural liquids and waters that burble up from beneath the earth, and many wandering giants and larger ogrish folk use to their heart's content. But it's not in the Pools of Wittebak, just near it, this strange hovel. The voice of the Dawnfather burns forth once more, the heavy resonance shaking the room. "If you seek to devise these Prime Trammels, then take this stone, my champion. It should be enough essence for one of them." You watch as he reaches up into the halo, the corona of light around the head, and plucks from behind an ear a small bead of extremely bright light. As he pulls it from his head, you watch the strength and intensity of his glow ever so faintly diminish, and places it in your hand. As soon as it releases from the gauntleted fingers-- so massive, each finger is as thick as your torso, it plops into your palm, and the glow fades, and there before you, you see what looks to be some sort of an oval-like opal.
Laura: I love opals.
Matt: "Now, I have invested what I can safely do within you. Go. Be swift. Find this key. Strike soon. Destroy or seal this great evil and prove my faith in you is not misplaced, Vex'ahlia."
Laura: It won't be.
Matt: The doors behind you that are already partially ajar (rumble) open up all the way.
Laura: I guess I'll put this in a really safe pocket, then. There's one that's got an extra snap. Triple snap and then a zipper over it.
Marisha: Just don't let it fall in the toilet when you go over to flush.
Travis: I take out the little pebble and I drop it on the floor.
Matt: You reach for the pebble. It's not there.
Travis: Shit. Is there a hole in it? No?
Matt: No hole. Sarenrae was not going to teleport you across the realm, letting you take away one of the prized souls of her people.
Travis: Oh, those were the souls!
Liam: That was the pope, Travis. That was the pope.
Travis: Should've swallowed the rock.
Matt: As you exit the chamber, you can see the various souls and planar that wander the halls on their own business have all now joined shoulder to shoulder as a procession, showing you a respectful exit from the compound. As you walk, they all seem to give a nod of respect towards Vex'ahlia, the now freshly chosen champion of Pelor for this endeavor. As you step beyond the staircase that leads you down beyond the Fortress of the Sun, into the center of the clearing that is watched and protected by the various trees of the Dawnfather, looking out amongst the endless progression of the orchards, you consider what your next path is to discover who and what this key is to Ioun, and hopefully there's enough time., because time, right now, and the decisions you make, will greatly affect what can and cannot be done. And that's where we're going to end tonight's session.
Travis: Oh my god. What the fuck!
Marisha: Champions over here.
Laura: Oh shit.
Sam: (singing) We are the champions.
Matt: This is so fun. I haven't been able to do epic-level content! That's so fun!
Marisha: Is every episode going to be this emotional for the rest of the game? I can't keep doing this.
Travis: Liam, what did you say?
Liam: I said the twins are officially salt and pepper shakers.
Matt: You totally are.
Laura: Oh my god, and I have the white--
Matt: You have the white dragon scale armor.
Liam: That's right.
Laura: Tight.
Matt: That's actually pretty great.
Taliesin: I think this actually changes the crest of Whitestone now, because now there's a sixth champion of Pelor who's of Whitestone. Six stars, not five now. Holy cow.
Matt: Oh man. You should really not change that crest, because it's in the campaign guide that's being published in two months.
Taliesin: It would only be hers.
Matt: Okay, there we go. I feel better about that now.
Taliesin: It would only be her house crest.
Matt: You know, it's okay, because the book technically takes place before all of this. There you go.
Liam: Matt, I also have to throw out. We on Skype now get the full Twitch view, so I'm seeing you guys with all your icons, with everything, and it is the weirdest amalgamation of Baldur's Gate and Sega's full-motion video game from 1995 Night Trap starring Different Strokes.
Matt: That's all I've wanted. All I've ever wanted as a creative was to develop, design, and produce what I would consider to be today's Night Trap for you all. If we could achieve that, I've done my job.
Travis: Liam, we miss you! Ashley, we miss you!
Ashley: I know, I miss you guys!
Matt: Thank you for staying up late with us. We really appreciate it, guys.
Ashley: I love you, guys.
Marisha: We're god hunting without you guys. It's weird.
Taliesin: We need our east coasters.
Ashley: Man, to think I almost didn't Skype in tonight.
Matt: I know! I'm glad you could.
Liam: I'll give all my cows a hug for you.
Matt: All right, guys. Our tickets for the live show at Gen Con go up tomorrow morning. Look for that. Hopefully see you guys there.
Travis: It's in an even bigger theater. We had an amazing time last time, and this theater is even larger, and will be mad, mad crazy.
Sam: Live, in person. Find out how tall Travis really is.
Liam: Four foot three.
Laura: We're all teeny.
Matt: Well, thank you guys so much. Rest well, especially you east coasters, and you east coasters, and you other country-ers. Have a wonderful night. Sleep well.
Laura: Thank you Marvel Puzzle Quest!
Matt: Thank you Marvel Puzzle Quest for being our awesome sponsor!
Marisha: And check out the podcast!
Matt: Check out the podcast, which is awesome. And is it Thursday yet? Good night, guys! [music]

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello everyone, and welcome to Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play Dungeons and Dragons. Before we get into tonight's episode, we've got to get through a few announcements. First off, we have our wonderful Darin De Paul joining us again. (cheering)
Matt: Thank you, Darin.
Darin: Thank you!
Matt: Excited to have you back. We've all recovered from a crazy Comic-Con, mostly.
Laura: Have we recovered?
Matt: I'm being optimistic here. We're recovering from a Comic-Con. Got a chance to meet a bunch of you guys out there. It was a lot of fun, but we're here to get our announcements started, so let me do that. First off, Laura, I believe there's a merch update.
Laura: Yes, there is, and I just realized I had it on and I hadn't announced it yet. So we got these back in the store! But they're red now. We've got them on this chain and on this chain rope-thing. Cord. And we've got them a keychain. And now, I don't know if you saw them before, but they took a long time to get, and now we just have them in the store.
Sam: Are they going to run out again?
Laura: I don't know. It depends on how many people buy them, I guess, but we're going to try to keep them in stock. That's the statement that like, okay, that happened, but this is what I'm really excited about.
Marisha: Tell them!
Laura: (sings victory song) Is the camera on? I can't tell. It's a pencil pack. I asked them to make this, because this is so great. So we all have our own pencils. Everybody has a pencil. We've got the "How do you want to do this?" pencil. We've got the "I would like to rage" pencil. We've got a Scanlan pencil-- oh no, this is a Tary pencil. This is a "Doty, take this down" pencil. I don't want to say all the things because they're so great, but check them out. It's in the store now. Does everybody want their pencil?
Sam: Are these #2 pencils? Could someone take the SAT with my "Doty, take this down" pencil?
Laura: It's a #2 pencil!
Sam: Whoa, that's so amazing!
Travis: Percy, what's yours?
Taliesin: I don't want to say.
Laura: Do you want the Trinket pencil, Darin?
Darin: Yeah!
Laura: Such a good one. Oh, this is the Pike one. And here's yours, Matt. It's pretty dope, so check them out. I'm in love.
Matt: What's great is if you use it a lot, eventually "How do you want to do this?" becomes "do you want to do this?" to "you want to do this?" to "want to do this?" to "do this?" to "this?" (laughs) It's existential the entire time you're using the pencil. I'm really excited about that.
Laura: I hadn't even thought about that.
Taliesin: I'm so excited now to see what it spells out.
Matt: It just keeps on giving. Thank you, Laura.
Laura: You're welcome. I'm excited.
Matt: All right. Next up, for Gen Con, we have our live show. We only have about 400 tickets left.
Sam: Is that true?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: For us? We're just a bunch of nerdy-ass voice actors.
Travis: We already surpassed the number of seats we had last year, because we have an extra thousand seats in this larger theater. It's going to be a madhouse. We only have 400 left.
Laura: And there may or may not be-- I don't know if I should announce this.
Liam: One of us is going to die that night, and I don't mean a character.
Laura: We may or may not have special merchandise that you can only get at the live show.
Sam: Whoa. But surely it will be in the store afterwards?
Laura: Nope, it's just a live show thing.
Sam: Just exclusive to the live show?
Travis: Well, see, you'd have to be there to find out, so if there is a car, a plane, or a train, or a telephone booth around you, get to Indianapolis on August 18th!
Laura: August 18th! How was that?
Travis: Shit. It was terrible. It was really bad.
Laura: Damn it.
Matt: I'll be excited if anyone got my Wonder Showzen reference.
Liam: Not even anyone at the table.
Matt: No. That means you means need to be enlightened by the wonder that is Wonder Showzen. No, you should not. It's disturbing as shit. Just stacking you up today, boy!
Darin: (child-like voice) This is the best place ever! Thank you so much for this! It makes me very happy.
Matt: Give him anything he wants if he keeps making that sound. All right! Campaign guide info. Update on the campaign guide stuff I would like to give you. However, I think it's probably easier to get it from the mama bird's mouth, so we actually have in the studio today joining us, Chris Pramas from Green Ronin. (cheering)
Matt: Come in and join me down here for a second and talk into the camera. Hey, buddy! CHRIS PARAMS: Too low? Is this all right?
Matt: I think we're all right.
Laura: They might just see your forehead.
Matt: Just the forehead.
Laura: There it is! I know, this is great.
Matt: So what's the update? CHRIS PARAMS: So last week we put the campaign guide up for sale and it exceeded all of our expectations, yes. So thank you to everyone who pre-ordered. This is by far the most successful pre-order that we've ever had for a book, so you're rocking it. It has led to an unexpected complication, though, in that our initial print run is of a size that cannot be changed right now. We had to stop taking pre-orders so we would have some to send to stores, because obviously, we value game stores and we want them to have some, so I just wanted to reassure everybody that this book is not a limited edition book. We're printing more, so if you were not able to pre-order it, you will be able to get it later. We're basically going to immediate reprint. In the interim, the PDF is still available, so you can get that if you like electronic books, or if you have a local store, they can take part in what's called our Pre-Order Plus program. It allows people to pre-order through the store and then get the $5 PDF deal that we were offering as part of the pre-order. So ask your local stores, do you take part in Pre-Order Plus? If you need a link for that, you can check our Twitter. Otherwise, second print run will be along as soon as we can get it.
Matt: Fantastic. Thank you so much, Chris! Appreciate it, buddy. Enjoy the show! CHRIS PARAMS: Oh, and we'll have copies at Gen Con.
Matt: Yes, we'll have copies at Gen Con!
Travis: Even more reason!
Liam: Boy, is that book fucking beautiful!
Marisha: It is!
Laura: Good job, you guys.
Matt: I'm so nervous about its release.
Sam: I have some notes on the cover.
Travis: I have some notes on the book. Could it have less words?
Matt: No, it just has less gnome bard.
Sam: Oh shit.
Liam: The whole race died off in a Calamity. They don't know what happened. Pike was the only one who was spared.
Matt: It's so weird. (laughs) Don't worry, we have a fix on the way. It'll be fine. Next up: Critical Role podcast on iTunes and such.
Marisha: More is coming very soon. Very, very soon. Next batch is coming.
Matt: Cool. So we'll have that announcement as soon as we have the specific dates for the next batch. Should be coming up very soon. Once again, we have Talks Machina on Tuesdays. We'll be next Tuesday at 7:00pm Pacific to discuss this episode tonight with our fantastic host, Brian Foster. Looking forward to that. The Sagas of Sundry: Dread show that me and Taliesin are part of. Fifth episode is up is today on Alpha.
Taliesin: It's almost over.
Matt: I know. We have one more episode of this, right?
Marisha: And check out these awesome Dread shirts, you guys! They're in the store. Aren't they awesome?
Matt: If you haven't seen it yet, it's a fantastic pseudo-theater improv RPG horror show with me and Taliesin as part of the cast. Marisha's one of the executive producers, and Darin De Paul is our fantastic Rod Serling intro personality. So check it out if you haven't yet.
Marisha: Mr. Wren!
Matt: Mr. Wren. It's a fun one. I think that's it.
Liam: Wait, there's a couple more things.
Matt: They're not on the list!
Liam: Well, you got a little boxy back there that you should pull out.
Matt: Oh, right! Yes!
Laura: What is it?
Travis: Does it have a small creature in it?
Laura: Does it have air holes?
Matt: This question has come up a lot. The combat tiers, the plastic platforms that I use for height in the game, have been out of stock, out of production for a while now. They're finally available again. Our friends at Emerald Knights got us these boxes. These are available off Paizo.com. You can go ahead and pick up the combat tiers. They are now available again if you've been wondering where the heck to get some.
Travis: And they're out of stock.
Matt: Shit.
Liam: I think Jay at Emerald Knights told me that they're going to be in stores soonish as well, but you can go to Paizo right now-- tweet! And go find them.
Matt: These have saved my ass many times in games, as you've seen. Highly recommended for anyone who's DMing or running a game. It's awesome.
Liam: Been in our game since day one.
Marisha: I remember when I got those for you when they were still prototypes in a little white box.
Matt: Yeah, they were in a little standard cardboard box. You were like, this looks like it should work. Saved my ass.
Liam: And Laura and I are in this really cool game called Lone Echo by Ready at Dawn.
Laura: That's the guys that did The Order.
Liam: We both play AI.
Laura: We're computers.
Liam: Yes. Very calm the whole time.
Laura: That's right. We'll help you out.
Travis: (snoring)
Laura: Which is cool. It's VR. It's really badass, so check it out.
Matt: That's great. Well cool, thank you guys for the update. What you got, Sam?
Sam: No, I got nothing.
Matt: Well then, without further ado--
Laura: Aw, my little Trinket dice bag isn't here.
Travis: Nobody cares but you.
Laura: I think it's still in the thing.
Matt: So to announce that her bag isn't here, we're going to take a moment--
Laura: Sorry. I'll go and get it during the credits.
Matt: There you go. And that being said, guys, let's go ahead and bring this down into tonight's episode of Critical Role. [dramatic music]
Matt: And welcome back, everybody. Last we left off, Vox Machina had been finding their way through the realms to talk with various deities in hopes of getting information, and perhaps a blessing or two, to aid them in their coming battle against Vecna, the intent-to-ascend entity, the long-missing and recently returned archlich that plagued the end of the Age of Arcanum. You have since discovered the location of his rebirth, followed into the Shadowfell, through the city of Thar Amphala, took down his tower of Entropis, did battle, and nearly fell. You escaped in time, and in this recovery period have been seeking out information on how to stop him before this ascension occurs, and by what tools necessary. You've traveled to the Blessed Fields of Elysium, where you met Pike's deity, the Everlight, Sarenrae, where she received her blessing. You made your way to the Fortress of the Sun, where you met with the Dawnfather Pelor, took his challenge, and received his blessing. You were then given information about the whereabouts of Ioun, the Knowing Goddess, and the domain of knowledge, who had been hidden away since her wounding during the Calamity. The key to her realm was apparently hidden within not an object, but an individual. Given loose information about the whereabouts of this individual, you tracked down a small home in the forested regions outside the Pools of Wittebak in the Cliffkeep Mountains. There, you spoke with this individual, this Sprigg the Obnoxious, and then were immediately assailed by a number of assassins sent by the Whispered One, Vecna, apparently keeping watch on your current location and able to send such groups of assassins with vast haste. You did battle, managed to save the life of Sprigg the Obnoxious, and through conversation, unveiled that he was indeed a key to this realm. Keyleth, by entwining your hands with the rest of the party and focusing on this strange magical essence hidden within Sprigg's form, you completed your Plane Shift spell. You found yourself suddenly within a dimension of an endless library, shelves of winding books and tomes that spiral beyond sight. In the midst of this amazing atmosphere, a voice called you to a central portion of the chamber. There, it seems, you've come across the Knowing Mistress, Ioun herself, there awaiting your arrival.
Laura: Did we see her?
Matt: You did.
Laura: Okay. Is she old or young? I can't remember.
Matt: I'm going to go over this. Going to get you in a space. Something to bring us back into the moment. So you glance around, your vision darting from shelf to stack, the dark-lit areas empty of anything but empty vessels carrying books, until you see it. The shelves have stopped ahead to reveal a circular common area within the library where the ground domes downward, an 80-foot concave pit of cushions and tables all standing at odd angles without sliding, holding tea cups and writing implements against gravity as you know it. Long spiralling streams of silver, blue and grey silk descend from the supposed ceiling that is beyond your sight, the material resting in gentle piles amongst the cushions-- sorry, microphone-- against the cushions. Sitting within the center of the dome, no larger than a normal person, is an older woman of long, wavy silver hair. Her olive skin is somewhat weathered with wrinkles but the warmth of her smile and her vibrant purple eyes put you at ease. Her blue and white robes tumble out from her form in tendrils of parchment that snake through the pillows like roots of a giant tree. This is the Mistress, and she beckons you forward.
Sam: We step forward. Are we on the edge of the bowl? Is she in the bowl and we're on the edge of the bowl?
Matt: Yeah. You guys are on the edge of it. She's in the very center of it.
Sam: Are we going to go into the bowl?
Laura: Are we allowed?
Matt: Nothing seems to be holding you back.
Darin: O Ioun, O goddess of knowledge, O lord who knows all. You know. But I don't. Let me ask you a question. And you'll see I didn't phrase that as a question because I know how gods work, and that probably would have been my question and then I might as well have just talked to a turnip. Which I've done. Found it pleasant. That being said, this is my question. The next thing out of my mouth is going to be my question. Why did you choose me to be your key? I'm nothing. I'm a coward. Why would you ever choose me?
Matt: She opens her arms as you stand at the edge of this domed precipice, and you watch as the tendrils unfurl, pulling back a bit, revealing small pathways to walk down toward her. Her arms open in a welcoming motion.
Laura: I'll walk forward.
Taliesin: I'm walking in there.
Sam: Take a tumble.
Matt: "The purpose in choosing you, Sprigg, was, as with all the other keys I've chosen before you, an unlikely choice. You were at odds with many of my outlooks, but I saw within you, still, the seed of the seeker of knowledge. So in that balance, I found a proper vessel. Someone who at once would not be the choice that I would make to hide my key, but a person not beyond the realm of redemption within the domain that I look over."
Darin: Thank you.
Matt: "Now, come. Please, sit. You've come a long way. I'm curious as to what your reasons are for coming to me at this hour and I wish to see if my assumptions are correct. Sit."
Laura: You don't know already?
Darin: Well, the goddess of knowledge is implied in the title. Not insulting anyone. Knock knock.
Matt: "Who's there?"
Darin: You would know.
Matt: You watch as her stoic expression curls into a smile and her head falls back a bit to a small chuckle. (chuckles) "Humor is perhaps a bit thin in these walls as of late. It's nice to have a laugh. Thank you."
Liam: Who was it, though?
Darin: It was me the whole time.
Matt: "It was Larkin, my friend."
Laura: Oh shit.
Liam: She knows everything.
Travis: Larkin!
Darin: I don't know who that is.
Travis: Many don't.
Darin: Well said.
Sam: O mighty Ioun, we are here to ask you for help, for a great danger. You might already know this, but a great danger has befallen the world. There is one who has come from another plane to become a god himself, Vecna. For all we know, he may already have achieved godhood, but he's well on his path.
Matt: "I know much about this individual you speak and I had assumed this was the reason for your arrival."
Laura: Do you know if he's been successful?
Matt: "I do not. I've not sensed any change in the cosmetology of the world. Cosmology, even." Cosmetology.
Travis: I thought that was hair and makeup--
Matt: That's a different word. Her domains expand beyond just knowledge, guys. Hence the unfurling.
Travis: I've been thinking about getting some highlights for this beard.
Liam: It's Frenchie. (laughter)
Travis: (singing) Beauty school dropout.
Matt: "But no. You see, this Vecna is in direct opposition to what I represent, and I believe has taken some precautions to keep from my distant sight, so while I have assumptions and what information makes its way to me, there is a bit of relying on you to fill in the gaps."
Taliesin: What do you wish to know?
Matt: "Well. Do you intend to return to face this entity, or have you chosen or found champions in Exandria who would rise up against this individual?"
Laura: We didn't even realize that was an option.
Taliesin: Hadn't occurred to us.
Marisha: Wow. Maybe that's very self-centered of us, now that I think about it.
Laura: We intend to face him down ourselves.
Travis: We want to fight.
Marisha: We're heading his direction no matter what.
Matt: "Do you think you have the strength required to do this?"
Sam: We're gathering the strength right now. Some among us have already-- the one who's making weird faces has already sworn allegiance to another god.
Travis: Hashtag blessed.
Matt: Her eyes close for a minute and she nods. "The coming fight does indeed warrant the aid that these journeys would muster and I can see the touch of my brethren on you already." And she motions towards Vax and Vex and Pike.
Taliesin: Even with these gods, there is still much doubt as to our success. We are not certain. We are not sure.
Travis: We fought once, and if this is a broom motion, we were just getting swooped. Swept. What is it? Swiffered.
Laura: Pelor mentioned something about the Prime Trammels?
Matt: "I was wondering if that would surface. Well, if you are indeed here seeking my gift, know that I do not grant it lightly. For those who are not already claimed--" She glances around the rest of the group. "Grog Strongjaw. Just being within my realm is of near-painful discomfort to you. For that I apologize and can see you are not to be my vessel."
Laura: It's okay, Grog.
Travis: Oh. What a roller coaster. I was going up and then going back down. Thank you for your gaze, my lady.
Liam: Grog just invented amusement park rides.
Matt: "Keyleth of Zephrah, you have been carved from empathy and acceptance. While you do indeed pursue understanding, my gifts find little purchase on your path of responsibility. Percival Fredrickstein Von Musel Klossowski de Rolo III--"
Sam: (whispering) She knows everything.
Matt: "You have always been a student of knowledge and a seeker of truths. I am fond of your hunger for understanding, but you do keep your secrets and are selfish with your discoveries, still. You have much growing to do. Scanlan Shorthalt, you are a buffoon. At least, that is the facade you craft and display to the world while you weave tales of the experiences around you and share your stories with any who'd listen. You wrestle the mysteries of Exandria from their hidden places and shout them to any who would listen and inspire the lost to find purpose. You hold the blade of the White Duke and walk a parallel path. You are a storyteller, and I am the keeper of all stories. I shall task you with my challenge."
Sam: Not to question your infinite knowledge and judgment, but my stories are more of little bar room tales and silly poems to pass the time. I would hardly call them epic histories of civilization.
Matt: "For now, perhaps."
Darin: We're all stories in the end. Just make sure yours is a good one.
Matt: "Do you think that your compatriots would have the strength now to rise against such a scourge had you not been there to lift their spirits with these tales?"
Laura: It's true, Scanlan.
Sam: I'm really powerful.
Laura: You are.
Liam: And humble.
Sam: It's my best asset.
Liam: And deeper than you let on.
Travis: And the cube.
Laura: (laughing) And a cube.
Matt: She glances over at you with a knowing look.
Sam: If you have faith in me, I will have faith in you and trust you and your knowledge. And I will try to complete any task you ask of me.
Matt: "Then let the challenge be placed before you. Scanlan Shorthalt! Somewhere within this library lies the book that contains the Incantation of Isolation, the arcane rite that banished the Chained Oblivion. You have one hour to retrieve it. Your friends can help you, but you can only present one tome to me. And should it be incorrect, then I shall await another warrior of keen mind to find me and accept my gift, for I can only guide one strong enough to face the foe before you. Return to me when you are certain you've found it. Your challenge begins now." And with that, her entire body vanishes in a gust of wind. All the little tendrils of paper flutter out and come to rest within the dome, and you look up and see the immensity of this library.
Travis: Incantation of Isolation?
Laura: Incantation of Isolation.
Marisha: I speak Primordial.
Travis: We don't know the name of the book, right? So we can't Locate Object.
Sam: There's a tome that contains the incantation of what?
Travis: Isolation.
Laura: Isolation.
Marisha: Isolation.
Sam: Isolation.
Marisha: Which was what they used--
Laura: What is with this pencil? It was dipped in ketchup or something.
Matt: Don't use that pencil. Use one of your own.
Laura: But it needs to be sharpened.
Matt: Just push really hard.
Travis: How do we do that? Sprigg!
Darin: Yes?
Travis: Do you have a tome at your place that has the Incantation of Isolation?
Darin: Not anymore. Burny-burny, ashy-ashy. Bye-bye.
Laura: Do you remember the name of it?
Darin: No.
Laura: I'm going to try casting Locate Object and cast it on the tome that contains the Incantation of Isolation. Try it. Why not.
Travis: Can it work like that?
Laura: I don't know.
Liam: An object known to you as long as you have seen it up close within 30 feet at least once.
Laura: Oh. Really?
Liam: Yeah. It's a spell I have now.
Matt: Describe or name an object that is familiar to you. You sense the direction of the object's location, so as long as the object is within a thousand feet of you.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: So you cast the spell. And you think about it and you concentrate. Nothing.
Laura: I'm going to kneel down and pray to the Dawnfather, since he was one of the ones that helped fight the Chained Oblivion, to see if he could guide us at all.
Matt: Okay. You close your eyes and focus and you begin to beseech the knowledge and wisdom of the Dawnfather. Two minutes pass with no answer.
Liam: During that two minutes, I'm going to scan the room. Is there any design or purpose to the layout of the room? Anything that stands out besides books.
Matt: As you glance around the room quickly, you see there are probably two dozen bookshelf aisle openings all around this central dome area. You begin to look around. You don't see any specific signs. Go ahead and roll a perception check.
Liam: Going to use my last Luck for this sleep cycle. Natural 20.
Matt: Glancing about, you don't see any signs on the books. You do notice, however, there are hundreds of those somewhat spectral keepers of the library that are moving tomes through and organizing and relocating things, just like you saw when you first entered.
Sam: They're spectral?
Matt: They're spectral, yeah.
Sam: I'm going to go try to talk to one of them.
Matt: Okay. One of them's currently pulling books out. You can see the basic shimmering outline of a humanoid form, and they're taking a book off and stacking it and finding another.
Sam: Hello, sir. Do you have language? Can you speak?
Matt: He turns and looks to you for a second.
Sam: Can you help us find a book? It contains an Incantation of Isolation.
Travis: Or about the Chained Oblivion.
Sam: Or about the Chained Oblivion.
Laura: Or about the Calamity or something.
Taliesin: Where are the lives of those who witnessed it?
Matt: It doesn't seem to be at this moment--
Sam: No chance.
Laura: I'm going to hop on my broom to see if I get a ping on my Locate Object.
Sam: Wait. Before we start flying around, what do we know? When was this last used, this book? 886 years ago or whatever, right? 812 years ago.
Laura: Wow, you know that?
Sam: Well, it's 812 P-whatever. PD, right? So 812 years ago. So we're looking for a very old book that was used by Ioun? Who was it used by?
Travis: Potentially. Or the Dawnfather helped seal with Ioun.
Marisha: Correct.
Sam: So it's some sort of a wizard's or sorcerer's tome?
Marisha: I have a question. Didn't one of us have a potion or scroll of language-speaking? Didn't we have that?
Laura: Do any of the tomes have titles on them, though?
Matt: Glancing about, and some of them do. They're all in Celestial.
Taliesin: I'm going to read off some titles.
Marisha: Yeah. Primordial.
Matt: None visibly currently in Primordial.
Sam: Is that the language they used before the--
Laura: I feel like Celestial would be what the Dawnfather would speak, though.
Marisha: Celestial would be close. I would think more close than Primordial.
Matt: So make an investigation check. Who else is looking through books?
Laura: I don't speak Celestial, so it doesn't really matter.
Matt: Well, make separate investigation checks.
Taliesin: 12.
Marisha: We're making investigation checks?
Matt: Anybody who's searching currently, or doing something that involves searching through books.
Liam: 26.
Laura: 21.
Marisha: 20.
Taliesin: 12.
Matt: Okay.
Darin: 22.
Matt: All right. You guys begin fanning out. And it's so overwhelming. It's so immense. There's thousands and thousands and tens of thousands of books within your immediate visual vicinity. And like I said, about 150 feet beyond you, it seems to fade into shadow and the more you walk towards that shadow, it reveals more books. They curve and spiral and almost seem to intertwine into that Escher painting-like advance towards the ceiling you don't see.
Laura: Does it seem like some are older than others?
Matt: Yeah. They seem scattered. As you're going around you find some are Celestial. The further away from the center you get you do find some sections that are other languages. You see some that are in Abyssal. You don't find any that are Primordial yet.
Travis: Scattered amongst or categorized by language?
Matt: The ones that are nearest to the center here are all names. They are all names of people.
Laura: Okay.
Sam: So we need to find one that's not a name of a person.
Darin: Who used the Incantation of Isolation? Perhaps if we find the book of the user, we will find their spells.
Laura: Was it Pelor? Does Pelor have a book?
Sam: Are they dead?
Travis: No, it continues writing, right? Potentially, there's a book.
Sam: So there's a book that says Pelor on it? Or Ioun. Or Dawnfather.
Liam: Or if Vecna is a dead man. Maybe a book with Vecna's name on it?
Laura: I don't know why the Incantation of Isolation would be--
Sam: Hey, Percy, are these books arranged in any order? Chronological, name, anything? Oh, you didn't see anything when you looked?
Matt: You're having a hard time really finding any pattern to the books.
Taliesin: Fuck. There's no pattern.
Laura: Can I look at the bookbinding, though? Do some books seem like they fall apart more?
Matt: Yeah, there's a wide variety of ages and types. The sense of the pattern of the sections of books: some of them seem to be clustered together and some of them seem to have similar colorations the further into the side. The further out you get from this the more scattered they get. It's almost like the organization begins from the center and either they're reorganized for reasons that are beyond your comprehension. You get the sense as you begin to hear this slight grinding-- you got the natural 20?
Liam: Earlier, yeah.
Matt: Yep. So you've been glancing about and looking about. You pick up the slight sound (grinding). And you look up and you can see some of these shelves coming down from the ceiling that are stopping about 30 feet above you are sliding and moving. The actual library seems to have some sort of slow rearranging movement to it.
Liam: Pop out the wings. Go up.
Marisha: I start looking at the ceiling. Is there any type of-- what are those? The observatory. What are those called, Percy? The celestial, tell you the stars thing?
Taliesin: Oh, like some sort of astrolabe or something like that?
Marisha: Yeah. Astrolabe? You know those big rotating things you can put in the year and the month in the calendar.
Matt: Oh, right. Nothing you've seen so far. Make a perception check.
Marisha: What am I looking for? Perception check? That's good. 17. 30 total.
Matt: Looking around your current vicinity, you see nothing like that.
Taliesin: Are there any books in the bowl?
Matt: There are a handful on one of the tables that are around.
Taliesin: I'm going to take a look at what's in the bowl.
Travis: I jump in and start throwing pillows around. Did she leave anything cool behind?
Matt: As you're throwing the pillows, some of them fling off to the side, and you uncover a couple of empty cups of tea.
Travis: I drink them.
Matt: All right. You get some stale library-temperature tea. You do find a couple of large books on one of the nearby tables.
Travis: Ooh! I found a large book on one of the nearby tables.
Taliesin: I'm going to read the names of these books.
Matt: Okay. One of them, the name is Jaina Kumor. Doesn't ring a bell. And another one appears to be a book that pertains to the attempts of creating alchemical transitions from one base element to another. Essentially, what was the attempt at a philosopher's stone-like object long ago and the various trials and tribulations and unfortunate deaths that occurred because of it.
Sam: Interesting.
Liam: Do I see anything different 100, 150 feet up? Does the change in perspective on the room below reveal anything?
Matt: The change in perspective shows you one, you do finally see a ceiling and it's like two mirrored libraries in the ceiling and the floor. There are bookshelves that come up and stop and there are bookshelves that come down and stop, and you look up and you can see there are other spirits hanging upside down walking along the pathways above, as well.
Sam: Wait, so it's like a mirror image, the top and bottom?
Matt: Yeah, but they're not exact mirror images. There's just a bottom and a top part of the library.
Sam: What if that line is the demarcation between pre-Divergence and post-Divergence or something like that?
Laura: That's cool. Go up and in.
Sam: I can't.
Laura: Here, get on the broom, Scanlan. We'll fly up.
Matt: All right. So Scanlan, you jump on her broom. (whooshing) You fly up. Who's taking a look? Make an investigation check if you do.
Sam: I'm going to take a look, but I'm going to pull out my Ioun stone and clutch it in my hand and close my eyes and pray on it for a second. Hope that guides me in some way.
Matt: Roll a religion check.
Sam: Religion check. Okay, well, that's terrible.
Travis: Luck!
Sam: I don't have Luck. I can inspire myself. I will inspire myself with a little song. (singing) Scanlancito, he's got tiny feet-oh, but he likes to cast spells, he does it with his beat-oh. When you go to sleep-oh, better check your sheet-ohs, because after he eats-ohs, he likes to take a shit-oh! (laughter)
Travis: Oh my god. Are you fucking kidding me? What the hell, man?
Liam: Get that book.
Matt: Yeah, You earned that d12.
Sam: That's a 12. So that brings it up to 21.
Matt: Okay. This is your investigation check to search about. Oh no, that's your religion check. All right. Clutching the Ioun stone, as you sing this song, the stone glows ever so faintly in your hand and you glance up and you can see about ten of the various spectral librarians that are wandering have stopped and they're all looking at you. Seemingly temporarily distracted or entranced by the song.
Laura: Let's go try to talk to one.
Sam: Okay. Whoa!
Matt: You land next to all the librarians and as soon as you land, there's like a moment of quiet and they all go about their business again.
Sam: On behalf of the Mistress Ioun, I speak in her name. And I'll hold up the stone.
Laura: It's always good to lie.
Sam: Well she tasked me; it's not a lie! She tasked me with this. We seek a book. We would love some help, and it contains the Incantation of Isolation. Maybe about 812 years old-ish. Maybe 813?
Matt: No one seems to be paying attention to your words.
Laura: Maybe sing it.
Taliesin: Maybe sing it.
Sam: I have to sing it?
Liam: Pull out Mythcarver.
Laura: Pull out Mythcarver and sing.
Sam: Oh, okay. I pull out a sword. (sword unsheathing)
Laura: Just sing like it's a microphone.
Sam: Okay. (singing) Just take a look, it's in a book, the Scanlan rainbow. I can read anything.
Matt: You watch as the same librarians all of a sudden stop what they're doing and turn back towards you. The sword is vibrating and ringing; it's expanding the notes of your song, as is the nature of Mythcarver. You seem to have their attention.
Laura: Now ask. Now sing and question.
Matt: It's been about 20 minutes, by the way.
Laura: Oh Jesus. I mean, Ioun.
Sam: (singing) I sing to you in desperation. I'm looking for a Tome of Isolation. We need to find a tome, so we can go home and kill a guy named Vecna. It would really make us... Nothing rhymes with Vecna.
Matt: Roll a performance check.
Sam: 29.
Matt: You watch as the librarians gather. They're up above you and they gather closely to you as you're singing this song and as you finish your final verse they all look a little confused, and they all begin to shift as one unit around the edge of one of the bookcases.
Marisha: Scanlan! (yells) Scanlan!
Sam: (yells) What?
Laura: We have an earring.
Marisha: Oh, right. Sorry.
Sam: It's a library; keep quiet.
Marisha: Your stories. It's your storytelling. Keep telling the story about the Calamity. Maybe if you talk about Vecna some more and what happened.
Sam: I don't know my history.
Matt: Roll a history check.
Darin: Tell him "heck, nah" rhymes with Vecna, if it helps at all.
Sam: 23.
Matt: Vecna didn't have too much involvement in the Calamity directly. The Calamity mainly involved the gods battling. It involved the Chained Oblivion. It involved the sealing of that deity during one of the major battles of the Calamity. Those are elements of the history that pertain to the Calamity that you recall.
Laura: We're following the little surge of spectrals.
Sam: Okay. I'm just going to keep talking, I guess. (rapping) The book we're looking for is fraught with insanity, It dates back to the time of Calamity. It's about a guy with oblivion chains. You know his name. (laughter)
Sam: (rapping) What's his name, yo? (speaking) I got nothing.
Laura: (singing) He's the Chained Oblivion. His name is the Chained Oblivion.
Travis: (singing) And there's a million things he hasn't done.
Matt: (singing) Because he's sealed.
Matt: (singing) Because he's sealed.
Laura: (singing) Because he's sealed.
Taliesin: (singing) Because he's sealed.
Marisha: (singing) Because he's sealed.
Travis: Oh fuck. Lin-Manuel just turned it off.
Matt: Okay. Sorry. All right, so as you continue to sing, with each beat, each name that's mentioned that deals with the Calamity and the Chained Oblivion, you watch as their pace seems to quicken a bit, and then as the singing slows they begin to slow down again. There's a specific correlation and drive between your storytelling and your singing, and apparently the drive in which they're pushing towards their--
Laura: Keep telling the story.
Darin: Tell them the song about Vecna just might wreck ya. It's close; it doesn't work.
Sam: Okay, Sprigg, I got it.
Matt: You hear Sprigg yelling from down below, as he doesn't have an earring.
Sam: (singing) If we don't act soon Vecna might just wreck ya. (speaking) I got it in there for you.
Darin: Thanks. Tell them about your neck, ma.
Sam: Oh yeah. Wait, what?
Darin: If you're discussing your neck to your mother, you would-- what? Oh, right. People get paid for that.
Sam: (whispers) Oh my god.
Darin: Call back to earlier discussion. And nobody knows.
Liam: (singing) God I hope I get it.
Sam: (singing) The book is eight centuries old, or so I'm told. It's fraught with mystery. It's teeming with history. So please listen to me and don't kiss me because I really need this book right now.
Matt: Roll another performance check.
Marisha: Yes. Come on.
Sam: No. 22.
Matt: 22. Okay. They continue to push at a brisk pace and you watch as other of the spectral librarians begin to gather into this group and is now a cluster of about 25 of them that are snaking around these bookcases and traveling at a pretty fair pace. Which once was walking pace, and then went to a jogging pace, they're now darting through. And they're leading you quickly away from the center of the library where everyone else seems to be clustered. So the two of you are following and swooshing behind them, you're going over and around bookcases. Some of the bookcases you see have giant holes in the center and you can dart through and dive past. The speed is increasing to the point where the wind is starting to kick up in your hair and you're amazed at the speed of these librarians and the fact that they're being driven by your very song, and also the fact that you have no idea how far away the rest of your friends are in this library, and this library seems to just go on and on and on. You continue forward for another ten minutes or so, so you've hit just over the 30-minute mark at this point, and you feel this little pulse from the stone. Do you continue to inspire?
Sam: I will do one more. I hope it works. I'll recite a poem. This little gnomey went to the heavens. This little gnomey wants to go home. This little gnomey is looking for a book. This little gnomey is trusting Ioun. This little gnomey wants to go wee-wee-wee-wee all the way to this tome. (cheering)
Matt: Roll a performance check with advantage.
Sam: Natural 20. (cheering)
Matt: Didn't even need it.
Marisha: Hashtag blessed.
Matt: So the speed is dangerous to the point where as trying to follow them you almost lose sight of them a couple of times. You being the driver of this, I need you to go ahead and make a perception check to make sure you can keep them in your vision.
Travis: Damn, Scanlan got bars, y'all.
Laura: 22.
Matt: 22. Okay. That's enough. You nearly lose them a few times and you're like (grunts). You have to take a second and listen out there and you see a faint glow of their spectral form in the distance. There! And so you continue to give chase. Then eventually, at about the 40-minute mark or so, you come to the outside. What's interesting, too, is a lot of these bookcases are made of different materials. Some of them are dark wood, light wood, some of them are metal and various substances. You come to, on the ceiling, jammed in, a bookcase, but it's made of a very dark slate gray metal. And it has chains across it and a series of locks on it.
Laura: (whispers) I had a feeling it would be a locked bookcase.
Matt: And you see them, all the librarians are clustered and circled around it right now.
Laura: (singing) Can they open it up?
Sam: Oh. (singing) Can you open it up?
Travis: Find somebody that can pick them locks.
Matt: There's no response from them.
Sam: Wait, they can pick books.
Matt: They can pick up books.
Laura: Vax, can you hear me?
Liam: I don't know. 500 feet.
Matt: You've been traveling for a while. He doesn't hear you.
Laura: I can try to pick it. I can try.
Marisha: Come on, multiclassing into that rogue now.
Matt: All right, so you fumble around and quickly pull out your thieves' tools. All right, go ahead and roll a d20, add your dexterity modifier and your proficiency bonus.
Laura: My proficiency bonus.
Sam: I'm going to inspire her.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: (singing) I'm so vain. I probably think this song is about me. I'm so vain.
Laura: Yeah, I got a one on your inspiration. Thanks for that. But I rolled well so it doesn't matter. Hopefully. 19 plus my dexterity modifier plus my proficiency bonus? 30.
Sam: Wow!
Liam: She rolled a 19.
Matt: The DC was 30.
Sam: It was the inspiration!
Laura: No, plus inspiration was 31!
Matt: Yeah, the DC on that was 30.
Laura: Oh, jeebies.
Sam: There are DCs up to 30?!
Matt: Yeah. 30's considered nearly impossible.
Marisha: We're badasses now.
Travis: What happens when you say that shit?!
Marisha: No, I'm just saying the difficulties are going to get harder.
Laura: Oh, in god realm it will be harder.
Matt: So as you work your way down the chain, you get through a few of them, and there's one big lock in the center that's bolted into a big double doorway, or hinged opening to this bookcase. This one takes you a few moments to get into. (clicking) It snaps your lockpick. As soon as you hear the (tink), your heart sinks, but you still have a little bit of leverage and you push forward on the broken pick, and it's just enough to get the tumbler to click in. Your lockpick is busted; you're going to have to get a new one. However, it does open on one side.
Laura: That's the hardest lock I've ever picked, I swear!
Matt: You open, and you can see about 25 different books of different shapes, sizes, colors, all ancient that are all in this small locked section.
Laura: Are any of the spectrals looking at one, specifically?
Matt: No, they are all just at the side.
Laura: Can you do your Ioun Stone?
Sam: Sure, I'll blacklight it.
Laura: Does it glow for anything in particular?
Matt: You take your Ioun Stone, and as you go across, it doesn't seem to have an effect.
Sam: I'm going to quickly scan the books to see if any of them look particularly old.
Laura: Can I read any of them?
Matt: What languages do you know?
Laura: Elvish, Common, Undercommon, Abyssal, and Draconic.
Matt: And you?
Sam: Not much! Gnome, Marquesian, and Common.
Matt: There are about ten of them you cannot read. There is one book that has nothing on the spine; it's blank. About five of them appear to be in Abyssal. You, reading through them, a lot of them talk about-- they are history books that talk about the Lord of the Hells. There's one that speaks on rites and rituals of sacrifice. There is one that talks about the annihilation of a race that no longers exists in the world during the Age of Arcanum. There's one that talks about the birth of the Rune Children. There's all these books that all talk about different things, but nothing seems to stand out to you as the tome you might be looking for.
Laura: Well, I could potentially grab all of them and shove them in the Bag of Colding.
Sam: And then what? How many minutes are left, and how far are we from our friends?
Matt: You have about 15 minutes left and it's about ten minutes of travel.
Sam: We could take them all back and see if anyone can read.
Laura: It seems pretty shitty, dumping them out in a pile, but I don't know what else to do.
Travis: Yeah. The spirits'll put them back.
Sam: The one that has nothing on the binding. Can I open that and flip through real quick?
Laura: I start grabbing other ones and putting them in the bag.
Matt: You pull out the one with nothing on it. It's a very thin book; it's only about that wide or so, it's a dark gray leather. It looks damaged. Part of it's burnt and scarred on the outside. There's no words on the cover. You open it up and it's about four pages that are blank.
Sam: This is the thing.
Laura: What can you do? Do you have a spell that lets you see things? Reveals things?
Sam: I do not.
Travis: Talk to it.
Sam: Okay, sure.
Laura: Yeah! Sing to it or something!
Sam: Sure. I'll sing to a book, Matt. (singing) Read to me of times gone by. Can it be you're here when a bunch of gods died? (speaking) Okay. That's all I got.
Matt: Doesn't seem to have any effect. Doesn't seem to respond to the singing.
Sam: Don't tell anyone I sang to a book.
Laura: You just keep singing, I'll keep taking books. We've got not enough time.
Matt: It takes you about a minute to throw them all in there haphazardly.
Travis: 25 books.
Laura: 25 books.
Sam: Let's get back.
Matt: You guys dart back. You get low enough to the point where you're in between the two bookcaess. The heights vary and in some case you're having to suddenly shift up and over to avoid slamming into the side of the large bookcase. You're shooting through this-- almost like an up and down version of the Star Wars entry to the... Death Star. Thank you, my brain's not working.
Laura: My Locate Object never pinged? My Incantation of Isolation Locate Object?
Matt: Interestingly enough, thank you for reminding me of that. As soon as he pulled the book out, the one that he's holding, the one with no text on it, it pinged.
Laura: Oh shit, I just grabbed a bunch of books, but that's the one!
Sam: Are you sure?
Laura: It's got to be! Keep looking at it while we're flying, see if you can figure it out!
Sam: Hold it upside down.
Laura: Hold onto me, though, because we're going fast.
Sam: I'm going to listen to it.
Matt: Okay. Make an arcana check.
Sam: 13 plus five, 18.
Matt: 18. As you're darting by, you're clutching your side with your hand around her waist, reading it. You almost lose it a couple times.
Sam: Plus Jack of All Trades.
Matt: So what's the total?
Sam: 21.
Matt: 21. You get the sense that there is something magical about it. I would say, you can't put your finger on it, but what faint arcane essence that you can sense from your usage of spells, and the feeling of releasing spells, the charging and release of arcane energy. You get the sense of that release from the book. It's almost wanting something. It's pulling something very faintly.
Sam: What spell? I don't want to hurt it!
Laura: Place Mythcarver on it! Place Mythcarver in it!
Sam: Okay. I'll place Mythcarver on it. I don't know what to cast on a book!
Matt: Make a dexterity saving throw.
Sam: I'll cast Friends on it.
Laura: That was almost so bad.
Matt: You cast Friends on it?
Sam: Sure.
Matt: Okay, as you release the cantrip, the book seems to absorb the magic, but no reaction.
Laura: 28.
Matt: 28. As you dart around the corner, one of the shifting bookcases comes right in front of you, and you just dart out of the way in time. Scanlan, you barely hold on. I need you to roll a strength check.
Laura: Oh god, can I hold onto his wrist to help out?
Sam: Not good. Strength?
Matt: This would be a strength saving throw, yeah.
Sam: Ten.
Matt: Ten? The book's like (bouncing) and you catch it right as it falls and you hold it in your hand.
Travis: What if you write in it?
Laura: Yeah, what if you write in it and say, "Hey, I need the Incantation of Isolation!"
Sam: Write in the book?
Travis: Didn't you ever watch Harry Potter? He wrote in the book and it wrote back!
Sam: No! I've never watched Harry Potter!
Taliesin: Who are you?!
Travis: Do you have a quill? Can you write it in? Can you write something in the book?
Sam: I must have a quill, right? I'm a storyteller.
Matt: You'd have to pull it out of your pouch, yeah.
Sam: Okay, I'll pull out my quill.
Matt: And your inkwell?
Sam: Jesus. While we're flying? This seems like a bad idea. This is a bad idea.
Matt: Do you want to try it?
Sam: No! How about when we land?
Laura: Did you cast Friends on it? Did it work?
Sam: No. It absorbed the spell and seemed to like it, but nothing happened.
Travis: What else can you do to imbue it with magic?
Sam: I have the Ioun Stone, but it doesn't do anything.
Matt: As you're rushing, make another dexterity saving throw.
Laura: Jesus. Oh god. Okay. 27.
Matt: (whoosh) You yank out of the way of another one that shifts. It's one that goes from ceiling to floor, it's one solid bookcase that comes right in the way. You manage to dart around the side. Make another strength saving throw to hold onto the book.
Sam: Oh, that's 17.
Matt: 17, okay. The book you hold onto with one hand, and you pull it back--
Sam: I'll try to cast a more powerful spell into it without hurting it, though, that's the thing. If I do Lightning, what if it burns the fucking book? I'll do Thunderwave on it, right?
Matt: Thunderwave, the 1st-level spell?
Laura: Don't you have Suggestion?
Sam: Yeah. I'll Dominate Monster, that's a super high-level spell.
Matt: What level spell is that?
Sam: Eight.
Matt: 8th-level spell, Dominate Monster on the book? Okay! As you're flying through, you cast the spell into the book and the book takes the entirety of the spell into it, and you watch as suddenly text emboldens across all the pages on the inside. The book is now filled with scribblings and writing.
Laura: What language is it?!
Sam: I don't know, what language is it?!
Matt: It appears to be Common to you. (yelling)
Sam: It's a notebook! It's somebody who was figuring this out as they were writing it!
Matt: You glance over your shoulder, and it's empty.
Laura: Are you sure something's there?
Sam: Yes, I have a beautiful mind! (laughter)
Matt: With that, you arc down into the center of the library where you see the large dome where you first met Ioun. You're not sure how much time you have left, but it's down to the wire.
Sam: Do I see any words that say isolation or incantation or anything?
Laura: It's a small book.
Sam: I like to read things and really understand.
Matt: The script on the cover seems, in a weird way, the best I could say is a Google Translate version, but it loosely translates to the Tome of Isolation, yes.
Laura: It's the whole thing!
Sam: It's a cookbook.
Travis: She just asked for the tome, right? You got it.
Laura: Yeah!
Sam: Yeah!
Marisha: Alone  I am Tome.
Travis: She disappeared. Where is she?
Laura: She's going to reappear, obviously. She knows we're here.
Sam: Let's go down to her bowl.
Laura: Yeah, we're at the bowl.
Sam: All right, so let's go down into the bowl and wait for her to arrive.
Matt: You guys land in the center there. What's everybody else doing right now?
Liam: I barrel rolled out of the way as they rushed by.
Taliesin: I was sitting on the couch.
Travis: I've been digging through the pillows.
Laura: Looking for change in the couch?
Darin: Did you know that "Heck, nah" could rhyme with Vecna? Did you hear what I said?
Sam: I heard when you yelled it. It was the "Neck, Ma," that I couldn't come up with a way--
Darin: If you're speaking to your mother, let's say, and pointing at your neck.
Laura: You're such a pain in the neck, Ma!
Darin: Exactly! Pain in the neck, Ma! Looking for Vecna, he's a pain in the neck, Ma! Find him? I say heck nah!
Sam: I wish you would have been chosen by Ioun.
Matt: As soon as that happens, the wind picks up, and for a moment you close your eyes from the sudden burst of air into your face. As you reopen and adjust, there in the center of the dome where she was before, you see the Knowing Mistress. There, resting her arms crossed in front of her robes. She looks out. "Are you to present your findings?"
Sam: I casually blow the hair out of my face and walk over to her and say, O mighty goddess, it was a challenging challenge, but I think you'll be pretty happy with the results. As I hold up the book, I'll cast Wrist Pocket and make it disappear. Oh god, oh it's gone! Just kidding. And it's back.
Matt: She doesn't flinch.
Sam: This is what we've found for you. I hope it pleases you.
Matt: "And this is your final choice?"
Sam: You know, we didn't actually look at the other ten books.
Travis: Regis Philbin.
Liam: Is that your final answer?
Sam: Yes. With conviction, I firmly believe that this is the correct book.
Matt: "Very well." She takes it and looks at it. "It has been a while since I thumbed through these pages myself. This will do you well in the coming fray." And she hands it out to you.
Sam: Can I still see the writing?
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: I'll cherish it always.
Matt: "You, who have wandered the vast library that surrounds you through your knowledge, through your magnetic telling and spinning of yarns, through your knowledge of history, perseverance, and apparently decent grip, have managed to return to me and complete the challenge I set before you. And for that, I grant my grace unto you for the coming fray, Scanlan Shorthalt." And it's a little off-putting at first, but in her forehead, where you saw her two purple eyes, a third eye opens up in the center of the forehead. It seems to glow for a second. You watch as on Scanlan, this warmth fills your body; you stand up straight instinctually. You guys watch as this strange purple glow appears in the center of his forehead in the same place where her eye was.
Laura: Ugh, you have a third eye!
Sam: Is it cool or is it gross?
Travis: It's cool.
Liam: It's cool.
Sam: Chicks will dig?
Travis: Yep! Third nip, third eye. You're good.
Matt: It gently fades away. The warmth vanishes and you're restored to yourself. That given the case, you have the Tome of Isolation and the Blessing of the Knowing Mistress.
Liam: You chose wisely.
Sam: Okay, I gain plus two to my intelligence! Whoa!
Marisha: All the timesies?!
Sam: As a bonus action, I can channel the omniscience of Ioun. For one hour, whenever you successfully hit a creature with a spell or attack, you can learn one of the creature's stats of your choice from the following list: AC, senses, saving throw bonuses, damage resistances, damage immunities, damage vulnerabilities. During this hour, you also have advantage on initiative rolls and on saving throws. Once this ability is used, it cannot be used again for a week. Okay!
Marisha: How many things can you learn about?
Sam: Just one.
Laura: We can learn what its vulnerabilities are.
Liam: That's like a game mod for a character.
Travis: It's the gold thing that came with the original Nintendo Entertainment System. The Game Genie.
Liam: I certainly remembered my Charlemagne! Let my armies be the--
Liam: -- rocks and the trees and birds in the sky.
Taliesin: -- rocks and the trees and birds in the sky.
Sam: The tome  As an action, I can expend a spell slot of any level higher than three, thank you Travis. The cover and the pages glow of secret text of the Rites of Prime Banishment. While legible, you can spend an action to invoke the Rites of Banishment against the target. The target must make a wisdom saving throw. On a failure, the target is banished and sealed and this book is immediately teleported to the Endless Atheneeum. On a success, the text becomes blurred until the end of your next turn.
Laura: On a success?
Sam: On a success. On a failure of their saving throw. Right, yeah?
Matt: If they succeed on their saving throw, they resist the ability and you cannot read the book for another turn.
Sam: Got it. Then, after that turn, I can read it again?
Laura: What does it say the DC is?
Sam: DC ten. A wisdom saving throw-- oh! That's key info. Plus five to DC for each Divine Trammel fused to the target. We've got to be matadors and attach a bunch of pegs to the thing before we deliver the killing blow.
Laura: We literally stick the trammels onto Vecna?
Sam: We'll be picadors, right? They put the darts on the back of the bull to soften it up and (whoosh) killing blow!
Marisha: And do we have any of these yet?
Laura: I have one! No, I have a stone.
Matt: You have a stone that supposedly has something to do with their construction.
Marisha: But we were supposed to ask Ioun.
Laura: Yeah, I'm going to.
Sam: No, I think we're done here, guys.
Liam: We'll just go to Home Depot and get some trammels.
Laura: Can I pull out the little pearl of power?
Matt: All right. You pull it out and there it glows before you. It's bright like a tiny star for a second and you have to avert your gaze. But there it is, still warm to the touch. The small pearl of bright, divine light. "With this blessing, I hope to be of some aid in the coming battle. Also, any questions you may have, I'm here to answer."
Sam: Yes, so many!
Laura: How do we make a trammel? We have a stone, and we want more, I assume.
Matt: "The Prime Trammel you speak of, the companion to this rite of which you've sought out and recovered, the construct is small, but complex. The design is unknowable for most mortal eyes. Each trammel requires a fragment of divinity. You have one there. That fragment is lost until the seal is broken, so it is a very exhausting process for a deity to give this fragment. Now, the original trammels that we had utilized were forged by the hand of the Allhammer atop the fiery Core Anvil deep beneath the Ozmit Sea."
Marisha: Wait, the core?
Matt: "The Core Anvil."
Laura: In the Ozmit Sea.
Matt: "To seal a god, the number of trammels you will require depends on how marred the god may be. You have an easier chance of applying the trammels the more wounded the entity is. It is imperfect, and it's only been given use the once against the Chained Oblivion. With the Luck Bringer's blessing, we succeeded against the entity. It took us four trammels and the full might of Pelor upon the beast to banish it beyond the veil. However, the Chained Oblivion's power was fully realized at this time. Now, the Core Anvil, this was part of the domain of the Allhammer's greatest creations. It was where the first dwarves were given form and breath, it's where the trammels were carved and made in the last great war. It lies beneath the undersea volcano now known as Scaldseat."
Laura: Scaldseat?
Matt: "Scaldseat. It sits at the bottom of the ocean off the eastern coast of Issylra, not far from the fishing village known as Shorecomb." At which point, the third eye flashes in the direction of Keyleth. Keyleth, a vision fills your mind suddenly of the shoreline over Issylra. The cold, cloud-covered sky, but you see below grass and recent rainfall-covered fields that lead to a somewhat marshy and mud-covered shoreline. There, you see a small fishing village leading out to a rocky beachfront and waves that crest and break against a drop-off into the ocean. You can see some low-built docks that lead all the fishermen in and out into the ocean. The vision pulls you back miles away from that. You get a sense, as you see this small column of black smoke that emerges from the ocean across endless open sea, that is the signal of where this volcano lies. The vision fades from you. She leans to you and says, "Find a way below, through the tunnels of toxic fume, unbreathable without proper preparation, to the Core Anvil and forge these trammels. Be warned: There may be protections that still remain within the forgotten halls of the Allhammer, or new denizens that occupy the subterranean depths. Now, to forge such a trammel, however, is an undertaking no mortal has attempted. To shape the materials would require the strength of a titan." She looks towards you and the eye flashes and suddenly your mind fills with hundreds of years of the knowledge of folding heated metals, of the clinks of lives past, shaping and building weapons and armor and for a second you pull back and you can see the large dwarf-like stone form of the Allhammer, slamming down onto the heated metals of the Core Anvil. As the vision fades, you know how to forge, so you are now proficient with blacksmithing tools.
Travis: Proficient with blacksmithing tools?
Laura: Awesome! Oh my god, you were a boot maker, and now you're a weapon maker!
Matt: Suddenly, you understand most of the tools in Percy's workshop.
Travis: That water's not so evil, after all! (laughter)
Travis: Wait a minute!
Matt: "But not just the strength of a titan. For to understand the intricacies of this design will also require the ingenuity of a madman." She turns towards you, Percy.
Travis: Don't look at somebody else, motherfucker. That's you!
Marisha: Trying to look away, kid at the back of the classroom.
Liam: Percy takes one step behind Keyleth.
Travis: It's like the kid that farts in class and then looks at the guy behind him.
Matt: The third eye opens once more and flashes. You see the purple glow in the center of Percival's forehead for a moment. In an instant, the intricate designs of the Prime Trammel flood into your mind, the celestial instructions racing through like a shock of electricity, the blueprints spinning like a clear dream, straight out of Flight of the Navigator, all of the star charts being crammed at once. With that, it drops from your mind and you fall to your knees with a pounding headache.
Taliesin: I'm not supposed to know that. (groans)
Matt: "And you will only know it for as long as it's required." She thinks for a second. "We, the creators, did breathe the beauty into this world, we planted the seeds that would blossom into this incredible weave of Exandria. However, what is the purpose of the parent but to teach what they can, then set the children free? Some gods rule through fear, others through love, and others still through perceived fate. Destiny has its place, but the real deception is that you have no choice. A path can be groomed before you, but it is you who must take those steps. Not every rosy walkway leads to a better day. For me, our greatest purpose has passed the moment we granted your forbearers the spark to seek their own purpose. We now stay to inspire, to guide, to guard the Gate, to keep the hate of ignorance we spawned in our hubris from burning away everything. The rest is up to you. We need you, perhaps, but you do not need us. That is our gift. You, Fate-Touched, you are the embodiment of this truth. All mortal life has potential with or without the gods. We offer some paths, but it's up to you to decide if they are the right ones for you. Anyway." And she clutches her stomach a moment. "What more do you ask of me? What more do you wish to know?"
Liam: I have questions.
Matt: "Yes, ask."
Liam: Vecna. You're familiar. You know not where he is. You know of him.
Matt: "I know as much of his history as I was allowed to see, yes. Vecna was a force of insurmountable intellect among mortals, and his creative bending of known arcane theory enabled many of the powerful artifacts of war that stoked the flames of the Calamity a century later. His contributions were appreciated, but overlooked by those around him. In his hubris, he sought to carve history in his image. He sought forgotten magics and slew those who shared this same knowledge to leave only him standing with it. He bypassed his own mortality through terrible necromantic rites to lichdom, amassing a force of like-minded followers and hordes of undead terrors, then vanished into the Shadowfell to overtake the dark city of Thar Amphala, where he erected the terrible tower Entropis. From this very seat of power, Vecna harnessed an event called the Celestial Solstice. He used this merging of ley energies and power to reforge manses of energy all across Exandria to suit his needs, opening the portals at his whim within his city to anywhere across the world, allowing his armies to lay siege to anything before him and extend his influence and rule. His horde assaulted a couple of prominent townships, slaughtering denizens and forcing old enemies to kneel, before slaying and raising them as his own. One such rival was named Kas, who, upon their defeat, was offered eternal life through vampirism in exchange for swearing fealty to Vecna as his chief lieutenant. This made Kas into Kas the Bloody-Handed. Vecna forged a relic blade for him with a fraction of his consciousness and gifted it to his new lieutenant, and with this, the lich lord had become a new terror among the rising tensions of the bickering nations. Months of turmoil followed as the shadow of Vecna's unstoppable forces struck with precision and those fled before retaliation. However, the use of the Solstice was discovered and reverse-engineered, allowing the holy army the Beacon of Arms to storm his city under the banner of the Dawnfather, led by the champion Yos Varder. Climbing Entropis to face the lich lord in combat, Yos Varder was struck down by the Undying King with a mortal blow. In the final moments of the hero's life, he witnessed the lieutenant Kas turn on his winded master and strike him with the very blade he was gifted, driven to usurp him, to become his own, new lord. The ensuing conflict left Kas nothing but ash, and utterly destroyed Vecna's body, leaving nothing but his left eye and hand. Yos passed on to the realm of Pelor, due to his wounds, and the survivors left the Shadowfell with tales of victory. The terrible artifacts: the eye, the hand, the sword, were never recovered. The sword is bent on vengeance, on hatred for the Whispered One. A powerful evil drives that sword, but for a just end. Should one be able to find and tame such a thing, it may be of great use. That is all I have to offer on the history of Vecna and I hope it can be of aid to you in your coming battle."
Taliesin: What was the name of the sword?
Matt: "The Sword of Kas."
Marisha: The Sword of Kas. Okay.
Laura: Did it have a name?
Taliesin: Where was it last seen?
Matt: In Thar Amphala, at the scene of the battle.
Marisha: Oh! Okay. The Sword of Kas.
Laura: You don't think?
Sam: I don't think. What are the odds, right?
Travis: It was 800 years ago.
Marisha: Different sword.
Sam: Different sword.
Travis: Not Craven Edge?
Liam: I have another question for you.
Matt: "Yes?"
Liam: You know who I serve.
Matt: "I do. I see the shadows that cling to you."
Liam: Vecna seeks godhood, and we understand that my lady achieved the same. Did you learn anything from her path that would help us here?
Matt: (sighs) You watch as suddenly her expression changes. Her mouth falls open ever so gently and her hair, wavy and calm, seems to curl in but a moment and lift. Her expression falls to one of trepidation and horror. "And then there was one more. The ritual is complete. I can sense his ascension. The cosmos expand to make room. Our timetable accelerates." You can see now, her eyes begin to race back and forth. "It will take him some time to understand and utilize his nature fully. If he expands beyond his avatar, it will be more difficult to seal him. The more trammels it may require and the loss maybe far greater."
Laura: Do you have a seed of power?
Matt: "Understand," and she leans forward to you. "I am not Ioun given full form, but a partial avatar of my essence given shape by the worship of my children, as was the Dawnfather that guided you here. Our realms are our bodies, and our true presence held in the hearts of those that grant us their faith. To hold purely as an avatar like this is dangerous, for while it focuses and grants us much present power, as we were forced to do in the Calamity, in the last great war, it may also leave us open to grievous injury." She opens her robe, and there you can see amongst the olive-gold skin, you see a large darkened gash that still festers, unhealed to this day, of black, curling void. As you look at this open wound, you feel yourself drawn toward it; your vision begins to be pulled towards this infinite nothing. She closes it. You can see a bit of sweat dripping from the brow. "The cost was great, but necessary. Vecna's ascended being is fresh. He will need to expand his worship vastly to learn how to disseminate his power and claim his domains. What he will need for this to happen is a display of unstoppable power, a miracle of terror, a wave of despair that would occupy the hearts of many in but a moment. I know not his method, but I know enough of his ways to assume there's already a plan in motion and has been for some time. If you can strike before he claims his full ascension, before he can seize his dominion on this plane, than you may still have a chance." She turns to you, Scanlan. "You are the teller of tales, one who enlivens the world through song and word. Take this fragment of my own story and help craft the passages of the world's future." She reaches into the center of her robe, and almost seems to be into her chest and plucks forth a small, gray gem about the size of a peanut. It glows faintly, and as she removes it, you hear a terrible creaking sound throughout the library. You watch as books plummet from the darkness above and slam into the ground around you. Distant cases crack and bow. The roar of the damaged space echoes to a halt, the danger seemingly in control. "There. I can spare no more. I must rest and concentrate."
Darin: I have something of you inside of me. Would it help you?
Matt: She smiles. "I could use a steward for a moment. Someone eager to learn and relearn some important lessons. Ethred Brokenbranch."
Darin: That's me!
Matt: "Would you be so kind as to help an old woman tend to her books a bit?"
Darin: It would be my pleasure. I didn't believe in you. I didn't think you were real, but I found out that things aren't what we seem. And things can change. It would be my honor. (stammers) Could I say goodbye?
Matt: "Of course."
Darin: Also, do you know where there's an imp by the name of Demistrik and if he's all right?
Matt: "He's fine for now."
Darin: I'm not asking for me. The nice lady with the antlers wanted to know.
Matt: "He's fine, but woe to those who live in the home in Kraghammer where he's currently rooted."
Darin: He's a very bad performer. I'll be right with you.
Matt: "Of course."
Darin: Well, then. This is different! I don't think I'm going to be alone anymore. I asked you for power, but it seems like you gave me strength.
Travis: Oh. I'm glad to hear that.
Darin: Thank you. And you. You called me darling. No one ever did that before. (growl)
Laura: (tongue click) I kiss him on the forehead.
Darin: Well! Oh dear me. Oh goodness gracious. Be happy. Life is loud and noisy, and it's a celebration. I didn't know that. So once in a while, with what little time we have, be happy. I was wrong about you, you know.
Sam: Me?
Darin: Oh, you're far greater than I will ever be. If only I could be a mirror of you.
Sam: Thank you, Sprigg, for everything. We've only known you a short time--
Darin: I'm only a short person. (laughs) You can have that one for free. Okay, good. Go on.
Sam: No, you've taught us much in a short time, and I'm sorry that we broke your house, but it seems like you've found a suitable replacement.
Darin: Well, a lot of books in here. That's going to keep me busy. And you (groans) secrets. Celebrate it with your friends. Remember that. And when I look at these books, I'm going to think of you.
Taliesin: That pleases me.
Darin: Oh, good.
Taliesin: Be happy here.
Darin: (laughs) I think you're going to be the hardest to say goodbye to, because you cared. No one ever cared before. That's why they called me Sprigg. I wasn't good enough to be a Brokenbranch. I was just a sprig. That's how I got my name.
Marisha: If only people knew that sprigs give foundation to the entire tree.
Darin: Thank you.
Matt: She extends her hand to you.
Darin: Well, this is new.
Matt: "And should your friends succeed, there is far much more to look forward to learning."
Darin: Excellent. But some of those little wispy things, I don't trust them, you know. If they get out of order, we should wispy thing grab. How will we remember that?
Matt: "This is going to be a very good conversation to have."
Darin: We need a mnemonic device. Come! We'll think of one.
Matt: "Very well. We shall. As for the rest of you, I feel my power is waned, and I don't have the means of sending you away myself. But if you are able to return under your own power?"
Marisha: (whispers) Of course.
Matt: "Then I wish you all the greatest of luck. And please, don't be a stranger."
Laura: Oh! I have your books.
Sam: Oh, yes. 24 of them.
Laura: I think they were really secret ones, so I would hate to take those out of here.
Matt: You watch as three spectral servants apparate behind you and pick up the books and begin to take them back to be organized. "Not to worry. Travel safe, my friends. And Scanlan, don't ever forget how important you are to them, to Kaylie, and to yourself. You owe yourself far more that you lend."
Sam: I will remember.
Darin: Goodbye.
Travis: Bye, Sprigg.
Laura: Take care, darling.
Marisha: Bye, Sprigg.
Sam: Until next time.
Darin: That's good. Off we go, then.
Matt: "Come, my friend." She takes his hand and stands up, and they both begin to walk away and as it does there's a slight increase of light in the room. There's a flash, and then as it slowly comes back to a normal sight, you find yourself back at the entrance almost bathhouse-like area of the domain where you arrived, the marble slightly more cracked that you left it before, but still standing.
Liam: Enjoy the other side, Sprigg.
Laura: I go up to Percy. Are you all right, dear?
Taliesin: Strangely, yes. Yes, quite. Didn't think I would be.
Marisha: Vax. Is that what's going to happen when you leave?
Liam: (whispers) I don't know.
Marisha: Okay. Shall we?
Laura: Where are we going?
Taliesin: Back to where we came from.
Travis: In the beginning? Or more recently?
Taliesin: Back to the cabin.
Sam: The cabin?
Taliesin: The little house.
Sam: You mean Sprigg's cabin? Why would we go there?
Taliesin: Because we still have a man tied up. He's been sitting there for probably about an hour or two.
Sam: Who?
Travis: Oh yeah, the guy that you put in the shackles.
Sam: I'm sure he's fine. Let's just go to Whitestone.
Travis: But we want to get the shackles back.
Sam: Oh, it's the shackles.
Taliesin: Well, I want to talk to him, too, but yes.
Sam: We're going for the shackles.
Laura: They're pretty cool.
Taliesin: They are pretty impressive.
Sam: But she said the timetable is shortened.
Taliesin: Why are we going to Whitestone, then?
Sam: We have to find this place in the middle of the ocean.
Taliesin: Well, now that we know where it is, you can probably bamf us there, can't you?
Liam: I need to go Whitestone or to Vasselheim.
Marisha: Before we go to Issylra? Wait. Is Vasselheim on Issylra? How close did I recognize the shore--
Matt: Shorecomb? Shorecomb is about 200, 250 miles away from Vasselheim, to the southwest.
Marisha: Southwest, going towards Pyrah. Okay.
Matt: Beyond Pyrah, along the coast.
Marisha: Start there. I should be able to Tree Stride us right there. Right?
Laura: From the cabin to Vasselheim?
Marisha: I think so.
Matt: None of the particular trees you got a close look at. You may have to scry to get a specific tree in mind for the spell, but you can do that.
Laura: Pike, you seem very quiet.
Matt: Pike goes, "I'm sorry, I'm just overwhelmed. There's a lot going on."
Travis: I know when I feel overwhelmed I like to punch things. You want to hit me?
Matt: "Okay." (punching noise) And she socks you in the gut.
Travis: (groans) Too strong. Oh, such a monster.
Matt: "Sorry." And she Cures Wounds on you.
Travis: Thank you.
Marisha: I burn my 8th-level spell to Plane Shift us back to Sprigg's house.
Matt: All right. As you all gather hands together, with the familiar flash and a pull through the Divine Gate, you all find yourselves thrust once more back to the Prime Material Plane. As your feet land squarely in the partially charred, wooded remains of Sprigg's house, deep in a ravine in the Cliffkeep Mountains of Tal'Dorei in Exandria. And that's where we're going to take a break.
Sam: Wow.
Travis: Fudge knuckles.
Matt: Darin. Thank you so much for joining us.
Travis: Darin De Paul! (applause)
Matt: Dude. Thank you for coming.
Darin: It had to happen. It's history. It's a journey.
Marisha: 35 years?
Darin: 37.
Matt: It's crazy. I love it.
Darin: And who knows? Maybe something will happen. Yeah, in another 37 years! We'll do this again!
Matt: There you go. Hopefully sooner, but yeah.
Darin: Thank you guys.
Sam: It was a pleasure. We know you just came on this show so you could get onto Talks. But we'll take it anyway.
Marisha: Yeah, you could have just asked if you wanted to meet Brian Foster.
Darin: His hair is so cool.
Laura: He's got a good beard.
Matt: All right, guys, so before we go, we'll have a giveaway during the break in which we're giving out this awesome-- oh god, this awesome pieces of pieces. This is the purpleheart dice tower from Wyrmwood. The same color that you use to assemble your awesome magnetic dice tower from Wyrmwood. What was the word we chose?
Offscreen: Knowledge.
Matt: Thank you. Knowledge. The word in the chat room is knowledge.
Marisha: I thought you said college.
Sam: I did, too.
Matt: Yeah. Go to college, kids. But yeah, so go over to the Twitch chat, and when prompted, go ahead and enter the word knowledge to enter the giveaway. And we'll have the announcement of who won that when we come back from the break. See you guys in a few minutes. [break]
Matt: And welcome back, everybody. Couple of things. First off, couple of mid-show announcements we forgot to mention. One, Laura did Signal Boost, which you just saw! (cheering)
Matt: It's a good one. Second, if you haven't seen it already, we announced at Comic-Con that we are doing a Critical Role comic book. (excited noises)
Matt: We're super excited. It's written by good friend of the show Matt Colville. If you're not familiar with his stuff, you should. He's written a couple of books, he's written a lot of video game stuff and he's very talented.
Liam: The dialogue is to die for.
Marisha: He is on this week's episode of GM Tips.
Taliesin: You can check him out, right there.
Matt: He has a great YouTube channel. He's a good friend of the show and his writing is amazing. And our artist, Olivia Samson, who is a Critter artist in the community for quite some time. We wanted to pull somebody from the community to bring the story to life of how Vox Machina came together, how they met. And then, if it goes well, continue to do the story of all the pre-stream adventures that you guys didn't get a chance to see. That's the goal, we'll see, long-term. We're happy to announce it. We'll have more information in the future about it as it comes out.
Liam: I've seen most of the art for issue one and it is fucking legit!
Laura: I haven't seen it!
Liam: Oh, well.
Sam: If I may, Matt? Music level, split the difference.
Travis: And to EmeraldStar in the chat, who named their puppy Grog, that's awesome.
Matt: That is awesome. Congrats on your puppy! There is a winner. Well, the puppy named Grog. And the winner of the giveaway is FluffyArsonist. FluffyArsonist, congratulations, Danoba will contact you to get your information and get that shipped out to you.
Travis: Hard to be mad at an arsonist when they're fluffy.
Matt: It's hard. All righty, so. Diving back in. You guys were returning to Whitestone? Where were you going?
Marisha: Sprigg's.
Matt: Oh, Sprigg's cabin, correct. As the surge of momentum comes to a halt and your feet once again touch the ground here within the somewhat-charred remains of Sprigg's cabin, you look about. The crickets have taken the surrounding forest. Night has fallen since your exit. What would you like to do?
Travis: Are there any threatening creatures in the vicinity?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Laura: Can I look, too, because we'd been fighting when we left, so I'm going to make sure--
Travis: Don't worry, it's a 14.
Matt: You glance about very quickly at the surrounding woods and trees, and aside from a squirrel that scatters upon the sound of your footfalls--
Laura: Careful of traps. They're still in place.
Travis: Yeah, the squirrel goes (running noise, explosion).
Laura: Bear trap.
Liam: Slams two feet above it, though.
Taliesin: I'm going to go into the room and find the nice creature that we left there.
Matt: As you walk amongst the rubble, you see there, trapped within the iron cage-like manacles and bindings of the small iron ball, you see the slathering tongue of the undead entity that you had entrapped. (slobbering noises)
Taliesin: Oh, I don't suppose we need you any more, do we? I'm going to take out my sword and very slowly end that.
Matt: (pained noises) You see it squeal out as you slowly saw your way into its body until it lies still once more, robbing it of its second death.
Taliesin: Manners!
Matt: The ball retracts.
Laura: While he was doing that, I want to stealth away with my brother for a moment and say, I'm sorry. About everything.
Liam: How far away did you just pull me?
Laura: Far enough that nobody can hear us.
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Laura: Jesus Christ. Ten. God damn it.
Matt: As you pull him off, you get three steps from the building before (crash) a heavy, iron bear trap snaps onto your leg.
Travis: Outstanding!
Laura: Thank you. Thank you, Matt.
Sam: We're basically gods. (laughter)
Travis: The words were uttered.
Matt: 11 points of piercing damage and you are currently grappled.
Laura: I deserved that. That's karma.
Liam: Let's get it off your foot. I'll help her pull it off.
Matt: Okay. Between the two of you, it takes you a moment, but you manage to peel it off. The wounds aren't too bad.
Liam: I cast Lay on Hands. You're back to normal. You're fine. Your boot's ripped up. All right, watch your step. Come on. Past it all.
Laura: Oh, okay.
Liam: Yeah.
Laura: I'm going to not move, though, because I don't want to step on another one of those fucking things.
Marisha: While Keyleth chuckles about that a little bit, I'm going to look around and find a little piece to remember Sprigg by from his house to take with me.
Taliesin: I'm going to check through the books to see if there's anything.
Marisha: And then I'll help him check the books once I've grabbed something.
Matt: Make an investigation check, each of you.
Taliesin: 22.
Marisha: Yours is much better than mine. Five.
Matt: Five. You find some elements of partially charred pipes, some small statues that were destroyed in the recent battle. You find some unkept plants that were plotted and then left to dry out. There are many things here that you could take if you wanted to have memory of him.
Marisha: Does this rusty bolt represent Sprigg?
Taliesin: No. I think that may have actually come with us, that might have been us.
Marisha: I'll regrow this plant later.
Matt: There you go.
Marisha: Sprigg.
Matt: While you search through books, you pull Vax off to the side.
Liam: Can I ask you a question?
Laura: Yes.
Liam: First, I'm very happy for you. Congratulations!
Laura: Thank you.
Liam: I've seen it coming for a long time.
Laura: I didn't.
Liam: Well, you're smart in a lot of other ways. I'm so happy; he makes you so happy, and when I go, you're in good hands. And he's in good hands. He's getting the better end of the bargain.
Laura: Yeah, I think so, too. I didn't plan it. If I had, I would have told you. And then when I saw you, it seemed like bad timing to say anything, and then things kept happening. (sighs)
Liam: Well, Stubby, I spent so many years standing at your side. I guess I thought on that day, I'd be standing at your side.
Laura: I know. It was very spur-of-the-moment. Nobody was standing at our side, except for each other.
Liam: Well, under ordinary circumstances, I would be giving you quite an earful, but there's nothing ordinary about any of this. I don't have time to be upset at my oldest friend. I just don't have time. So I love you. And I'm happy for you.
Laura: I don't want you to go. I love you.
Liam: You know I love you. Would you do me one favor? When I'm gone-- I don't know, we could be dead tomorrow.
Laura: We could. I could die before you.
Liam: She's probably going to outlast you, but while you're around, keep her company for me?
Laura: If she ever talks to me again, I swear I will.
Liam: Well, what you've got going for you is you look a lot like me. You can remind her of me once in a while.
Laura: Good call.
Liam: Hey. It's okay. Happy for you.
Laura: Thank you.
Liam: Watch out for bear traps.
Laura: Thank you.
Liam: And I make a perception check as I walk back by myself. (laughter)
Matt: Yeah, you've traced your path back, you manage to avoid the traps easily this time being far more aware of the surroundings. In the meantime, while you two are rummaging through the household.
Marisha: We're looking through the books, yeah.
Taliesin: Looking through books.
Marisha: Do you think we'll ever have gods in our lives?
Taliesin: You know...
Marisha: I don't think they fancy us much. I don't really fancy them, though, so I guess that's fair. They're allowed that.
Taliesin: I'm not angry.
Marisha: (sighs) Me neither.
Taliesin: My books are still lovely, the library is still lovely. It made a lot of things better.
Marisha: You know, I felt really guilty about it for a while, like something was wrong with me? I don't understand why I didn't feel it, why I didn't understand. I don't think it was until Sarenrae and even Ioun just now mentioned that we serve that balance and that non-believers are necessary. It made me feel like a little bit less of a fuck-up, I guess, in this whole situation.
Taliesin: I think you're just fine. (laughs) Mostly.
Marisha: Apparently, you're a madman.
Taliesin: Apparently.
Marisha: A god called you a madman.
Taliesin: I know. Honestly, I'm a little touched.
Marisha: It's kind of a compliment.
Taliesin: Yeah, if it weren't for the migraine. I'm sorry, by the way. You may be the only one who understands this, but I needed something that was mine for a little while. So little of who we are is ours, and I knew it would end, but it was nice.
Marisha: Wow.
Taliesin: Ioun is quite a goddess, and she does not respect secrets, though. I, on the other hand, feel that secrets can be precious.
Marisha: Apparently. I just don't understand why you were still enigmatic after you already told us in front of Pelor. It's kind of a slap in the face.
Taliesin: Well, I thought she may kill me at that point. I was honestly fearing for my life there a little bit, and at that point everything was so awkward.
Marisha: I hope you know my frustration is only out of-- well, what you just said, I guess. Wanting something to be mine that I won't have.
Taliesin: Well, we'll see. I don't know.
Marisha: Some things you don't get to keep.
Taliesin: Yes, one of the bonuses of not being one of the chosen of the gods is we don't have to believe in destiny. We just, I think, heard a big speech from a god about not believing in destiny.
Marisha: I followed destiny my whole life. It wasn't until I got to the end that I realized the whole thing was ironic.
Taliesin: Why do we have to listen to anything they say?
Marisha: Cheers.
Taliesin: Cheers.
Marisha: Cheers to the faithless. I kind of inhaled a little bit.
Taliesin: That was a plant. You've been holding a plant and I've been holding a book. That got weird.
Marisha: I don't even know where we got these glasses in the story.
Taliesin: I think that was legitimately you were still holding a potted plant.
Marisha: Oh god. (spluttering) This coffee's been there for a while.
Sam: Crudite? Crudite? (laughter)
Taliesin: How does it feel to be chosen by a goddess at this point?
Sam: Who, me?
Taliesin: Yes, you! I know you've been listening.
Travis: No, I pull Scanlan aside.
Taliesin: We all watch.
Sam: A moment alone, please.
Travis: I want to see it.
Sam: My cube?
Travis: No, the seed. The little bean.
Sam: You want to see it?
Travis: Yeah, I want to see it.
Sam: All right.
Travis: Is it squishy?
Sam: Didn't you do this before with the other one?
Travis: Did I?
Sam: Didn't you try to squish it or something?
Marisha: That was the grain of sand.
Travis: I don't know what any of you are talking about. Are you giving it to me? Yep. I've got it. Over here. (sniffs) What does it smell like? (deep inhale) What does it smell like?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Laura: It's a seed of power, Grog.
Travis: Don't fucking rob me of my discovery. 11.
Matt: Best you can make out, it smells like dusty tomes. It smells like old, forgotten papers and parchment.
Travis: Smells like old money. It's been tucked in that old boob crevice. I want you to swallow the bean.
Sam: Swallow the bean?
Travis: Think about Sprigg, right? His tummy was glowing like fucking Teddy Ruxpin. I want to see you swallow that shit.
Sam: Sure. All right, I will mime swallowing the bean while I Wrist Pocket it.
Travis: (gasps) Oh my god! What, are you crazy? I was only kidding!
Matt: Make a sleight of hand check.
Sam: Five.
Matt: Grog, make a perception check.
Travis: I lose these every time, no matter how low it is. Eight. Nope. That's a six minus one, which is five. (laughter)
Matt: You all watch as he takes the small essence stone and whispers under his breath a small incantation and flicks his fingers, then it vanishes, and he goes-- it's so overt, yet you are entranced. He swallowed that thing!
Travis: I hope you know what you're doing. Do we get time with you before you leave?
Sam: I trust you 100 percent, Grog.
Liam: Scanlan just did the trick I do with my kids all the time, which is watch! One, two, three. It's gone! (laughter)
Travis: Where did that pencil go?! I pick Scanlan up by the scruff of his neck, and I hold my ear to his tummy.
Matt: Make a perception check.
Travis: Nine!
Sam: My stomach exists.
Matt: Yeah. You hear the occasional (grumbling).
Travis: Oh my god. It's growing. Tell me your last rites before you burst, if it happens.
Sam: I leave all of my worldly possessions to you, Grog.
Travis: Oh shit. Write that down, somebody?
Laura: I've got it, Grog. I've got it.
Travis: I'm holding him up like a seashell.
Taliesin: Shake him a bit. It will stop the reaction.
Laura: Stop manhandling Scanlan!
Travis: Why?
Laura: Because he doesn't like it.
Travis: Do you not like it?
Sam: Ordinarily, yes, but not today. (laughter)
Sam: When I pass it, I'll retrieve the item.
Travis: Oh shit.
Sam: Exactly.
Taliesin: He's keeping it secret. Keeping it safe.
Travis: You lost me.
Taliesin: I know.
Laura: We probably need to hurry.
Taliesin: This is going to be an odd request. Let's not go to Whitestone.
Travis: Why not?
Taliesin: I feel like we're being watched.
Laura: Maybe Vasselheim?
Sam: How did they know we were here?
Laura: Why didn't we ask Ioun about that?
Sam: Why did you just kill the assassin guy that we were going to ask?
Taliesin: It was an undead thing. It was just going to make a tongue at us.
Matt: "He wasn't really going to offer information, anyway."
Sam: Who are you?
Marisha: Who the fuck are you?
Travis: That's Vecna.
Laura: Is that the imp?
Matt: No. Standing by the doorway, you see there, arms crossed, casually standing before you: Vecna. (shouting and screaming)
Matt: (laughs) "Welcome back. You must have traveled quite a distance to be far from my sight."
Laura: Is he see-through? I try to shoot an arrow at him.
Matt: Okay, roll for an attack.
Liam: Cocked.
Laura: No, that's not cocked. Cocked! 29.
Matt: 29. (whoosh) It passes through his body.
Laura: I fucking knew it.
Matt: He laughs for a second, and you see him smiling his terrible grin across curled, yellowed teeth. You see that flicker of green energy sparking in his left eye. It seems to pulse as his brow arches above it. "I admire your resolve. You did it. You solved the riddle. You found my home, ruined my tower, slew one of my greatest acolytes, and even then, you failed. Still, impressive. That is most definitely worthy of a fine round of applause."
Laura: Thank you.
Matt: The smug clapping comes to a halt. He nods. "You're the only ones to get away. Others found me before you did, and another group of supposed heroes came and assaulted me shortly after you vanished. No matter. They all failed. And rose again."
Taliesin: Perception check.
Laura: Insight, maybe?
Marisha: Insight. Is he fucking lying?
Matt: Insight check? Go for it, if you want to make one.
Laura: Who was it? Natural 20.
Marisha: Oh yes!
Laura: Thanks for double-checking. It is. Like I would lie about a natural fucking 20.
Liam: That's a six. She's lying.
Marisha: 22.
Sam: Whispers?
Laura: He's the god of secrets! What do you expect?
Liam: The pencils are adorable.
Marisha: They are so cute.
Sam: You know what, guys? I didn't know that this was ever a thing.
Liam: You didn't know we were making pencils? Don't you remember the holy Vox Machina text thread?
Marisha: We definitely sent them in the text thread.
Sam: We've thrown out so many cool ideas on that text thread.
Laura: When I say, hey, name your quote on the text thread, then you send in a quote, that means it's probably pretty solid.
Sam: I get asked for personal quotes all the time.
Matt: "Consider your path one of earned existence. I would recommend you not waste such a rare lease on your arrogant lives."
Liam: I'm going to walk right up to him while he's talking and inspect his ugly fucking face.
Matt: You see through his beautifully adorned crushed velvet robes with gold trim. You see the tattered edges where gems and baubles hang around his neck. You can see the tendons and muscle that are pulled taut against his skin, that is drawn against his nearly-skeletal frame. He smiles back at you, looking down from that one sickly, almost pale blue iris and that green glowing burst of energy where his other eye would be.
Liam: How's that eye socket doing, friend?
Matt: "Well, these are the concerns of a mortal. My vision sees far more than it once did."
Marisha: While he's rambling, can Keyleth be looking for the nearest big-ass tree?
Matt: Sure. There's plenty of big-ass trees in your area.
Travis: Booby traps.
Marisha: Any clear path of least resistance?
Matt: Look at all these big-ass trees.
Taliesin: Also, is there anybody in the forest?
Marisha: Natural 19.
Matt: There's plenty to see, and you don't see anybody else nearby in the forest.
Marisha: Path of least resistance without traps?
Matt: Yeah, you see a path you can take.
Liam: I'm not entirely certain I am mortal anymore.
Matt: "I know what you are, and I know you know where I am. Come to me whenever you like."
Liam: Oh, fuckstick, we are coming.
Matt: "Are you all too bloody daft to see? It's over. I'm no longer the Undying King. I am the King of all Kings. I am not the Scourge in Secret. I am the Tyrant Unmatched."
Liam: Yes, you're very grand. And I begin to fingerfuck his eyehole in the illusion. So majestic.
Matt: As soon as your finger goes forward, his image flickers out and appears in the same room, behind you, now right up against Percy and Scanlan.
Marisha: We need to go.
Matt: "I am Vecna the Unholy. I am god upon Exandria. I come to play with the toys left by insolent, forgotten ancients and make this world into a new epoch. What this means, however, is an end to all. An end to borders and nations. There will only be the will of Vecna. So. Ask yourselves. You want peace? There is no peace, the way things are. You all bicker and stab and murder in the names of your mothers, your fathers. But this one? Everyone will live, and when they die, that need not be the end, either, under my banner. I can see your every move. I know your plot. I know your destination. I know your plan, your capabilities, your allies, and your imminent demise, should you continue. I offer you the chance to stand down, discard your imprisoned gods, and pledge to me. Many you love will. Many you love already have."
Travis: (laughs) I love it when they come begging for a truce. That means he's scared.
Matt: "Is it more important to throw away your lives against an unstoppable god or to return to your families--"
Liam: Grog, I think you're right.
Matt: "If you persist, I will not only destroy you, I will erase the memory of you ever existing from the mind of anyone you've ever known or cared for."
Laura: I don't think you have that power.
Matt: "Then try me."
Taliesin: I think, as generous as this offer is, we just don't enjoy associating with new money. Let's get out of here now.
Matt: "Very well."
Laura: I only serve gods with big dicks.
Matt: "Enjoy the forge."
Marisha: I point out the path. That way! Go!
Matt: As the portal opens and you guys go darting off in that direction, you hear in the distance the (cackles). One after another, you all jump through the portal, emerging?
Marisha: In Vasselheim.
Matt: In Vasselheim. (poof noise) All of you dart out just as the dusk sun begins to hit on the distant mountains this far across the ocean.
Marisha: I look around. Is there Vecna anywhere to be seen?
Matt: Nowhere.
Taliesin: We need sanctuary. Can you make your mansion?
Sam: Right now?
Taliesin: We need to rest, eventually, and you need to commune. We'd better assume we're being seen and heard at all times.
Laura: I wonder if he can see us in your dimension?
Taliesin: Maybe not.
Sam: I don't think so.
Travis: He said, of Exandria.
Marisha: He said he couldn't see us when we were in the library.
Liam: Where do I feel him now? Same distance?
Matt: Same distance. Same place.
Taliesin: Let's do this quick. We need to rest. You need to talk. There's much to do, and this does not feel good.
Laura: Go to Raven Queen's temple right now?
Sam: Raven Queen or the mansion?
Laura: Maybe we can do the mansion outside of her temple?
Sam: Sure.
Taliesin: Or even inside.
Travis: Vasselheim doesn't take very kindly to magic stuff.
Laura: We'll be in her temple.
Marisha: Aren't you also wanted here, right now?
Taliesin: I will literally shoot anybody who attempts to deal with it. Give him your hat.
Matt: The first thing you guys notice as you take in your surroundings: even though dusk is happening, there seems to be a larger bustle than you're used to in Vasselheim. You begin to see there's a skyship at port, and a lot of the various Bastions-- the general Bastions, the volunteer army that run across much of the city-- you see them darting back and forth, carrying supplies. There's a buzzing energy to the air of the city that you haven't seen in a while.
Taliesin: I'm going to grab someone, at some point.
Marisha: I did tell the Ashari to start alerting the nearby towns.
Matt: You grab a gentleman who runs past you, he has a greying beard with patches of black still, his top of his head is shaved bald and you can see a bit of a tattoo across one half of his face that curls into his ear. He's rushing with a cluster of spears under one arm, and he's wearing hide armor on his chest.
Taliesin: You there! What is the commotion?
Matt: "Apparently, we're gearing up for some sort of assault."
Taliesin: How soon?
Matt: "We don't know. We've just been told to prepare."
Taliesin: Who told?
Sam: Probably us.
Taliesin: I just want to find out where it came from.
Matt: "The chain of command from the top of the Bastions, as well. Apparently, from some of the other temples here are speaking of some entity, some Vecna."
Taliesin: Good man. Carry on. Prepare.
Matt: "Very well."
Marisha: I bet whenever he ascended, all the clerics felt it.
Laura: We'll be fighting undead, more than likely.
Matt: "Very well." He goes to run off, two of his compatriots stop and turn and give a slow glance of recognition towards Grog.
Laura: Keep running. They've got bigger things happening right now, just keep running.
Matt: You guys continue. They stare for a second, then keep running, they look to be preoccupied. But you get the sense that at least word of someone matching your image has been disseminated throughout the town.
Travis: I am quite famous.
Sam: Do you want me to disguise you?
Travis: Sure, why not. What am I looking like?
Sam: Take this hat--
Travis: I have to attune to it; it takes forever.
Sam: Fuck! All right, I'll cast Seeming on you. On all of us. Because I can.
Travis: Will you make me look like Tary?
Laura: No, what? (laughter)
Laura: That's not smart!
Travis: Well, it's not like he was in the room where it happened.
Taliesin: The room where it happened?
Matt: The room where it happened.
Laura: Keep running toward the Raven Queen temple as that's happening.
Marisha: We should probably try and use our words as much as possible.
Sam: Blue and a foot smaller, like Blue Man Group. Black clothes, blue face, bald.
Matt: So you have a little more of an aasimar appearance, though a larger one than you've seen. (laughter)
Matt: All right, where are you guys charging off to?
Liam: Yeah, Raven Queen temple.
Matt: Okay, you're heading to the Raven's Crest. All right. You make your way to the--
Marisha: I'm going to keep looking around, make sure no one's tailing us.
Matt: Okay, make a perception check.
Marisha: 21.
Matt: 21? All right. Keeping an eye out, you don't see anybody following you at the moment. That does not appear to be an issue. So you head to the area of the Duskmeadow, to the southeast of the city. You come through the dry, cold, and dusty sector. A little bit of snow appears to have melted into slush at the corners, but most of it has been pushed off the main roads to the side. You see dirty snow matted at the edges. You follow Vax very quickly through the streets, and you see a few of the veiled maidens of the Raven's Crest aerie taking note of you. And as you approach, they just point over to the Raven's Crest silently as you walk past.
Laura: Quickly. Quickly walk past.
Liam: I'm going to walk up the steps and push open the door.
Matt: You're coming from the other side as opposed to the main entrance so you rush past the hall that goes, which is the Grand Library that's attached to the Raven's Crest.
Liam: Everybody's with me, right?
Matt: Yeah, And you come to the front doors, they are closed currently, but you have two of the maidens there at the front, and as you begin to turn from the side, they glance over and give notice, and then turn and push the doors open in preparation. With that, you all enter Raven's Crest itself, and looking within, you can see the beautiful interior of carved obsidians and gold trims and sigils that are marked and pushed throughout the interior of this structure. Are you leading them to the central chamber?
Liam: Yeah, I'm bringing everybody with me.
Matt: Okay. No one stops you, and as you head up these stairs into the second chamber and then finally to the large set of doorways that lead you into the central communion chamber of Raven's Crest, you guys enter to this beautiful room that is surrounded in stained glass imagery of varying colors, largely in dark purples and reds, blues, and in the center you see a large, circular pool where a deep crimson liquid sits perfectly still, familiar to both Percival and Vax'ildan.
Liam: I walk over to Keyleth. We need to talk. And I plant a big fucking kiss on her mouth, and then I turn to the rest of the group and say, nobody fucking touches me, do you understand?
Travis: Where are you going?
Laura: Understood.
Liam: I walk in, and I inhale as deeply as I can as I shove my face into the blood.
Laura: I hold Trinket back so that he doesn't go after him.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: I watch on the side and don't take my eyes off of him.
Matt: Okay. Pike instinctually walks up to the very edge but avoids touching any of the liquid. As you watch Vax just (bloop noise) disappear into this thick liquid, no bubbles rise, you see a bit of movement from thrashing beneath the surface and then stillness.
Marisha: Is this what he goes through every time?
Taliesin: This is normal.
Travis: Is he a vampire?
Taliesin: He is not a vampire.
Sam: I think he's dead. I think he died in there.
Taliesin: I don't think that's how it works.
Laura: But I do think he's dead.
Sam: He's undead, isn't he? He's a zombie.
Taliesin: He's not a zombie.
Marisha: His flesh is cold, but his heart still beats.
Matt: Vax'ildan. As the panic and pain subsides, much easier now than it was your previous ventures, into this communion, the darkness surrounds you, familiar, but you are intent, and you are driven. The very force of your conversation is pushed out from your personality into this ether, this surrounding, infinite void, and a familiar voice comes. "You burn with intent, my feathered boy."
Liam: We need to talk.
Matt: "Then talk we shall. Speak your mind." You still see nothing around you, it's just the voice from the darkness.
Liam: We were too late to stop him. Vecna.
Matt: "I sensed it, yes."
Liam: This dead man who wanted to be a god is now a fucking god. We have been speaking to your brothers and sisters, your found family, and they are arming us with what we need to fight your foe. You know who he is. He is upon us and I have come to you for aid. And as I have learned, he is somewhat akin to you. He was one of us and has ascended, like you.
Matt: "He is no kin to me. He is a trier. He is a copycat. He ascends for selfish reasons, whereas I was merely following my destiny. He will be destroyed. You have the tools. You have the means. The weave is tangled before us. The threads grow knotted, hard to follow. But yours still glows so bright into that terrible knot."
Liam: This thing. This man is your enemy, yes?
Matt: "As he is the enemy of all things."
Liam: Agreed. I have come here seeking power.
Matt: "You have my blessing already."
Liam: What of these trammels? These fragments of divinity. Have you that in you?
Matt: "I do not know much of these trammels but that they were used. But I fear that is beyond my knowledge. The Knowing Mistress would be the one to speak to."
Liam: We have.
Matt: "Then what do you need of me?"
Liam: We need to power trammels. The Dawnfather, the Knowing Mistress have contributed to our cause, to your cause, these seeds of power. I had hoped you could offer the same.
Matt: At this point, you feel a finger trace across your chin from behind. You feel an arm, the weight resting on your shoulder, and it pulls and turns you around, and as you spin, you come face to face with the porcelain mask you are so familiar with. As the hand still holds the edge of your cheek and your shoulder, "Am I to believe that this is not some ploy to diminish my power and leave me vulnerable to cast me from my seat?"
Liam: I thought you knew me inside and out.
Matt: "I know you, but do you know them? Do you think I've been welcome since I entered this pantheon? My existence is perpetually a threat to the creators. If anything, part of this burden that we all face lies on my shoulders, as well. Why would they not think to strike at two birds with one stone?" At which point, you watch the feathers of her dress furl out a bit, like a bird that's hit a chill.
Liam: Well, it depends on you, then, and how much you want this wretch taken down.
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Liam: 18.
Matt: There's a long, silent stare. "I put my faith in you, my fate-touched. Do not forget that. And all I ask is you put all your faith in me."
Liam: You have it.
Matt: "Then I shall watch your thread. Now wake up." In that instant, everything goes black once more, and you feel the pain, the heat in your lungs, but then it subsides quickly, and you stay there beneath the familiar, thick surface of the blood. No need for air.
Travis: You're just chilling like a villain under the blood?!
Sam: (whispering) He can breathe blood!
Matt: The instinct to breathe is still there, but you realize after a moment of panic that it's not necessary.
Liam: Do I have what I came for?
Matt: You can't see. Your body is clenched tight. Your muscles are still tense.
Liam: Okay, I'll move up.
Matt: You guys, after waiting for about 30 minutes, it feels like, of tense silence, you watch as the surface of the pool (splashing) splashes upwards as a crimson Vax comes to the surface. Not gasping for breath. Just stoic, as he comes to the edge of the pool, step after step, dripping the blood with each footprint on the ground. Your fist hurts a bit from the tightness, but as you unfurl your fingers you look down and see a small, onyx opal. It's a stone about the size of a gem that big on your hand.
Travis: That is a big bean.
Liam: I need a bath.
Taliesin: Do we want to try and make one more jump?
Travis: Just a minute. I have a question. How many times have you done that?
Liam: Six.
Travis: My gods.
Taliesin: Once.
Sam: This has been the craziest 48 hours of my life. (laughter)
Sam: I mean... wow, guys.
Liam: Campaign in 48 hours.
Sam: Wow. I could've just been chilling...
Taliesin: You've made some bad decisions, haven't you?
Liam: I just stand clutching a gem dripping blood, looking at the love of my life.
Marisha: I kiss him back through the blood. (groaning)
Marisha: Fuck you, you kiss your bear on the mouth!
Matt: It looks like Keyleth had some barbecue and wasn't paying attention.
Travis: We don't know where that blood's from!
Marisha: That's love, y'all.
Liam: I was not expecting that.
Marisha: You did it.
Liam: (whispering) I'm sorry.
Marisha: Okay, all right, let's clean you up.
Taliesin: Do we want to try and run one more time before we--
Sam: Run where?
Laura: Run where?
Taliesin: Well, into the forge, I suppose. Find the sword, head to the forge.
Sam: How do we get to the forge? There's no trees there.
Travis: I have a thought, right? Do we give a shit about Kord at all, or no?
Sam: It would be great to have a fourth bean, but we're on a ticking time clock.
Liam: Yeah, I like the idea of the Kord bean, but I really want to go to bed.
Taliesin: Let's set up camp, and if you feel like you want to make one last--
Travis: I'll ask. He might just say no.
Marisha: We don't even know where to find him, though. We're running out of time.
Travis: Yep. It's right here. It's like popping into Blockbuster when you go to the grocery store. Might as well see what's up.
Sam: Blockbuster?
Laura: Redbox, maybe.
Travis: No, Blockbuster. Where are you from?
Sam: Errol's Video.
Taliesin: 20/20. Do we want to set up shop here or do we want to set up shop in the temple of Kord?
Laura: I think here. I feel like we're safe here.
Travis: I mean, we got free reign. We got backstage passes. Everybody's like, "right through here!"
Taliesin: I think honestly here they'll have difficulty identifying which of our blood is going to be splattered on the ground.
Liam: And I'm good with management, I think we can... yeah.
Taliesin: Let's sleep here.
Travis: Yeah, you seem to be super tight with--
Laura: Do you want to head over to Kord's temple as well? I have a feeling if we find him, we'll have to go to another plane.
Travis: Yeah, that was my (stammers) assess, as well.
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: If you want to go do a little bit of footwork and see what it might take to get there, I can rest and try and get us there. Remember, you have to find a tuning fork, though, that is attuned to the specific plane.
Taliesin: You're speaking words that he doesn't--
Marisha: You need a magical vibrating fork that is connected to the vibrating plane of Kord.
Taliesin: He doesn't know what that word means.
Travis: I was just going to go speak to Earthbreaker Groon. I don't know what's so hard about that. He gave me these gloves last time.
Marisha: Right. I'm just letting you know the prerequisites so you can ask the right questions. Just go.
Laura: I'll go. I'll go with him.
Travis: Am I still blue?
Sam: You're still blue, and you still look like Blue Man Group, so do you want me to go with you so that I can undo that when we get there?
Travis: Yeah, you tweedles want to come?
Laura: Yeah.
Sam: Or do you want to talk to him blue?
Travis: No, I want to be blue. Yeah. I want to stay blue.
Sam: But when you talk to Groon do you want to be blue?
Travis: Yeah you can dissipate, right?
Sam: So I'll come with you.
Travis: Yeah. That cool?
Laura: Yeah.
Travis: You guys rest. I'm going to go find us a bean of strength and might and sex appeal. Can I go to the temple of Kord?
Matt: Yeah. You guys make your way.
Sam: Am I making a mansion for the rest of you?
Laura: That would be smart. I feel like the mansion is the smartest thing because it's not--
Travis: They don't have Raven Queen cots or something?
Laura: We don't know; Vecna could still see in here.
Marisha: Oh, that's true. You're right.
Sam: All right. Mansion. Enjoy yourselves.
Matt: You create the shimmering doorway, and you guys come into the mansion without issue.
Marisha: To the spa!
Liam: To the spa!
Sam: I'll don the hat so I turn into the Meat Man so that no one can recognize me.
Matt: Okay. The three of you make your way to the Braving Grounds.
Laura: As we're walking, I want to whisper to Scanlan. I'm going to whisper to the Meat Man's crotch because that's about even, right?
Sam: I think he's a little bigger.
Laura: Then I'll whisper to his waistline. The sword that Ioun was talking about, right, the Sword of Kas?
Sam: (Meat Man voice) The Sword of Kas, yes.
Laura: Do you think it could possibly the sword that Grog had?
Sam: The thought did occur to me, yes, but there are big differences.
Laura: Do you know for sure?
Sam: Well, Ioun did not talk about a talking sword, for one.
Laura: Well, no, but she didn't say it wasn't a talking sword. She said it was a vengeful sword.
Sam: Do you think we should go get it to make sure? We should have asked for some sort of identifying feature.
Laura: We really should have. Maybe we could ask the sword.
Sam: She said, "Do you have any more questions?"
Laura: And we didn't. But maybe if we see that sword, we can be like, "Hey, do you know who Kas is?" and if he does, then we're like, "Oh fuck!"
Sam: You want to go visit Craven Edge?
Laura: I'm saying this quietly. I don't want Grog to realize we're doing this. He has a thing for Craven Edge.
Sam: I held the sword once.
Laura: You did?
Sam: I have a thing for Craven Edge, as well.
Laura: Oh fuck. Oh shit.
Matt: Make an intelligence roll, actually. Roll a d20, add your intelligence modifier plus one because you have a permanent plus two to your intelligence.
Sam: Intelligence check? 11.
Liam: Your intelligence is higher now, after Ioun. Don't forget your Ioun papers!
Sam: Eight plus two, plus one is 11.
Liam: Oh god!
Matt: Okay, continue.
Laura: Continue. You didn't pass the test.
Sam: I mean, do I get to add my Jack of All Trades?
Matt: Yeah. Plus three.
Sam: 14!
Laura: Anything?
Matt: Nothing. Continue.
Sam: It was a very powerful sword, but perhaps it's worth a check. How do we get there? We'll have to talk to Keyleth about it.
Marisha: I don't think the timelines match. But I could be wrong. I'm not there.
Laura: Delilah Briarwood, Lord Briarwood had the sword, they were seeking Vecna.
Liam: That's where they got that shit.
Laura: It could work out.
Marisha: But they were making out like Vecna had this sword while we had Craven Edge, right?
Laura: Vecna doesn't have the sword right now--
Matt: No one's seen the Sword of Kas since Vecna was destroyed along with Kas.
Laura: Exactly! Craven Edge could be the Sword of Kas.
Liam: It got lost and was refound.
Laura: By the Briarwoods. They were going to awaken him, but then he died.
Sam: Or it's just a sword.
Laura: Or it's just a sword that just likes blood.
Liam: We've got to do something.
Travis: Can we go?!
Laura: Sorry, Grog. Yes, of course. We're walking. We're doing this while we walk. We're not wasting time with this conversation. We're traveling with this conversation.
Travis: I didn't realize.
Sam: We'll ask Keyleth when we get back.
Laura: Okay. We sent it to the plane of the Dread Emperor.
Sam: She knows how to get there.
Matt: You guys make your way through the Proving Grounds. Where are you heading to specifically?
Travis: To the temple of Kord. Big man outside. The Trial Forge with the big doors.
Matt: You make your way to the Trial Forge. The doors are currently closed, it is mid-evening at this point. It's probably, at this point, with the communion and you guys making your way across the city? Yeah, it's close to midnight.
Travis: Nice. (loud knocking)
Matt: Your knocks are very loud and easily heard. About 20 seconds later (door opening) begin to open. You hear the cinching of chains as the doors are pulled open ever so slightly. One of the monks of Kord arrives at the front, sees you, recognizes you with a bit of glance.
Sam: He's blue.
Matt: Oh, that's right. Does not recognize you.
Travis: I apologize for the late flower. Don't be confused. It's me, Grog Strongjaw, wielder of the Titanstone Knuckles. (whispers) I'm in-cog-Cheeto.
Sam: I will drop the form of Grog.
Matt: Yeah. "Very well. Can I help you?"
Travis: Yeah, I seek an audience with Earthbreaker Groon. Very important. It pertains to the emergence of Vecna.
Matt: "All right. This may coordinate with his current effort. Very well. Please enter."
Sam: Can we come in?
Matt: You guys make your way in.
Sam: I am a legitimate businessman.
Matt: "I am very curious as to why you are here, then."
Sam: For business dealings.
Matt: "You walk with Vox Machina."
Sam: I shouldn't have said anything. (laughter)
Matt: You walk through the halls, your footfalls echoing across the stone floor. The large archways and the pillars. It is very quiet. As you approach the edge of the central sandpit, in the center you see Groon, currently sitting in meditation with something drawn in the sand with a finger. Some sort of a sketch.
Travis: May I approach?
Matt: The head, facing away from you, picks up a bit. "You may."
Travis: (jumping and landing) Three-point stance.
Matt: Slowly stands up and brushes sand from the hands. Not turning, but just looking over the shoulder ever so slightly at you. "What brings you to the temple at this hour?"
Travis: We have urgent business-- what are you drawing there?
Matt: "Finish your statement."
Travis: Right, sorry. We come with grim tidings. Vecna is at large, and we mean to take him down.
Matt: "I know only what I've been told. We are gathering the monks for defense of the city. Awaiting orders. I'm trying to meditate on where this danger is."
Travis: We have a theory. We think he might be originating in Wildemount? No.
Laura: We don't know where he is exactly-- (stammering) We've been speaking to the gods.
Travis: You might want to talk through me. I'm his most prized pupil.
Laura: I'm going to stand next to Grog while I say this.
Travis: In the sandpit?
Laura: Yeah! I'm going to fly down to the sandpit and land next to Grog.
Travis: Lady Vex'ahlia. Great fighter, very brave.
Laura: Hi.
Matt: Still hasn't turned around, but seems to be listening.
Laura: Champion of Pelor, the Dawnfather. We've been speaking to the gods. We're taking on Vecna. Hopefully not alone, but we need to speak with Kord. I know that sounds odd, but Grog was hoping--
Laura: I was hoping that you would know how to contact him directly, perhaps maybe have something that was tuned to his plane of existence, potentially.
Travis: I was hoping that you would know how to contact him directly, perhaps maybe have something that was tuned to his plane of existence, potentially.
Matt: "You have drawn Kord's attention once, directly. He is aware of you. Should you wish to speak, that I can teach. It is a long process. Piety, meditation, and learning of the history of the Storm Lord himself. But it can be done."
Laura: How long of a process is this, that we're talking?
Matt: "You cannot rush faith."
Laura: I'm not trying to rush faith. I'm just saying that Vecna has ascended to godhood. We have a limited amount of time to take him down. We need to speak with Kord.
Matt: "I cannot help you."
Laura: You can't speak to him directly?
Matt: "I can meditate and reach out, perhaps."
Laura: Maybe draw his attention to us? The need is dire.
Matt: "It doesn't work the way you ask. Kord isn't a giving god."
Laura: He's not?
Matt: Make a religion check.
Laura: Okay, yeah, this is going to go so well. Hold up. 20?
Matt: Okay. You know about Kord. Kord, from what you understand, is the god of competition and storms and chaotic nature and good-neutral territory, but emphasizes contest and--
Travis: Self-reliance.
Matt: Yeah, he's not the kind of god you can beseech with a word.
Laura: Maybe you can tell him there's a big fight coming. Call out to him! Get his attention.
Travis: See if he wants box seats or something?
Laura: Yeah! Say he can help take down the big bad guy.
Travis: Free food and drinks?
Laura: Definitely! Prime tickets to a UFC fight.
Travis: Do you happen to know, from all your years of meditation, what plane or where Kord might reside?
Matt: "Ysgard."
Travis: Ysgard?
Laura: East guard?
Matt: "Ysgard."
Travis: East guard. (laughter)
Laura: He is god. East guard.
Matt: Y-S-G-A-R-D. (laughter)
Travis: (clears throat) Ysgard. Hmm. Is that on another plane?
Laura: Is that near the Fields of Elysium, or a totally different place?
Matt: "I do not know."
Travis: Listen, he is very busy right now with his meditation garden.
Laura: Right, yeah. So you have nothing else that you can do? I know that you're going to fight his troops, but the fact of the matter is Vecna is a god. If we can't find some way to speak to Kord, we may not be able to save the world again.
Travis: Action now would prevent the spread of his power.
Matt: "If what you say is true, I'm certain Kord already knows. We will do what we can, but what you ask is not within our ability to grant."
Travis: Fair enough. You don't happen to have a bean on you, do you? Hard no?
Laura: Powerful beans. Super.
Matt: For the first time, you see Kord glance over his shoulder at you--
Laura: (laughs) He hasn't looked at us this whole fucking time?
Matt: No, he's been back to you and looking over the shoulder. He finally turns and gives a nudge to one of the monks up top, who darts off. (running noises) A few awkward quiet minutes pass. (running noises) Jumps down into the sand pit, runs up, and hands you a small satchel.
Travis: I look inside.
Matt: It is filled with beans. (laughter)
Laura: You have everything you've ever wanted, Grog. Congratulations.
Travis: Everybody else got one. I've got a satchel. Just fucking name the group after me. We are out. Thank you!
Laura: Can I see what he was drawing in the sand while we were over there?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Laura: 18.
Travis: I'll do it, too, because I was curious.
Matt: Go for it.
Travis: Don't worry about it. (laughter)
Matt: You glance over and you see one sketch that appears to be a general overview of the city, of all the different quarters that make up the mountain. And he's essentially trying to work out defense positions within the city and preparing for some sort of siege.
Travis: I thank you for seeing us at this late hour, and I wish you luck in the defense of this temple and this city.
Matt: "I wish I could be of more help."
Travis: You have been.
Laura: Groon, if Vecna attacks here, he'll bring undead.
Matt: "That's all right. We'll bring the storm."
Travis: Oh fuck! That was a noble answer! I'm sorry. I'm cool. We're out.
Sam: If you ever need any antique furniture or decor, ask for the Meat Man. He get you good deal. (clicks tongue)
Matt: (grunts) He turns back to facing away.
Laura: He's really creepy, isn't he?
Travis: Make sure as we leave, we back away. Back away.
Laura: Back away.
Taliesin: What was Kord painting?
Matt: He was drawing in the sand.
Taliesin: Please tell me it was a horse playing saxophone. That's all I want. (laughter)
Matt: He sits back down in the sand pit and goes back to his concentration, leaves you to your business.
Travis: That was a total win. I got a bag full of beans.
Laura: Good job, Grog.
Travis: Yep. And we know that Kord is on "he's-a-god."
Laura: Yeah. He's in Ysgard.
Travis: You're saying it weird.
Laura: "He's-god."
Travis: "He's-god." So should I change back?
Sam: I can't do it again.
Travis: What do you mean? You can't?
Sam: I guess I could do it one more time, sure.
Travis: We're going back to sleep, right? It's either that or I put a fancy robe over my whole face.
Sam: This time, I make us all blue.
Laura: Lovely. Can I have light blue hair?
Sam: Dark blue skin, light blue hair? Sure. I'll be opposite.
Liam: Not painted bald caps? Not blue-painted bald caps?
Laura: No, I want beautiful hair. I've always wanted blue hair.
Liam: That's not the Blue Man Group I know.
Travis: We make our way back to the temples. Is the bustle the same outside of the temple?
Matt: Well, as you step out of the temple and Scanlan blues you all, you make your way across--
Sam: Episode title  The Blue Job. (laughter)
Travis: The multiple blue jobs.
Matt: Yeah. Okay. As you exit the temple, it's late night, and the bustle has calmed down a little bit, as it is the evening, but you do see there are-- normally what are small patrol lights at the edges of the walls, you can see large fires are burning at the edges to extend eyesight. It's interesting. You see wyverns in the sky. You hear the familiar cries of wyverns, and at first, it catches you off-guard. But Vex'ahlia, glancing up, you can see they all have some sort of barding on them. Silver and blue barding.
Laura: Oh shit! It's the temple of Bahamut? Yes!
Matt: Platinum dragons. They have wyvern riders here that act as air patrol during times of intense possible warfare.
Travis: Air force got scrambled. (aircraft noises) Amazing!
Taliesin: Formation. Smoke.
Laura: I really hope Vasselheim stands.
Matt: You guys make your way back to Raven's Crest, to the entranceway to Scanlan's Magnificent Mansion and to the rest of your party, freshly washed.
Travis: So a question  what's on the menu?
Taliesin: Beans, apparently.
Travis: Now, look. How do you even know that?
Taliesin: I just assumed because I know you.
Travis: Why would you only serve beans? There's no meat or fish?
Sam: It's vegan here. We serve a lot of beans.
Travis: Because of your daughter?
Sam: Yes.
Travis: Well, she's not here. Can we make an exception?
Sam: She's always here in my heart.
Taliesin: Hopefully not in the kitchen, though, so we're going to cook anything we like.
Travis: I got what we needed. I got myself a bean.
Marisha: You got a shard?
Travis: I got several shards. I got a bag full of shards. Hold on, the power might bowl you all over.
Taliesin: That actually might, especially if not eaten with rice.
Travis: What are you doing? (gasping)
Liam: It's all right; I can eat anything.
Travis: How do you feel?
Matt: Tastes like ash.
Liam: Yeah, so does everything.
Marisha: (gasps) We used to eat these in the Fire Ashari all the time. These are a rare delicacy! Good find, Grog. (gasps) I could grow some more. Oh my god. We can have coal bean soup all the time at home, you guys. These are coal beans. They're great.
Travis: These are not the same thing?
Laura: There could be an actual seed of power within there.
Travis: Is there a table nearby?
Matt: Yeah, you're not too far from the--
Travis: I dump all the beans out on the table. Are there any beans that look different from the rest?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Laura: I'll look over his shoulder and help look. I'm going to help look.
Travis: (laughing) 16. Does that count?
Laura: That's not bad.
Matt: You actually find four beans that look a bit darker, but squishier. They look to maybe be a little on the the rotten side.
Travis: These are the beans. I mean, I should've thought-- Kord is a fist, and you put one of each four on the knuckles. I squish each one of the beans.
Matt: And they squish easy. (squishing noise)
Travis: I'm not a praying man. Bless my gauntlet. Anything happen?
Marisha: There's a little juice running down your gauntlet.
Travis: Are they glowing?
Laura: Well...
Marisha: Fermented? Fermented.
Matt: A little funky.
Travis: You know what? I bet if I pray hard enough, they will disappear. Look above you!
Laura: (noises of surprise)
Sam: (noises of surprise)
Matt: Make a sleight-of-hand check.
Travis: Hey! That's not terrible. (laughing) I got plus two! 18! (laughter)
Matt: Strangely, Scanlan and Pike are impressed.
Sam: I just rolled a two. Whoa. That was impressive.
Travis: Yeah. Well, the line between me and Kord. Super tight.
Marisha: Keyleth goes behind Grog and starts cleaning up the beans that he just threw.
Travis: Pike! Pretty good, right?
Matt: "Honestly? Kind of blown away."
Travis: I know. Maybe I should get a tattoo for Kord, like the symbols you have for Sarenrae.
Matt: "What're you thinking for the tattoo?"
Travis: I don't know. A fist?
Taliesin: Or a bean.
Travis: Hey, don't put ideas in my head. A bean?
Matt: "Actually, the symbol of the Storm Lord's cool. I'll get it up for you." And she pulls out a piece of paper and sketches it up for you. It's this cool disc, this dark metal disc with blue bolts of lightning that stick out of the center.
Travis: The Storm Lord symbol is the jam. That is a cartoon bean.
Laura: It's a bean with a dick.
Travis: The dick is smaller than the balls. It's like a parrot's beak. Listen. We're going to stick with the Storm Lord sigil.
Liam: We are going to save the world.
Travis: Well, listen, I found out where Kord is. He's in a place called--
Laura: Ysgard.
Sam: Ysgard.
Marisha: Sure.
Travis: Are you familiar?
Marisha: No.
Travis: Oh. Why'd you say sure?
Marisha: I was just seeming intelligent.
Travis: I do that all the time. Anybody have any idea where that is?
Sam: No. We can ask.
Travis: Okay. Who can we ask?
Taliesin: Asking the dungeon master.
Matt: (chuckles) Make a religion check, only if you're trained in it.
Liam: I'm making a religion check. Jeepers.
Matt: I just rolled for Pike.
Travis: 17, but I'm not trained in it.
Liam: Just a 12.
Taliesin: I'm not trained in religion.
Matt: (sighs) Not a whole lot of information gleaned on this.
Travis: (sighs) Okay. How did Pike roll?
Matt: Pike didn't roll that great.
Travis: Fuck!
Laura: Percy? With your migraine, do you know what else we need to make these trammels?
Taliesin: I've been thinking a lot. I've been trying to skirt around this information for a bunch of reasons, so I've been making a mental shopping list.
Matt: Yeah. And from what you recall, it seems that one, the tools that were used to build them are generally with the anvil forge. It's more the essence of the god that drives the trammel. The material required is pure platinum.
Laura: (gasps) Platinum mines!
Travis: Yeah, that we buried under a mountain.
Laura: So? We know where they are.
Marisha: Do we for sure need platinum?
Matt: The trammels are about that long. They're giant stakes of platinum.
Laura: We need more platinum.
Taliesin: I'm attempting to do the math of how much platinum...
Matt: I mean, if you were to melt down platinum pieces? Each trammel would probably be close to I'd say-- with the density and the thickness of it-- 500 platinum.
Marisha: Each trammel is 500 platinum?
Matt: Yeah. For the thickness of it, for the pure platinum structure.
Marisha: How much do we have?
Laura: Well, I didn't write exactly how much platinum we have. I transposed the platinum into gold in my notes.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: We can buy platinum. Go to a bank and exchange it.
Matt: You can exchange gold for platinum.
Marisha: Wait, Grog. You had it in your original Bag of Holding? How much was written down on our original Bag of Holding list?
Travis: I don't know. There were a bunch of digits.
Marisha: Do you not still have it written down?
Taliesin: If he actually has the phrase "a bunch of digits," that would make me so happy right now.
Travis: You know, we could always take Kima's greatsword. It's made out of solid platinum.
Matt: She has that sword right now.
Travis: Yeah, she does. I'm just saying.
Sam: Who was the other band of travelers who fought and lost?
Travis: 1,600 platinum.
Marisha: We had 1,600 platinum, originally.
Travis: 1,619.
Taliesin: There's part of me that doesn't want to know.
Marisha: We're going to find out.
Laura: We could go to the bank here in Vasselheim and switch out money for platinum. We have enough gold to do. It's 500 platinum each, you said?
Marisha: Is there a place where we could buy bars?
Laura: 5,000 gold would be 500 platinum? Okay.
Matt: You have to melt it down to get rid of the impurities to get the metal down to its purest form. There's a process to it that you are actually familiar with.
Travis: I'm familiar with it, all of a sudden. So because we have these shards, right, these magical beans, if we lose, do we effectively kill all the gods whose shards we have?
Taliesin: We depower them, so they'll be weak when they go against Vecna.
Travis: Yeah, that's a lot of responsibility I was not aware of.
Laura: Well, we need to not lose. They're still diminished if we do defeat Vecna. That part of them is forever chaining him.
Marisha: If we fail, he could be coming after them. They have no line of defense.
Travis: Worst scenario possible. Cool. Good to know.
Matt: Good news is, you do know that the Divine Gate works both ways. He could not travel into their realms. They could not travel into that. However, it prevents them from intervening directly on his dominion over the Prime Material Plane.
Liam: And as far as we know, this other group did not have the help of gods.
Laura: Right. As far as we know.
Liam: As far as we know, unless they went to all of the other gods we have not met.
Taliesin: It's not like we can't look in on anyone that we need to really quickly. I'm feeling the urge.
Laura: Do you know who it could be?
Liam: We might want to check and see if Allura, Gilmore, Kima, all our buddies are okay. Kash, Zahra.
Taliesin: My question is, does it matter, at the moment?
Laura: Of course it matters, dear.
Taliesin: Does it? Does it just make us panic?
Laura: At least we'd know if he raised them up like he said he did, if we'll be fighting undead Gilmore and undead Allura.
Taliesin: All right, point made. Point very well made. Let's start with--
Marisha: I have a few scrys that I want to do, anyway.
Laura: Can we scry through this dimension?
Marisha: Nope. I've got to pop out.
Travis: Shouldn't you rest first?
Taliesin: No, finish this first.
Liam: What do you need?
Marisha: I'm just wondering if I do any type of large magic, if it'll alert him. Hey, what happened to that skull that we got in Brimscythe's basement?
Taliesin: With the gem.
Marisha: The gem in the eye.
Laura: Funny you should ask.
Marisha: Remember, we thought it might be connected?
Taliesin: It had a gem in one eye, if I recall.
Travis: Yeah, a green emerald gem in one socket, you dicks.
Sam: Where is it?
Laura: Allura has it.
Marisha: We gave it to Allura.
Travis: What?
Laura: Allura has it.
Travis: No, it's in Percy's workshop.
Laura: Sure, and Allura came down and saw it-- no, I gave it to Allura.
Marisha: I wonder if it's spying on everything?
Laura: I'm sorry, Grog. I gave you your deck of cards back! The skull was very dangerous, and at the time it seemed like the right thing to do. I'm sorry. I'm sorry! Look, we just went and got a bunch of beans for you.
Travis: That's true.
Liam: And also, buddy, we might be dead in a week, you don't want to hold on to that kind of shit.
Taliesin: We may be going to get the skull back.
Marisha: Well, yeah, we could get the skull back because I was just going through my notes, my old diary, of everything that we've been through--
Taliesin: It literally has a leaf on it, oh my god.
Marisha: I have four diaries of everything we've been through.
Taliesin: I've read them.
Sam: Ugh. What kind of dumb character keeps a diary?
Marisha: It said evil skull in Brimscythe's-- 1/21. We found an evil skull in Brimscythe's house. It may be connected to Craven Edge. And I put stars next to it.
Taliesin: Did you put stars next to it because it was important or did you just put stars next to it?
Marisha: I don't know, that's just what I wrote down a year and a half ago.
Travis: I mean, do you need me to drop my scholastic knowledge on this shit? Because I will. It talked to me and it was like, "If you free me, I'll give you a wish."
Marisha: The skull?
Travis: Yeah. Why do you think I was trying to break that shit?
Laura: I don't believe if you'd freed it you would've gotten a wish, I think you would've fought something.
Travis: Do you know for sure?
Laura: No.
Travis: Then what are we talking about?
Taliesin: Let's find out what's going on with the skull.
Liam: Yeah, we are in final days, here.
Taliesin: Yeah, let's give ourselves--
Sam: What are we doing?
Taliesin: We're going to try and take 48 hours to get as much done as humanly possible.
Laura: We need to scry on the fucking friends, we need to check in on that skull, maybe. And you need to maybe open up the plane to the Dread Emperor and see about the Craven Edge.
Marisha: What now?
Liam: The gods must be crazy.
Taliesin: Part two?
Sam: That's low priority.
Laura: Is it?
Sam: I don't think that's the thing.
Laura: What if that weapon is super good against Vecna?
Sam: Just because it's a sword?
Marisha: Okay, wait, did she say we needed the sword? Also, I think the knight guy that you fought that was super awful was the bloody--
Liam: Kas.
Laura: No, Kas is destroyed. He turned to ash. He fought Vecna and was turned to ash.
Sam: Did the knight have a sword?
Travis: He did. A giant blade that emitted shadow.
Sam: Maybe that was the sword.
Marisha: But wasn't he brought back? Kas the Bloody-Handed, right? Oh wait, he fought--
Laura: He fought against Vecna! They destroyed each other. It's the reason Vecna was destroyed to begin with.
Marisha: But maybe he brought Kas back and that was the Death Knight we fought.
Sam: The world is full of mysteries.
Taliesin: One of which is whether or not our friends are alive.
Marisha: All right, I'm going to step outside and scry on Allura first!
Liam: And I'm going to-- nothing, I'm just going to stand and walk out front.
Matt: So. You're scrying first.
Marisha: Allura.
Matt: Okay. So you step out into the center of the structure--
Laura: (whispering) Please please please please please...
Marisha: Wait! Is anybody around? Nothing's weird and out of the ordinary?
Matt: You're in the Raven's Crest.
Marisha: Okay. Just want to make sure. People just punk'd us at Sprigg's cabin!
Sam: We're inside a church.
Marisha: Doesn't mean assassins can't get inside a church.
Laura: Just go, just scry!
Marisha: Okay, I'm going!
Matt: Okay. So. (laughs) As you sit and focus, concentrate, you draw out the various arcane glyphs on the ground and focus on Allura. Your vision expands into the sky, (whoosh) rushing through the night air and the spattering of clouds that have amassed over Vasselheim. It fires through the stratosphere, dives down into the center of Emon, into a bedroom. She is currently at a desk and is feverishly writing on parchment. Her hair is tousled a bit and she has a thick robe over her shoulders, and you can see she finishes writing something, rolls it up, seals it, sets it into a pile, thinks a second, casts a spell absentmindedly, it flickers off and vanishes. She goes back to writing. The door opens and you watch as Kima comes in, brings a little tray with some hot tea and sets it down beside her, rubs her shoulder a bit, and Allura looks back at her and nods. You guys are the worst. (laughter)
Matt: Allura puts her face in her hands for a second rubs her temples, She looks tired. Kima leaves the room, and Allura is left there to think for a second, looks out the window of her tower, then goes back to her writing.
Marisha: Okay.
Sam: Was she covered with blood?
Marisha: No, she's fine. She's safe in Emon. So is Kima. They're both safe.
Sam: Skull was next on the list?
Laura: Well, Allura has the skull. Do we have any way to talk to her?
Sam: No.
Marisha: Okay. Should I do Gilmore next? Is that necessary?
Laura: Can you scry on the object? No...
Marisha: I can scry on an object, right?
Matt: An object or a person.
Marisha: Should I do the skull?
Liam: Is it a safe assumption that skull is with her? She's pretty fucking badass.
Marisha: I mean it might just be a lich phylactery or something.
Sam: Who else would have gone into battle against Vecna?
Liam: Well, if it is a lich phylactery, that would be something we would smash to bits.
Sam: Could've been Kash.
Taliesin: Could've been Tary.
Sam: Who? Oh that fancy fellow.
Laura: Oh my god, can you scry on Tary? What if he came searching for us?
Marisha: But Tary was still in--
Taliesin: Just pick a city. Let's just keep looking at people in various cities.
Marisha: Tary... we would feel it.
Liam: Keyleth just spit out an idea. If that skull, which looked like his fucking head. We've dealt with a lich before. If it has even a chance of being a vessel for his life force, even a chance, wouldn't we want to not use it, but destroy it?
Matt: I will impart the information that you did discover that the skull was the skull of a githyanki.
Liam: Oh, that was from 300 hours ago! I misspoke.
Matt: They're a type of people, a race of people that traverse the Astral Sea.
Liam: But it has one eye.
Matt: Oh, it has two eyes.
Liam: Emerald in one eye.
Matt: Yeah, well, the skull shape was alien and was elongated, almost elven.
Liam: That was hundreds of hours ago.
Matt: I wanted to save you circularly arguing about something without some information.
Sam: Oh, we'll still circularly argue about something.
Matt: Oh, I'm sure you will!
Liam: Yeah, this clusterfuck's not over.
Sam: It's been a half-hour of fuckery right here.
Taliesin: A little bit of hemming, a little bit of hawing.
Travis: Wait a minute. Aren't we forgetting about one undead thing? Didn't we want to go back and talk to Delilah's body?
Taliesin: Oh yeah, we're going to have that conversation.
Liam: Is she in your bag?
Taliesin: That's right.
Marisha: She's in the Bag of Colding.
Laura: She might be in the Colding. Let's get into the mansion and talk to her.
Matt: She's in the Bag of Holding.
Laura: Let's go in the mansion first.
Travis: Are we not in the mansion right now?
Sam: We stepped out for a second.
Travis: I never left.
Laura: The door's open. We're talking through the door.
Marisha: Yeah, real quick, I still also want to scry on the Shorecomb.
Taliesin: We're going to set her up so that she's nice and--
Marisha: You guys get her set up.
Taliesin: In a chair and we're going to bind her.
Matt: (laughing) You guys pull the corpse of Delilah Briarwood out of the bag. It hasn't been that long. The body's stiff. A lot of the head is missing. Rigor mortis has definitely caused the body to tighten up a bit.
Travis: Undead gas.
Matt: I mean, limp. The muscles went lax. Okay, so as you guys were propping this up, you complete your scrying on Shorecomb, and what you do is you get a vision of the central area of the city, right near the cliffside. There's these sheer cliffs that drop off for maybe a couple hundred feet and lead down to the gravelly, rocky beach; dark rocks, pebbles, they go out about 30 feet until they hit the water, and that's where they have these wooden steps that wind down the side of the cliff that lead to the docks, and they have winches and cranes that lift heavy objects to and from the docks to get actually into the city. You do see a lot of the trees are very thin, but within the actual city proper, you see a handful of larger trees that at this time, because it's pushing into the end of winter, beginning of spring, a lot of them are leafless, but possible to use your Transport via Plants with. All right, you've propped up your corpse, you've bound it. Pike is, (uncomfortable noise) "Okay..."
Travis: We're right behind you; it's fine.
Liam: It's a good cause, Pickle.
Matt: "Do we have our questions? Do we know what we're going to ask?"
Travis: How many do we get, five?
Liam: Five questions.
Sam: Three? Five?
Liam: Five.
Taliesin: Five.
Matt: I'm going to double check.
Liam: 17.
Taliesin: Was Craven Edge the sword?
Laura: Oh, that's a good one.
Marisha: The sword of Kas.
Laura: Solid question.
Liam: We could ask about Vecna and her buddy that banished Grog.
Laura: The Shadow Knight.
Travis: I'm writing them down in my mind.
Taliesin: What he has done to prepare for the inevitable attempts to re-bind him.
Marisha: Does he have any weaknesses? Is that too broad?
Laura: Does she have to answer? Do they have to answer?
Matt: No.
Marisha: But she might not care, right?
Taliesin: I don't know, we've got a few things we can threaten her with. We can attempt to have her consecrated and buried in the Raven Queen's temple so that nothing will ever bring her back again.
Travis: One more question.
Taliesin: Also, in theory, I think it's possible that I could just send her to hell.
Travis: Do we want to ask where he is? Where he was going? What his plan is after ascending?
Liam: Percy, buddy. You are a married man.
Travis: Where he is or where he's planning to attack first or what his display of power is going to be?
Marisha: Oh sure, because he has to do a display to get followers.
Travis: So we have sword of Kas, bloody knight, what he's trying to do to prevent his binding, weakness/fears, and display of power.
Marisha: Unless the knight was Sylas. I don't know, I guess we'll find out.
Travis: You good with those five?
Taliesin: Yeah. I feel pretty good. I like this plan.
Matt: "Okay." And she gets her holy symbol, takes out her component pouch and begins setting up the ritual for the Speak with Dead spell. It takes her but a moment to invoke it, and her eyes glow, the symbol suddenly shines this column of light onto the corpse of Delilah Briarwood, there motionless against the chair that you've bound the body. The spell, now released, the glyphs on the ground faintly glowing with this energy. Pike reaches out and concentrates. "There's no spirit."
Laura: Oh shit. She's already been brought back.
Matt: "There's no soul to grasp. Either the soul is beyond reach or she's not dead."
Marisha: How many times are we going to have to fight this bitch?
Sam: How? We have her body.
Laura: She's a necromancer.
Sam: I don't know what that means. I'm a holy man. I'm a priest of Ioun. I don't know about the undead.
Travis: Does he got holes?
Sam: My brother, please.
Travis: My son.
Taliesin: Even as a source of information, a source of vengeance, she is a constant disappointment.
Marisha: Can I scry on her?
Matt: Do you have another spell slot to do that?
Marisha: I have three 5th-level spells plus my Scrying Eye that I haven't used yet.
Matt: So if you'd like to, yeah.
Marisha: Yep.
Matt: All right.
Laura: And be sneaky about it, okay?
Taliesin: Wait, do we have to do it outside?
Marisha: Yeah, this is another plane of existence. We have to be on the same plane.
Matt: What's your spell DC?
Marisha: 21.
Matt: You concentrate your vision and focus on the whereabouts, perhaps, of where Delilah Briarwood might be if she was on this plane. Your vision pulls out of your body, rockets once again through the stratosphere, the darkness. It's hard to place direction, but your essence is drawn back down through the clouds, over the center of a rocky mountain range covered in snow and ice. Another flash, and there you are amongst the city of Thar Amphala. There's another flash, and you see a hole in the ground, a large carved tunnel, you see hooded figures, blurry at the edges of this vision, emerging. And there you see, stepping out of the tunnel, Delilah Briarwood, with both eyes. Steps out. Her hood up, pulls it back. She glances off to a direction you can't see and goes, "It's almost ready." A voice comes in through your ear. "Like what you see?"
Laura: I hate him so much.
Matt: Immediately, you pull out of the scrying experience and you look around, your friends are staring at you. You guys didn't hear anything, but once again you hear in your ear once more, "Don't worry, all shall be revealed soon enough."
Marisha: Oh god!
Matt: "Sleep well, young Keyleth."
Laura: What's going on?
Liam: Where did you look? What did you see?
Marisha: There's no safe place to hide. He can see us everywhere. We should go.
Travis: Where?
Laura: You're outside of the mansion. Come in the mansion.
Marisha: What if he comes here? What if he comes here to try and find us and he kills all of these people? What if we led him here?
Laura: He knows. We'll lead him anywhere, darling.
Liam: And Delilah.
Marisha: She's alive. She's at Thar Amphala, both eyes this time.
Taliesin: I was going to ask.
Laura: She'll remove it soon enough.
Marisha: She said, "It's almost time; it's happening soon." Whatever he's doing it's happening soon and then he spoke to me in my vision. He said my name. He knows... She's alive.
Taliesin: I know.
Marisha: How many times?
Taliesin: As many as it takes.
Liam: One more.
Laura: Can you Plane Shift us from here, from the mansion?
Taliesin: No.
Marisha: No.
Matt: No, you can Plane Shift from the mansion.
Travis: Plus, we need to rest.
Taliesin: We have to rest.
Liam: We'll have to do it in the morning.
Marisha: I can burn my 9th-level spell and get us there right now, but we'll lose the mansion.
Taliesin: We need the mansion to sleep. We can't sleep anywhere without the mansion.
Marisha: I can sleep and I can Plane Shift us when we wake up from this mansion.
Laura: Is that a 9th-level spell?
Marisha: Seventh. We could Transport via Plants. And I found a tree to get us to--
Matt: Shorecomb.
Sam: Shorebottom.
Marisha: Shorebottom.
Laura: As awful as it is, we need to sleep, if we can't fight him in the morning or anytime.
Travis: We have to prepare. The tunnels have toxic fumes and all sorts of stuff.
Taliesin: We're going to have to breathe.
Marisha: Go underwater.
Taliesin: We're going to have to figure out a way to survive.
Matt: Deal with poisoned air and breathing underwater.
Sam: No problem.
Travis: You know, like you do.
Liam: Visit the Water Ashari for those--
Laura: Things. Yeah, that's smart.
Marisha: I could also cast Water Breathing on eight of us.
Taliesin: Will that save us from the poison?
Matt: Water Breathing gets you under the water, but you still have poison in the air once you get to the tubes.
Marisha: Yeah, but do the things from the Water Ashari, would those help with poison as well?
Matt: Those help you filter water into air. Poison is a different thing.
Laura: Heroes' Feast.
Sam: Heroes' Feast.
Laura: Immune to poison. We have two chalices.
Taliesin: From the palace.
Sam: Chalice from the palace?
Taliesin: It's the brew that's true.
Sam: Okay. That could work.
Liam: We have to go so many places.
Taliesin: It's going to be all right. We have one advantage that they do not.
Sam: Opposable thumbs.
Taliesin: That too. Only one of us is underestimating the other. We can do this.
Liam: That's a good point.
Sam: Them.
Taliesin: You're fine. We know we have to be careful.
Marisha: The plan then is sleep and then we go to Shorecomb. And then we go under this volcano to the anvil?
Liam: Are we borrowing some water breathing equipment before we go?
Marisha: I can do that to us. I can cast Water Breathing on all of us.
Taliesin: Heroes' Feast, Water Breathing, platinum, and then you're going to hit something with a hammer.
Marisha: Okay.
Sam: Bank in the morning?
Laura: Bank in the morning. Then off.
Marisha: And then through a tree, and then there.
Taliesin: At dawn we bank. (laughter)
Marisha: At dawn we bank. (laughter)
Laura: Fabulous. Shall we rest up?
Travis: Yes.
Sam: One more thing before we go to sleep. Not to draw this out any longer. I'm going to, right before bed, attempt to turn into, using my True Polymorph, one of those fun, winged, tall creatures we met at Pelor's place.
Laura: An angel?
Matt: Turn who into that? Yourself? Yeah, the planetar. You can definitely do that.
Marisha: With True Polymorph?
Laura: You've seen it.
Sam: I've seen it, but I don't know it.
Matt: Are you doing this privately or in front of everybody?
Sam: In my room.
Matt: In your room, you suddenly grow to the size of an 11- to 12-foot, muscular humanoid. Bald head, deep blue skin, with beautiful white angel wings that unfurl for 24 foot, tip to tip length, you feel holy power surge through your body.
Sam: Okay, just wanted to make sure that would work. Cool.
Travis: Do you do anything?
Sam: No, I just stand there naked looking at myself. Anything else that happens in that room, you don't want to know.
Matt: As the winged Dr. Manhattan stands there in his room, staring at his own Manhattan junk--
Liam: So this is what it sounds like when doves cry!
Matt: There's a slow rendition of Hallelujah as you touch yourself for the night. (singing) Hallelujah, hallelujah. (speaking) The wings curl in. All right.
Liam: That was the most home-game moment we've ever had.
Matt: And on that note, we're going to close tonight's episode. (laughs) All right, guys, thanks again for playing, thank you guys for watching. Thank you once again Darin De Paul for coming and guesting, closing Sprigg's story in an interesting way. I wasn't sure how he was going to do that. We'll see you guys next week. Be safe, love each other, and is it Thursday yet? Good night.
All: (singing) Hallelujah! [music]

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello, and welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play Dungeons and Dragons. First and foremost, we are super excited that we actually have in the flesh here with us tonight the wonderful Ashley Johnson! (cheering)
Ashley: So glad.
Matt: We missed you so much.
Ashley: I missed you. Everybody.
Liam: You are not allowed to go.
Laura: Yeah, we're going to put her in a locked room.
Ashley: I'd be okay with it.
Liam: You'll eat your rice and play Dungeons and Dragons.
Matt: I'm glad you could join us here for this. All right, so next up I believe, Laura, we have some new merch? Apparently, which I forgot about until you showed me before the show.
Laura: I was just showing this off before the stream. We have this amazing Matthew Mercer shirt. (cheering)
Laura: It's kind of wrinkly because I was sitting on it but...
Matt: I have a shirt.
Laura: So hey, that's in the store. That's in the store right now.
Travis: It's got the logo on the back too.
Ashley: You have a t-shirt.
Laura: And it's subtle, I like that anybody that doesn't know what it is would just think it's a cool silhouette shirt. And then anybody that does know what it is, it's like they're "in."
Travis: Is that the kind DM shirt, or is that the evil sarcastic--
Laura: He's smirking evilly. It's an evil smirk.
Liam: You know the meme, when the dungeon master smiles, it's too late.
Matt: Exactly. I really like it. I think it's inspired reminiscent of another project I work on. And it makes me happy.
Laura: That's what inspired us to do it.
Liam: By the time he's smiling, you're already getting choked out.
Matt: Good times. Next up, just a reminder, we have the Critical Role Vox Machina Origins comic book available on Comixology, on Dark Horse. Apparently, where it is at now?
Liam: It's the second highest rated comic book on Comixology at the moment.
Laura: Because Critters are awesome.
Taliesin: Sitting at nine on the current bestseller list.
Laura: Of all time?
Sam: Of all time.
Liam: On Comixology.
Marisha: We have the best fans.
Travis: Yeah, pretty much.
Taliesin: It's a good book!
Marisha: It's so good.
Matt: Next one is coming soon.
Liam: We saw it.
Matt: Excited for you guys.
Taliesin: It's got so much.
Matt: We'll have information soon on when the next comic comes out next month. Don't forget we have Talks Machina next Tuesday to discuss this episode. Next Tuesday at 7:00pm Pacific with our fantastic host Brian Foster to discuss Travis' third testicle.
Taliesin: Oh, they found out about that.
Matt: Yeah. It's on the list here. Also, don't forget it's the last week of September so if you haven't had a chance yet and you always wanted to go ahead and join the Geek and Sundry Twitch community and subscribe, or any other Twitch community that you've been waiting for, they're half off this month. So now's the time to jump in. Laura and Travis, you're going to be at a convention in Atlanta this weekend.
Laura: Why yes, we leave tomorrow morning actually.
Travis: Bright and early, Anime Weekend Atlanta. We're there Friday, Saturday, Sunday, come down, see us and throw things in our face. That'd be great.
Laura: And we're also going to be in Australia in a couple weeks, or this November.
Sam: Ashley, what's going on with you? Anything to plug? Any other projects that you're working on?
Laura: Are you working on any kind of shows or anything?
Marisha: Yeah, it seems like you've been so busy.
Ashley: I just didn't want to come. I've just got other things to do. Shop online. I'm just busy, guys. Looking at Cute Emergency on Twitter, there's just so many more important things to do than this. Just kidding, that's not true.
Marisha: You do retweet Cute Emergency quite a lot.
Taliesin: You're how I found Cute Emergency.
Ashley: Oh really? That makes me so glad. We love aminals.
Matt: All righty. Well then, without further ado. Let's go ahead and dive into tonight's episode of Critical Role. [dramatic music]
Liam: --me, daddy.
Matt: Little late on the draw there, bud.
Marisha: Like, unfashionably late.
Liam: What an accident that was. Oh no!
Matt: Welcome back. So last we left off, Vox Machina had made their way through the innards of the undead risen primordial earth titan. On its shoulders was held the long-abandoned until recently city of Thar Amphala, from the Shadowfell. A city that once held the armies of Vecna, the Undying King who has since risen once more, and achieved godhood in recent days. You traversed to this titan, through its innards up into the city of Thar Amphala; which you notice the outer wall currently manages to maintain an arcane dome that holds at bay any of the outward assailing forces of the wyvern riders or Devo'ssa, the brass dragon. Where the inside of it contains, in wait, a cloud of various gloomstalkers and a skeletal dragon that just peruse the city in safety as you make your way through the streets in search of the recently reassembled and standing tower of Entropis. Now upon seeking a sword that you were notified had historical binds to the hatred of Vecna and hopefully his downfall, the Sword of Kas, you went seeking this weapon, long ago discarded and bound within a buried catacomb within a pit of acid along with various corpses left over from an ancient war. And in doing so, unfortunately notified Vecna of your arrival. As Vex passed through into the ethereal plane, the ring that kept any sort of scrying at bay was lost. And both Vax and Keyleth came to his attention. All of you managed to flee back to Scanlan's mansion where the rest were in wait. However, with a notification fresh at hand, the skeletal dragon swooped into the chamber where the mansion was set, on its back riding Lady Delilah Briarwood and the re-risen Sylas Briarwood. The mansion was dispelled, you were exited from the pocket plane and barely maneuvering, due to a very lucky roll, having your Plane Shift dispelled you made your way into the Feywild as a Hail Mary. And through a dick-drawing, made contact with the one archfey that you had encountered in your previous journeys, Artagan. Upon being summoned, and your knowledge of the strange time-altering nature of exiting the Feywild, you asked if it was within his power to ensure the condensing of the time passage when you were to return. He agreed, under two conditions. One, when this was all said and done, you would help him assemble a doorway in the Prime Material Plane, in which he could visit your space. And two, upon realizing that Vax was of some undying or re-rising nature, wished to strangle him until dead. You agreed, and shortly thereafter Vax expired into ashes and you all spent time awaiting his return. We've left off with the return of Vax, but if there's anything you wanted to do over that period of time before his arrival, now would be the time to do it.
Sam: Before his arrival?
Travis: When he walks back.
Laura: So that we can do some spells that will be in effect for a day. Potentially.
Sam: But he takes a while to come back.
Matt: It takes a little while, yeah.
Laura: So we should do some of our spells right before we go to sleep.
Sam: Yeah, for sure. Is that now?
Laura: I don't know!
Sam: Is sleep now?
Matt: That's up to you.
Laura: We do need to do Heroes' Feast. I have one chalice left.
Ashley: But then Vax won't be in the--
Laura: Unless we leave him a plate.
Matt: Well, the meal appears for a short time.
Laura: Then we need to do that right when he gets back.
Marisha: Right before we sleep?
Laura: Yeah, hopefully he'll be back before--
Sam: We'll wait a few hours.
Laura: We'll wait a few hours to see if he shows up and then we'll cast it to see because we need time to be able to do it.
Matt: We'll say for the truncating of the wait period that eight hours go by, 12 hours go by, it's hard to tell time in the Feywild, since it doesn't have a day-night cycle, it's always on the cusp of sunset. And the longer you wait, and the more the boredom sets in, the more the stress of the coming fray creeps into the back of your mind, you find that it seems like far too much time has passed and you begin to worry, you begin to twitch, you begin to do search parties around the surrounding forest, the possibility that he returned and got lost. You don't know how much time has passed until you convene to desperately ask if there was any possible sight, and at that point you hear the snapping of foliage beneath a distant foot, and you all turn and by the nearby tree you see entering the pale, nude, long dark-haired body of Vax returned in his revenant form for a second time.
Travis: Yep, that's him.
Liam: That was a thing. Does anyone have my clothing?
Laura: Yes.
Travis: No, they took it and ran, it was part of the penance. We fought bravely. It's buck naked from here on out.
Liam: That's going to make tomorrow a little squirrely.
Marisha: Scanlan awkwardly put it in a weird druid circle rock thing, it's over there.
Sam: We were protecting it for you.
Marisha: He doesn't know how to do druid circles really right.
Sam: The goddess Ioun told me to protect it in a circle reminiscent of the circle of my third eye.
Marisha: (whispering) I don't think he's telling the truth.
Liam: Do you have all my shoes and glasses so I may have them?
Sam: As Ioun wills it, yes.
Liam: Okay, could you lead me and my penis towards them now?
Sam: Ioun be pleased, I will.
Liam: We're still standing here. It's getting awkward.
Sam: I'm a holy man. It's supposed to be awkward.
Laura: I'm going to start the Heroes' Feast, I'm just going to get the chalice.
Taliesin: I'll help with that, that sounds like a great use of time and not watching this.
Travis: I have a question. Should we ask the Sword of Kas, since it's fought Vecna before, does it know of any weaknesses?
Laura: That's actually really smart. Wow, that's really smart, Grog!
Ashley: Oh good idea.
Taliesin: Don't think too hard about it.
Sam: We can't hear him so you'll have to talk. Hello?
Travis: Sorry.
Laura: That took a lot out of you.
Travis: I need to sit.
Taliesin: Grog, I have an idea. Why don't you ask the sword if it has any idea of Vecna's weaknesses?
Travis: (gasp) That's a good idea Percy!
Taliesin: I'm so glad I had it.
Travis: Oh my god, yes. Wait, wait, if I pull it out of the sheath to talk to it-- can I talk to it through the sheath?
Matt: You probably have to draw it.
Travis: I might have to draw it and then it's going to need the (glugging).
Laura: Here.
Travis: You?!
Laura: You can cut me.
Travis: Look, listen, I made a promise to your brother, he was very adamant that I'm supposed to stick it--
Taliesin: I'll take it. It's my turn.
Sam: Percy, what a tough thing for you to do.
Travis: Do you want just a hand slice or do you want to up the ante and I stick it in your thigh? I do have to bathe it, it has to be quite a coating.
Laura: Just do it, we'll heal him up.
Travis: Okay, cool, come on Percy. Buy the ticket, baby! So can I unsheathe Kas?
Matt: As you pull the blade out, there's a very silent glass against textured metal sound. The blade is so dark that barely any of the light seems to come across it. Where the blade is, up close, you can barely make out the outside of it, but as soon as you draw it the voice goes, "Hungry."
Taliesin: All right, just on the count of three.
Travis: Do I get to pick where? Okay. I reach around to the back of his knee and I pull along there.
Laura: Back of his knee?! Are you trying to take him out of commission for future fights? That's really terrible.
Taliesin: I said yes.
Laura: I want to cast Cure Wounds at third level on Percy.
Travis: Yeah, when you shave your legs the back of your knee is the tricky part, right?
Taliesin: It's just so I can swim faster, that was not for you to advertise.
Matt: As you deal with the nearly hamstrung self that is your right knee, the sword is coated well enough in Percival blood as it seeps into the darkened blade, and the voice goes "Ah, yes."
Travis: Respectfully, Kas, I had a few questions because I am on board to satisfy your maniacal desires to fuck up Vecna and all that he stands for, right? Oh no, Kas?
Matt: "Yes?"
Travis: Oh, thank god. Might need more blood soon. Do you know of any weaknesses that Vecna has, or opportunities that we could explite?
Matt: "He is more intelligent than most, but his arrogance gets the best of him. He likes a show."
Travis: Apparently he's really smart, and is arro-- aromatic.
Laura: He smells?
Marisha: Enigmatic?
Liam: Acrobatic.
Marisha: What does he mean?
Travis: He likes to put on a show, I think.
Laura: He likes to put on a show.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: "He builds webs of plots, so many things intertwined."
Travis: Doesn't make much sense, apparently he builds whips out of plots.
Matt: "Cut the threads, and the web can falter."
Travis: Oh right, he strings things together like a web, you know, like a dog makes.
Laura: Oh that's smart, okay.
Matt: "I can cut these threads, bring me to these threads, bring me to him, I must cut him down, now, now."
Travis: Yeah, oh god, he's really adamant about cutting the webs.
Sam: He's a sword, he cuts, that's his thing.
Marisha: Wait, cutting webs?
Travis: Yeah. I guess Vecna has spider abilities. Pro-tip.
Laura: Okay. That's interesting, we didn't notice that before.
Travis: Any physical weaknesses, or things that he is vulnerable to that we should know?
Matt: "Me."
Travis: Him, okay, cool, I think we've got everything.
Marisha: He's vulnerable to-- oh, to--
Travis: To him.
Marisha: Got it, I got what they got.
Travis: All right, next time I pull you out in the light it will probably be to kill Vecna or someone that I don't like.
Matt: As you put it away you hear a (sigh).
Taliesin: You're actually going to pull that sword out and it will have committed suicide.
Travis: How's your knee, is it okay?
Taliesin: It's feeling much better, thank you.
Liam: Should we maybe talk out our plan for the moment?
Sam: Sure. That sounds fun.
Liam: No it doesn't, but I do think we should probably have at it. We've got the trammels, Grog's got them.
Laura: So Sylas is back.
Marisha: Along with Delilah. That's fun.
Laura: So my blessing, from Pelor.
Marisha: Hashtag blessed.
Laura: Hashtag blessed. Gives radiant damage to anything evil that attacks me with a spell. That's pretty neat, huh? I have a feeling radiant damage is going to be really important in this fight.
Marisha: I recently was able to attune to this armor that I haven't been able to attune to for a long time and now I'm resistant to spells. So that's good.
Laura: What?
Marisha: Yes.
Laura: You've just been wearing it and it's not done anything?
Marisha: Kind of. Well I had to attune to my ring and my antlers, and then I got the staff, so I let that go, but now I just wore it for long enough.
Liam: What are your three attuned right now?
Marisha: I have four, because I took a feat when I leveled up. Yeah that's pretty dope.
Travis: I got a whole bunch of more hit points.
Sam: What's a hit point?
Travis: It's like, I don't know. But I was thinking, I have all three trammels, right, and I need to get real close to do anything to Vecna. Is it stupid for me to have all of them?
Liam: Yes it is, we need to spread those out. We need to decide who is doing what, at least what we think is going to happen. I think I should take one of the trammels.
Laura: You're speedy, of course.
Marisha: And I think it's smart if Pike and I dedicate a decent amount of our spell power to Freedom of Movement right before we go in.
Taliesin: That won't be necessary for me but for the rest of you.
Travis: So we don't get paralyzed.
Sam: If Vax has a trammel, and Grog has a trammel, who has the third trammel?
Liam: One of these two.
Laura: I could do it.
Sam: Someone who can fly. You can fly.
Laura: I have a broom after all. But Pike can fly now too.
Sam: Don't you have to be super strong to use these trammels?
Marisha: Pike is super strong, she's a monstah!
Sam: No, I'm fine with that. Can she fly?
Laura: She can fly.
Ashley: I can now.
Sam: How?
Ashley: Well it's for ten minutes.
Sam: That's all we'll need.
Laura: Ten minutes is a long time if it's right at the beginning of the fight.
Sam: But that's when we'll need to use the trammels.
Matt: Giant wings.
Laura: It's pretty tight. Oh my god you can fucking fly!
Travis: I reach over to Pike, I spin her around, are there any wings on the back?
Matt: No.
Ashley: I don't know where they are!
Travis: I don't know how to break this to you. They're not there yet.
Sam: Sometimes they're on the ankles.
Travis: I turn her upside down, look at her feet.
Matt: No wings.
Travis: I turn her back. Just keep wishing, they'll grow in. Okay.
Ashley: Oh, thank you, Grog.
Laura: So do you think you're stronger, and you're more proficient with actual melee weapons, right? Because I don't think I can shoot a trammel from my bow.
Ashley: I feel like I'd be pretty proficient because it takes the strength to do it? I've got it.
Laura: Okay, let's have Pike hold the other one. So Pike, you're the third. And we have to protect our cleric.
Sam: What are all of us doing? I'm praying into a book.
Laura: Fighting.
Sam: Sure.
Matt: To give you a mechanical idea, based on what Ioun had notified you, the more damaged Vecna's avatar form is, the lower the DC to drive a trammel into the body.
Laura: Oh, so we got to bloody him up and then--
Matt: Possibly. Or roll really high early on, the choice is up to you, that is the risk you have to take.
Laura: We don't know, if we try it with the trammel and it doesn't work, it doesn't break the trammel, we just have to try again?
Matt: You have two strong and one fragile trammel in your midst.
Laura: Oh wait, who's holding the fragile one?
Liam: I am.
Laura: You're holding the fragile one.
Marisha: Okay, so save that one for when he's real fucked up. Percy and I had a thought for Grog.
Travis: Thank god, because I don't have any more.
Marisha: If you borrow Percy's Spider-Climbing boots I can maybe make some pillars to add for cover for some of us more rangey people, but then if I add pillars of different heights you can climb up them.
Travis: Do I have to attune to them?
Taliesin: No.
Travis: Does my speed translate to going up things as well?
Matt: Oh yeah.
Taliesin: I don't know what boots you have right now.
Travis: I have the Feral Leaping boots.
Taliesin: Would you rather just run like Spider-Man? Up to you.
Travis: If he's more than 20 feet in the air, I'm fucked.
Sam: How can we get Grog to fly, though? Because these pillars can't go all the way to the heavens, can they?
Marisha: I mean I could Shapechange into something and give him a mount, he can ride me.
Liam: What about you Scanlan?
Laura: Can you still cast if you're a dragon or something?
Marisha: I can cast in Beast Shape, Shapechange is a spell, so if I'm a dragon, beholder, that's what you get.
Matt: If the creature you transform into has spells you can use those spells, but that's the only circumstance.
Laura: There's coffee all over it.
Taliesin: Yes there is, there's coffee on everything there.
Marisha: Your dice tray dried nicely, though.
Taliesin: I think it actually has a little bit of nice character. Look at that.
Matt: A testament to Wyrmwood's craftsmanship. Critrole!
Laura: This got put in the dishwasher, and the leather got cooler after it got put in the dishwasher.
Matt: Anyway you guys.
Sam: No no, we're focused. I guess we could use these pillars, but it seems like a waste of your spell to get him halfway up towards Vecna, if Vecna is flying.
Laura: The thing is if you're flying you can get knocked off, I've been there, and then it's super bad, so actually the pillars are really wonderful in that regard.
Sam: If he's straight above us.
Marisha: Well I can do six of them, I can do a lot of pillars.
Laura: He could be off of the tower, yes, and then it's all ranged attacks, that's what we have.
Sam: All right, no plan.
Taliesin: The plans are easy, the magic users are going to be attacking Vecna with all they're worth.
Laura: Hopefully we'll be able to take out the Briarwoods before the fight.
Marisha: I can cause up to six pillars, each pillar is a cylinder five feet wide and up to 30 feet high, and can do six of them.
Sam: Can you do them on top of each other?
Marisha: Well, he wasn't that much more than 30 feet last time.
Laura: He was above us, but if he goes off of the tower.
Liam: I was about 50 or 60 feet in the air and I was above him.
Marisha: If I get Grog 30 feet up you still have your throwing axe, he's still reachable another 30 feet for you right? Theoretically.
Travis: Yeah, but I'm not using the axe or the hammer, I'm using the sword.
Matt: You can still attach the Chain of Returning to the Sword of Kas.
Travis: Yeah, but it's only one attack per action.
Matt: Correct.
Travis: Instead of three.
Marisha: But it's something, if he's out of range.
Taliesin: I'll have enough bullets that I may not be able to hurt him, but I can make him drop.
Travis: What are you planning on doing?
Sam: My plan is to not run away, because we're going to die fighting or we're going to save the world, right? So I definitely won't be running away. Definitely.
Laura: Scanlan.
Sam: I may run away.
Liam: If you do, and he slaughters everybody, and subjugates the entire world--
Sam: I'll tell your story, and I'll tell it very well.
Liam: As the Crumbly, the little guy to Jabba the Hutt, for Vecna.
Laura: Scanlan. If you promise you won't run away, I'll put this fucking hat back on.
Sam: (gasps)
Laura: And I bring out the stupid pointy hat that he gave me.
Sam: Wow! That's a deal.
Travis: Here's the thing, last time we fought Vecna, he went higher than 30 feet, he was up where Vax was before he fell.
Liam: I was above him though, and I was 50 or 60 up, he wasn't that high.
Travis: Oh.
Taliesin: Up to you, that is an option that is up to you. But let me know, because either way I'm going to either keep my boots or not keep my boots.
Marisha: Do we remember how high the tower orby situation was, did we get a number for it?
Matt: The tower of Entropis? The very height of it you didn't gauge entirely as you flew up, but even at a bit of distance, it was hundreds of feet high.
Marisha: No, I mean, there was the dome above that.
Matt: Oh, the dome above that is probably about another 100 or 200 feet above that. It's a big dome and it encompasses the entire city of Entropis.
Taliesin: And we don't know who's casting that, we don't know where that's coming from.
Matt: Make an intelligence check.
Taliesin: Okay.
Marisha: I mean there's that gemstone thing that he's using.
Laura: Natural 20!
Taliesin: No, but a 21 will do it.
Matt: You recall, the Thar Amphala that is currently embedded in the titan is not the entire city, it's only the inner circle of the city. You encountered the inner circle of the city, and you saw a little bit of the edges, there's a wall that is built on the inside of Thar Amphala. This was the same wall that contained the threshold crests that caused it to transport from the Shadowfell to the Prime Material Plane. You looked at the energy of this field, you've seen it pulse from the wall upward, like (pulse sounds).
Taliesin: We could break through. We could break the wall.
Marisha: That's right! And then we could bring in the forces.
Laura: And then J'mon Sa Ord will be able to help us. Help us!
Marisha: Help us! Help us J'mon, help us!
Laura: That's good, we go over the walls first. Here's the good thing about us bamfing to the Feywild, right. They think we left, and if we all actually stick together and don't fuck up with this fucking ring next time, they won't know that we're there again. Because last time they had an idea because you guys, you know, almost died as we were going in.
Marisha: Yeah I know, I remember.
Sam: I have an idea about Grog flying that just occurred to me. Trinket's big.
Laura: He is.
Sam: Trinket could be Polymorphed into something else big, like a flying eagle of some sort. And actually be useful.
Laura: How dare you. If they Dispel that won't he just turn into Trinket and he'll fall?
Sam: Yes, but with big risk comes big reward.
Laura: Trinket?
Matt: Trinket over there is on the side, arms playing pillow to the muzzle.
Laura: Okay. Bud? If you fuck this up, Scanlan! Oh, I don't have any more spells, do I, to do it? He can understand me, I just can't understand him, with my Speak With Animals. Shit.
Ashley: Tell him to just shake his head.
Laura: Okay. Oh, it's 1st-level, I have a 1st-level left. Okay, here's the thing, Scanlan wants to turn you into something that flies.
Matt: You hear this slight squeak of a bear fart in his direction.
Laura: Good job. Yeah. Would you be willing to-- are you okay with that, for the actual big-- I mean, you could be up close and personal with fucking Vecna.
Matt: Trinket walks up to you now, and his fully grown form is a good foot and a half taller than you at the shoulders. He comes up and gets really close and (bear breathing), and butts his head against you, and then licks the side of your face.
Laura: Yeah?
Matt: And sits back.
Laura: Aw. You can do it. Don't hurt him! Okay.
Sam: It's a plan B.
Liam: Do you have anything gnarlier than-- I mean, I'm a little invested too, I've spent a lot of years with this bear-- like, anything gnarlier than-- an eagle's cool, but like anything with spikes, or rhino armor, or anything like that?
Taliesin: Like a flying rhino?
Liam: Can you do a flying rhino?
Sam: What flying things have we seen that are scary?
Laura: A wyvern.
Marisha: Polymorph, I don't know--
Sam: I can't Polymorph; I could True Polymorph Trinket and permanently make him a wyvern.
Matt: It can still be dispelled if it is permanent on True Polymorph, by the way.
Sam: It can be dispelled, just at an action?
Matt: Yeah. That was an errata to the spell that I've discovered as the internet made very keenly aware to me.
Sam: Even if it becomes permanent?
Matt: Correct.
Sam: Wow.
Marisha: Then what the fuck does "permanent" mean?
Sam: A simple, level three Dispel Magic can get rid of a 9th-level permanent Polymorph?
Matt: Well, you have to know that the creature has been polymorphed into that form. And even then, it's a 9th-level spell that you're trying to dispel, which is not--
Marisha: So they have to at least cast it at 9th-level, in order to dispel it.
Matt: To be instantaneous. Or they have to roll against it.
Sam: I'm not going to waste my True Polymorph on that. Just standard Polymorph.
Liam: Does that mean you could permanently do it to him, and then we cast Dispel Magic on him later to undo it?
Matt: Yeah. You could do that.
Laura: Yeah. Oh, so you could use that tonight.
Liam: Tonight. To lock him in.
Sam: Yeah. But it could still be dispelled.
Taliesin: He would have to burn a dispel at 9th-level.
Marisha: Wait, are you talking about Polymorph or True Polymorph right now?
Sam: I was just talking about Polymorph.
Laura: I think Polymorph tomorrow and then use your 9th-level spell for something major.
Liam: But if it's permanent, why not do it tonight?
Laura: Because he can use a 9th-level spell tonight for something.
Marisha: Because Polymorph only lasts for, like, an hour. What else you have?
Laura: As we're doing this, we're making the feast, because we're about to get ready to go to bed, right?
Marisha: Nom, nom, nom, nom, nom food.
Laura: Yeah, so we make our feast before we go to sleep.
Matt: All right. Polymorph is a concentration spell, so keep that in mind.
Sam: Yes.
Liam: Oh.
Taliesin: Oh.
Matt: Yes.
Laura: Oh, shit.
Sam: Yeah.
Matt: You wouldn't have to concentrate with True Polymorph.
Sam: True.
Matt: But. Those are just the specifications.
Sam: What's more important?
Liam: Could he be a baby, like a young ancient dragon?
Sam: Yeah.
Laura: You can turn Trinket into a dragon?
Sam: Well, let's see here. He has a challenge rating, doesn't he, this Trinket.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: I will put Trinket at about a challenge rating of six, I'd say. Because he's not a full, powerful creature; he's a complement to you.
Laura: Right.
Matt: I'd put him at a six, maybe. High end.
Sam: So monsters of a six. I don't even know; I'll look at the list.
Matt: Okay. Think about it. Regardless. Who's casting? You said you were casting Heroes' Feast? All right, as you set up the table, you summon forth the meal that is infused with divine energy. You all begin to eat in solemn quiet, occasionally discussing plans and tactics. The delicious--
Laura: Artagan can join us.
Matt: Oh, he does. Don't worry. As soon as you guys begin to eat, at the far end of the table you see the orange mane erupt from the side of table as he takes a seat. "Oh, wondrous. I appreciate this, thank you."
Liam: So did that live up to your expectations, then?
Matt: "Hello. It was all right."
Liam: New hobby, or--?
Matt: "I don't know. Have to try when they're not willing. That's a joke; that's a joke."
Laura: Okay. Hey, Artagan, can you look at this wand?
Matt: "Which wand?"
Laura: This wand in my hand.
Matt: Which wand are you handing him?
Laura: It was a wooden wand from one of Vecna's people that I hijacked.
Matt: It's a war wand. It's a plus one wand. For anyone who's casting a spell through it, it's a plus one modifier to DC.
Laura: Oh, do you have to attune?
Matt: Generally you have to attune to these, yeah.
Laura: Okay. Great. All right. Thanks.
Taliesin: There's nothing special about these symbols that they wear around their necks, are they? Just since it is in your interest to keep us alive long enough to build you a portal.
Matt: "Well, it doesn't require or contain any magic, if that's what you're asking."
Taliesin: Yes.
Travis: It's just jewelry.
Matt: "Well, it's a focus. It's a divine focus for those who wish to utilize it to draw energy from their deity of choice, and/or just a token of brotherhood."
Travis: Boring.
Matt: "Delicious meal, by the way."
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: "Is it yours?"
Ashley: Yes.
Matt: "Thank you."
Travis: So good.
Ashley: Oh, you're so welcome.
Matt: "All right. When do you intend to go back?"
Laura: As soon as we go to sleep and wake up.
Matt: "Well then. Sleep it is." And he gestures over, his hand behind you, and as you look back you can see there's a series of beds that have all constructed out of the nearby moss and vines. They grow and lift up out of the natural floor of the Feywild. As the beds form, you watch as the tethered vines and roots to the ground begin to form these dome-like tents over each specific bed.
Laura: Oh, good. Privacy.
Marisha: Are you doing anything?
Sam: Oh, yeah.
Marisha: With your thing, before we go to sleep?
Sam: I mean, if I True Polymorph him, Trinket, I could do a wyvern, or a young white dragon, or-- Is J'mon a brass or bronze?
Travis: Brass.
Matt: Brass.
Sam: I could do a young brass, young white dragon, or a wyvern. Or I could have another Scanlan.
Laura: Oh. I vote Scanlan.
Sam: Scanlan Two can cast Polymorph.
Laura: And he'll just hang around with us? Second Scanlan hangs around with us until what?
Liam: I mean, that is flat-out amazing.
Sam: We'll see. (laughs) Or not.
Taliesin: The world is ready for two Scanlans.
Sam: I'm pretty sure it will be apparent that he is not a real person.
Ashley: How will he know which is which?
Sam: That's true. Well, you'll know, because, come on. This charm can't be replicated.
Liam: Nah, we need two hats or something.
Marisha: Hang on, I will say, a second Scanlan will immediately clue in Vecna that there's some trickery magic going on.
Sam: Sure.
Marisha: Is there a way that second Scanlan can be, like, definitely hidden? So he can just be (snaps) support Scanlan? Counterspell Scanlan?
Taliesin: If we give him the Hat of Disguise, then there's just a magical field being about a magical--
Liam: Can the Meat Man join us?
Laura: Yeah, let's do that.
Sam: Yeah. He could be the Meat Man.
Travis: No truesight? No seeing through this?
Laura: I'm sure they have truesight. Vecna's a god. Of course he can see everything.
Sam: But I think you have to use truesight. It doesn't just happen.
Matt: As a god of secrets, probably see through an illusion.
Travis: No, no, on. We're going to pull it over on Vecna. We're fine. This is a great plan.
Matt: Just throwing it out there, based on your experience, even the creatures around the tower have truesight.
Laura: Oh, shit. So he's going to know even, like, he's going to know Trinket's not a fucking-- Is that seen on truesight? Oh, no, he's actually that animal. So he'd have to know.
Travis: Do it, man. Do it. We're overthinking it.
Marisha: Because he can also maybe just cast support stuff for us, right?
Laura: Yeah, exactly. Fuck it. Do it!
Liam: Can Vecna just dispel the second Scanlan away?
Sam: He can can certainly try.
Taliesin: And he will have to burn some stuff.
Marisha: And the only other thing would be, like, a second Pike to do all of the Freedom of Movement stuff, and things like that--
Sam: That's nice.
Marisha: Those Counterspells, man--
Matt: Just keep in mind, Counterspell can't be done unless they're on the field to see the spell being cast and within 60 feet. So second Scanlan would have to be in the fray.
Marisha: Can second Scanlan be invisible second Scanlan?
Sam: He can for a while, yeah.
Matt: You can. And things that see through invisibility, like a god of secrets, would probably see through it.
Liam: You can never have enough Scanlan. There's always room for Scanlan.
Sam: These are good catch phrases, for sure.
Taliesin: Depending on whether or not you have the mount, let me know if you want to trade boots or not, since these are non-attunable.
Marisha: Okay, hang on, if someone has to roll to see if second Scanlan is dispelled, do you have to roll?
Matt: No.
Marisha: Second Scanlan has to roll?
Matt: Vecna would have to roll.
Marisha: Vecna has to roll.
Taliesin: And Vecna will win.
Liam: You know how Vecna rolls.
Travis: And we're definitely doing the pillars?
Marisha: I can throw up pillars.
Travis: No, I mean, are we, or are we not?
Marisha: Yeah.
Laura: We are doing the pillars, if he's not doing something on Trinket.
Marisha: I think the pillars could be good for cover and other things. Because I'm assuming we're--
Travis: Okay, cool. We're doing the pillars.
Laura: Scanlan, do something so that we can sleep.
Sam: All right. I need the strength of two mes to win this fight. So I'm going to drop to my knees, and Wish to the gods that there was somehow more of me, that I could somehow be in two places at the same time. I wish for more me. Me-more. Me, but more. Ms Scanlan.
Matt: All right. As the words leave your lips, you can see Artagan himself, as he finishes the meal, leans back. "Hmm." Like, seemingly taken aback by the power of these words you've spoken, as you watch as hints of nearby slowly melting snowfall that seem to have gathered elements at the base of the trees nearby begin to slowly congeal into a form. You do realize that this is going to take you 12 hours to complete, right?
Sam: Oh, yeah.
Laura: So you should've started that earlier.
Sam: Shit. (laughs)
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: So can we decide that earlier?
Matt: No.
Travis: No.
Marisha: That's cool.
Sam: You guys can sleep, then I'll sleep, you wait for me.
Matt: You'll be arriving a little later than originally anticipated. Who knows what ramifications that'll have.
Travis: Just do it, man.
Sam: Sorry. It's already being done.
Matt: All right, so.
Sam: Shit! We should have done that when we were waiting for fucking Vax!
Laura: I know!
Marisha: I thought that's what we were doing!
Sam: I didn't know it takes that long!
Marisha: We tried. Wait, we definitely mentioned that!
Matt: Simulacrum is a 12-hour casting time.
Sam: (whispers) Okay.
Travis: It's okay.
Ashley: It's okay. It's done.
Laura: What's done is done.
Matt: Over the next 12 hours, you sit there focusing on trying to press your will into this congealing snow golem of Scanlan, and watch as it slowly takes form and breathes air, and-- with no equipment, of course-- but has your knowledge, your spells. Eventually, the completion of the spell brings to life a secondary Scanlan, under your beck and call.
Sam: Oh my god. Hello, Scanlan, is it you?
Matt: "It's me."
Sam: (gasps) Oh!
Matt: (gasps) Oh!
Sam: You're shorter than I thought you'd be.
Matt: "Speak for yourself."
Sam: All right, let's just see if you're really Scanlan.
Matt: He's already naked.
Sam: Oh, okay. Let's see. I whip out my little measuring tape. One inch, by one inch, by one inch. Mm-hmm. That part's the same.
Matt: "Mm-hmm. How do we know I'm not the real Scanlan?"
Laura: How do we know you're not the real Scanlan?
Sam: I think there's only one way to find out.
Liam: Sing off.
Sam: (singing) Naa!
Matt: (singing in unison) "Naa! Molto bene, molto bene--"
Sam: (singing in unison) "Naa! Molto bene, molto bene--"
Taliesin: Well, that's everything I needed.
Matt: You're halfway through your sleep.
Laura: Shut up, Scanlans!
Travis: Isn't Wish instantaneous?
Matt: The spell is instantaneous, unless it's copying the effect of a spell.
Sam: All right. This worked. Scanlan, let's go to sleep.
Matt: "All right, Scanlan. Where to?"
Sam: I'll spoon you.
Matt: "Okay." All right, you guys head off to your domicile.
Liam: This is the last check off your list, I think.
Taliesin: Some items for other Scanlan.
Sam: Oh, we have extra items?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Laura: Oh, yeah. Other Scanlan can wear things? He's fully--
Matt: He can wear things.
Travis: You want bracers of defense? Plus two to your AC?
Laura: Oh, yeah, put on that armor that I gave you.
Sam: Because he doesn't have any of my items, does he?
Matt: Nope. He is naked.
Laura: Put him in the armor I gave you that you don't wear.
Sam: Yes, yes, I will put him in the armor of--
Laura: Acid resistance.
Sam: Acid-- No, I have acid, you had cold.
Laura: No, I have cold now. It was--
Sam: Oh, we had two acids!
Laura: Yeah, that's what it was.
Sam: Yeah. So it's acid resistance.
Matt: Okay. There you go.
Ashley: I have a shield of fire resistance.
Laura: What about the wand of plus one, for the spells?
Sam: Wand of plus one, what is that?
Laura: It's a war wand.
Sam: Yeah, great. Do that.
Taliesin: And then, here.
Sam: He's also got bracers of defense, gloves of missile snaring, and a dragon slayer longsword? Sure, why not.
Matt: All right, so you got those. So you go ahead and find yourself to sleep. The rest of you, the night's rest, if there's any final words before the fray comes, anything you want to do to calm yourself before the final battle, now's the time.
Laura: Oh god.
Ashley: Fuck.
Laura: This could be it, huh?
Marisha: This is real fucked up.
Travis: I'm real excited, actually. Like, you know, you always want to test yourself to see what you're made of, what is your mettle really like. We're going to find out. We're really going to find out. Nobody else excited?
Taliesin: I don't know if excited is the word.
Marisha: There's been a few times that we've all known we could die together, but this might actually be it.
Laura: Oh. That's true.
Marisha: Yeah.
Laura: You know what? We're doing it for a good cause, though. Saving the world.
Marisha: It's fine. Yeah?
Travis: Yeah. Together, right?
Sam: Together.
Ashley: Together.
Taliesin: No regrets.
Laura: No regrets.
Liam: These last three or four years have been the best of my life.
Marisha: Same.
Travis: Yeah.
Laura: I had a good run a few years before that, but this is pretty great.
Taliesin: I'm going to remember that you said that.
Sam: Last year I was a crime boss, but the last few days have been really fun.
Taliesin: Everything since I met you all has felt like a dream. Even the worst of it.
Travis: I love all of you. (snores)
Marisha: Aw, that's so cute; he's honest when he's asleep.
Taliesin: Would it be wrong to shave his beard, just one more time?
Travis: (snorts awake before returning to snoring)
Liam: We need his head in the game.
Laura: Yeah. It gives him strength.
Marisha: I think it's like his focus, you know?
Travis: Boobies.
Taliesin: One of them, yes.
Ashley: I feel like I don't want to go to sleep.
Laura: (whispers) I know. We need to, though.
Marisha: Like, it's weird to say goodnight, right?
Laura: We can totally take this guy. Fuck it. We're not going down.
Sam: Yeah.
Laura: Yeah.
Sam: Yeah. He doesn't know what's going to hit him.
Laura: Exactly.
Sam: We're the S.H.I.T.s.
Laura: Yeah!
Marisha: Yeah!
Laura: Fuck him.
Ashley: Yeah.
Laura: We've got other gods on our side. He's a fucking half-ass god.
Ashley: That's true.
Laura: That's right. And you-- You're not going anywhere.
Marisha: All right. Good night?
Laura: Good night.
Taliesin: In the morning.
Liam: Yeah, Percy, get your rest, because your last words to me tomorrow need to be indignant and irritated.
Taliesin: I've already planned them out.
Liam: Goodnight, brother.
Taliesin: Goodnight, brother.
Travis: And we sleep.
Matt: All right. You all find yourselves resting, uncomfortable at first, but the knowledge and the exhaustion hitting you, eventually it takes you. The dreams lead seamlessly, one to the next. Memories of your meeting, of your story, of your experiences, bleeding between your fears, your victories, and the people whose lives you've touched and who've touched your lives. Of Wilhand. The fall of Kevdak. To the respect of your father, and the vengeance of your mother. To climbing the destiny of the Aramente. To rebuilding the memory of one's family. And to spooning a second version of yourself. (laughing)
Liam: (singing) Oh, my darling, I hunger for your touch--
Matt: And knowing that you've taken your faith from a place of being forgotten to a newly built symbol of hope. These thoughts all mingle, as the dark of rest takes you. And as you all awake, in the center of this strange, mystical meadow, peeking through the hints of purple and orange that signify the sky that breaks through the canopy of this forest, the pools of Nala that once brought you here long ago. You all awake, the beds gone, the tents gone. You're all lying amongst this field in a circle, around each other. As you come to consciousness, you all sit up, take a breath, feel the warmth and the knowledge of what has to be done wash over you, the shadow between two distant trees reveals the orange mane of Artagan once more, as he steps forth, his high green collar disappearing into his long sleeves, and a cloak that billows past his shoulders and loops into his back, as he almost glides effortlessly through the grass. "I take it you all slept well?"
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: "Well, then. Time is of the essence. You've been here more than a day."
Laura: Just barely.
Matt: "Just know. But whenever you're ready. I'll see what I can whip up." As he wipes his fingers against each other, you can see the sparkle, spiral of purples and blues and oranges and colors, causing this glow under his face and his hair as he gets excited at the prospect of seeing just how far he can tweak the boundaries of the Feywild that he calls home.
Marisha: All right.
Taliesin: Here we go.
Travis: What are you holding over there?
Sam: Myself. My other hand.
Laura: Trinket's back in the necklace for the bamfing over.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: To Thar Amphala. On the back of a titan. On the Material Plane.
Matt: "Take them." As you concentrate, and the spell begins to swell around you, this familiar energy begins to ride up in your stomach. You feel the butterflies take form. And as the realm begins to darken, the colors that you see, spiraling out of Artagan's hands, begin to consume you as well. And nausea takes over and you feel yourself wretched left and right, as darkness begins to swell once more and close in, the colors surround you entirely. And you feel like you're being pushed through a window. As you all land and catch your feet, the darkness subsides, the color subsides, and you all feel immediately queasy, falling to your knees. As you glance around you, you can see you stand in the rubble, the exterior of a building that has fallen long ago. You see large chunks of the secondary floor fallen inward and dust (poof) around you as your knees hit. You look up and can see the familiar green-blue crackle of the barrier above you. You've managed to make it on the interior of Thar Amphala. You look up to see, immediately, clusters of gloomstalkers in the distance. They haven't quite gotten a view on you.
Laura: In the building, now!
Matt: You guys all dart. Make a stealth check, please.
Travis: First roll, first roll, first roll.
Liam: Natural 20.
All: Hey!
Marisha: Good luck!
Laura: Oh, that's good.
Matt: That's one way to do it.
Marisha: Oh, natural 19.
All: Ooh.
Sam: Scanlan One, 19. Scanlan Two, 21.
Taliesin: 19.
Marisha: 28.
Laura: 35.
Ashley: 18.
Travis: 11.
Matt: Okay. This building is mostly collapsed; there's a small alcove in the corner where part of the secondary story is still there. You guys dart into the side of it and you rest there for a minute in quiet. (nervous breathing) And you suddenly hear an impact of stone against the wall behind you. All of you guys immediately turn around and you watch as the heavy piece of stone that marks the outer part of this building is now cracked, and part of it begins to fall in. I need Scanlan One, real Scanlan, and Percy to make dexterity saving throws, please.
Sam: Not good. Ten.
Taliesin: I'm going to burn a resolve.
Travis: Burning it already?
Sam: What?
Taliesin: I rolled really low. I want to do that a little better.
Liam: So take a conk on the head!
Taliesin: Oh, fine.
Laura: No, you don't know! You don't know!
Taliesin: I don't know-- which is why I am.
Matt: What are you going to do? Are you going take it or not?
Taliesin: No, I'm going to kill a resolve, one more. That's way better! Natural 20.
Matt: Okay, cool. You only take three points of bludgeoning damage.
Taliesin: That'll do.
Matt: Scanlan takes six.
Taliesin: It's just a resolve; I got three.
Travis: Six points.
Matt: You reduced three points of damage.
Laura: I thought they could be trapped under the wall or something.
Taliesin: No, it was fair. I'm not in the mood for that. And resolves I got plenty of.
Matt: It crumples over onto you. You manage to pull away. As you turn around, you can see, right around the edge of the part of the building that's collapsed and fallen, a gloomstalker, covered in dust, shaking its head as it attempts to stand once more. It looks like it's been slammed to the ground, or crashed into this wall. And you can see it's on the ground, (croaking noises), shaking its head and trying to get back up, its wings trying to unfurl. As it rights its head, you see a leaping blur of black armor and red scales climb to the back of the beast, grasping the side of its shoulders as it spins back and forth, trying to shake it. You see this humanoid figure, trying to take something and throw it around its throat and its head, however, it's just not able to grasp it around, and gets thrown off the side and to the back. You watch as the gloomstalker bucks off the assailant and begins to try and get its wings up once more, as the figure leaps up again and shoulder slams it into the wall a second time. You get a better look at it now. You can see now, standing at a pretty decent height, about a seven-foot dragonborn of red scale and black, hooked armor, bladed and angry. You see a burning fury in its eyes. Joe, if you want to come to the table, please.
All: Ooh! (cheering)
Liam: Welcome to the table!
Sam: What's this? (cheering and laughing)
Joe: Yes!
Travis: Brothers in arms! Yeah!
Taliesin: I like that it's kitty-corner right now.
Joe: The tanks on the ends.
Matt: Arkhan. You've been trying to wrestle this gloomstalker down-- You spent days here, trying to find a way to recover from the circumstances that left you here. This is the closest thing you've had at this circumstance, as you've regained your strength, and as you leap onto its back, it continues to knock you off to the side. You guys see this confrontation happening. What do you do?
Laura: Does it look like-- (pained noise)
Travis: No, I'll run in.
Liam: Yeah, he's attacking a gloomstalker; I'll join in.
Matt: All right, so what are you guys doing?
Liam: I'm going to help this guy out and throw.
Matt: All right, so go ahead and make two attacks.
Liam: All right. Plus one to--
Joe: Wait, don't hurt him! Don't hurt him; I scream: Don't hurt him.
Matt: Well, he's thrown two daggers.
Liam: I did, and they both hit.
Matt: Yes. Technically adjacent, so you do sneak attack damage.
Liam: All right, I will.
Sam: Oh boy.
Liam: Four-- It could be bad. 12--
Taliesin: Oh, wow. What are you doing?
Laura: All of the damage.
Travis: Save it for battle!
Liam: 34, 35-- I can't! It's too late; it's triggered!
Laura: No! Don't do it!
Liam: 46 for the first.
Sam: I cover tiny Scanlan's eyes.
Laura: Welcome to the game, Joe!
Travis: This is what we do.
Marisha: Yeah, what were you trying to do?
Joe: I hope you have a healing potion.
Sam: Nope.
Matt: That's 51 points of damage. You have 46 and four? It's 50 points of damage. Marking that down. You see two daggers into the side of the gloomstalker. It gives this horrible shrieking shout in pain and rears up.
Joe: Now that it's distracted, does that give me some sort of advantage?
Matt: I will say, given the pain it's had, make an athletics check because you are attempting to grapple the entity.
Joe: That's correct. All right, okay.
Laura: Can we see, does it look like he's got hands and eyes complete?
Joe: That's athletics, that's going to be a 19.
Matt: Natural 20.
Joe: Is it part dragon?
Matt: No. It is not. It's considered a monstrosity.
Joe: Okay, fair enough. Okay.
Matt: That's okay. You hear the dragonborn shout out, seeing the dagger slam into its side. What do you yell to them as they're attacking it?
Joe: Don't hurt this thing. Help me wrestle it to the ground.
Matt: At which point, it now thrusts the dragonborn off of its back. He goes tumbling and rolling onto the ground, landing onto your back, and you see it--
Laura: I throw out the Rope of Entanglement. On the gloomstalker.
Marisha: I turn to Percy, and I go  Who's fighting who?!
Taliesin: I don't know!
Matt: So now I would like an initiative roll from everybody, please.
Travis: Oh shit.
Taliesin: Oh shit.
Travis: What's that? Plus a d10 to my initiative now?
Sam: Does Scanlan Two take my initiative, or no?
Matt: Separately.
Laura: You're two people again! How does it feel?
Sam: The best.
Matt: 25 to 20, anybody?
Laura: 24.
Sam: Natural 20, which made a 23.
Travis: 22.
Matt: All right. Grog-- All right. Super low. All right, 20 to 15?
Joe: 17.
Marisha: 17.
Sam: Oh, sorry, Scanlan Two is also 21.
Liam: Joe, you're sitting on Scanlan Two.
Matt: All right. 15 to ten?
Taliesin: 12. No, really?
Ashley: Well, would I be Pike without rolling shit initiative?
Matt: Vax, what'd you get?
Liam: Eight.
Matt: Eight, wow. What'd you get, Pike?
Ashley: Yes. A six.
Matt: All right, so. Vex, you're up first. You're going to use the--
Laura: The Rope of Entanglement, is what I was going for. I can't find my--
Matt: I have the sheet here. So you thrust it out. It has to make a DC 15 dexterity saving throw.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: All right. Let's see here-- Natural one. Natural 20 to natural one. Back to back. As you fall onto your back and shout that out, you go rushing towards it and you watch as this glowing, long piece of thick rope begins to suddenly wrap around this gloomstalker as it's trying to take off again. It gets, like, a foot off the ground before its wings get pulled up to its body, and it falls back onto the ground, wrapped and restrained by the rope.
Joe: Great. I can do my thing now?
Matt: Is anybody else going to do anything, right now?
Travis: Yeah, I run up. I'm going to run up, and grab it by the head and neck and lay on it.
Matt: Okay. Scanlans?
Sam: I'm just watching. And I turn to Scanlan Two and say: So that's a gloomstalker.
Taliesin: "Yes."
Sam: And that guy, I'm not sure what he is, but he looks really cool.
Taliesin: "I know what he is. I'm not going to tell you, though."
Matt: All right, Arkhan.
Joe: I remove this golden-needled, five-jeweled wreath from around my neck, and I approach the beast, and I fasten it around its neck.
Sam: Shock collar.
Travis: Shock collar.
Matt: Kind of. So it's a DC 17.
Travis: If it barks, it activates.
Matt: Five plus six, that's an eleven. It does not succeed. You watch as the thrashing around gloomstalker on the ground begins to slowly calm down until it reaches a point where it's not moving; it's breathing, and you almost hear what sounds like a reverse purr.
Joe: Does this thing have horns?
Matt: It has a series of spines along the back of the neck, but no actual horns. It has a head that flares out like a cobra, but it's made of shadow. Where the jaw is, its tongue lashes out, but instead of saliva, it gives off smoke.
Joe: Then I grab it by the back of the jaw, here, and I put my forehead down to its forehead, and I close my eyes, and then open them, and they turn into that thing's eyes, correct?
Matt: Mm-hmm.
Joe: Yeah.
Matt: So the gloomstalkers, they have no discernible pupil; it's a glowing beacon of yellow-white where each eye is. And you watch as this dragonborn opens its eyes, it's headbutted against it, and the dragonborn's eyes now match the coloration of the gloomstalker.
Joe: I climb up onto its back.
Matt: Okay. It's still bound by the rope. But you get up onto it now. You watch as this massive dragonborn gets up onto the gloomstalker, which is now currently on the ground, trying to right itself now, still wrapped in the rope.
Joe: You can release the rope now.
Laura: Does it look like anybody's noticed us?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Sam: We've been fighting silently.
Laura: 33.
Matt: You do look and see two more gloomstalkers that have broken away from the cluster, that are making their way in your direction.
Laura: Will this thing obey you? We should get inside. I let go of the rope and go back in the building so that we can hide.
Matt: Okay. Everyone else following?
Laura: I cast Pass Without a Trace on all of us.
Matt: Everyone else following suit?
Sam: Yes.
Matt: Okay. You?
Joe: Yeah. Absolutely.
Matt: All right. Do you leave the gloomstalker where it is and then step inside with them?
Joe: Can I take it with me?
Matt: If you want to.
Joe: I'd like to take it with me.
Matt: As you guys all dart inside this alcove in the building-- Like, most of the roof is gone; there's a section of roof that's there. It can hide most of you. The gloomstalker's a bit large, as you all cluster into the space, as it looms in. (heavy footsteps) This is the second time you've had an allied gloomstalker this close, and it's a very upsetting proximity.
Marisha: Uncomfortable elevator at a convention.
Matt: Kind of. As you guys pull into the side, I'd like you all to make a stealth check, please.
Marisha: Why did you wear wings?
Laura: Stealth check!
Joe: If I'm on its back, does that have anything to do with my plate armor? Meaning, am I relying on some form of stalking that doesn't make my armor clank around?
Matt: Unfortunately, as you're still riding it and it moves and shifts, there is still the plate sitting against it, so you would still be at a disadvantage.
Joe: Am I the only one in plate armor here?
Laura: No, she's got plate armor.
Ashley: Nope. Clanky twins!
Joe: I just didn't want to be fully responsible.
Travis: She has something that makes her less clanky-like.
Laura: Yeah, you got your boots.
Ashley: Boots!?
Laura: Yeah, so you don't roll at disadvantage anymore.
Ashley: Wait, wait.
Laura: Yeah. You got non-clanky boots.
Joe: And I am at disadvantage? (sighs)
Laura: Add ten to your roll.
Sam: Yeah, you're fine.
Joe: Okay. 20.
Travis: Aw, yeah!
Joe: Disadvantage.
Matt: By the way, there's your stat sheet for the gloomstalker.
Joe: Yes!
Matt: It's taken 50 damage, so you can note that.
Joe: Can I feed it a healing potion?
Matt: When you have a moment you can, yeah.
Joe: Yeah. Trust me. It's all going to work out. What could go wrong?
Liam: You were jumping at him, and punching him in the face. I thought wrong. I do that sometimes.
Ashley: Do you have a name for him?
Sam: Do you have a name?
Ashley: Do you have a name? That's true. I just love animals.
Sam: We can kill you any second, so be scared of us, if you're an evil person.
Joe: You could. But I know these two.
Sam: What?
Matt: And there's a moment of recognition for Percival and Keyleth.
Marisha: Oh, holy shit.
Travis: No way.
Marisha: Oh. It's been, like-- two years?
Taliesin: At least two years.
Joe: At least. Percival, you've aged. Keyleth, you still look the same.
Marisha: (giggles)
Taliesin: She got a haircut.
Laura: Oh, shit. Are you going to let him do that to your girl?
Matt: It's at this moment you hear two heavy impacts from nearby rooftops.
Travis: Okay. Maybe not the best reunion time.
Matt: As you all stay as silent as possible, waiting, one of them takes off. And you can see it arc barely over the opening, but seems to be doing a wide sweep, out of visual range. The other one appears to be stalking from rooftop to rooftop, not far from you. (thudding) (sniffing and croaking) It leaps and lands on top of the small part of the roof that's above you guys. It holds. A few rocks tumble around you as you're quietly in that space, hoping. (thudding and croaking) Its head peeks over the edge and looks straight down, right into all of you.
Laura: Oh, God darn it.
Matt: What are you doing?
Laura: I shoot an arrow into its eyeball.
Matt: Okay. So as soon as the head passes over, make your attacks. You're close enough to get one swipe up, because you're on the back of a gloomstalker. So as its head peeks down, you can get a strike at it.
Travis: How high up?
Matt: It's about, I'd say, 12 to 15 feet up.
Laura: 35.
Matt: That hits.
Joe: That's going to be a 31.
Matt: That hits.
Joe: Damn, that's a Vox Machina number. About damn time. That's what level 17 will get you. All right. Yeah.
Matt: All righty. So.
Liam: 20, 21, and a miss.
Matt: Okay. So those both hit.
Laura: 25 damage.
Matt: 25 damage, all righty.
Laura: Oh, and I get to do it again?
Matt: You do.
Liam: Is his proximity close enough that either of these guys are within five feet, or anybody's within--?
Matt: No. Oh, I'd say Arkhan probably is.
Laura: 18?
Matt: 18 damage?
Laura: 18, does that hit?
Matt: That does hit, yeah.
Laura: Okay.
Sam: Come on, insta-kill this thing.
Marisha: I know. I don't want to have to do anything.
Laura: 18.
Matt: Okay.
Joe: This is the paladin dilemma. I think I'm going to save the spell slots. But I am going to swing at this guy.
Matt: Go for it.
Joe: Okay, I'm going to swing my battleaxe, Fane-Eater.
Matt: Okay. So you get two attacks with that.
Joe: Great. Oh, okay. Well, one was 31.
Matt: Yep.
Joe: Oh, that's going to be nine, plus 14. That's 23 points of damage on the first one. And then second attack is going to be a 23.
Matt: That hits.
Joe: And that's going to be 21 points of damage on the second.
Matt: All right. And with that, as soon as its head peeks over the edge, two arrows (whooshing) under its throat, and you watch as an axe cuts part of its head clean off, as it tries to make a noise, but the blade is caught in its throat and prevents the air passage. As Fane-Eater is yanked out of the side, you see the jagged edge of the axe arc back, causing blood to splatter across the back, the wall behind him, as Arkhan goes in with a second swipe. And with one clean cleave motion, the head falls and plummets into the ground. The rest of the gloomstalker tumbles in, lifeless, into the rock. And you see as it lands, its wings sprawl out and slowly the body begins to dissolve into black smoke and shadow.
Sam: I run out and I say  Wait! Don't kill it! I'm just kidding. It's fine.
Taliesin: Vox Machina, may we introduce you to Arkhan?
Sam: Arkhan?
Marisha: Arkhan.
Sam: Hi.
Marisha: You look like you've, you know-- You look like us. You got more stuff. We've acquired more stuff, over the years. That's cool.
Sam: How do you know this gentleman?
Taliesin: We did some work, ages ago.
Marisha: Yeah, forever. Before we really knew any of you.
Joe: The temple of Shumash.
Laura: How did you get here?
Marisha: It was a crappy swamp. It was good times. Yeah.
Matt: Technically it was a desert, but yeah.
Marisha: It was a crappy desert. Good times.
Sam: Well, it was the worst kind of swamp. It was one with no water.
Marisha: It was, yes. The driest of swamps, yeah.
Taliesin: What are you doing here?
Joe: That's a long story. Weeks ago, we wound up attacked by a cult, my companions and I. This cult was led by a Death Knight. And a sorcerous woman.
Sam: Lady Briarwood.
Marisha: Sylas?
Joe: And then Vecna followed. And we were ambushed. My companions and I were marked for death. They were all destroyed. And I watched that Death Knight burn the closest thing I've ever had to a brother. And he cut the still-beating heart out of our goliath. And then these buzzards came to pick my bones, thinking I was dead. But I wouldn't die. The queen had another plan for me.
Sam: The queen? What kind of queen?
Joe: I hold up my shield.
Matt: Make a religion check, Scanlan.
Sam: Hm, that's no good. 11?
Matt: You have passing knowledge that the symbols that adorn both around Arkhan's throat and the shield that he holds up are that of the Scaled Tyrant, Tiamat, which is the patron god to chromatic and evil dragons all across the world.
Laura: Oh, he's evil. That's evil. That's the evil dragon. Potentially.
Sam: You serve this queen?
Taliesin: He's our kind of evil. It's fine.
Joe: I understand that because of my dogma, we belong to groups that would never mix, but I can assure you, if you help me get revenge on the one that killed my friends, I swear to you, I will fight for your lives with the fury of a man who is already dead.
Taliesin: I think we have a surprising amount already in common.
Travis: Good pitch.
Sam: Devil's advocate  maybe not. I don't know, maybe--
Liam: I mean, I'm just going to do an insight check on principle.
Joe: I make the gloomstalker snarl at the two Scanlans.
Matt: (snarls)
Liam: Yeah, I rolled an eight. He checks out.
Marisha: Quick question. We didn't roll our temporary hit points for our Heroes' Feast.
Matt: Oh, you did not. You should do that.
Marisha: Can we do that? Or does Pike do that for us?
Matt: Yeah, Pike, you roll the temporary hit points.
Marisha: For all of us, right? It's an additional 2d10, I'm pretty sure.
Matt: So roll 2d10, Pike. And everyone who was present for that--
Laura: Oh, yeah, you should give us a speech. How long does that last?
Marisha: Oh, I totally should've given a speech.
Liam: That's a ten-minute one, yeah?
Marisha: No, it's a short rest thing. But it's a thing that lasts until--
Laura: Later, then.
Marisha: Yeah. I should've done that before, but I'll do it next time.
Sam: Whatcha doing over there, Johnson?
Ashley: I'm just looking for my tens!
Laura: Oh no!
Liam: Two ones.
Marisha: Two ones?
Ashley: Wait, are these 12s?
Laura: No, those are tens.
Matt: All right. So you guys gain two additional hit points, to your max hit points.
Laura: That is such a bummer.
Joe: Is that everybody?
Matt: Yeah. You weren't there for the meal, unfortunately. It's from earlier.
Laura: It's okay; the meal didn't do a lot, apparently.
Ashley: So glad I'm here to be useful.
Matt: However, everyone does still have their advantage on wisdom saving throws and you're immune to fear. Which is pretty huge.
Marisha: And poison.
Matt: And poison. The hit points are more of, like, a bonus. You're fine.
Liam: It was slim fast. Slim feast.
Matt: Slim feast!
Marisha: Slim feast!
Joe: Can I feed this thing a healing potion?
Matt: You may.
Ashley: I really thought I was going to roll two tens.
Joe: Greater? I think greater.
Matt: If you have, yeah--
Joe: I have a greater.
Matt: So that would be 4d4 plus four.
Ashley: I rolled the wrong, I actually rolled the wrong tens.
Joe: That's nine; that's not great.
Sam: No, that's not great. We'll figure it out later.
Taliesin: We know Lay on Hands and some such.
Joe: Well, I have them, I just don't want to blow them.
Travis: Wait. You can't die?
Sam: Is that true? Wait, when did he say he couldn't die?
Travis: Well, he said, like, "She thought I was dead, but my queen--"
Sam: He said he would fight like a man who is dead, but he wasn't--
Taliesin: It was a metaphor, Grog. It was a metaphor.
Sam: Oh, no, you're right.
Liam: Do you mean actually; have you died?
Joe: It's kind of a colloquialism for religious folk. You know what I mean? Like, I hit a death save.
Laura: Oh, tight, tight, tight, tight.
Sam: I touch him to see if he's real.
Joe: I blow smoke out of my nostrils, like a little fire.
Sam: Kind of squishy. Really soft.
Travis: Thank god he's wearing that armor, huh?
Sam: Yeah. Pudgy.
Joe: I'm going to pump 30, then, back into this gloomstalker. Plus the nine. So there was, what, 51 that came off?
Matt: 50 points of damage were taken off.
Joe: 50 points, so I put 39 back on, so that's 11 off.
Matt: Yep, you got it.
Travis: When do we want to do Freedom of Movement stuff? Not yet?
Liam: That's short term.
Laura: Right before. That only lasts for an hour. Here's the thing. Do we go for the outer walls to take out the shield first? Probably. Once we go in, we're going in.
Sam: The outer walls of the city?
Laura: Of Thar Amphala, yes.
Sam: How are we going to take down entire walls without being--
Laura: We don't have to take out the walls. We have to break a couple of the crystals.
Marisha: Yeah, those crystals that we started to break when we were in the Shadowfell.
Taliesin: If just do a hit and run, we can cause so much chaos that all of these gloomstalkers are going to be busy dealing with everything in the air.
Laura: Hey! You remember our old plan of just set everything on fire? Let's set everything on fire!
Marisha: Yeah! In fact, that's actually a brilliant plan. We could disable a crystal, maybe I could light a signal, distract people. While they're distracted, we make it to the next one.
Taliesin: And as long as we're close to that one, they don't know that we're here. They can't see us.
Joe: What are these crystals?
Sam: We don't know where these crystals are!
Taliesin: They're all around the outer wall.
Laura: We saw them when we were in the city before.
Marisha: Yeah, in the Shadowfell. Remember, we jabbed at one, and decided against it.
Sam: All right.
Taliesin: If we break these crystals, this could help--
Marisha: Everything.
Travis: Does anyone know that you're here?
Joe: Vecna. The female wizardess.
Laura: She knows?
Joe: And the Death Knight.
Taliesin: And if they've been watching, he just vanished. We should run now.
Joe: But they thought I was dead. They left me for dead.
Laura: So they don't necessarily know you're in the city.
Joe: I think they'd be surprised to see me.
Laura: Okay. All right, cool.
Marisha: Let's move.
Laura: Okay, stealthily, let's try to make it to the outer wall so that we can cut out some of these crystals.
Matt: Okay. First off, make a perception check as you glance out to see how close you are to the nearby wall.
Laura: 30.
Matt: 30, okay. You notice you're on a different part of the city than you were previously. If the city's moving forward, if you consider the direction that the titan is traversing forward, you guys were to the back and right side of Thar Amphala. Like a clock; if twelve o'clock is where it was traveling, you guys were around four or five o'clock. Looking now at the layout of the city, you're closer to 11 and 12 right now. And you're maybe about 200 feet from the nearest wall. You can see the curvature of the dome is pretty striking from your current position. And you can see the pulses, the waves. Imagine like a reverse waterfall of energy shooting upward. And every now and then, there's a burst.
Laura: Does it look like there's an area that the pulses are brighter, along the wall?
Matt: Yes. You do see the pulses aren't universal. There are certain locations, about six of them throughout the city, that you occasionally see them (bursting), and they spread out.
Laura: Are we close to one of those pulses?
Matt: You can maneuver there. It's not directly behind you, but you can eventually get to that location, yeah.
Laura: Okay. I see where one of the crystals is; let's move towards that.
Taliesin: We'll get Grog to smash it to smithereens.
Travis: I smash (stumbling) mitheens.
Ashley: You do. To mitheens.
Travis: (drawn out) Mitheens.
Taliesin: You're so good at punching walls.
Matt: All right. I would like you all to make a stealth check. Are you all walking on foot? Are you taking the gloomstalker?
Joe: I'm on top of the gloomstalker.
Sam: Is it walking?
Matt: Yeah.
Joe: It's walking right now?
Matt: It's currently walking, unless you want to hover with it.
Sam: You got to stay within 60 feet of us? 30 feet?
Matt: 60 feet.
Joe: I'd like to hover.
Matt: As you guys are staying lowkey, Arkhan is currently riding against the back of this gloomstalker as it's hovering in the air above. And the stealth check you're going to be rolling is going to be to see whether or not anything notices you on the back of a gloomstalker. The gloomstalker is not going to register on the radar of any of the current watching creatures, because it's part of its posse for the moment.
Joe: So is this with disadvantage for plate armor, or not?
Matt: I would say no, because it isn't a movement-based stealth check; you're just trying to stay still.
Joe: With the bonus.
Laura: Plus ten.
Joe: Love it. Good. 31.
Matt: Shit, all right. You're just clutching the exterior of it, trying to stay low. You're pulling into your armor like a turtle shell, since it is black. And using that to try and blend into its form
Sam: And can we kind of stay under the shadow of the gloomstalker?
Matt: You guys can move along.
Sam: Oh, 29 and 20.
Taliesin: 34.
Matt: Keyleth?
Marisha: 32.
Matt: Vax?
Liam: I rolled a four, so it's 37.
Matt: Fucking rogue.
Laura: 29.
Ashley: 18.
Travis: What?
Ashley: No, I did it wrong.
Travis: Oh. 19.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: His head has muscles.
Matt: Okay. A five and a six. All right, so. As you guys begin to maneuver through the streets, dodging from building to building, on the outskirts of Thar Amphala, thankfully, the streets are a little more sparse on the edges. You also notice as you're traversing, and this is interesting.
Joe: It's his head shot.
Laura: I would have liked if he had signed it.
Joe: It's Arkhan's commercial head shot.
Marisha: Yeah, yeah, yeah. You need to print one in black and white.
Liam: (deep voice) If I'm good at reproductions.
Joe: This is, like, work in the office look.
Marisha: (laughing) That's such an L.A. joke, yeah.
Matt: All right, so. As you guys are maneuvering, Vax, Vex, and Keyleth as well. You have the high passive perception of the group. You notice that the droves of undead that have been clogging the streets of this city, and the clusters of cultists that have been running about busily, running from location to location, with some work on their midst. The undead, who were just scattered and wandering, are now unified and moving in patterns. They're now being driven by some intent. Whereas once they were just scattered amongst, and in a holding pattern, now they're maneuvering with solid purpose, away from the sides of the wall, and the shields, which enables you to go relatively unnoticed. But you're seeing them now, gathering towards similar tunnels to the one you came up in. You can see dozens and dozens of zombies and skeletons, and the occasional robed cultist, both warrior and mage alike, all beginning to make their way down into the titan, at various points in the city.
Sam: Making their way down.
Taliesin: They're going to go attack the city.
Laura: We got to get these shields down so that Vasselheim can actually have--
Marisha: A fighting chance.
Liam: A fighting chance.
Travis: Let's find the crystals.
Marisha: All right, let's do it.
Matt: As you guys make your way around the edge of the city, you follow these pulses. They occur every two minutes or so, so you have to keep an eye out for it until one happens and then reorient your direction, but you taking point on this, you lead everybody, darting from place to place. Man. Rolling shitty-ass perception.
Travis: That's okay, Matt.
Matt: That's okay for you guys.
Travis: Let it happen.
Matt: Eventually, you come around one cluster of exterior buildings. It looks to be what was once a manor, that was converted to a fortress. Like a small exterior fortress to this inner circle of Thar Amphala. You curve around and there you see, familiar to you from once before, the walls that surround the exterior of this inner sanctum of Thar Amphala, and the basis of this field that contains the entirety of the city. Looking at the wall, you can already feel the dangerous vibration of this field being so close. There's this violent hum to the air, that with each pulse hits this certain frequency of sound that causes your ear to tweak just a hint. And you can see violent waves of green-blue magical energy, (pulsing) up the side of the wall, like a very powerful reverse waterfall. Shooting up, to gather and maintain this field. You cannot see the crest. The crest was visible from the outside of the wall. And the energy field is being produced on the outside of the wall. You're on the inside of it. But you can gather the base location of where this burst is happening to get an idea of loosely where it might be.
Laura: How thick is the wall?
Matt: You don't know.
Laura: And we saw the crest before because there was a doorway in the outer wall.
Matt: Correct. Yes.
Laura: Is there any kind of doorway around us?
Matt: You glance over to where the door was, below the crest, before, and you can see the opposite side of a door, currently, yes. It is shut. And appears to be made of hard wood with-- It's iron bar reinforced crosshatch.
Liam: Well, we can try the door, and then if that doesn't work, Grog can make a new one.
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: Let me check out the door.
Travis: I'm not really so keen on making doors, as opposed to knocking them down. I'm a craftsman. All right. I'm just, me.
Liam: I'm going to check and see if the door is trapped.
Laura: How are you with doors?
Joe: Pretty good.
Travis: Yeah!
Joe: Yeah!
Travis: Sh!
Taliesin: Sh!
Liam: 26.
Matt: Thankfully only rolled a nine.
Liam: 26 for investigation on the door.
Matt: The door is locked, but it is not trapped.
Liam: All right. Let's open it up.
Joe: I hand Grog some jerky from my pouch. Hungry?
Travis: Oh, fuck yeah. Don't share it.
Liam: 28.
Matt: 28, okay. So the door (clicks). And it's interesting, as you put your lockpicks in to feel the tumblers, you can feel the metal vibrating. Like the entire door is just (buzzes). And as you hit it, and the door swings open, almost like something's been pushing it on the opposite side. It swings open and slams on the inside of the frame, and there you're looking at a wall of violent green arcane energy. (whoosh) Coasting by-- Actually, this is blasting downward right now, because the threshold crest, as you recall, was above the doorway, in the wall.
Laura: Can we see it? Like above the doorway?
Matt: No, it's flush.
Laura: It's like on the other side?
Matt: It's on the other side and up on the wall. And currently where the door opens, there is violent magical energy slamming down.
Laura: Do you think it's possible to, like, punch up on the archway and knock the crystal down?
Liam: I pick up a rock about that big, walk ten feet back, and throw it at the energy.
Matt: It hits the field, and there's a violent flash in that section, about a foot radius around where it was, and the rock shoots past you. Make a dexterity saving throw.
Liam: Ooh, that's not good. 16.
Matt: 16? Strange. Wow! That's the first time you've failed a dex save in a long time!
Liam: Yeah, I rolled a three.
Matt: Oh, thank god.
Laura: So happy about it.
Marisha: You are fallible.
Matt: You take six points of bludgeoning damage. That's a d4 plus two. But it literally pelts you in the side of jaw and the neck, and you turn around and feel it. And you can feel the pulsing of the blood begin to flow into the bruise that's going to be there tomorrow.
Liam: I literally just got choked to death 18 hours ago, so I'm not sweating it. What're we going to do?
Taliesin: Grog? Let's start drilling up.
Laura: Try punching up.
Sam: All right, but if we interfere with that forcefield and it somehow hits us, we're going to be hurting.
Travis: Oh, yeah. Not only should we back up a little bit, except for me, we should also have an area that we're going to run to, right? Because I'm sure this will bring the noise.
Marisha: Is there a house nearby?
Laura: Is there a house nearby?
Matt: There's about a 20 foot gap between the wall and any nearby building, and there is the large, fortress-like manor that you saw earlier. I mean, I say fortress-like manor; it's not a huge house. It's two story and a decent size. But it looks like it's been reinforced in the walls, like somebody had designed for it to be a place to hold off some sort of a stand, probably from the war with Pelor's army, long ago. That's the closest thing to this doorway.
Laura: Okay, we can get ready to run there. However, we're staying within 60 feet of you while you're punching.
Travis: Arkhan's going to stay, just in case it needs, like, a double--
Laura: A double punch.
Travis: Yeah. You know.
Matt: It's probably more than 20 feet, actually; it's probably like 30, 40 feet.
Laura: 30 feet away?
Matt: Yeah.
Joe: How many gloomstalker riders are in the sky above?
Matt: I mean, overall? Make a perception check.
Joe: Okay. Yikes. Eight.
Matt: There's a lot of them.
Travis: Sky's clear.
Matt: Like, there's a lot of them by Entropis.
Joe: Gloomstalker shit hits me in the face.
Matt: Yeah. But you do notice that there's-- where previously there wasn't, there's a cloud gathering at the top of this dome funneling down onto Entropis.
Travis: Actually. Well, hold on. You got to stay here, right? Because of the--
Laura: That's what I said; I'm staying within 60 feet of you.
Travis: I would like to rage.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: And I go  Tiger Uppercut! and I just punch the roof of it.
Matt: Go ahead and make an attack.
Liam: Destroy.
Travis: Yeah, destroy. 23.
Matt: That hits. Go ahead and roll damage, d4 plus your strength modifier.
Travis: That is 15. Just by itself. So.
Matt: Times two. That's 30 points of damage with a punch.
Sam: One Punch Man.
Matt: Fucking siege, man. That's good. As you slam into it, you guys watch as, right above the doorway, in the door frame, the entire wall-- Just a spider crack shoots up about 20-- The wall is about 30 feet tall or so. Actually, probably not. It's about 20 or so feet. And it cracks up to the very top, and you watch as large parts of it break off and fall, but it hasn't completely collapsed. But it's sustained some very serious damage.
Taliesin: One more and we run. And take cover.
Travis: One more?
Laura: Yeah.
Ashley: Yeah.
Matt: I also need you to go ahead and make a constitution saving throw, please.
Liam: I'm going to walk up behind him--
Joe: He's within ten feet of me. He gets a plus four.
Liam: And plus two from me.
Matt: Awesome. Well, they don't stack.
Liam: Doesn't stack?
Matt: The plus four is what you get.
Liam: Then I'm backing the fuck up.
Matt: From the aura.
Joe: Aura of Protection. Provided by Tiamat!
Travis: 24.
Matt: 24? All right. You suffer-- it would be 14 points of force damage, reduced to seven and you're pushed back 20 feet, but you're not knocked prone. So as you slam into it, there's a burst of arcane energy out of that section of the doorway and wall that slams into you. You go spinning past, spiraling, and you catch yourself on the ground about 20 feet away, in the middle of the open there. Catch yourself.
Liam: Feet skidding, like a Jackie Chan film.
Matt: Still don't fucking see you, okay.
Taliesin: It's a very loud--
Matt: I'm rolling so shitty today.
Sam: Yeah, well. You're going to roll well when it counts.
Joe: I'll take a shot.
Matt: You take a shot as well?
Joe: Yeah.
Matt: All right. So as Grog spins back and catches himself, you walk up to this doorframe. With your axe in hand?
Joe: Yeah.
Matt: Go for it. Roll an attack.
Joe: Okay, that's going to be a 19.
Matt: 19 hits.
Laura: 19 hits a wall!
Matt: It's an AC of 18 on the wall.
Sam: The wall has an AC of 18?
Taliesin: The wall has my armor class. That's really horrifying.
Joe: With my axe--
Matt: It's solid!
Laura: It's a magic wall.
Joe: That's going to be 20 points of damage.
Matt: 20 points of damage, that'll do it. So as Grog catches up, and look up, you watch as Arkhan rushes forward, and with a giant leap, cleaves the axe into the stone. As it does, the archway collapses downward. First off, make a constitution saving throw.
Travis: I'm standing there like a catcher, ready.
Joe: Con save? All right. Not big money. This is not. It's going to be more whammy than big money. That's a nine on a con save.
Matt: That's not going to do it. Okay. You suffer 16 points of force damage, and you get blown back into Grog's direction and knocked prone. So you catch, but the impact actually pushes you back five feet, and he falls face first on the ground. There's actually a dig in the ground, like a groove where the impact is. At that point, as you watch the wall crumble and collapse, you see, suddenly dislodged from its position, the about two and half foot wide threshold crest stone that is embedded in the wall there crumples downward and falls out of its space. As it does, there's a series of bursts of vibrant arcane energy that shoot up the wall, causing this side of the wall to glow exponentially brighter than the rest of the shield. At which point, like a large slice of pie, one sixth of the dome falls inward, and for the first time since you've arrived, you see the non-filtered sky above of the darkened clouds that have completely encased the upper atmosphere of Othanzia. You also glance past where it crumbled, as the city is at a slight angle forward, the way it's placed on the front of the titan, and you look down and see, immediately around, the familiar sight of the Vasper Timberlands that surround the exterior of Vasselheim. And there ahead, not more than maybe a few miles off, you can assume from this distance, you see the singular mountain pillar that Vasselheim is built around, and the outer wall in sight.
Marisha: I don't know. Do we keep going? Do we try to get down some more?
Joe: Alderaan is in sight!
Travis: We're coming around that planet.
Taliesin: We're going to run.
Matt: Everyone make a perception check, please.
Travis: I got this, guys; don't worry.
Joe: Famous last words.
Marisha: Opal die, don't fuck me!
Laura: 27?
Taliesin: 27.
Sam: 20.
Joe: Was this passive perception? Because if it was, then I rolled a natural 20 of passive perception. The natural one.
Marisha: 18.
Travis: Three.
Ashley: 12.
Matt: Okay. Those who got over 20  There's this small victory, and this moment of joy, and accomplishment, that is immediately washed over by the realization of how close you are to the city. The two hours that you were gone, still better than a full rest, however, has put you within proximity of the city. And you hear this familiar, large, airy, reedy, stretched screech in the distance. You glance over, and you see in the distance, barreling down in your direction, a skeletal dragon familiar to you not far before.
Marisha: Move, move, move!
Sam: I don't think we're going to be able to move.
Liam: We can hide, though.
Travis: We're going to hide?
Liam: We can't run.
Laura: At least get in this building, there was that encased part, right?
Sam: We're all in the same enclosed space?
Liam: Ring.
Matt: There's a tower-like structure, and then there's that building that was reinforced to be a--
Travis: If he spots us, we scatter and spread, but.
Taliesin: We are not going to scatter and spread. We're going to stay together no matter what.
Laura: We're going to stay within 60 feet of each other.
Taliesin: There is no scattering.
Laura: Within 60 feet of us. It's super important!
Matt: If you all are rushing into this building, everyone make a stealth check, please.
Joe: Is this a hovering stealth check?
Matt: If you want to still stay out in the open, that is up to you. They're all darting into a building, so the choice is yours. You can stay with your beast.
Joe: But he's one of them. So I can kind of leave him outside somewhat.
Matt: He is. You're on top of him.
Joe: Yeah, I am.
Matt: So. Do you want to try and blend into his form?
Joe: I'd love to. I think that's what I want to do.
Matt: Okay. Then make a stealth check.
Laura: If you're within 30 feet of me, you still get plus ten.
Matt: You would not be within 30 feet of her once she enters the building. So.
Marisha: Can you do the cool John Wayne thing, and go underneath of him, and hang on his belly from the saddle?
Joe: Yeah. That's what I'm trying to do.
Matt: Make an athletics check.
Joe: 28.
Matt: As this happens, you immediately climb down to the underbelly of the gloomstalker. To maintain hold on it, because its physical form-- and it's interesting, now that you've been this close to it, and you've been wrestling it, you feel it's partially corporeal. There's something about its physicality that is almost gelatinous. Like it's made up of a combination of shadow and physical will. And as you clutch into it, your fingers dig and begin to seep into it, almost like a cluster of tar. But it holds you fast, and you're there underneath. Make a stealth check, without disadvantage, but this will--
Laura: Is it a boy or a girl gloomstalker?
Joe: I'm close enough to know.
Matt: Gloomstalkers are actually sexless. They have no natural--
Joe: (whispers) It seems to be asexual. Oh, do I have a little--?
Matt: You do not.
Joe: (groans)
Laura: Oh no.
Joe: This is going to be an 11.
Matt: Okay. Good to know. The rest of you guys?
Joe: That was a shitty roll.
Travis: Oh, 16. No, 18.
Laura: Add ten.
Travis: I did.
Ashley: 22.
Laura: 33.
Liam: 46.
Marisha: 27.
Taliesin: 30.
Sam: 19 and 30.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: No, 43.
Matt: Okay. As you guys all dart into this building, you all quietly listen outside, as you maintain, hovering in place. The skeletal dragon (croaking) swoops down. As its wings catch itself, the wind billows through the space in the center here. You can see a bunch of the dust and pebbles and loose rubble that's been built up around here, and the wall that was left behind just gets kicked up, and spins a brief dust devil in the vicinity. The skeletal dragon there, still flying. Make a perception check.
Laura: But we're within 60 feet of him, right? You said we weren't within 30.
Matt: He's kept relatively close to the building.
Laura: Okay.
Joe: So I didn't get the plus ten.
Laura: No.
Matt: No.
Laura: But you're still hidden from view from Vecna.
Joe: Perception. That's not terrible. That's a 16 perception.
Matt: Okay. As soon as the dragon gets close-- and you've seen it flying about, up in the stratosphere area of this dome before-- you can see there are still bits of flesh dangling off of the bones. And it is a familiar-colored flesh.
Laura: (gasps)
Taliesin: Oh, no.
Sam: Oh, no.
Matt: Whereas you and your adventuring party had traveled here before, this risen dragon form seems to have been torn from the corpse of the mount that brought you to this city.
Joe: Oh, no.
Matt: You see, as the skull of its body, its eyes crackling bright blue-green energy, there on the back of this dragon, you see two humanoids standing on its back. You see a dark armored male with pale skin, with a well-kept beard and short hair, with his arm around the waist of a female, who's currently clutching onto the back of its bones. You can see the woman, in a red robe that's being blown up, her hair bound in the front, wild behind, as she has a necklace bauble that hangs around her neck, crackling blue-green energy. As she has her hand forward, she glances around at the space, angrily. "What!?" (heavy breathing) Looks over at the gloomstalker. "Oh. What have we here? Is this your doing?"
Sam: Maybe she doesn't see you. Maybe she's talking to the gloomstalker.
Joe: I control the gloomstalker and make him screech.
Matt: (screeches) "Adorable. Wouldn't you say so, honey?" And the man behind her goes, "Oh, quite. Well, I'm a fan of taking thorns out of my side. Is it time we do a bit of surgery, darling?" And the woman goes, "But of course. Oh, how I've missed you." And she nuzzles into his neck a bit, and turns around. The dragon lands onto the tower across the way, facing in the direction of the gloomstalker, and it inhales. And you watch as it begins to breathe in, all of the shards of bone matter that have been scattered across the streets of the city begin to whip up and spiral into its ribcage, like a blender. As it pulls back (roar) and as the dragon's mouth opens it releases a blast of bone shards that arc out in front of you. You and the gloomstalker, each, I need--
Sam: Into the earring I say, this is our chance, we leave him as a distraction and we go. They don't know we're here, we can run!
Matt: You and the gloomstalker make a dexterity saving throw please.
Laura: But here's the thing, we're not going to have a better chance to get them away from Vecna. Should we attack them now?
Travis: Plus we have one extra ally. Two!
Laura: We can attack them now, away from Vecna.
Joe: You said dex save?
Matt: Correct.
Joe: I actually have an advantage on dex saves that I can see.
Matt: There you go.
Marisha: Maybe wait for them to land.
Sam: Are they landed?
Laura: Are they landed?
Sam: Are they hovering?
Matt: They've landed on a tower right across from the building where you guys are.
Laura: How far away is that?
Matt: Let me show you. (cheering)
Travis: (shouting) Oh this is it! Oh no!
Sam: (airhorn sounds)
Ashley: (airhorn sounds)
Laura: Oh my god.
Marisha: So wait, is it Vorugal? Is it Thordak?
Liam: No it's his mount.
Marisha: It's your old mount?
Joe: I rode in on a white dragon named Obakala. (groaning)
Taliesin: (shouting) What? No!
All: Ooh.
Laura: And they're on this?
Sam: How did you know we would be here?
Laura: How did he know we would be here?
Matt: I had a few possibilities.
Laura: Oh, it's okay, Briarwoods down.
Marisha: Bony dragon!
Ashley: They're dead! We did it!
Matt: If that was the way it went you guys would have been dead a long time ago.
Marisha: Wait, did you put a cool little acrylic thing on there to make them mountable?
Matt: I did.
Marisha: That's pretty dope.
Matt: Currently riding your gloomstalker.
Joe: I'm on top of my dude?
Matt: Yep.
Joe: Thank you John Paul and everyone at Gale Force Nine for my sweet-ass mini that just arrived from the UK today!
Laura: So we're in this building?
Joe: Well I was kind of on the bottom, but we'll let it--
Matt: Yeah well I'm putting it there because that's the range of the blast right there.
Laura: Shit. Maybe he rolled really well on his dex save.
Matt: All right, so you guys, let's go ahead and figure out your placement here. You guys rushed into this building here.
Ashley: There's a window.
Laura: There's windows! Okay. Oh my god.
Matt: You guys rushed around and into this side, so you guys were in the base floor here.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: Where do you want to be?
Laura: Can I run upstairs and look in that window?
Matt: Sure. So I'll put you at the window there.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: Who else is placed where?
Marisha: I'll be downstairs.
Sam: There's no way to see out downstairs?
Liam: There's no windows on this side.
Sam: There seems to be some windows on this side, right?
Matt: There's a couple of small slits, but they're facing out this way.
Liam: And then would you say we could use the attic windows? It's up to you.
Matt: That's more for flavor. There would be no attic windows. It's been reinforced, so there's been placed armor on the bottom, the only windows that are available are the ones up top and even then only have arrow slits.
Ashley: Because we can't see around there, I'm going to use it as a reference photo.
Matt: Fair enough. Vax, are you up with your sister?
Liam: Yes I am.
Laura: And Trinket is out.
Matt: All right, so you bamf Trinket out.
Laura: I bamf Trinket out but he's down by Grog.
Matt: Okay, we'll put Grog-- we'll say that you were probably down in this building being as quiet as you can. Percival, Scanlan, Keyleth, Pike.
Ashley: I'm behind my boy Grog. My boy Blue!
Taliesin: There's that other window.
Matt: Up on the second level.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. So we'll put you up there.
Ashley: Guys, do not worry! We have an extra plus two to our hit points! It's going to be fine!
Travis: Most amazing 2d10 roll ever.
Matt: All right, Scanlan.
Sam: I mean I'm in there somewhere.
Matt: I need a second Scanlan.
Marisha: Is Keyleth up top? Keyleth's up top, okay.
Sam: I think I would be near the window where I could kind of see-- what's your name, Ar-Can?
Joe: Arkhan.
Sam: Arkhan?
Joe: Yeah.
Matt: We'll say for the purposes of this--
Sam: He can just move with me, it's fine.
Matt: This will be tiny Scanlan.
Sam: Sure.
Matt: Scanlan where are you?
Sam: Near the downstairs windows where I can see--
Laura: This is so intense!
Matt: Right here there's small slits, they're all armored up.
Sam: Oh they're armored up, all right, so then I'm upstairs.
Matt: All right, okay. We'll put that there. So we'll say for the purposes of this you guys would be--
Laura: I can't believe we're fighting the fucking Briarwoods again!
Taliesin: That's going to be fun.
Joe: That's not the Death Knight?
Matt: No.
Joe: It's her dude?
Matt: Sure. So.
Taliesin: Yeah, that's Lord Briarwood.
Matt: Now that we're set, thank you for your patience. So what did you roll, you and your gloomstalker?
Joe: Well, me get not-- him not-- it not so good. I had a 27. Gloomstalker 11. I'm trying to be-- give the proper gender-specific...
Sam: They.
Joe: They?
Sam: They.
Joe: Rolled an 11. Well, actually no. Wait, hold on. They would benefit from my Aura of Protection.
Matt: That's true.
Joe: So they would have a 15, I would have a 27.
Matt: That's with their plus six? The gloomstalker gets a plus six dexterity saving throw.
Joe: Oh, plus six! I'm looking at the dex modifier which is plus three.
Matt: Right. Says under saving throws, dex plus six. Wait, does it? No, it's dex plus eight. Sorry.
Laura: Oh shit.
Travis: Take it.
Joe: So then, it-- they had a 20. I had a 27.
Matt: All right. You both succeeded on the save so you take half damage which is only 26 points of necrotic damage.
Taliesin: That's solid.
Matt: Sorry, piercing damage, not necrotic. So as the bone shards go slamming into each of you, that completes the dragon's turn. Now everybody please roll initiative. (groans)
Travis: Okay. Come on, come get some!
Laura: Oh god, oh god, oh god.
Joe: You said 60, Matt?
Matt: 26.
Joe: Yeah, I got that right for there. 26.
Marisha: Don't fuck me, Gil!
Joe: Do I roll for the thing?
Matt: Yes, you would.
Joe: Separately of me.
Matt: Separately. I'll say for the ease of it let's make it on your turn. There's a lot going on here. All righty.
Laura: In-game hour, not this game hour.
Marisha: Right. No.
Matt: 25 to 20.
Travis: Thanks to Kas, 27.
Laura: Oh shit. 24 for me.
Matt: Right. 25 to 20? I just said that, right?
Laura: 24.
Matt: Yeah. 20 to 15?
Taliesin: 18.
Joe: 17.
Matt: Nice.
Joe: For me and they.
Travis: 18, 17?
Matt: 18, 17?
Joe: Yes, yep.
Marisha: Do you always do this or is this new for you?
Travis: I always do this.
Ashley: 15 for Pike.
Matt: Nice.
Joe: Is there a cricket in the studio or is that part of the sound effect?
Matt: No, that's in the studio.
Travis: It's just not that intense of a fight.
Matt: 15 to ten.
Sam: Ten.
Marisha: Yeah, you hear it?
Travis: Vax, what were you again?
Laura: 24.
Matt: All right.
Travis: Vax.
Laura: You were looking me in the eye when you said it.
Taliesin: Cricket's initiative is sadly 30.
Matt: Keyleth, what did you get?
Marisha: Six.
Sam: So did Scanlan Two.
Liam: Hateful eight.
Joe: So you roll separate initiatives for you and Scanlan 2?
Sam: No, this is new for me. This is new.
Matt: So is that everybody? I believe that's everybody.
Sam: Matt, just manage the ten people and three creatures on the field right now and you'll be fine.
Matt: I know. Be good. All right. First up first, Grog, it's you.
Travis: It's me. Already raging.
Matt: Yep, you're already raging.
Travis: Let's see, there's a window, right? Can I run upstairs?
Matt: You are now up with these assholes. Right there.
Travis: And I jump out the motherfucking window.
Matt: That you can. (heavy impact)
Travis: Is that my full 50?
Matt: I'd put that at about 35, I'd say. You've got 15 feet still.
Travis: Awesome. So I'm going to double dash with the spider boots that Percy gave me and I'm going to run up the tower and just go straight, yeah.
Matt: Well, one dash.
Travis: One dash.
Matt: So you get to the top of the tower and you are now base to base with the dragon.
Laura: Did you just fucking go father than 60 feet away from me?
Taliesin: No. Technically radius-wise--
Matt: Radius-wise he's close to you still.
Travis: Yeah, why you making me feel dumb?
Laura: Just remember that because it's a thing during battle. They could, but we don't know. We could kill them before he knows.
Joe: So that means if I get up next to this thing, I would be in range of this 60 feet?
Laura: You are within 60 feet right now.
Sam: Just do what you do. It's Vex's job to keep us in radius.
Joe: What bonus do I have?
Laura: That doesn't give you a bonus, it just keeps Vecna from seeing you.
Travis: Am I within melee of that skeleton dragon? The bone dragon?
Matt: You are within melee of the dragon.
Travis: Perfect. That's my turn.
Laura: The only way we're going to get the drop on him is if he doesn't actually know we're here.
Sam: He's going to know we're here. They're going to tell him.
Laura: We're going to kill them.
Travis: With my bonus action can I make it a frenzied rage?
Matt: You may. That's your turn, Grog. Vax, you're up.
Liam: I got an eight. I'm way at the bottom.
Laura: I had a 24.
Matt: All right, so Vex?
Laura: Can I lean out the window and attack?
Matt: You may.
Laura: Okay, I lean out the window, and can I see Delilah? Can I shoot at her?
Matt: Sure.
Laura: With my sharpshooter, she doesn't get any additional cover or anything. Okay, so I'm going to sharpshooter Delilah with one of my needle arrows that I've been hanging onto for a gajillion years. So that is a 25 to hit.
Matt: 25 to hit? Yeah, even with Shield, she couldn't stop that. That hits.
Laura: Yes! Okay. Good.
Sam: Is she aiming for the dragon?
Taliesin: No, Delilah.
Sam: Big D.
Laura: Is that sneak attack because she didn't know I was there, technically? Oh, Grog's standing right there!
Matt: Grog's in melee with the dragon. I'll say because she was not aware of you, they were only aware of him, it's sneak attack. It's not a crit; it's not a surprise attack, but you get sneak attack.
Laura: (counting) 31.
Matt: 31. All right, 31 points of damage.
Laura: Oh, no, 41 because I was sharpshootering.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: And then that one definitely doesn't hit.
Ashley: But it wasn't in the thing.
Laura: I know, but it still was a roll.
Matt: What is it?
Laura: It's 17.
Matt: 17? Nope, that misses. As you lean through the window, you release the first arrow, and as Delilah's up there, both clutching the necklace and has her hand out with this wand, you hit her hand with the arrow. (snarls) Looks over and looks down at the window, right towards you, and there's a moment of recognition as she sees you. As you fire the second arrow, she dodges it and goes, "I remember you."
Laura: (scared noises) I'm going to use my bonus action to hide.
Matt: Okay, so you duck off to the side of the window.
Laura: Not that it matters, but I'm going to roll for stealth. That did nothing. 21? Nope, 31, because I still haven't cast Hunter's Mark.
Matt: Okay. Good to know. All right, that ends your turn. With that, it is now Delilah's turn. She rolled a 19 for initiative.
Laura: Okay, so it's Grog, Vex, Delilah.
Travis: I don't know where Vax is. I forgot his number.
Laura: He's eight. Percy what?
Travis: Percy, Arkhan, Pike.
Joe: It's Arkhan.
Travis: I get all names wrong.
Matt: All right, she is going to point her finger down at the wall where all of you guys are, and a thin green ray streaks out from her finger.
Laura: She's disintegrating the wall?
Matt: Seems to be.
Joe: I don't like the phone.
Travis: I know. When there are too many dice to roll, the phone comes out.
Laura: Oh no.
Matt: I'm just confirming.
Travis: The deliverance of the death? The method chosen?
Matt: The size of the space that it can disintegrate. There we go.
Travis: We've got a dragonborn paladin. We're fine.
Liam: Could you ring up Tiamat and have her help with this dragon thing?
Matt: This entire wall right here.
Laura: That's true; you could turn the whole thing.
Matt: This entire wall is disintegrated in place and now reveals entirely Vex and Vax.
Laura: I'm like--
Matt: As she pulls her finger back and the wall turns to dust around you, you hear her say, "I'm sorry, honey, but no."
Laura: Oh, hello there. I didn't see you.
Ashley: Oh, hello!
Marisha: Oh, hello!
Matt: It is now the dragon's turn. Let's see if it gets its breath attack. It does regenerate. The dragon (wingbeats). You get an attack of opportunity.
Travis: I'll make it reckless.
Matt: I should have put tape on the bottom of them. That's my fault.
Sam: We have tape. We could get tape.
Marisha: Is there gaff tape in the house?
Laura: Man, I really wish we had some tape right now!
Marisha: I know there's a row of it back there.
Joe: Dear Tiamat  Send tape.
Laura: Did you get the attack?
Joe: Dear Tiamat  It's Arkhan. We need Scotch tape.
Travis: I believe it's Arkhan.
Matt: As the dragon (wingbeats), you get an attack of opportunity on the dragon.
Travis: It's a 34.
Matt: 34? That hits!
Marisha: Yeah, get that roll of gaffer tape.
Matt: Thank you kindly, Mr. Brian Foster.
Marisha: (mispronouncing) Brian Foster.
Brian: It's a janitor's keyring of tape.
Laura: Use the gaff tape. It's the best.
Joe: This thing is on the ground now?
Matt: It is hovering right above the ground. It's trying to get down into the space of the wall that's currently exposed. Please pass the tape over here? Okay. How much damage is that, Grog?
Travis: This dragon would be considered undead, yes?
Matt: Yes.
Travis: So with the sword's 2d10 slashing damage to undead, that's 32 points of damage.
Matt: 32 points of damage to the dragon. Nice. So as it swoops up, the dragon takes one arc with the blade, and as it streaks across, it slams into part of its foot, and you watch as the bone splinters upon impact with the Sword of Kas. As the dragon lands, it brings its head down into the gap where the opening is and arches forward. As it does, it fills the entirety of the space. It inhales a second time. You watch as all the bits of bone spiral up into it. It regenerated for the second time.
Sam: Is this an attack roll that it's about to make?
Matt: No, it's a saving throw on you guys' part. As it releases this torrent of bone shards and rock and whatever it can pull up into its chest and releases it, I need everybody in that room: both Scanlans, Keyleth, Percival--
Taliesin: Do I not have cover?
Matt: Cover's not going to help you on this, unfortunately. It fills the whole space.
Joe: Should've rode in on a horse.
Marisha: What are we making? Dex saves?
Matt: Dexterity saving throws, guys.
Marisha: This doesn't give us spell resist, right?
Sam: Scanlan Two is going to use Cutting Words to reduce the damage.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: That's all right. That's good.
Sam: Dex?
Matt: All right.
Sam: Scanlan One  18. Scanlan Two  25.
Matt: Both succeed. 18, barely.
Taliesin: 18.
Matt: Succeeds.
Marisha: 17.
Matt: Barely missed it.
Liam: 26. Evasion means zero.
Laura: 31.
Matt: 31 succeeds. All righty. The only person to take full damage on this is Keyleth, right? Sorry. Double-checking on the bard ability Cutting Words.
Sam: Can reduce damage by d12.
Matt: Roll a d12.
Laura: On all of us?
Sam: Five. Five less.
Laura: That's good.
Matt: That is 49 points of piercing damage to you, Keyleth.
Marisha: 49!
Matt: The rest of you take 24.
Laura: That's minus the five?
Matt: Yes.
Marisha: Minus 49? I'm at 94.
Matt: It fills the space there, and you feel every ounce of exposed skin and flesh has been hit with a thousand needles. That ends its turn. Percival, you're up.
Taliesin: So I can gather my wits, there's an angry Delilah with a wand, clutching a weird thing around her neck. There's a Sylas with what I assume would be a brand new sword.
Matt: Probably.
Taliesin: And they're sitting about how many feet up on a dragon right now?
Matt: I'd say about 15 feet.
Taliesin: Let's have a little fun.
Ashley: Let's have a little fun.
Taliesin: All right. Oh, good, and I have an escape route. That'll do really nicely. This is going to be fun. I'm going to Bugs Bunny this lady. First thing I'm going to do is I'm going to take a shot--
Marisha: Don't look down.
Taliesin: Why?
Marisha: Never mind.
Taliesin: Oh, no. That was good. It took me a second. I'm going to take a shot with Animus. Boy, I'm nervous. I'm going to burn a point of grit, and I'm going to make her drop her wand.
Travis: You've got this. Focus in. You got it.
Matt: Roll for the attack.
Travis: Walk in the park.
Taliesin: That's a 31 to hit.
Matt: That'll hit.
Taliesin: Let's make her drop stuff. It's a strength saving throw.
Matt: Natural five. So as she's holding the wand out with the hand, (gunshot, grunts). She glances back, and as the smoking gun is there, she goes, "I certainly remember you."
Taliesin: I missed you, too, darling. I still do damage on that one, I believe.
Matt: Her hand is now covered in blood, and you can see one of the fingers looks heavily damaged.
Liam: Grog does not count in melee of the dracolich, right? It's just toys.
Matt: Grog is not in melee.
Taliesin: That's nine points of damage, plus five points of psychic, so 14.
Matt: Okay. 14 points. Got it.
Taliesin: For my next trick, I'm going to burn another point of grit. Let's push Sylas ten feet. Another 31 to hit.
Matt: That hits.
Taliesin: So let's take a little damage and do a little psychic. I do not like this die, I'm getting rid of it. It's only nine points of damage plus two points of psychic.
Matt: So 11 to Sylas.
Taliesin: So now Sylas has to move ten feet back.
Matt: No save right?
Taliesin: No save.
Matt: He gets blasted off the back of the dragon.
All: Yes!
Taliesin: (Woody Woodpecker laugh)
Travis: I thought it was Bugs Bunny, but you did Woody Woodpecker.
Taliesin: Woody Woodpecker certainly has more shade.
Joe: Is this creature under control to the point where someone takes damage and has to make a control save?
Taliesin: We don't know.
Marisha: I mean if it used to be yours--
Joe: It was mine.
Marisha: I don't know.
Joe: But it's not anymore.
Laura: Now it's dead.
Ashley: Maybe you can try to get through to it.
Matt: So he gets blown off and lands prone on the ground.
Taliesin: For my next one, let's push Delilah ten feet for my final trick. That's a 28 to hit.
Matt: Shit, that hits.
Taliesin: Sorry, man. It's my best trick and I burned a lot of it. 15 points of damage plus four points of psychic plus ten feet. Take some fall damage.
Matt: Put her behind the dragon. Actually both should be behind the dragon.
Laura: Did they take damage from falling?
Matt: They did. They both took 2d6 each, five points of bludgeoning damage each.
Taliesin: So for the rest of it I'm going to use a bonus action to run a heal. I'm going to give myself 19 points back. I'm going to run downstairs. I'm heading towards that back door.
Matt: That ends your turn, Percival. Arkhan, you're up.
Joe: I would like to rage.
Travis: Did you rage?
Joe: Yes! (cheering)
Liam: Sorry audio team.
Sam: The testosterone in his group just went from a half to one.
Matt: Did you say you went into a frenzied rage earlier?
Travis: I did.
Matt: Okay.
Joe: Now, question. If I fly past the dragon to Delilah do I give the dragon an attack of opportunity?
Matt: Yes, you would.
Joe: I have to go through this thing. I'm going to fly the gloomstalker right up to this thing. Gloomstalker pulls into range and it makes two attacks on the undead Obakala.
Matt: Go for it.
Joe: Oh, terrible. Actually terrible. That's terrible. So that's going to be a 13 and natural one.
Matt: Both miss, unfortunately. Its claws streak out in front of it and unfortunately scrape against the bone to no effect. But you have your turn.
Joe: Now it's me.
Laura: That's an awesome-- Is that your Wyrmwood box?
Joe: This is mine, yes. They do those specials. Those one of a kinds that you can buy.
Laura: Oh, oh well. (laughter)
Taliesin: Next campaign.
Ashley: I have an idea.
Joe: So I get advantage on my attacks because I'm raging. This is the first time I've ever raged.
Matt: If you're going reckless attacks you can.
Joe: Reckless frenzied rage.
Matt: Then yes you can.
Joe: Yes. Okay, great.
Matt: You're going frenzied rage as opposed to regular rage?
Joe: Frenzied does-- Yes.
Travis: You have to hold it.
Joe: Hold? Oh because I'm not.
Matt: He used his bonus action to rage.
Joe: I used the bonus to rage in the first place.
Matt: Right.
Joe: Great! That first one is going to be a 33 to hit.
Matt: That hits.
Ashley: Yes!
Joe: And this thing is undead?
Matt: Correct.
Laura: Yas, Queen Tiamat!
Joe: I'm going to pump a 3rd-level Divine Smite into it. Which is-- bear with me, now.
Travis: We don't do math fast ever.
Joe: 2d8 for the axe. 2d8 for 1st-level Divine Smite. Three more for--
Matt: 2nd, 3rd-level and undead. Correct.
Ashley: All of it!
Travis: Dump it, dude.
Liam: Unload.
Joe: So that's seven.
Sam: Math! (laughter)
Joe: It's going to be 49.
Matt: 49 points of damage on the first hit. So as you rush up and the Gloomstalker is scratching towards it, you rush with a giant arc. You watch as Fane-Eater's blade springs forth these darkened spray of colors, red, green, black. Every chromatic dragon's power thrust into the blade as you slam it into the undead dragon. Watching bones splinter and break from the blast of dark energy.
Joe: Love it. Second attack.
Matt: Go for it.
Joe: That's a good one too. That's going to be 29. Same thing, 3rd-level Divine Smite, 7d8. (counting) 47.
Laura: Kill that dragon.
Matt: As you pull the axe back you arc a secondary time. This time with the sound of a union of four different dragon cries, the fifth one being your own. As you slam the axe a second time, hitting the edge of its clavicle, it carves through and breaks. You can see part of the bones shatter and reform but still broken and not in the same way. It's a serious round.
Joe: Just a hint, a tiny hint, of remorse for having to kill this thing that I helped raise.
All: Aw.
Laura: That'd be like if I had to fight undead Trinket.
Travis: Legendary action incoming.
Matt: Sylas Briarwood is going to move his speed. Would you hand me Sylas, please?
Taliesin: He's prone.
Matt: He's prone, so has half it. He moves through. He gets partway through the dragon, we'll say. So he's about there. That ends your turn?
Marisha: Sylas is up and moving?
Taliesin: Sylas is up and moving.
Matt: End of your turn?
Joe: That's all I got.
Matt: All right. Sylas' turn. Sylas, seeing you come up and destroy the dragon, grins, climbs up the side of the dragon, jumps onto its thigh and jumps in the air towards you, holding a giant blackened greataxe in his hand. (groans) He's going to go ahead and make a strike at you. Oh, you know what? No. He's not going to. Sylas instead, axe in one hand, grabs the side of the skeletal ribcage, hanging off, looks up at you. "You seem rather strong." And looks you dead in the eyes. I need you to make a wisdom saving throw.
Laura: No! Oh my god no! Do not get turned!
Travis: Does he have advantage on wisdom something?
Laura: No, he doesn't because he didn't have the feast.
Sam: Can I Cutting Words?
Matt: You already used your reaction, buddy.
Sam: One of us has.
Matt: It's true.
Sam: Scanlan Prime steps up.
Matt: Cutting Words only-- You can't give a bonus to somebody's saving throw.
Sam: Okay, then never mind.
Matt: You can reduce an enemy's saving throw.
Sam: Got it.
Matt: Through Mythcarver.
Joe: Straight up roll. Here we go. Natural 20! (screaming)
Matt: Oh shit.
Travis: In the clutch.
Joe: I stare him right in the eyes. What would have happened?
Matt: He would've charmed you and you would've had to start fighting them.
Travis: No!
Marisha: No!
Matt: As he stares at you, you feel this cold presence consume the back of your mind. And you feel drawn to him. It's this force of charisma and drive, and as you begin to lean forward towards it you feel this (thump) in your holy symbol and as you glance you break the gaze for a second and look down. And you see the multi-colored fury of Tiamat reach up and block and obscure the vision from him. And as the flames burn off you look up and the presence is gone. And he looks at you with a frustrated glance.
Joe: Yes! Rage!
Matt: He's going to use the rest of his movement to dart back around the side of the tower.
Taliesin: How much movement does he have left?
Matt: He used a legendary action to get up and get his movement, then on his turn he got his movement.
Taliesin: All right. No, that's a good use of a legendary action.
Matt: That brings us to Pike.
Ashley: Can I get upstairs? Stay hidden somewhere's enough?
Matt: Sure. You get to about where the twins are.
Ashley: I'm going to cast Beacon of Hope. Choose everyone that I see.
Matt: Everyone within 30 feet that you can see gets affected. That you can see, does it say?
Ashley: Choose any number of creatures within range.
Matt: Which is 30 feet?
Ashley: Yes.
Matt: You'd be able to see Percival down there.
Ashley: I can see Grog.
Matt: Grog is farther than 30 feet.
Laura: Can you see Arkhan?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: Okay, good.
Matt: Arkhan's in direct vision.
Laura: What does this do, again?
Ashley: You have advantage on wisdom saving throws and death saving throws. I'm also, as a bonus action, going to cast Sanctuary on Vex.
Matt: Sanctuary is a bonus action?
Ashley: It's a bonus action.
Laura: What does that do? Okay, okay.
Matt: Sanctuary means that if something tries to attack you it has to make a wisdom saving throw to see if it does so or not.
Travis: It's what Earthbreaker did.
Matt: End your turn, Pike?
Ashley: Am I able to get hidden around the wall?
Matt: Your movement would've gotten you just up to the stairs at that point because you had to climb up it. At the end of that turn, swooping down, you hear two impacts on the roof above you. You hear the growling, tearing sound as the long dry rotten wooden rooftops that are above you guy get pulled open by two gloomstalkers that've joined the fray.
Travis: Toothless?
Taliesin: Do they count as undead?
Matt: They do not count as undead.
Ashley: Is the roof off of it?
Matt: Now the roof is open. Its damaged bits and parts of it are fallen inward. You guys can move around but they have visual on you, but that's all they can do this turn. It took their full movement and action to break in. That's going to end their turn. Scanlan, you're up. Scanlan One.
Sam: Scanlan One turns to Scanlan Two and sings a Song of Healing.
Matt: Scanlan Two as in the--
Travis: Which one are you? Prime or Two?
Sam: I'm Prime right now.
Matt: A simulacrum can not be healed, except by--
Sam: Ever?
Matt: They can be repaired.
Sam: But not healed with a healing thing.
Matt: Correct.
Sam: Or a potion.
Matt: Correct.
Laura: How do they get repaired? Is it like a Doty situation?
Matt: Kind of.
Ashley: Once they're gone they're gone?
Matt: Yep.
Sam: Then never mind that.
Matt: You would know this, having known the spell and the significance of its creation. If it is damaged you can repair it in an alchemical laboratory using rare herbs and minerals worth a hundred gold per hit point.
Sam: Oh boy.
Taliesin: Can Scanlan Two heal himself?
Matt: No, he can heal other things.
Laura: How damaged is Scanlan Two already?
Sam: A little.
Ashley: Wait, from what?
Matt: The skeleton dragon breath.
Sam: All right. It's all good, guys. We're going to be fine! Then Scanlan One will heal himself with a bonus action Healing Word.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: And then he'll grab Scanlan Two and Dimension Door behind the dragon.
Matt: Oh shit.
Laura: What are you doing?
Matt: Both of these guys appear behind the dragon. Right behind it?
Sam: On the ground.
Laura: Do you know Sylas and Delilah are right there?
Liam: By Delilah or here?
Sam: Back there.
Laura: Sylas is right here. Right next to Sylas?
Sam: Yeah.
Laura: You want both of you to be right behind Sylas?
Matt: I'm allowing you guys to move things. Thank you.
Laura: Do you want melee range, or do you want back ten feet?
Sam: Back ten feet. That would be great.
Matt: All right, so that's your action and bonus action.
Taliesin: You can move.
Sam: Wait, this was Scanlan One.
Matt: Scanlan Two hasn't gone yet. Scanlan Two is at the very end, with Keyleth.
Sam: Scanlan One will walk around the side of the thing.
Matt: There you go. All right. Vax, you're up.
Liam: I really am? Oh my. Okay.
Matt: Actually, at the end of the turn, Sylas is going to use another legendary action. He got them back, actually, because he used it before last turn. So he uses his first legendary action to head up.
Laura: He can climb up walls?
Matt: He runs up the side. (impacts) He glances down, looking towards where you are. All right, that's going to bring us to Vax's turn.
Liam: Yeah, okay, so if I get to the very edge there, am I in range of Delilah on the ground with Sharpshooter? Cover doesn't do much, except full cover.
Matt: Yeah, she would have cover in this circumstance, but you avoid it with Sharpshooter, so you can.
Liam: And am I within 60 feet over there, about?
Matt: Yes.
Liam: Okay, I'm going to throw Whisper at her, and she's down, so I have advantage. That is a 27 to hit.
Matt: 27 to hit hits.
Liam: And I'm going to bamf there.
Matt: She's prone, so yeah. You have disadvantage on the attack against her.
Liam: What, because she's prone?
Matt: It's a ranged attack. You don't have advantage against her because there's nothing giving you advantage.
Liam: Her being prone doesn't give me advantage?
Matt: No, her being prone, against ranged attacks, it's with disadvantage. Roll a second time.
Liam: That's much worse.
Marisha: But it cancels out.
Laura: Because of Sharpshooter.
Matt: Sharpshooter means he ignores cover. Doesn't give him advantage on the attack roll.
Marisha: That sucks.
Matt: Hold on, what was that one?
Liam: 18.
Matt: 18 technically would hit. She's going to use Shield as a reaction to add plus five to her AC. She's on her back and sees the dagger and goes (ping) and deflects it off.
Liam: All right, second attack is a natural 20.
Travis: Really?
Liam: Yeah. With Whisper, she has to make a saving throw with a DC of 18 or become frightened of me for a minute, on a crit.
Matt: What was the DC on that one?
Liam: 18.
Matt: 18? She has a plus ten wisdom save, so that's going to put her at a 20.
Liam: All right. (counting)
Laura: That's a great way to roll.
Liam: 72.
Matt: 72?
Liam: Yeah, it's a crit. Double the dice.
Matt: Right, but it's not sneak attack, though.
Liam: Oh, sorry, so. 32. Thank you.
Matt: No worries.
Travis: Wow, your reverse math was super fast just then. That would have taken me five minutes.
Matt: All right.
Liam: And I'm going to bamf there on it.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: It's fine.
Liam: Don't worry. And with my bonus action, I'm going to throw my third dagger up at the wall. Can I throw Whisper again? Is it like quick draw, or does it have to change daggers?
Matt: Technically, I'd consider it to change dagger, generally, because you're throwing them so fast.
Liam: All right, then instead I'm going to disengage, and I'm going to dart back between the Scanlans.
Marisha: Between the Scanlans.
Matt: All right, that ends your turn, Vax?
Travis: Keyleth.
Matt: At the end of your turn, Sylas is going to use his second legendary action.
Liam: Wait, she used a reaction to knock the dagger away.
Matt: Sylas.
Liam: She used Shield, which is a reaction, so she can't hit me with an attack of opportunity. Never mind.
Matt: That's not what this is. Sylas is using a legendary action. This has nothing to do with Delilah.
Laura: You're talking about your disengage. Don't worry about it.
Matt: Sylas is going to use his second legendary action at the end of your turn to take a swing at Grog with his Greataxe of the Eclipse.
Laura: Greataxe of the Eclipse?
Marisha: Wait, Delilah or Sylas?
Laura: Sylas.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: That is a 21.
Travis: That hits.
Matt: That is 14 points of damage, reduced to seven, and I need you to make a wisdom saving throw, please.
Taliesin: With advantage.
Travis: With advantage. Oh, wait. That's a d10. Natural 20. (relieved noises)
Travis: First one was a three.
Matt: As the blade sinks across you, you resist the impact, but you feel this cold sensation across the wound that begins to spill across your body. You angrily, in your rage, flex against it and manage to withstand and shrug off the effect. That ends that. Next up is Keyleth and Scanlan Two.
Sam: Hey.
Marisha: Hey, Scanlan Two. Are you just as charismatic as Scanlan One?
Sam: I've got all the words to make the girls like me.
Marisha: Okay, I don't care. Okay, Keyleth is going to try to do a one-two punch here. She's going to move forward and then does she see Delilah?
Matt: Make a perception check. I'd say probably, actually. You watched her get knocked back; you're fine.
Marisha: Okay, I'm going to reach out and do an Entangle spell right under her.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Unless she can make a strength save versus my spell shit.
Matt: That is a four plus one. No.
Marisha: Fail, so she is restrained, and then I'm going to run, and I'm going to use my Mantle of the Tempest to jump, and then trying to be dope, here, in mid-air, I'm going to change into an earth elemental and try and grab onto the bone dragon and see if I can snap his neck in the process. Grapple the bone dragon's head.
Matt: Okay. Entangle is an action?
Marisha: Yes, and then I'm running and jumping and grabbing for the rest of my movement.
Joe: Do we need some more tape?
Matt: Actually, I can finally use the layer over here.
Laura: Do you want me to get the tape?
Matt: All right, you leap over. That's the rest of your turn. After entangling her, you run, leap, and as the wind from the mantle picks up, you watch this gust of wind lift her. Make an athletics check.
Laura: To try to land on the dragon?
Marisha: A straight athletics? Yeah. (whimpers) 11.
Matt: Okay. Not too bad. That's enough. It was maybe a 15-foot jump at this point, and it's tripled because of your mantle, so you leap and land, transforming into the elemental and grappling onto its back. All right. That ends your turn, Keyleth. Scanlan Two?
Sam: She's grappled now?
Matt: She is, yes.
Marisha: Yeah. Fuck her shit up!
Taliesin: She's prone and grappled.
Marisha: Prone and grappled, and not for a very long time.
Sam: So if we hit her, it automatically hits, right?
Matt: Physically. You get advantage on attacks against her.
Sam: Is Bigby's Hand a magic attack or a physical attack? It's a melee spell attack.
Matt: It's a melee spell, so you get advantage on the attack roll, yeah.
Sam: Okay, then I'll change my plans and I'll do that. Scanlan Two will cast Bigby's Hand at level-6 and pound her really hard. Shit.
Joe: Is that a Philip Seymour Hoffman Happiness reference? (laughter)
Sam: Is that 6d8? Or 8d8? Bigby's Hand; I always forget.
Matt: It's 5th-level, and you've cast it at 6th, correct? So it's an additional 2d8 to the punch.
Sam: And it starts at 4d8? Oh, so it's only 6d8.
Joe: Would you like to borrow some d8s?
Sam: Yes. You know what? I'm going to do it at level-7, then.
Matt: You already said 6th.
Sam: Okay. That's fine. All right, so a bunch of d8s.
Matt: You have to roll to hit first, so d20 with advantage.
Sam: 17 plus 11.
Matt: Yeah, that hits, so roll your 6d8.
Sam: Yeah. One, two, three, four, five.
Joe: Or you can use the Smite dice.
Sam: I like these. 29.
Matt: All right.
Sam: 29, and then I guess, as his bonus action, he'll inspire Vax, who's not even here.
Matt: Sing to the space where he was.
Sam: Scanlan Two only knows the songs of Scanlan, so he will sing, weirdly hollowly: (singing) When I get that feeling, I want Clarota healing. (laughter)
Sam: He only knows the songs that he already knows!
Travis: I told you, it's the jam.
Matt: All right, so when he gets back, give him the d12.
Sam: And then he moves. He ducks back behind there. Yeah, just peeking out a little so he can see where Bigby's Hand is.
Matt: Okay. At the end of your turn, Sylas is going to use his last legendary action to move his speed without provoking opportunity attacks. He leaps off the side and lands right next to Delilah.
Marisha: Does he get entangled? Because he did just land in difficult terrain.
Matt: He's not entangled, I don't think, because he wasn't there for the casting. Difficult terrain means he moves across at half.
Marisha: He's in difficult terrain.
Matt: Okay. Good to know.
Marisha: I have rocky ground. That's all I have.
Matt: All righty, so entangled... okay, yeah. Got it. Cool. That ends the legendary action. Grog, you're up.
Travis: Can I jump to the top of the bannister here so I'm looking down at old tangled-up Delilah. (sighs) May I leap off the tower and straight onto Delilah's prone body?
Matt: Sure. Make an athletics check.
Sam: So romantic.
Laura: Feet stomping her chest?
Matt: That's easy enough. Make an athletics check, actually, in case something goes horribly bad. You are raging, so you get advantage.
Travis: 25.
Matt: Okay. Easy enough. At that height, you take eight points of bludgeoning damage, reduced to four, and (impact) you land, arcing over her, both feet to each side of her, and you're standing, looming over her body as she's wrapped up in vines, going (grunting).
Travis: I fucking hate this dead bitch. And I raise the sword and start swinging down in these huge arcs at her. The first two attacks at her.
Matt: Okay. As you pull the blade up, the voice goes, "Yes. Her. She's part of the web. Her. Her!" And you give into the fury. Go ahead and make your attacks.
Travis: Are they with advantage because she's prone?
Matt: Correct. Well, she's restrained.
Travis: So not reckless. Natural 20. (cheering)
Sam: She's going to die.
Liam: Butcher that motherfucker!
Travis: Should I roll the second attack?
Matt: Roll the damage first. She's hurt, but she's not terrible. Yet.
Joe: She's about to be terrible.
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: (counting) 21 plus 14. Help me. 35?
Laura: 35.
Travis: 35.
Marisha: 21 plus 14? Yeah.
Travis: 35, okay. So that's those. Let me make sure I'm doing this right. Oh, that's before the modifier.
Laura: 35 times two now?
Travis: Just 35.
Liam: Modifier goes on at the end.
Ashley: What is it?
Travis: 51.
Laura: What do you get for the crit on Kas? What do you get for the crit? That's why I'm asking if you double your dice.
Travis: No, I mean my brutal critical. I roll the damage die, an additional--
Matt: You roll the damage die, double that, add the modifiers, and then the additional damage.
Marisha: And you're raging right?
Travis: Two times, yeah.
Marisha: Plus your rage damage, don't forget to double that.
Travis: Two damage dies at this level.
Matt: We'll see--
Joe: This is that crazy new sword.
Matt: Three, at 17th level.
Travis: Three?
Matt: Yeah, so 3d10 additional.
Laura: Oh my god, so 51 plus 3d10.
Matt: Correct.
Marisha: And is that doubled too?
Laura: No.
Marisha: Okay.
Sam: That would be crazy.
Travis: 62. I rolled pretty low.
Matt: Okay, so as you bring the blade down, with this horrible screaming hiss--
Laura: That's one hit?
Matt: Yeah, 62 points of damage. The blade jams into her chest, and as you twist it she screams, and the blood from the wounds sprays out in the middle of the air, freezes, and then slips into the blade as it's sucking up the blood. She's like (grunts) entangled, and she reaches up and grabs the blade, and begins to start pulling it out of the wound, she's (choking) as blood begins splattering up around her mouth, but she's still alive.
Travis: Did you want it out? Here, let me help you out (yells) and put it back in!
Matt: Roll again.
Travis: That is a 32.
Matt: Okay, roll damage.
Laura: I like it when the music stops, we're like (hyperventilates).
Travis: 24.
Matt: 24. You jam the blade in a second time, and gash across and it carves open this part of her chest, and you can see the blood spatter out. The bones are exposed, and she's on the ground, shaking. She's hanging on by a tether, and her eyes are going wild, and she glances over, and her hand goes out. And you can see Sylas, who's right next to her, his eyes are wide and he's reaching out to grasp for her hand.
Laura: (gravelly) Chop her hand off!
Matt: Is that the end of your turn? Oh, you're frenzied raging? Right.
Taliesin: Oh no. Yeah!
Marisha: Come on, come on Grog!
Travis: I was going to do something to Sylas but fuck it, we're going to hit her.
Sam: (whispered) Chop off her hand.
Laura: Chop off her whole arm.
Travis: 33 to hit.
Matt: That hits, roll damage.
Laura: (singing) Please die Deliah, we want you dead.
Taliesin: Third time's the charm.
Travis: 23.
Matt: 23 points of damage? Are you rolling extra undead damage on this? On these attacks? Because she's not undead.
Travis: Nope, nope. 23 plus-- I wasn't even adding-- I was so excited about the sword damage I was forgetting my rage damage.
Matt: Right, but you rolled 3d10 there.
Travis: I did, yeah. The d10 plus 2d10 slashing damage to undead right?
Matt: She's not undead though.
Travis: Oh, she's not?
Matt: No.
Travis: Oh shit.
Matt: You've been adding that to all the attacks? Okay, noted. Roll--
Travis: I figured she was dead, then not dead--
Matt: Roll 4d10 for me right now. I'm going to retract that from the damage she's taken.
Travis: 22.
Matt: She's still wounded, but she's not hanging on by that thread. Okay, so the damage you rolled for that attack?
Travis: 24. But I hadn't added my--
Laura: So do your damage again because that--
Matt: Roll the d10 and add your modifiers.
Travis: Okay fair enough. Shit, I'm so sorry.
Matt: It's okay.
Laura: He wasn't doing his rage modifiers, so you could add that then, potentially?
Marisha: The difference.
Travis: So that's 21.
Sam: With your rage?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: So as you hack in a third time with the blade, making a smear of blood across the ground, the entangled vines that hold her there are soaked in crimson at this point. And she's coughing and sputtering, you can see the open wounds in her chest, and her hand reaching out "Sylas." And he's going for her at that point. That's the end of your turn. She's still alive.
Travis: Yep.
Matt: Vex, you're up.
Ashley: Good job.
Travis: I thought she was undead, just figured.
Matt: No, she's alive.
Joe: She's a clone.
Travis: Oh, really?
Marisha: Yeah, I was wondering about that.
Travis: Sylas is undead.
Matt: Correct.
Travis: The dragon's undead.
Joe: No, because I've faced her before.
Travis: Are the gloomstalkers undead?
Matt: No.
Travis: Not undead?
Laura: I bet she's a fucking clone.
Ashley: What does that mean?
Laura: She made a clone of herself.
Matt: That ends your turn. Vex.
Laura: Okay, so if I attack her, it's at disadvantage? Or with--
Matt: With a ranged attack? Yes, because she is-- well, she's restrained, which gives her advantage, so technically, it would be just a regular attack roll.
Laura: Well then I'm going to attack her. She's already restrained. Fuck it, I'm going to attack her with a blazing bowstring.
Matt: Go for it.
Marisha: Kill her, kill her.
Laura: Yes. 17 plus 14, with sharpshooter.
Matt: Yeah, that hits.
Laura: Minus five. Oh god, 15 plus two is 17, 25, 30, plus the blazing bowstring, 37. That's everything, right?
Taliesin: Did you do your plus ten for the Sharpshooter?
Laura: 47 for Sharpshooter!
Travis: Hunter's Mark?
Laura: 47, I didn't Hunter's Mark it.
Matt: 47 points of damage with the Sharpshooter. How do you want to do this? (cheering)
Marisha: Get it girl! Get it girl!
Matt: She was reaching out for that Dimension Door.
Laura: Oh fuck!
Matt: You see her hand reaching out, and you see her fingers tracing the incantation in the air as Sylas' hand reaches outstretched for hers.
Laura: I point my finger down at her as I'm about to shoot the arrow. As it shoots, I keep pointing at her like: How's it feel, bitch? How's it feel?
Matt: As she reaches out, her eyes are locked with Sylas. She's not even paying attention to Grog at this point, all she's focused on is escape. And Grog as you look down at her and Sylas is looking into her face reaching out, the arrow just (impact) through the jaw and out the side of her cheek there. (breath catches) and her eyes go cold. The spell incantation fades and the hand just twitches and falls to the ground still.
Marisha: That was so dope!
Ashley: Yes!
Matt: As that happens, Sylas, his hand still reached out goes (yelling) "No!"
Laura: Oh I feel so bad for him.
Travis: No you don't.
Laura: I do have another attack!
Matt: He turns around to look at you, "Vengeance, I suppose, is mine this time."
Laura: And I attack him.
Matt: This is a unique reversal of last time.
Laura: With blazing bowstring.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Sharpshooter. So 28 minus five hits?
Matt: 28 minus five, yeah, that hits. That is the end of Delilah Briarwood.
Travis: Like done?
Matt: Clones take a while.
Laura: 33 damage to him. Seven of which is fire damage.
Matt: Gotcha. Is that the end of your turn?
Travis: Were her hands her own hands?
Matt: They seemed to be.
Laura: I'm going to run down the stairs to the lower level. Yeah, I'm in there.
Matt: Okay. All right, first things first. As soon as Delilah's body goes lifeless, Keyleth, you feel this sudden shift beneath your feet, as the bone structure that maintains the body of the skeletal dragon collapses entirely. (cheering)
Laura: Two with one!
Taliesin: I was going to feel really guilty about killing that thing.
Matt: You suffer 11 points of bludgeoning damage.
Marisha: That's fine.
Matt: Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: I want to try and come around here if possible.
Matt: With a speed of 30 you can do that, yeah.
Taliesin: Just here.
Sam: Matt, don't forget those two guys.
Matt: They just got there last turn.
Laura: Delilah's dead!
Matt: Percy, what are you doing?
Taliesin: First thing I'm doing is I'm taking a grit shot at Sylas with Animus. And I'm doing a headshot just to make his life a little more complicated.
Liam: Do you get them at Reproductions, too?
Taliesin: I do, I'm taking very nice head shots. Actually, I go to Prints Charming.
Marisha: Do you really?
Sam: That is not a place.
Taliesin: That's a real place. It's on Ventura.
Matt: Percy! Roll your attack!
Taliesin: Sorry! The most LA moment in our game ever! Just now!
Liam: I don't know about that.
Taliesin: Yeah, no, maybe not. Yep, that'll do, that's a 26 to hit?
Matt: That'll hit!
Taliesin: And he has to make a constitution saving throw.
Matt: Okay, He's going to use legendary resistance to succeed.
Taliesin: That's fine.
Travis: His first one?
Matt: His first one.
Taliesin: He still takes 16 points of damage and two points of psychic damage.
Matt: All righty, 18, got it.
Taliesin: And I'm going to take another headshot, because that's funny. And that's 31 to hit.
Matt: All right, go ahead and roll damage.
Taliesin: That's 12 points of damage and one psychic damage. And does he make his constitution saving throw?
Matt: He does actually, what's the DC on it?
Taliesin: The DC is 20.
Matt: He rolled 20 exactly.
Taliesin: Fine. I'm going to take another headshot. Burning my grit.
Sam: Pew pew!
Taliesin: I should have gone for a Sharpshooter. That's 34 to hit, Jesus Christ.
Matt: That hits.
Taliesin: Another constitution saving throw.
Matt: That is a 20 again!
Taliesin: God, motherfucker!
Matt: 16 plus four both times.
Taliesin: That's 15 points of damage plus four psychic. So 19 total.
Matt: As he's there, his arm out, and he's seething with rage, his eyes burning bright red, like the same shade as Grog's, which is disconcerting. Each bullet hits him and he doesn't react. (bullets hitting) He's just looking down at her and back up at Vex and down at her. Is that your turn?
Taliesin: No, I don't like the way he's doing that, I'm burning an action surge. I'm going to use some Sharpshooter. I'm going to burn a bonus and reload my gun. Let's just take three Sharpshooter shots, see what happens.
Marisha: That one's cocked, I think.
Matt: No, they're there.
Taliesin: I should not have rolled all three at once.
Matt: Oh well.
Taliesin: The way they landed, it would have been the third one anyway. Two shots, that's 15 to hit? No.
Matt: 15 misses. He puts a hand up without even watching and deflects the bullet from the air.
Laura: He deflects the bullet?!
Taliesin: 20 to hit.
Matt: 20 to hit? He's going to use his reaction to use parry and the second bullet, with the other hand he shoots it off to the side. Not even looking at you just staring at Vex still.
Laura: He's looking at me? Oh no.
Taliesin: And the third shots jams at a two.
Laura: No I ran away! He can't see me! I'm downstairs.
Matt: Glaring at the space you were when you ran.
Travis: Yeah, through all material.
Taliesin: Actually I have a resistance now to psychic damage, so I take 1d6 psychic damage for my gun, not two, correct?
Matt: Okay, yes you do.
Taliesin: I take my four points and I am happy for them.
Matt: That ends your turn!
Taliesin: That ends my turn.
Matt: Arkhan.
Sam: Come on, Arkhan.
Joe: I command the gloomstalker to shriek. I just read this.
Laura: What does it do when he shrieks?
Joe: Within 60 feet, the gloomstalker emits a terrible, shattering shriek that impacts all hostile creatures. Each must make a DC 16 constitution save or become stunned until the end of their next turn.
Marisha: Hell yeah.
Joe: And it's the two up there, right?
Matt: Technically they are, yeah. That's what they were going to do next turn. So that's a two on the one gloomstalker. That is a 14, they both fail. Both of the other gloomstalkers, all of a sudden (croaking) their heads begin writhing around. They are stunned until their next turn. And Sylas is going to use his second legendary resistance of the day.
Marisha: We can burn him out. Burn him out.
Joe: And now I'm unimpeded, direct. All the way to him.
Matt: Correct.
Laura: Destroy him!
Matt: Fly this over to him.
Taliesin: High-five Keyleth on the way in.
Matt: Cool! And?
Joe: Okay and I'm going to do reckless on this.
Ashley: Yeah you are.
Travis: Atta boy!
Laura: I like the magical flourish of the die.
Joe: It's like some David Copperfield.
Matt: Exactly.
Marisha: Just salt bae your dice.
Joe: Does 32 hit?
Matt: 32 does hit.
Joe: Okay great. Is this guy undead?
Matt: Yes he is. He is a vampire.
Joe: Out of curiosity, the bones of Delilah. She deflated like a bag?
Matt: She's dead. The skeleton fell into piles of bones.
Sam: She's okay.
Matt: She's not okay.
Joe: She's not a zombie.
Matt: She's a slashed-up human. Her whole torso is a mess. She has an arrow through her jaw and cheek.
Laura: Out her eyeball.
Joe: Great. Well, then I would like to do a 2nd-level Divine Smite, which is going to be 6d8.
Travis: 6d8? Holy shit.
Joe: I rolled badly. That's a 28.
Travis: (laughing) That's bad? Oh man.
Matt: 28 points. All right, so as you rush forward with your axe, you swing down into Sylas, who gets slammed in the side of the shoulder, and as the spark of the Divine Smite energy slams into his side, you can see him: he's starting to feel the pinch, all of you surrounding him.
Joe: That's a cock.
Matt: Roll again. It's a dice, actually.
Joe: That's not great. That's 19.
Matt: 19 does not hit, unfortunately.
Joe: I would like to frenzy.
Matt: Okay, so you're rolling your third strike.
Joe: Frenzy, reckless.
Matt: Yeah.
Joe: That's going to be a 27.
Matt: 27 hits. Roll damage.
Marisha: Kill him!
Joe: I'll go 2nd-level Divine Smite again.
Travis: Come on, now!
Joe: My friend John bought me some smite dice. Let's go. Oh man, that's not a lot. That's rough, isn't it?
Marisha: Goddamn it, John.
Joe: That's a 29, which was a terrible roll.
Matt: First attack slams into it and bursts. Second one, you swing and Sylas' form turns to shadow temporarily and dissipates around the blade and returns. The third hit does strike true in the back of the head. (yelps) He yelps out in pain as the blast bursts upward. You can see the flesh burning from the impact of the radiant damage. That end your turn?
Joe: I believe it will do so, yes.
Matt: That brings us to Sylas' turn. Sylas does not regenerate because the radiant damage kept it at bay.
Travis: I did not know that.
Joe: It's why I did divine.
Matt: Radiant damage prevented his regeneration. Looking at his current circumstance, he's going to--
Marisha: No!
Matt: You watch as he glances around and his body (whoosh) into a bat.
Sam: Scanlan Two's going to cast Counterspell.
Matt: It's not a spell. (groaning)
Matt: Scanlan Two goes to counter it, but there's no spell to counter.
Marisha: Vampire bullshit!
Matt: Turns into a bat (fluttering).
Marisha: I have a reaction! Can Keyleth the ellie try to grab it?
Matt: You don't get to grab, you get an attack of opportunity.
Marisha: Can I?
Matt: You get an attack of opportunity. You get an attack of opportunity, and Grog gets an attack of opportunity.
Laura: And Bigby's Hand.
Matt: Bigby's Hand does not get reactions.
Joe: Does They get a attack of opportunity?
Matt: Yeah, one attack.
Sam: Against a bat.
Taliesin: Which means if you hit him enough, he drops back to human.
Matt: That's not how a vampire bat form works. It's not a Polymorph. He has the same hit points in the bat form as he does in his normal form.
Travis: What if I made this a reckless tripping attack?
Laura: Does that work on a bat? Can you trip a bat?
Travis: I don't know. I don't know if it would ground him for one second or not. I don't know. That's why I'm asking the DM.
Joe: Who goes first out of all these attacks of opportunity?
Matt: You go first.
Joe: Okay, then I would like to attempt to snatch the bat with gloomstalker.
Marisha: Yes! Come on, yes!
Joe: Has a snatch.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Snatch that bat!
Ashley: Get that snatch.
Matt: Roll an attack.
Joe: That's a 24.
Matt: 24 hits.
Joe: Snatched!
Sam: What does that mean, snatched?
Joe: The target is grappled. The target is considered restrained. I can also fly with my grappled target at half of my speed. It's 2d6 plus six piercing damage. Right?
Sam: He doesn't like this.
Matt: Because the snatch is a special attack, essentially, as a reaction, because a reaction gives you a melee attack; it's not an actual attack towards him-- let me double-check here for you guys real fast.
Joe: Was that me trying to sneak one by?
Sam: No. No, it doesn't say that it's special. Why don't you plan a backup, just in case?
Matt: Just double checking here. Okay.
Liam: How are you doing there, M?
Marisha: I'm nervous.
Taliesin: It's our fidget spinner.
Laura: I need a food for my nervousness.
Taliesin: I will let you know if it snaps while it's in your teeth it hurts a lot. I know that from experience.
Marisha: Yeah, this is like what Dr. Seuss warns us about as kids.
Laura: You could break your tooth.
Sam: Guys, what are those shirts? Can you hold up that shirt again? Oh, there it is.
Taliesin: This is the face Matt's not making right now.
Joe: After, if you want to enter the raffle, I'm not sure how this works, but I brought this shirt. We're going to rub it all over Travis at break and then the winner is going to get this shirt. These only come in extra large.
Matt: I will say because I don't allow monsters to use special attacks as reactions and haven't used them the entire game against you guys, because that would've been much more dangerous, I won't allow it for this circumstance, but it does still do the damage on the regular attack.
Joe: Fine. Okay, great, then I'm going to bite this right in the fucking nose.
Matt: It'll still hit. Go ahead and roll damage.
Ashley: It can also be a Halloween costume.
Sam: Ooh!
Marisha: Oh my goodness! Matthew Mercer?!
Matt: This got really weird suddenly.
Taliesin: We're going to show up to the next game, all wearing them like a terrible Council of Evil.
Marisha: (laughter) Just the eyes cut out.
Joe: Not bad. Do you want me to break it down, piercing and necrotic?
Matt: No, that's fine.
Joe: Okay, 29 points.
Matt: Actually, no, I do need two of those.
Joe: Okay, then we're going to have 19 piercing and eight necrotic.
Matt: Okay. Cool.
Joe: 19 and eight, 27.
Matt: Make your attack of opportunity, your attack of opportunity and your attack of opportunity.
Travis: I'm going to do reckless Trip attack.
Marisha: Don't. Fuck. Me. Gil! It's fine. It kind of fucked me. 12.
Matt: No. (ricochet noise) Off his armor.
Joe: 30.
Matt: That hits, roll damage.
Travis: 34.
Matt: Hits, roll damage.
Travis: He's undead, right?
Matt: Yes.
Joe: You first, Grog.
Travis: Oh, no, please.
Joe: No, no, no, you.
Travis: No, you were up first, I insist. Arkhan, please.
Joe: Yeah, but you did that dynamic jump, it was really cool.
Marisha: Jocks were not this polite in the locker room.
Sam: They were to each other.
Travis: Yeah, 17 and then I roll a d8 or I add a d8.
Matt: d8 additional damage, yep.
Travis: It's my first one I've ever rolled. Five. Shit, what did I say?
Matt: 17. TRAVIS Thank you. 22.
Matt: All right, 22 damage.
Travis: It's a trip attack.
Matt: What does it say it does? I'll pull it up.
Travis: Oh, I'll pull it up. I've got it right here.
Matt: Here we go. Okay, a strength saving throw. That's a natural one, so he's going to use his last legendary resistance to resist it. He's out of legendary resistances now. All right, and damage on that one?
Joe: Just pumped a 1st-level Divine Smite, and that's going to be 21 plus three is 24, 24--
Travis: Does his hand turn into a bat with him? Or does that fall--
Matt: All of his equipment goes into his form.
Joe: That's going to be 40 points of damage.
Matt: As you all slam into the side of this bat form it shrieks out and then just (flapping) it takes off and is going to use its action to go ahead and go into a dash and continue to fly away.
Taliesin: I feel like I would be able to get an attack somewhere in here considering my range if I pulled out my big gun.
Matt: Oh yeah. No, we're coming back to that. He is at that full speed and that form--
Travis: Plus we're still in initiative order.
Liam: Our reactions come from melee range.
Matt: Okay. So that ends Sylas' turn. Pike, you're up.
Ashley: How far away is he?
Matt: He would be about-- Let's say at that flying speed of the bat, which I have to look up now, because that's a thing.
Taliesin: How could you not be prepared for--
Matt: I know. What is this bullshit, Matt? Jesus Christ! The bat's flying speed is 30 feet. So he's 60 feet away from you guys at an angle that way.
Laura: Like here?
Matt: Yeah. 60 feet up there. All right. Pike, what are you doing?
Ashley: Okay. I'm going to--
Marisha: I love your commitment to the tickle.
Ashley: I'm trying to think of what I should do. Okay, I'm going to try to Guiding Bolt it.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Guiding Bolt, up the butt! You want to move forward so you can hit him?
Ashley: Yeah.
Matt: Guiding Bolt, I believe you have to roll your attack on that one? Yeah, make a ranged spell attack.
Ashley: 18.
Matt: 18 does not hit.
Ashley: I'm going to use Guided Strike.
Matt: Okay.
Ashley: Which adds plus ten, so 28.
Matt: You can use it on yourself, right?
Ashley: Yeah. Guided Strike is for myself, War God's Blessing is somebody else.
Matt: That's what it is. Yeah. Go for it. That hits, go ahead and roll damage.
Ashley: I'm going to do it at 3rd level, so that's four, 6d6.
Laura: 6d6?
Matt: 6d6 radiant damage.
Laura: All radiant! That is a really good roll.
Taliesin: That looks solid from here.
Sam: Ashley Johnson. Clutch. Bicoastal Roll.
Matt: Bicoastal Roll?
Ashley: Okay, 23.
Matt: 23. (impact) The bat now is shining; the next attack against it has advantage. End of your turn?
Ashley: Let me see. My bonus actions. Ugh, I don't want to use that in case. Okay, that's it.
Matt: All right. End of your turn, going to use its Legendary Action to move at speed; the bat is now 90 feet away. That ends your turn, that brings us to Scanlan. Oh, the gloomstalkers, actually, which are no longer stunned. But that's the end of their turn. End of the gloomstalkers' turn, it's going to use another Legendary Action to move another 30, so it's 120 feet away. Scanlan, you're up.
Laura: He's really far away from us now.
Matt: He's just full sprint.
Liam: You said 120 feet away?
Matt: 120 feet, yeah.
Laura: Can you do anything at 120 feet, Scanlan?
Sam: I can do something. I can do one thing.
Marisha: If you guys let me go right now I can try-- You can do something?
Sam: Scanlan One will just hold his turn until those gloomstalkers are in range or until they move, and then he'll cast, I don't know, frigging Wand of Magic Missiles, I don't know.
Matt: Sure. All right, end of Scanlan's turn, will use third and final Legendary Action, is now 150 feet away.
Marisha: No! Let me go first!
Matt: We're now at Vax's turn.
Laura: Yeah, you can't switch your initiative.
Marisha: You can if other people hold. And you describe--
Matt: They can hold their action, but then at the end of their turn, he still gets to do movement.
Liam: All right, I'm going to use my movement and dash, so five, ten, 15... 50, 55, 60, and I'm going to paladin attack the gloomstalker up there.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: First one is great, that is a 33. And the second one is also pretty good, 25. Do those both hit?
Matt: They both have an AC of 15.
Liam: Okay, shit. Should've called Sharpshooter. All right, so the first one is one, plus eight is nine--
Travis: Can he use a legendary resistance on a grapple?
Matt: No, because a grapple check is a versus.
Liam: Seven, so 11 and seven. Just 11 and seven on that Gloomstalker.
Matt: Got it. Ends your turn, Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: How far away is he?
Matt: 150 feet. from where he was.
Marisha: I'm going to drop my form, take my action to cast Earthbind on him, it's a 300-foot range spell.
Laura: Oh my God. Please, please, please. He's used up his legendary resistances, right?
Marisha: He did.
Matt: What's the save he has to make?
Marisha: Strength versus my spell save.
Taliesin: Do you have something because of your hit?
Matt: That is 22. 17 plus five.
Marisha: 22?!
Matt: 17 plus five.
Marisha: You can't do anything?
Taliesin: The last time you hit him, does that mean--
Laura: Advantage!
Matt: It's a saving throw, it's not an attack. Yeah, the Earthbind does not take effect on him unfortunately--
Marisha: Can I do it again immediately? Can I try again?
Matt: No, it's an action to cast the spell.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: Sorry.
Marisha: I know! Can I wait and--
Matt: Okay, Scanlan Two? Anything?
Sam: He's 150 feet away?
Marisha: He rolled so fucking high!
Laura: Can you run 30 feet and then do something?
Matt: He can run 25 feet.
Sam: I can run 25 feet and then reach 120 feet.
Matt: Yeah, you're just under--
Sam: I'm five feet shy.
Joe: Wait. I can get you on the back of this thing and fly it up there.
Liam: Yeah, but we can't get out of range of the ring unless we want to--
Laura: I mean, as soon as Sylas isn't there, he's going to know we're here.
Joe: So we have to stay within 60 feet. Of each other.
Laura: Or we can all just run.
Marisha: If you all hold, I can try again.
Taliesin: No, because he's going to keep running.
Laura: If we hold, he just keeps moving--
Marisha: Yeah, but it's a 300-foot range spell, and he's only 150 feet away. I don't think he can dash 150 feet.
Sam: He already did 150 getting to your turn so he'll be able to do another 150--
Marisha: But it's a 300-foot range spell.
Liam: He'd still be in range--
Taliesin: We don't have to hold our turns, we'll just get back to you.
Marisha: Right. That's what I'm saying.
Taliesin: Oh yeah, no, we're fine. I mean, that'll happen eventually. If it's going to get there.
Laura: Whose turn is it?
Sam: It's Scanlan Two's turn. He's going to bonus action Bigby's Hand, grapple one of the gloomstalkers.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: The one we've been working on.
Matt: All righty. Bigby's Hand punches--
Sam: Not punches, grapple.
Matt: Okay. We'll say for the purposes of this, they're--
Sam: They're easily killed.
Matt: They're pretty easily killed given the circumstances you guys have, the chase now--
Sam: Well, do you want to kill them, or save them for riding on?
Joe: Bah! I think I'm-- (laughter)
Joe: 40 minus three is 37, This one's got 37 hit points of damage.
Laura: Just try to get Sylas.
Joe: Do what you feel, Scanlan.
Sam: Well, I'll just hold him for you.
Joe: Oh, thanks. I appreciate that--
Matt: Let's say, Grog, you go up there and start. Anything you want to do--
Travis: I want to see what the inside of them looks like.
Matt: Okay. For the purposes of expediency in this, so we don't spend time just trudging through these things, you guys just hacking at these gloomstalkers.
Sam: One we're saving for him.
Matt: Okay, I will say, to note, that the Control feature generally is a once-a-day type thing--
Sam: Ooh. Then never mind, we kill it.
Matt: Not like it can constantly regenerate to the next thing.
Joe: Hmm. Let me read my description that you sent me. All right. No, okay. I'm calling Mike Mearls!
Marisha: We get back around everybody! Is he still fucking here?!
Matt: We get to Sylas' turn. Sylas dashes twice--
Taliesin: Wait, is it Sylas' turn or my turn?
Matt: Sorry, it's your turn then Sylas', so go ahead.
Taliesin: My turn first. I'm going to take my advantage shot, because I have advantage because of--
Matt: With which gun?
Taliesin: With Bad News.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Wait, why didn't I get to go?
Matt: Oh sorry, you're first. Go for it.
Laura: Can I run out the door and hop on my broom and fly as far as I can--
Taliesin: No, no, no, no!
Joe: 60!
Taliesin: Ring!
Laura: Yeah, but I can only get 50 feet away from you guys. If I come here--
Matt: As soon as you go around that side, you're starting to get close. Up to you. You have Scanlan all the way over there. You barely have Scanlan in your--
Laura: So I can't leave. So I'm at the bottom of the stairs. If I run up the stairs and broom it from here, how far would I get?
Matt: Ten feet out the window.
Laura: Ten feet out the window and he's 150 and I'm-- my shot is what, but with Sharpshooter-- no, that's different.
Liam: Doesn't affect range, it just affects your chances.
Laura: Shit! Wait, let me look at Fenthras. I'm just hoping there's something that says it's 300 feet!
Matt: Fenthras does not change your range.
Laura: (nervous laughter) Okay then, it's only 120-foot range, right? With a longbow?
Matt: Well, the way longbows work is you have an inner range and an outer range, so if he's beyond--
Taliesin: But if you're Sharpshooter the outer range is the inner range.
Laura: Oh, yeah!
Matt: Yeah, your max is 600.
Laura: My max is 600 fucking feet?
Matt: Yep.
Taliesin: Oh, yeah, so you just walk up and take a shot.
Laura: Okay then, I'm going to walk up to the window and I'm going to try to cast Bramble Shot on him.
Taliesin: With advantage!
Laura: With advantage?
Sam: It's an attack.
Ashley: Because of--
Matt: Guiding Bolt. Go for it.
Taliesin: Much better!
Joe: Holy freaking half-elf!
Laura: 20.
Matt: 20 just hits. (cheering)
Marisha: Get him down!
Laura: Oh my God. Okay, so 12, that's 18 plus 4d8.
Liam: Sharpshooter doesn't double the distance?
Matt: No, but you have the two different ranges. Because your range is technically 30 to 60, but you can go the full 60 without taking disadvantage after 30 feet.
Liam: So it's at disadvantage normally?
Matt: No disadvantage as a Sharpshooter. It's a crazy feat.
Laura: 43.
Matt: 43 points of damage.
Laura: And he has to make a strength save of DC 17 or be restrained.
Matt: That is a nine plus five, that is a 14. (cheering)
Matt: As the arrow hits the bat, you watch as the arrow bursts into a sudden swarming of bramble vines. They wrap around him and the bat (small impact).
Laura: And does he take bludgeoning damage from hitting the ground?
Matt: He does take a little bit. He's about 80 feet up from there, because he's going at an angle, so he takes 8d6 bludgeoning damage.
Sam: Oh my God! That was the most sniper thing you've ever done!
Laura: That was pretty awesome!
Matt: And with that, you watch as the bat form (poof) dissipates. The brambles fall weak and open.
Sam: Is he there?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Laura: Can I see him?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Sam: No bueno.
Liam: I got 26 for Vax.
Matt: You see a misty cloud in the space where Sylas was.
Laura: 34. Misty cloud! How did we fight him before? Sunlight destroyed him before?
Sam: Radiant something, right?
Laura: Sunbeam destroyed him before.
Travis: When he was in the gaseous form.
Laura: Now he's in the gaseous form. Okay, so I rolled a 34.
Taliesin: I rolled huge. 28.
Matt: 28? To what?
Taliesin: Perception.
Matt: Yeah, you see the mist.
Taliesin: How far away is he?
Laura: He's 150 feet away.
Liam: He didn't get a chance to go.
Laura: He's 150 feet away from us.
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: So as a group we can all try to move forward, but as we get closer to him--
Taliesin: You've got what it takes. What's the distance on that thing?
Laura: What's the Daylight casting distance? Can you run forward and get close enough?
Marisha: You guys aren't going to want to hear this, I can run forward and Sunburst him at 150 feet away but it's going to burn my 8th-level spell.
Sam: Don't do that.
Marisha: I have Sunbeam, which is a 6th-level spell at 60-foot away. No, I dropped my form.
Matt: Yep.
Taliesin: What if you got on a mount?
Sam: Just to get there as fast as you can.
Joe: But we can't get outside of the 60-foot bubble.
Taliesin: We can all move together and he will not be able to move at high speed as a mist.
Laura: Hopefully.
Marisha: Can I scoop up Vex and dash 60 feet ahead and Sunbeam him for another 60 feet?
Matt: Dash as your action.
Taliesin: And we have to stay together.
Laura: We have to stay together.
Joe: Well, you're in the gray. No. Where are you?
Marisha: I'm green.
Laura: I'm technically right here, right now. I'm on the second level. Next to Pike.
Joe: And Bigby's is--
Sam: Is it your turn Keyleth?
Marisha: Yeah, whose turn is it?
Matt: It's finishing Vex's.
Laura: No, it's Percy's turn.
Matt: Okay, so Percy. Your turn.
Laura: You could technically try to sh-- Oh yeah, mist form. (laughter)
Joe: Was that a Jenga?
Taliesin: Wait. I have a weird thing I'm going to try and do-- No, the thing I need to do, I need to get within 30 feet.
Laura: Well, you can get within 60 feet of me so just move toward--
Taliesin: I'm going to move to the edge of where I'm capable of moving right now at my speed. I'm going to signal everybody and say move as a group. So we're going to try to sync our movements.
Matt: All right. We'll say for the purposes of this, the mist travels and vanishes from sight by the time you are able to catch up to it to get it to a place where you can destroy it. Delilah Briarwood has been destroyed, seemingly for the last time. Sylas has been driven to wherever he needs to recover.
Laura: Does it take him a long time?
Sam: Vecna gives up.
Joe: Can I say one thing right now?
Matt: Yes.
Joe: As we were moving in the bubble, I cast Animate Dead on Delilah and I raise her.
Taliesin: You're doing what?
Sam: We're fighting her again!
Matt: As you look out, you can see the mist, and the mist vanishes, and you can see now, looking up, dozens and dozens of gloomstalkers have all turned to see this out-in-the-open action that's now taking place in the space around you. You are all out, not being stealthy, firing and shooting out into the air, and you see now, clusters of these things heading in your direction. As you turn and look to the side, you watch as Delilah's body gets up from the ground.
Joe: Rise, and kneel before your master!
Matt: As the shambling corpse of Delilah falls to her knees before Arkhan--
Joe: Oathbreaker, baby!
Matt: As the realization begins of what is coming at you. Two you could handle, maybe. There's a lot in your direction. You have revealed your position, the wall was already destroyed and everything is swarming in your direction. As you all begin to turn around, you hear this deafening roar from the sky above you. You glance up to see a flash of brass light as Devo'ssa comes swooping into the barrier. Behind, a hundred or more Wyvern Riders, risen from Vasselheim to join the rest of the brigade come swarming in and collide with the gloomstalkers. You now see a frantic dog-fight cluster as hundreds of one and hundreds of the other begin slamming into each other, tearing each other apart. You see blades swing, you see arrows going flying and Devo'ssa begins to do sweeping rounds, back and forth across the sky. You realise if there is a moment to move with the distraction, it's now.
Joe: I load Delilah on the back.
Taliesin: I grab her wand.
Marisha: And her holy symbol that fell to the ground.
Laura: Whatever that sparking thing was.
Matt: The glowing sparkle light in it is inert now.
Marisha: Is what? Inert?
Taliesin: It was the controller. So we have it.
Laura: We book it towards the tower. Right?
Matt: You guys begin bolting your way towards Entropis with its large funnel-like cloud encircling the top of its spire. And we're going to take a break. (cheering)
Travis: Y'all, we recruited dead Delilah!
Joe: I want to find this dude!
Marisha: What a dick!
Matt: We're going to take a quick break, because we want to probably push to 11 tonight and then we're going to leave, so make a quick restroom break, fast as we can, come back. See you guys here in just a minute.
Laura: At the break we're giving away--
Marisha: We're giving away things.
Taliesin: So many things!
Joe: Jocks Machina!
Marisha: Yeah, actually, Max or Ryan, is there stipulations on the shirt?
Taliesin: Nope.
Marisha: We'll figure it out!
Joe: Hey Travis, go put this on.
Matt: Okay guys, we'll see you here in a few minutes.
Taliesin: Take the wrapper off! That's weird! [break]
Matt: Welcome back. A little longer than I anticipated, but that's fine. We're going to jump in here, but before we do that, the winners for the Wyrmwood box, we have Zabando is the winner. For the Jocks Machina shirt, we have Alcyon299. Congratulations! You get to join the very exclusive Jocks Machina club.
Travis: Testosterone poncho.
Joe: Only five of these. The other's my trainer Ron, who plays another goliath, and my brother Nick, who plays an elf ranger who was incinerated by the fucking death knight!
Matt: So. Bringing it back in. As you guys are charging your way toward Entropis, running through the streets, you do the best you can to dodge in and out of any sort of things that might catch your attention street-side. You see most of the undead and various cultists have been filtering down beneath the city a while back, and you're not entirely certain where they are at the moment. The few dregs there are around there, you guys easily enough dodge around. Pushing forward, you see the Spire of Entropis growing taller and taller, the closer and closer you get to it. As soon as you get to the base of the spire, you look up and you can see the broken seams of the once-toppled tower, now held together by the network of glowing, magical threads, like arcane veins, wrapping the tower and lending an unsettling, organic nature to its visage. The exterior still stands, windowless, like an obelisk of tyranny looming over the entirety of the city. The apex, of course, is now obscured by shadow and cloud, this slow-spinning tornado of twilight darkness entwining the top, blocking visibility, and possibly entry, at the top. Numerous gloomstalkers encircle the higher level, not currently engaging in the main fray, which is chaos all around. You see more emerging from this cloud, almost seemingly creating them. The large front doors of the tower appear somewhat ajar and open. There is one rot behemoth currently standing in front of this door. Vox Machina, what do you want to do?
Travis: I don't want to overthink this, but I feel like the sword said that it wanted to cut the webs of Vecna. Can I just cut the tower down?
Laura: I don't know if that's--
Travis: I take your laugh as a sign of--
Sam: I don't know if you can cut the whole tower down. They'll probably try to stop you. Don't you think?
Ashley: You could certainly try.
Travis: I could, couldn't I?
Ashley: Yeah.
Travis: Perhaps not.
Laura: I feel like, do we see any other doors, like, secret doors, maybe?
Sam: Do we see invisible doors?
Matt: Perception, glancing around, you don't see anything. It looks like this is the door, entrance, to it. You could make an investigation check, but you'd have to get up against the wall and carefully check it.
Laura: Can I do that without letting the rot behemoth see me?
Matt: You can certainly try.
Travis: That's a big fat no!
Matt: You can certainly try. It's not a no.
Liam: But we're directly in front of the door a ways back? How far back?
Matt: You're about 40 feet away from it, off to the side, glancing over where you can see the rot behemoth looming in the archway.
Laura: We didn't really think about how we were getting up the tower, did we?
Joe: Here's a possibility. I have a gloomstalker and I have Delilah. I put her on the back of this thing and fly it up there, maybe this thing moves out of the way.
Laura: Maybe the rot behemoth moves?
Joe: I'm just saying.
Sam: Can she talk? Can you make her talk?
Joe: I don't think I can puppet her. I can tell her to do commands.
Laura: Can you tell her to talk?
Joe: She'll understand what I'm saying, but I don't think she can--
Matt: By the way, as you've made this journey forward and Delilah's been shambling behind, you know, sitting behind you, this strange pain has been hitting you in the back of your shoulders. You glance back and look at the corpse of Delilah behind you as a rapidly growing tree is protruding and growing out of the chest of the corpse, and is now setting weight off of the top of the gloomstalker as it's trying to flutter up behind the party.
Laura: Sorry, sorry, that's a thing.
Joe: Can I Cleansing Touch and end one spell?
Matt: It's less of a spell effect and more of a divine seed that was placed inside her body when she was slain by the Vestige, Fenthras.
Laura: I placed my seed inside of her.
Taliesin: And it quickened.
Matt: Don't make it weird.
Laura: I make everything weird, Matt.
Joe: I'm not going to further question you about that.
Sam: You knocked her up.
Joe: Yeah, okay, must be an elf thing. That's interesting. Very interesting, okay, great.
Sam: Maybe they'll think that it's just a fashion thing, and they'll let her through.
Matt: It's still growing, and it's now protruding about four feet from her chest. The body is now starting to get a little top-heavy.
Laura: Just chop the tree down! It's a thin tree.
Matt: Yeah, it's not very thick. It's maybe about-- Okay, so you take a couple hacks at it and eventually you manage to cut away the tree. Now there's a trunk that's now stopped growing, about a foot out of Delilah's chest, with roots that have taken root up into the shoulders and the chest.
Laura: That's sick. It's like she's got a built-in shield now.
Travis: Can I take one of the fancy robes that remains in the Bag of Holding and drape it over the trunk coming out of her chest, so it's a little more hidden?
Matt: Sure.
Laura: Now it looks like she's pregnant!
Sam: I need a house. Can I take her branches and make one?
Matt: A house?
Sam: Oh, it's The Giving Tree. (groaning)
Laura: That's terrible. (something clanks on the floor)
Laura: Oh! What was that?
Matt: You have this rot behemoth at the entryway. What are you guys doing?
Liam: Well, our options are somehow flying up or going in the front door.
Laura: Do we fly up, or do we go inside and up the tower? I'm sure there's no traps or horrible things on the inside of it.
Marisha: Last time, Pike and I took it down with a couple of Earthquake spells.
Taliesin: But that didn't help nearly as much as we thought it would.
Marisha: I mean, we didn't have to go up the damn thing, so maybe check yourself before you say things.
Sam: Let's just charge in. This is a fricking giant, right? We've killed giants.
Travis: Behemoth. Is it dead? Undead?
Matt: The rot behemoth? It's undead.
Joe: It's undead? How big is a rot behemoth?
Matt: The rot behemoth is about 12 feet tall or so. Just a mass of stitched-together undead flesh.
Joe: Medium, or large?
Matt: Large.
Taliesin: I've got an idea. Can I borrow some of that infinite rope?
Laura: Of course.
Taliesin: All right. I'm taking the infinite rope, and I'm tying it around my little gem that I have.
Laura: The little blue gem?
Taliesin: My little glowing gem.
Marisha: Are you going to do that $20 bill trick in New York City, thing?
Taliesin: More or less. Are we all agreed?
Laura: I love it, I love it!
Travis: If it doesn't work, we kill it.
Laura: Yeah, we'll drag it out of the doorway so we can kill it!
Taliesin: Well, I'm going to make it move away, and then once we're in I'm going to yank--
Liam: I used to do this with string and a G.I. Joe for my cat when I was a kid. She loved it. I'm sure the rot behemoth will too.
Matt: Okay, so. You take the pulse stone, you tie it around--
Taliesin: I tie it around in a monkey fist knot. I toss it about 20 feet away. I'm going to give it a throw. I'm going to throw it about 20 feet away from the-- We're all in agreement of this plan?
Sam: This is the best plan.
Liam: Wait, one second. Do we want to lure it into a house and all of us be waiting to gank the shit out of it?
Taliesin: Well, technically, wait, hold on.
Matt: You see a flash and a flare in the sky above you. You see a cluster of gloomstalkers immolated by a burst of flame breath from Devo'ssa, who's now up in the stratosphere. At this same time, you see about a dozen or so wyvern riders go riding into this slow, spinning storm and get disintegrated into pieces.
Taliesin: I'm actually going to throw the gem, then, past the stone giant, into the room. Just a little bit so that anything in the room--
Matt: Make a strength check for me. That's a bit of a lob.
Taliesin: Okay. Nine?
Matt: It makes it about the 20 feet you intended to. (clattering)
Laura: Pull it back and we'll have one of the-- I mean, not that you're not strong and very--
Matt: So what was the range on this Pulse Stone?
Taliesin: 30 feet.
Matt: Okay, it is within range to affect the rot behemoth.
Taliesin: Okay. I have to roll, though. I have to do a roll to see if it survived the throw.
Matt: That's true, yeah.
Taliesin: Yeah. It's fine.
Matt: Tink, tink! It's a will save for the rot behemoth.
Taliesin: DC 15.
Matt: Wisdom? That's a two. No. You guys watch as the rot behemoth, the stone, (clattering), its metal-armored face and glowing coal eyes turn (heavy footsteps) and walks over to the gem and stares at it.
Taliesin: Let's all go in, shall we? And I'm going to walk around it and stealth in.
Laura: Pass Without a Trace is still fucking up, if it's been less than an hour.
Matt: Make a concentration check for me, real fast. Make a constitution saving throw.
Liam: We just watched the wyverns get obliterated trying to fly into the swirl at the top.
Laura: I got 18.
Matt: Okay, you maintain the concentration. Referring to the blast from the skeletal dragon, earlier on. All right. So. Did you guys all roll stealth?
Sam: Stealth? Oh shit.
Laura: Plus ten!
Taliesin: Natural 20.
Marisha: Wait, stealth?
Sam: I rolled a two and a two, so that's 15 and 15.
Joe: How do I do this on this gloomstalker, with the zombie? How does this work?
Matt: Zombie's not stealthed, but it is undead. Gloomstalker, it's hard to be stealthed, that gloomstalker, right now.
Sam: We're going inside, we don't need it anymore!
Joe: Want me to leave it?
Sam: I mean, what are you going to do with a flying thing in a narrow stairway? We've seen inside, we scryed inside. It's a very narrow stairway going up.
Laura: Can you have him climb up the side of the tower and meet you up top?
Sam: Oh yeah, meet us up top? (under his breath) He ain't going to survive that.
Laura: Well, we can try it though.
Travis: He might.
Joe: Yeah, I think that would work.
Matt: Okay, you can do that.
Joe: I hate it when you do that!
Liam: I mean, I love it, but I hate it.
Taliesin: Also, double checking-- grit is a reset after combat, not a reset after a short rest?
Matt: No, it's a short rest.
Taliesin: Short rest? Okay, just checking.
Joe: I have the wreath back on my neck, correct? Because that's how it works, I put it back on my neck once we're attuned?
Matt: Yeah, you put it back on your neck once you've-- correct.
Joe: Okay. They, meet us at the top!
Matt: Okay, as you step off and look into its eyes, your eyes flare the bright yellow color and the gloomstalker nods, takes a step back, and then leaps onto the side of the tower, its claws gripping in. As it bats its wings, it takes off and starts heading upward.
Joe: Circle at the top and wait for my command!
Matt: It seems to acknowledge your command.
Joe: All right, now at disadvantage, rolling in heavy plate.
Travis: You got it.
Joe: Do I have a plus ten? Sweet. Yeah, I got this. All right. Nine, 27.
Matt: Okay, so. 27. Two and two, 15, 15. Natural 20.
Marisha: 29.
Liam: Oh, it was a one, but it's a 37 now.
Laura: Because you rolled a luck? What?
Liam: No, Matt told me that, because of reliable talent, one means shit.
Matt: He always has a ten minimum.
Laura: That's fucking badass! 37.
Ashley: 21.
Travis: 22.
Matt: All right. So as you guys all dart in around this rot behemoth, who pays no mind to your presence, you dart into the partially ajar doorway into the base of Entropis, the tower itself. It's dark inside. As soon as you all dart into the interior, the doors are still partially open and you can see the faint glow of the very low general light that encompasses the city of Thar Amphala. The normal greenish-blue glow of the shield is offset a little bit by the natural light that's coming through from the opening of the barrier that you guys have opened. However, the light still diminishes as you step into this large chamber. As soon as you enter the chamber, those of you with darkvision glance around and see, it's a big thoroughfare. You see a large foyer-type chamber with pillars that go from bottom to maybe 25, 30 feet up, to a ceiling. Across the way, you can see two spiral staircases that curl upward and there, maybe, 30 or so humanoid figures that are in the center of this chamber.
Sam: What are they doing?
Matt: Well, as soon as you guys step and turn around, they all turn and look at you and begin to-- (sluggish footsteps).
Laura: We need that orb.
Taliesin: Once they're within range of us, I'm going to wait.
Matt: I mean, a lot of them are going to be right up on you, right now.
Joe: Can I sense what kind they are? Divine Sense, tell what type of fiend, celestial, or undead they are?
Matt: They are undead. They appear to be mostly of the baseline skeletal or zombie variety. It's a cluster of undead that are set here.
Taliesin: Okay, I'm going to tug on the rope and pull it up and toss the gem right smack-dab in the center of us. Unless somebody else wants to throw it. Eh, it doesn't matter. I just yanked it.
Matt: Okay, you yank it. Go ahead and make a roll. See if it's destroyed or not.
Taliesin: Nope, it's good.
Matt: All right. The stone (clattering) arcs in the center. The blue pulse-glow light billows out. You see the various skeletons and zombies charge into the light. They stop and stare at it. Let's see.
Taliesin: DC 15.
Liam: 30 rolls.
Sam: Pike, can't you kill masses of undead?
Matt: Okay, so of the 30 or so, about 20 of them stop and stare at the glow while you hear a bounding, heavy footfall sound behind where you came from.
Taliesin: He was not still within range?
Matt: No, you pulled the stone from where you were, inside the chamber now, so he's now rushing in after where the stone went.
Liam: This'll still work. Spread, and let him run right into the range of it?
Laura: Oh, we can get out of the way and let him maybe run into the undead that are--
Liam: As soon as he enters he's in range, isn't he?
Matt: Possibly. Up to you guys. But technically, undead are still rushing in toward you and they're immediately scrambling, with their claws and teeth, out there. Let's say, for the people at front here, it's going to be probably the two of you who first made it in, so three attacks against each of you. That is an 18 against you, Vax.
Liam: No.
Matt: That is a 20 against you.
Liam: No.
Matt: No, that misses. Three against you. Natural 20. A 20.
Laura: No.
Matt: And a natural one. All right, so while they scramble at you and you push them back at bay, one of them does manage to get through. It's going to be 12 points of slashing damage against you, Vex, as one of them swings at you with a rusty blade that carves past you.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: All right. What are you guys doing?
Ashley: How many of them? About 30?
Matt: About 30 of them, yeah.
Liam: Pickle, can you release a Sarenrae bomb?
Ashley: Yeah, I'll take out my Mace of Disruption. I don't want to use any more spells.
Matt: You have your Channel Divinity, your turn undead. Or destroy undead.
Laura: Yeah, destroy undead.
Ashley: Do I want to wait?
Laura: I don't know how many undead we're going to face--
Liam: Vecna's going to be too powerful for a destroy or turn undead. It's for weak-ass shit like this.
Laura: But he might have, you know, I don't know what kind of army he's going to have up top, so it's up to you.
Ashley: Well, I have another one.
Laura: So maybe do one of them?
Ashley: So I can do it now, yeah.
Matt: Okay, so as you rush in toward where this Pulse Stone is, as the crowd of undead are gathered in, you hunker down, clutch your holy symbol, and release a wave of divine energy, the whispers and prayer of Sarenrae emanating from you like a caustic wave against undead energy. What's the DC on that?
Ashley: It's not written down.
Matt: It's your spell DC.
Laura: Oh, 18.
Matt: Okay, 18.
Sam: Wisdom, intelligence, or charisma.
Liam: Wisdom for clerics.
Sam: Has your wisdom gone up at all?
Liam: Eight, plus five, plus your proficiency bonus. 14, 20.
Laura: You're at six proficiency bonus, now. You're not at--
Ashley: I am? I didn't know that.
Laura: So your DC is 19. Sorry, Matt.
Matt: It's okay. I lost count. Even with their saves, four undead survive. As the shock wave emanates out from you, you watch as about two dozen of these various skeletons and zombies, many of which are grasping at you, turn to ash. One of them, you see it reaching out toward you, you get a glimpse of it. You can see, this one's a fresher corpse, one of the zombies. It has dirty blonde hair, a torn chin with stubble, and for a brief minute you can see-- it has this gash in its stomach, a partially eaten arm. For a brief minute, as it reaches out for you before the wave hits, you're like, "Aldor?" Turns to ash.
Marisha: Aldor?
Matt: A member of the Slayer's Take. Once the prized love of--
Sam: Felicia Day! (gasping)
Laura: No!
Marisha: No, Aldor!
Sam: Oh, no!
Matt: As the flash expands, you glance around and you see a withered gnome corpse has been reaching toward you. Mostly bald head in places. You recognize, this is one of your companions, Grubby, before the wave hits and he turns to ash.
Sam: You just killed two of our friends, Pike!
Laura: Don't do that to her!
Ashley: Fuck off, I didn't know!
Matt: All of these are long dead. As this burst of energy hits and all of a sudden dust and ash fill the chamber around you--
Laura: Did it do anything to the rot behemoth coming in?
Matt: The rot behemoth behind-- what is the DC on him?
Liam: Challenge rating of four or lower.
Matt: Yeah, it's higher than a challenge rating four, so it doesn't affect him at all. But the four of you, easy enough to cleave him down, but we'll see if he's even affected by the stone. So the last four that are there, as they charge into the stone, nope! None of them make their save, so the last four that are still there, all stop and stare and glare at this stone in the center of the chamber. The rot behemoth comes looming in. (crashing) What's the DC?
Taliesin: DC is 15.
Matt: 14, does not make it. By one!
Liam: Don't worry, Matt. Your luck is coming upstairs.
Matt: That's true, that's true. So the rot behemoth (crashing) through the door and then stays there, staring at the stone, blocking the doorway and holding it in place. But now this chamber's open.
Laura: Should we kill this shit while we're stunned?
Sam: No, we should just run up!
Laura: How do we know we're not going to run into a whole bunch more?
Taliesin: Which is why we're going to keep the rope. We're going to go all the way up the stairs, and when we're ready, we're going to tug like a motherfucker.
Laura: Okay, and then all these things are going to chase after us?
Matt: They'll keep following you. Every time you pull the stone, they're going to come toward you.
Laura: So we might as well kill them now, while they're stunned.
Taliesin: All right, one at a time. Let's kill one at a time.
Sam: The giant's going to take more than one hit.
Taliesin: Yeah, but we're going to get him.
Matt: We'll say, easy enough for you guys to coordinate. The skeletons are easy enough to destroy. The rot behemoth, all in one swoop, you guys can take down as one quick blast on it. One of the skeletons, you also recognize: a heavily charred zombie making a horrid sighing sound as it's sitting there, staring at the stone. You see the remains of Vander.
Joe: Is he damaged?
Matt: Burnt to a cinder. The last thing you saw was him being immolated and screaming.
Joe: I'd like to Channel Divinity and Control Undead.
Matt: Okay. And with that, before you destroy the zombie--
Joe: It's a wisdom save.
Matt: Wisdom save? Three. Nope. You've got two zombies. Delilah and now your previous ally, Vander. Turns from the stone. (wheezing)
Joe: This is fucking dark.
Taliesin: I'm really excited about the notion of a Delilah potted plant.
Joe: It's my brother's character from our home group!
Liam: You are now Michonne, from Walking Dead. You got two zombies.
Travis: Bring them into the CRU, you got them!
Joe: Zombie Vander, aw man. This is like, rattling whatever blackened heart my character has. Okay.
Liam: All right, well, up we go, then, yeah?
Taliesin: Let's do this.
Liam: I'm going to look for traps, as we go.
Matt: All right, make an investigation check.
Sam: Everyone all healed up to full?
Laura: No.
Marisha: No.
Sam: Should we pause and heal, or--?
Laura: Pause for 30 minutes and heal?
Travis: Vasselheim was just out the window.
Liam: Two miles away, ish.
Matt: What'd you roll?
Liam: 18.
Matt: 18, okay.
Sam: If you take a potion, you're full. Right? Don't you have your thing going, or no, is that gone?
Travis: Beacon of Hope.
Laura: Beacon of Hope just means it heals the max that a healing spell or a healing potion can do. You don't automatically go to full health.
Travis: 2d8, 16.
Sam: Oh, I didn't know that.
Matt: How long does Beacon of Hope last?
Liam: One minute.
Matt: Beacon is gone.
Laura: That's okay. Do you have a healing spell for people?
Ashley: I do.
Travis: Are we doing a group thing right now?
Liam: Are we short resting or we doing little healies?
Laura: I don't think we have 30 minutes.
Marisha: We need a full 30 minutes to do a quick short rest?
Matt: Technically it's a full hour, by the rules. I let it slide a little faster in times of intensity. I'd allow a 30-minute quick rest, but that's still--
Taliesin: I would not say no to it, but I can live without it.
Laura: I don't know, I mean, they're fighting at Vasselheim right now.
Travis: Yeah, we're at the gates.
Marisha: I'm at 94 hit points, I'm down about 50 or so hit points.
Liam: I'm telling you, though, it's this or nothing. If we fall here, if we fail, then it's fucked, so even if it destroys half the city, it's better to have all of us at full fighting potential.
Joe: I would like to cast Death Ward on myself. 4th-level spell slot.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: All right, do it. Do the short rest. Just do it.
Sam: Wait, we're doing a short rest? Wait, who needs it?
Taliesin: We honestly all do.
Laura: We all need healing. I'm 40 points down.
Marisha: I'm 50 points down, and I burned both of my shape change. Who else is down far?
Travis: A quarter, or half, of Vasselheim, is--
Sam: Don't you have a healing spell?
Ashley: I do, but it depends on the roll.
Sam: No no, because it maximizes it.
Laura: No, we don't have it anymore.
Ashley: Yeah, so if I roll bad, or--
Liam: No, but we have hit dice. You don't need the spells.
Sam: Bye, Vasselheim.
Matt: All right, so you guys are taking a short rest in the inside of Entropis?
Marisha: No, look, super short.
Matt: There is no super-short rest. It's a short rest.
Sam: Seems terrible.
Matt: Vasselheim was in sight when you were outside.
Marisha: I don't know! What do you want?
Matt: I'm just letting you know!
Sam: We have potions! Can't we drink potions?
Joe: Listen, you're not going to need the potions after today. I'm just saying.
Laura: Might as well take them.
Travis: Don't take your superior, though.
Sam: No, we have other ones, though.
Laura: Can you try healing and see what it does?
Ashley: Yeah, I'll do Mass Cure Wounds on you guys.
Laura: What does that do?
Marisha: I don't know, but we also, we broke down the barrier, so Vasselheim can defend itself a little more.
Travis: One-sixth of the pie.
Marisha: I'm 50 points down and without my beast shape.
Laura: You don't have beast shape?
Marisha: I used it to go earth elemental, because I thought the Briarwood fight might be a little bit more beefy than it was. But I don't necessarily need it.
Travis: Vote as a group. Hand up if you want a short rest.
Sam: No.
Travis: No hands? Just put your hand up if you want it.
Taliesin: I will admit, it would do a lot for me.
Travis: Keyleth, put your hand up.
Liam: I'm going to put up because I think that these two need it.
Travis: I'll tie-break it.
Laura: So short rest? Short rest. Okay.
Sam: Vasselheim.
Marisha: To quote the leaders of Vasselheim, "They have defended themselves through many forms of battle."
Joe: That vampire's going to be up there, full strength. He's going to be back. He's going to be back full strength.
Laura: He might not be back full strength yet!
Joe: He'll be back something.
Laura: He takes a while to rest up.
Joe: It's 25 a minute, isn't it?
Travis: It's super fast.
Matt: He regenerates 25-- Well, there's a lot of things at work here. It depends. Roll a religion check.
Travis: Natural one.
Taliesin: I'll try a religion check.
Joe: I'm a paladin with terrible religion skills. Blind faith.
Matt: All right, but still roll a religion check. Seeing as how undead is your domain.
Liam: Just roll a natural 20, Joe.
Joe: I rolled a natural 18.
Matt: Plus?
Joe: Zero, for religion.
Matt: Okay, okay. You know this because of your experience with undead and amassing yourself a necromantic energy since breaking your oath long ago. When a vampire is reduced to zero hit points and goes into mist form, it has two hours to return to its resting place. When it reaches its resting place, it has to rest for one hour. Once it rests for the one hour, it goes back to one hit point and then it regenerates 25 hit points, or at least, Sylas, every single round.
Liam: Roughly how much time has passed since we went from--?
Matt: I'd say 30-ish minutes or so. 30 or 40, because you've been slowly stealthing your way through, being careful.
Liam: Right right, but probably his box of dirt is not--
Matt: So if you take a short rest, you're probably going to look at a Sylas waiting for you somewhere up top.
Laura: It's going to take two hours to get up the tower?
Sam: It's a big tower. There's lots of shit up there.
Matt: No, meaning, if you guys take a short rest, he needs to rest for an hour. It took you 40 minutes since that happened to get to the tower. If you take a short rest, you're going to have to deal with a Sylas.
Taliesin: I mean fuck it, if we heal ourselves--
Sam: Scanlan's got healing. Scanlan Two's got healing. We can pump you guys up.
Travis: Because he also turns people, right?
Taliesin: He does turn people.
Travis: I barely made that save.
Laura: We need to not rest.
Taliesin: How much heal do you get out of a potion?
Ashley: Who's bad?
Marisha: I'm not great.
Ashley: You're bad? Who else?
Joe: I could use some, seeing that I have tank duties.
Sam: How many can you include?
Ashley: Okay, is anybody down? I'm going to do Prayer of Healing. I want to save Mass Cure Wounds.
Marisha: I'm at 94 hit points, so I'm down--
Joe: I'm down 42, but I could probably heal--
Matt: You could take a short rest, but understand and be prepared with the knowledge of knowing that you're also going-- put some things in your chamber that will be helpful against a vampire.
Sam: Scanlan Two has tons of healing spells that he can use, so use them. He's going to be dead soon anyway.
Marisha: You guys don't want us losing any of our spellcasters right now. I'm at 94. It's not a lot, it's not bad, but it's bad enough. I'm a third of my hit points down.
Matt: You do have a battery of low-level spell slots right now that can be used to heal things up if you want to.
Sam: Yeah, I can heal you and heal you and heal you until you're all done.
Marisha: Yeah, but every time you heal me and heal me and heal me, it's taking away from something else mechanically.
Sam: It's a level one bullshit spell slot.
Taliesin: But it's also healing that could be done in combat. That's what we're meaning.
Marisha: I'm resigning my decision right now.
Matt: Make a choice here, guys. You're wasting time in the tower.
Sam: No short rest! Heal some people, I'll heal some more. We got this. We got lots of healing.
Ashley: Okay, I'll just use a 2nd-level for 16 points of healing for six people who need it.
Sam: Great!
Marisha: 16 points? I'll take that.
Laura: I'm taking one.
Sam: I will take it as well.
Taliesin: How many people have taken it so far?
Sam: You said up to six people? I'll take that.
Marisha: 110, I'm still 31 hit points down.
Sam: I will cast Healing Word, or Scanlan Two will cast Healing Word at 2nd-level for you.
Marisha: For me?
Sam: Yeah. That's--
Matt: You can use Cure Wounds as opposed to Healing Word.
Sam: I don't have Cure Wounds.
Matt: Oh, that's right. Never mind.
Sam: That's nine more points for you.
Marisha: For me?
Sam: Yeah. Oh, wait! I can sing a Song of Rest.
Matt: That takes a short rest to do.
Sam: Yeah. That makes sense.
Marisha: I could do my speech if I had a short rest.
Laura: Well, you can do the speech as we climb up the tower!
Joe: How much are you short? She's 22 short?
Laura: The speech does what? Does the speech regain hit points?
Matt: Ten minutes to say the speech.
Laura: So as we climb the tower, she could be saying it?
Matt: Perhaps, yeah.
Sam: I will heal you another 2nd-level healing spell.
Laura: A Greater Healing Potion is 4d4?
Matt: You've got it. 4d4 plus four.
Sam: That's another 12 points.
Matt: Consider now, as you guys climb the tower, if you have any buff spells, if you have any long-lasting things that you want to utilize for the coming fray. Freedom of Movement, Death Ward, all the things you guys want to prepare with, now's the time to do it.
Marisha: 141, I'm full.
Liam: I'm going to, when we're right on the verge, when we think we're right on the verge, I'm blessing you and you.
Travis: I think this is the verge.
Marisha: Is this the verge? Because if this is the verge--
Matt: You still have the tower to climb, but know, if you have spells, like buffs, to cast that aren't concentration and last a while, now's the time to do it.
Marisha: Like, an hour a while?
Joe: Tiamat gave her 12. I'm going to give 18 to myself out of my healing pool.
Marisha: Pike and I burn all of our 4th level spell splots to do--
Ashley: Splots!
Marisha: Splots! Do all of our spell splots! To cast Freedom of Movement on anybody. With the exception of Percy, who already has it.
Joe: What does Freedom of Movement do?
Matt: Wait, how many slots is that for you guys, then?
Marisha: Three each.
Matt: Three each. Okay.
Marisha: Except, we didn't account for--
Sam: Scanlan Two.
Marisha: Or Arkhan.
Joe: What's happening?
Matt: Okay. Anything else you want to buff with?
Laura: Yes, I'm going to invoke my Blessing of the Dawnfather.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Oh my god.
Matt: No Death Wards?
Joe: I did--
Matt: You did Death Ward to yourself?
Travis: She has a Death Ward.
Ashley: Wait a second. One of us is without Freedom of Movement.
Laura: Scanlan Two.
Taliesin: I have it automatically.
Marisha: He has it automatically.
Ashley: Understand.
Laura: Can anybody cast some Death Wards too?
Joe: Wait, I didn't get Freedom of Movement?
Sam: No.
Taliesin: No.
Marisha: No.
Sam: We did it with an earring. Sorry, you weren't on.
Joe: I'm over kicking a can in the corner.
Sam: We're all on iPhones and you're on a Windows phone.
Ashley: I don't have another 4th-level, unless I burn a 5th-level, for Death Ward.
Joe: Now, I have some funky shit. I have a Cleansing Touch, anyway, that can end a spell on me or any willing creature that I touch, so that should help.
Matt: So what's the plan, guys?
Sam: Wait, we're doing things that last an hour?
Laura: We're doing things, yeah. We're doing it.
Sam: Shit.
Marisha: I mean, I don't know-- Unless we want to try and get higher up before we go.
Matt: That's up to you guys.
Marisha: Do we think this is it? Are we sure this is it?
Liam: Is it one of these guys where we can see the height of the tower, or--?
Matt: You can't see the height of the tower. It goes up into another floor.
Marisha: Okay, so this means, anything we encounter, if it's not fucking Vecna, then we're barreling through it and going straight up. Because we've burned everything.
Matt: If you want to hold your spells until you get higher, I'll let you do that. Up to you.
Liam: There's a death knight.
Marisha: I don't know what's worth it. Do we have any idea of how much higher this tower goes?
Matt: I mean, it goes pretty high.
Liam: Oh, excuse me. Where is Vecna right now? How high up?
Matt: Right above you.
Liam: Right above us, way up, or a floor up?
Matt: Way up.
Liam: Way up. Okay.
Marisha: Do we want to try and jog another ten minutes before doing this?
Taliesin: Let's get halfway up the tower.
Marisha: Okay, okay. Before we burn everything--
Matt: Just letting you guys be prepared here, because you're Vox Machina.
Marisha: Okay, we're going to go ten more minutes up and I'm going to give a speech as we go.
Laura: So I'm invoking the blessing as we get closer.
Ashley: Does anybody else want Death Ward?
Taliesin: No, I'm good.
Marisha: I say, okay, guys, as we climb this tower, I know there's a lot of stairs, but the stairs are going to be fucking nothing compared to Vecna. But holy fuck, these are a lot of fucking stairs.
Sam: This is inspiring.
Taliesin: The stairs are a metaphor.
Marisha: The stairs are a metaphor. Each stair that we get across is going to be like another step further into defeating Vecna. You know? With each stair-- I'm winded.
Laura: The stairs are long, but they're not infinite.
Marisha: The stairs are long, but they are not infinite. Be good and now we're almost there, guys! We're almost there! This is it! This is it. (sobbing and panting)
Laura: I feel so inspired, Keyleth. Thank you.
Sam: Wow, that was so inspiring.
Marisha: This is it, you guys! Just keep going up the stairs! And that's my speech.
Matt: Okay, take your 17-- no, 19--
Marisha: 19 hit points.
Matt: 19 temporary hit points. Including you.
Joe: 19 temporary, yeah.
Marisha: And they're temporary, not--
Laura: In addition to our plus two, so now we have 21.
Marisha: Do we heal above that?
Matt: Yeah. Well, you get temporary hit points, like a buffer shield.
Marisha: Right, so those 19 go first.
Matt: Correct. Okay.
Laura: Oh god, oh god, oh god. Okay, are we getting near the top?
Joe: Let me know, because I'm going to throw up.
Travis: Who wants the Death Ward?
Marisha: Yeah, and Pike and I cast whenever seems appropriate.
Matt: Right.
Travis: But who wants it? Who needs it?
Sam: I mean, who's going to die?
Taliesin: This one, definitely.
Laura: Okay, here's the thing. The people that have the trammels should probably have a Death Ward, too.
Travis: I've got my one hit point regenerate, regenerate, regenerate.
Laura: Okay, you're good.
Sam: Pike can have one.
Ashley: I have my armor.
Laura: Okay, so that bumps you back up once you've gone down once. So really, he needs-- and you, well, no. You won't come back right away.
Liam: If I have the Death Ward, I will pop back up.
Matt: There is only one person that can complete the Incantation of Sealing.
Sam: That's me.
Travis: Sealing of what? Oh, the trammels?
Matt: Once the trammels are in--
Travis: You've got to put it on Scanlan.
Taliesin: He has to do it. Without Scanlan, everything goes to shit.
Liam: What about Scanlan Two? Can Scanlan Two do it?
Sam: Technically. He's not going to last that long, guys.
Ashley: I cast Death Ward on Scanlan.
Sam: Pike, I accept your blessing.
Ashley: Scanlan, if we get through this, you know what that means, don't you?
Sam: No, what does it mean?
Taliesin: It means that your clone's going to get very lucky. You, on the other hand, no.
Ashley: You'll just have to live. You wait and find out.
Sam: Well, what does it mean? What could it mean?!
Ashley: Just live! You'll see!
Sam: Just then, the real Scanlan comes back from peeing. He's like, what'd I miss, guys? (laughter)
Matt: Ascending the stairs, you climb and climb, the spiral continuing upward. Both of the stairs spiral upward, so which direction did you take? The right, or the left?
Laura: The right. No, wait! Which hand does Vecna chop off?
Matt: The left.
Travis: What does your speech do, Keyleth, again?
Marisha: It gives you an additional 19 hit points. Temporary hit points. So add plus 19 on top. When you lose them, they're gone. Huh?
Sam: We're trying to decide whether we went left or right up the stairs.
Taliesin: We went right.
Matt: Okay. You spiral upward and upward and upward, climbing an extremely long period of time. Your legs begin to ache a little bit. Then another floor opens up. It appears the tower is now divided into two chambers. From the bottom floor up, it's now two sides to a tower and you're on the right side. The hallway curves around the outer edge of the tower. On the opposite side, you can see the staircase continues upward. The interior of this chamber appears to be an incredible arcane laboratory, occupying the center space of the tower inside. You see six overlapping circles of dulled runes and glyphs that encompass the entire 30-foot walkway between here and the stairs. Shelves and tables of countless glass tubes and metallic vices lay out across tables, organized in a near-OCD pattern. Tomes and books line the inner chamber walls. What do you guys do?
Liam: I use Divine Sense and feel for undead. 60 feet.
Matt: You sense around. No undead in the 60-foot radius.
Laura: Does this feel like it might be Delilah's room? Her chamber?
Matt: You don't know.
Taliesin: From where I am, can I recognize any of the book titles? Any of it?
Matt: From where you are now? You can't even see. It's too far away.
Laura: Is there any traps in this room?
Matt: You can check for traps.
Liam: Fan out.
Joe: Can you sense Vecna?
Taliesin: Yes. If Vecna moves, we will know.
Laura: What is that? Investigation?
Matt: Investigation.
Liam: 24 for me.
Laura: 14 for me.
Matt: Okay. I mean, there's symbols across the ground here, but they seem pretty inert. Three of the circles in the center of the chamber appear to be ready to trigger. By proximity. A five-foot proximity.
Liam: Where's the exit to this room?
Matt: It's across the way, around the outside of the tower wall, so you can follow along.
Liam: We can go around the edge.
Matt: Most of you can. It's a very tight walk to get through. You have a few large individuals.
Liam: What's making that so tight? Is there one trap that's making it so tight, or all of them?
Matt: There are three large circles that overlap with each other that are triggerable, and then there are three inert ones that overlap. It's like a series of Venn diagrams.
Liam: Did they seem arcane in nature?
Matt: Yes, they do.
Liam: Do I have a shot in hell? Of disarming them?
Travis: I take out the Immovable Rod and have it in my hand.
Matt: Okay. Make an intelligence check.
Liam: Natural 20.
Matt: These traps are far beyond your understanding to disable.
Liam: Okay, okay.
Matt: You glance at these and go, "Oh, this is bad."
Travis: We would need Dispels.
Laura: What if we go-- no, the people that are small go around. I'll bamf Trinket out on one side, put Grog in, go back, put Arkhan in, go back? We work our way around the runes.
Sam: What about the zombies?
Laura: The zombies are little. They can work their way around.
Sam: No no, his slave zombies.
Taliesin: They're little.
Travis: His dead brother, and--
Joe: Aw man, I wasn't thinking about it until you brought it up again! Like, I was actually in an okay place!
Travis: I'm sorry, I thought, you know-- Got to pay respect.
Laura: Are you guys okay with this plan?
Liam: (Marlon Brando voice) I could've been somebody, Arkhan. Instead of a zombie. Because I am.
Joe: (Marlon Brando voice) Vander, pick up the mic, boy, and hit me in the head with it.
Matt: I need everybody except for Arkhan and Grog to go ahead and make a general dexterity check.
Laura: Oh, fuck. I thought we would be able to avoid it. Natural 20!
Taliesin: 24.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Scanlan Two is okay. He made a 17. Scanlan One had a one.
Matt: Okay. So. What'd you get?
Marisha: Oh, I had to roll?
Matt: Everybody except for Arkhan and--
Marisha: Oh, everyone but for them! Dex save.
Liam: Oh, who's near me? Could I retcon and say that I'm--
Matt: Dexterity check. You add your dexterity modifier.
Liam: What did you get? You got a natural one?
Matt: Scanlan did, yeah.
Liam: If I'm next to him, because I give plus two to saves, does that futz with it?
Matt: It's not an ability check, it's a saving throw. One is an auto-fail for a saving throw.
Joe: They weren't within ten feet of me, were they?
Matt: No, next would have been partially across. Because you couldn't get across, you're too wide.
Joe: Fair enough.
Marisha: 13.
Matt: Okay, that's fine. And you got? A four? Okay. So. As you guys are moving across, Scanlan and Pike, you both are clustered next to each other. Unfortunately, Pike begins to wobble. You reach to grab her and pull her in, but the armored weight is too strong and you both accidentally step out of place. At which point, the glyph to your left suddenly flares. You watch as, in a flash of sudden arcane energy, a cage of force-like power encompasses the both of you in a cube. You see these bars of crackling energy (lighting crackle) around. You're both currently stuck within this arcane entrapment. The gnomes.
Laura: Can Scanlan Two dispel that shit?
Sam: I don't know Dispel Magic.
Marisha: Can you Dimension Door?
Sam: Good question. If only the person in here with me was also of gnome size. Oh wait! She is. We'll Dimension Door out.
Liam: Do we want to try to get everyone else across before you do that? Maybe it's a one-time-only?
Laura: Everybody else went already.
Matt: Well, they're currently blocking the path, now, with this cage.
Liam: Oh, okay. Well, I meant the necklace, but.
Sam: I don't know how this spell works. I hope it works. We might get hit on the way out.
Matt: Okay. As you clasp Pike and complete the incantation, I need you to make a charisma saving throw.
Travis: Come on, buddy! Come on! Come on!
Sam: A charisma save? Is this magic?
Matt: It is.
Sam: Okay. 20.
Matt: 20? 20 will do it.
Sam: I've never had to make a charisma saving throw before.
Taliesin: You got very high.
Matt: So. As you grab her and you both begin to transport outside of the cage, you feel the force of it push back, but the nature of your innate magical ability manages to puncture through that threshold and then both of you reappear at the opposite side, no worse for wear. The cage is still present, though, and it's now blocking the path across. The rest of you get across fine. It's the gnomes that got stuck, and now the two of you are on the opposite end. You have 30 feet between you and the opposite side, and that walkway is entirely closed off.
Joe: We can do this.
Travis: Yeah. I'm not worried one bit.
Sam: Wait, did you switch your boots?
Travis: I did!
Laura: You can Spider Climb to the ceiling!
Travis: Do you want to Cirque du Soleil this thing? We'll hold arms and I'll walk on the ceiling?
Sam: Two shirtless, hunky dudes holding each other?! In crazy poses?
Liam: Definitely take your armor off for this, though. Definitely.
Marisha: Not for any particular reason.
Taliesin: We still have the pot. You could get some oil and really make this work.
Joe: My answer to your question was-- Cut to.
Travis: Yeah, I will walk up on the wall so that I'm sticking out.
Taliesin: That's a lot of powerful--
Joe: Oh, I have four fingers.
Matt: Okay. The force cage encompasses too much of the wall space to go sideways, so you'll have to go across the ceiling.
Travis: Because I was inverted, bullshit. Top Gun? Thank you.
Matt: As you climb the top and you pull, Arkhan, you tuck your feet up underneath.
Travis: Treat me like your fucking dragons-- French girl, whatever.
Liam: Paint me like one of your chromatic girls.
Joe: You like volleyball, bro? Just thinking, if we make it out of here, we should play some beach volleyball some time.
Travis: Hand wraps, get some aviators? It'd be totally cool.
Matt: Could you both please make athletics checks for me?
Travis: I'm still raging.
Matt: Yeah, you've been raging this whole time. You're the most intense spotter right now.
Joe: This is an athletics check?
Matt: Yes.
Joe: 22.
Travis: 25.
Matt: Step by step, you carry the heavy, armored, red-scaled dragonborn across the threshold of the chamber. You release him and both safely come to the opposite side of the laboratory.
Laura: Good job, guys.
Liam: Is it hot in here?
Travis: Not a problem. What happened to you guys?
Joe: Did you guys see that?
Sam: Yes. We did.
Matt: You continue up the stairs?
All: Yes.
Liam: Point of order. I know roughly how far Vecna is, right? So I should be able to tell, as we're getting closer, roughly how much distance? Halfway up the tower, three quarters, et cetera?
Matt: You guys are, based on far you've climbed, you're about halfway up the tower.
Taliesin: I would like to do one thing before we leave the room. I would like to take something, set it on fire, and toss it on those books over there.
Liam: Oh, that's dark.
Laura: Nice.
Marisha: We're holding on our Freedom of Movement, right? We decided that? Until we get higher?
Liam: How long did it take us to get to this point?
Matt: I'd say a little over ten minutes or so of continuous climbing.
Liam: Who knows what is above us. It could be slower for the upper half.
Sam: Fire stays where it is, typically. It doesn't move up.
Laura: We're fine. I like it.
Taliesin: There's nothing else to catch fire in here. It'll be nice.
Travis: Is there anything else to catch fire that would travel upward toward us as we're climbing a towering inferno?
Matt: It's a stone chamber.
Sam: Full of chemicals.
Taliesin: It'll be noxious, but brief. I take a torch. I actually have one last Whitestone seal that's flash-powdered. Wrap it, light it, and toss it on the counter.
Matt: Okay. It clatters and the torch burns. The powder (flaring).
Taliesin: That'll do. Walk away.
Matt: You guys continue up the next set of spiral stairs, climbing higher and higher up Entropis. You can see, every now and then, one of the various vein-like cracks of energy that's holding the tower together. You can glance out and see, very obscured, movement in the distance. It's too fractured; too much diffraction. Continuing upward, you come to a second, or another, floor. About four minutes of climbing. This next half-chamber, you see dozens of sets of chains and manacles affixed to the walls, where tortured corpses are currently dangling from them, left in pieces. The scent is terrible. Decay is strong.
Liam: I cast Divine Sense. Undead.
Matt: No undead.
Liam: Traps?
Matt: Go ahead and make an investigation check.
Liam: 18.
Matt: Okay. No traps in this chamber.
Taliesin: Do we recognize any of the corpses?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Taliesin: I had to do it. Natural 20.
Marisha: Oh no!
Taliesin: I get to know. The rest of you don't get to know.
Matt: Most of the corpses around here have been mutilated to the point where it's hard to even recognize. This was essentially a torture chamber. This was a gathering information, this was a point-making chamber. The ones you do see around here, nothing catches your eye. One does seem familiar. You look and see, and it's been a while, but you remember the face of a Scalebearer Desona, who traveled across the Ozmit Sea with you aboard a skyship. Glancing around, the bodies appear to have been cleaned of any useful items. This is mainly a for-utility-and-fun chamber.
Travis: Any weapons or items besides the chains and manacles on the floor?
Matt: The room is clean.
Liam: How far above us is Vecna?
Matt: About 120 feet.
Laura: We should cast it now. We should do all of our casting.
Marisha: Okay.
Laura: Now I invoke the Blessing of the Dawnfather.
Travis: Call it out.
Marisha: I'm waiting for Pike.
Ashley: Let's do it.
Matt: Okay. Doing a round of what spells to who?
Marisha: Freedom of Movement to Scanlan One, myself, Vax.
Matt: So only three Freedoms of Movement?
Sam: That's all she has, right?
Marisha: That's all I've got. From Keyleth.
Matt: From Keyleth, right. And then, Pike?
Ashley: Freedom of Movement on Vex, Grog, and Pike.
Liam: I'm putting the wings out now.
Matt: The raven wings emerge. Pike? You said you were doing Death Ward?
Laura: Oh yeah, she did it on Scanlan.
Ashley: Death Ward at a 5th-level.
Matt: Okay, so 5th slot's taken.
Sam: Scanlan will invoke the Blessing of the Knowing Mistress.
Matt: You watch as the forehead space, where once you had seen the briefly visible third eye of Ioun, now emblazoned like a lantern light, this bright purple eye. In that moment, you watch as Scanlan's pupils turn to silver.
Laura: Whoa! Are you still you?
Sam: I can't see anything! Everything's silver! Oh god, I'm blind! I'm just kidding. I can see fine.
Taliesin: I charge Diplomacy up.
Ashley: And I will invoke the Blessing of the Everlight.
Matt: And with that, you watch as this bright light emerges from the back of Pike's shoulders as a familiar, but much more vibrant and strong set of divine golden wings, not made of energy, but visibly beautiful gold feathered wings expand from her back. Your feet lift off the ground and (whooshing). As the voice of Sarenrae whispers into her ear, "I'm with you."
Ashley: (squealing) Okay! Thank you!
Laura: I bamf Trinket out.
Matt: (bear noises)
Laura: If you want to Polymorph him?
Sam: Now's the time? Polymorph only lasts-- is it an hour or ten minutes? I've got to learn this.
Matt: Polymorph, I think, is an hour with concentration. Could be wrong, but I think it is. Do note, you still have another series of staircases that are pretty tight.
Laura: Okay, we should go up. We should keep going.
Liam: Also, I'm going to say this now, in advance. It might not be possible, but if we get to a door, I'm thinking ahead of time, if we think we're about to step out, I want to cast Bless on the three half-elves right before going out. That might not be possible, but it's in my head to do it.
Matt: Okay, good to keep in mind.
Joe: We should send Delilah in first.
Sam: Yeah, sure.
Marisha: That's actually a good idea.
Sam: Scanlan Two is going to dump a 3rd-level spell into the Tome of Isolation to reveal the hidden text. Is it only revealed to Scanlan Two, or is it revealed to everyone?
Matt: Let me see the item again. Well, the text remains for an hour, yep.
Liam: You're blessed. If it happens, hashtag blessed, a d4 rolled for every attack or saving throw.
Matt: Once the text is revealed, technically, anybody with any sort of penchant for arcane knowledge could attempt it, but you have the best chance.
Laura: So you don't need to do that.
Sam: No, I do need to, to reveal the text. It's hidden otherwise.
Matt: Correct, but the text is revealed for an hour. If, in theory, you were to fall, and the book could be found--
Travis: I got it. I'll pick it up and start reading.
Matt: Yep. It's more difficult, but it's possible.
Sam: I have a book I need to read.
Marisha: It's possible, but (uncertain noise)? Is what his face was?
Matt: Because he was the chosen of Ioun, he can read without issue, but the text itself is still very arcane in nature.
Laura: He's the only one that can finish the sealing.
Marisha: Right. Then Keyleth turns to Vax Whatever happens, lest it be trite, stay with us. Casts Guidance for the next minute, which gives you 1d4 on ability checks.
Laura: Right before we go out, you mean?
Marisha: Yeah, before we move. Just for the start of it.
Matt: You guys begin to climb up the next staircase? All right. You're beginning to spiral up the next length of it. You get about 80 or so feet up before-- are you leading this charge visibly?
Travis: Actually, Delilah is.
Matt: You're sending Delilah ahead of you?
Laura: When we get up to the top.
Matt: As you're coursing around the edge, the stairs stop into another chamber. The chamber levels off.
Liam: Up so that we're seeing the edge of steps at the top? All right, I'm stealthing.
Matt: Okay, make a stealth check.
Joe: Very quickly, Grog, give me another longsword for zombie Vander.
Travis: Last one I have. You got it.
Liam: Are we Pass Without a Trace right now? 44.
Matt: 44? So you stealth up around the edge and you see now, where once it was divided into two chambers, it now seems the chambers converged once more into a single room. It's not very big, and the tower's been slowly tapering the higher up you go. The room is fairly empty. You see a few vases in the corners and some basic ancient decor. Standing, not noticing you're there, you see three figures in full dark armor. Similar to who you fought in the ziggurat, or the one who was guarding the tunnel that led up into Thar Amphala.
Liam: They don't look like the big kahuna, they look like the underlings?
Matt: The underlings. You see them in the same dark, horned armor. There's one that's humanoid sized and one that looks to be halfling size. Or two of them, halfling size.
Liam: From my hidden position, I want to see if I see any traps in the room.
Matt: Make an investigation check for the immediate entry.
Liam: I'm not entering. I want to do it from my peeky spot.
Matt: For the immediate entry for what you can see. You can't investigate from across the room.
Travis: They're facing away from us?
Matt: They're not facing away, but they don't seem to acknowledge his presence yet. They don't see him.
Liam: Yeah. 23 for investigation.
Matt: You don't see any traps in the immediate vicinity of the room.
Liam: So what I'm going to do is slowly back down to the party, relate what I just saw. Three of them. What do we do?
Sam: Standard undead?
Laura: No, they're death knights.
Matt: They're not death knights.
Liam: They're dudes in armor. They're lackeys.
Taliesin: Are they humans or undead?
Matt: Can't tell. Fully armored.
Joe: How far up the stairs?
Matt: From where you guys are right now, they're about 30 feet around the way and then ten feet into the chamber.
Joe: I'll Divine Sense, which is up to 60 feet. Are they fiends, celestial, or undead?
Matt: Nope.
Joe: It looks like they're human.
Liam: Is it difficult to use that silenced weapon of yours?
Taliesin: Once I use it, I've got ten minutes of silence. I was curious that if I get close enough to Vecna, he can't talk. I was hoping to save that, because that might be a thing where we can keep him from casting vocal spells.
Marisha: Can we stealth around them and not fight them at all?
Liam: It's a small room. You and I can probably handle two, but that leaves a third.
Matt: You see one staircase, one final staircase, that winds around the corner. Actually, you haven't seen it yet.
Travis: There's no chance you could remove the stone from the middle of the floor and have them fall?
Marisha: That's what I was looking for. Can Keyleth take a peek and see what's up?
Matt: Make a stealth check.
Marisha: Yeah.
Taliesin: Plus ten.
Marisha: Do you still have that?
Liam: Yeah.
Marisha: Dope. That's real good. 39.
Matt: 39? As you curl around the edge and glance inside, you recognize this chamber. When you scried in here previously, this was the chamber that was being left by the death knight as he ascended to the top of the tower. This is the last stop.
Marisha: (inarticulate yelling) Okay.
Laura: Can you open up the floor underneath them?
Marisha: Does it look like the floor opens?
Matt: It doesn't look like it's a trap door or anything.
Laura: It's stone. Could you open the floor and let them fall?
Liam: Could Stubby and I each target one and you yank one into the ground simultaneously? Can you do that right now?
Sam: I could hold one.
Taliesin: Let's have you two take some out and send the big guys in.
Marisha: It's worked stone.
Matt: It's all worked stone. It's all very carved.
Sam: I could hold one. Paralyze one of them.
Travis: If we don't think the room or the setup will fuck us up, the big boys can go in and probably handle it. Or we can follow your attacks.
Liam: We don't want to create a stir. We might, so it's better that we do two quietly and leave one left. Can you throw your fucking Manners ball at the third?
Taliesin: It's better against weaker opponents.
Laura: It's a thin staircase. Three people won't be able to attack at once.
Taliesin: I'll have ten minutes of silence.
Matt: Two at most would be able to strike at once.
Laura: So you and me go up, sneak attack, fall back and let somebody run in and take it out. Yeah?
Liam: Yeah, so who's going in?
Matt: You have the taller one in the center and the two smaller ones flanking.
Laura: We'll take the smaller ones.
Travis: I would send in the dragonborn, because they're all alive.
Joe: Yeah.
Laura: Get ready to fight once we take the two out.
Liam: Tell me again, the three that are in this room?
Matt: There's a human-sized one in the center and two halfling-sized ones on either side.
Travis: Jocks Machina does not get hazed.
Joe: Stop bullying Jocks Machina!
Liam: Arkhan, we're going to handle the small. Right after, you'll handle the tall.
Joe: Sounds good to me.
Laura: We sneak up. Is it auto-crit if it's a sneak attack?
Matt: If they're surprised.
Laura: Okay, are they surprised?
Liam: I stealthed. You have to stealth, right?
Matt: You have to stealth.
Laura: Okay, 29.
Liam: I will go a split second before my sister.
Matt: Both of you guys curl up to the edge and you see the three of them. What are you doing?
Laura: We're attacking the two smallest.
Liam: Throwing on the right, throwing on the left.
Matt: You're attacking the one on the right, and you're the one on the left. Go ahead and roll your attacks.
Laura: Is it auto-crit?
Matt: If it hits, it's an auto-crit, but you have advantage on the attack because they don't know you're there.
Laura: Oh, that's good. 30 on the first hit.
Matt: That hits.
Liam: They all hit. That's good. Four.
Laura: Oh my god, I rolled four sixes! And a five.
Liam: I'm doing okay, too.
Laura: 29 times two is what?
Sam: Both of you guys got big damage.
Joe: What is it? 29 times two?
Matt: That's 58.
Laura: 58 plus eight, so 64. 66!
Liam: 80 for the first.
Laura: That's the first attack.
Matt: All right, so a second attack for each of you.
Laura: 19.
Matt: That hits.
Liam: 12 for my second.
Matt: Does not hit.
Liam: No, they all hit. All my attacks hit. 12 damage for the second.
Matt: Okay, what's the damage on the second one?
Laura: 18 on the second.
Matt: Both of the armored ones on the side take the hit and crumple, fall back, helmet falling off. Unconscious.
Laura: I immediately move to the side so he can run through.
Joe: So the guy turns around? And I'm-- (whoosh)
Matt: They're still in the center of the chamber. They're about 15 feet from the top of the stairs. The two of you are going to rush in? Arkhan, you rush in towards the one in the center, go for it.
Sam: Unleash everything.
Joe: I don't think I can reach. I don't think I'm in range. Did you see that?
Matt: So what'd you roll?
Sam: Right as he runs, Scanlan says  Don't fuck this up!
Matt: As they both drop, you rush up to the one in the metal armor, who doesn't react to your arrival, stands there staring at you as you rush forward and swing. You hit the armor, but you hit the edge of the blade, cleaves off doing no impact.
Laura: Does he move?
Joe: That's attack one. Okay, that's a 21.
Matt: 21 hits.
Taliesin: That looked bad from this angle. Yeah, I see it now! Holy cow.
Joe: He's not undead. He's not undead, is he?
Matt: He's not undead, nope.
Joe: Okay. Well, this is going to be weird, then. Oh, that's not bad. That's 28.
Matt: 28, all right. You hack and the axe slides into the front of the breast plate and as you pull back, you see a gout of blood. He takes it not reacting.
Joe: Just stands there?
Taliesin: Maybe we shouldn't kill all of--
Joe: I would like to bonus action.
Matt: Okay.
Joe: No, I wouldn't. I'm not--
Laura: Why isn't he moving? Does he have a helmet on?
Matt: Yeah. The one standing has a helmet and the two that fell, their helmets tumbled off as they impacted and fell back.
Ashley: What do they look like up there when their helmets came off?
Laura: Oh no! Were they our friends?
Joe: What friends?
Laura: Pull the helmet off. Arkhan, pull the helmet off!
Joe: I pull the helmet off.
Matt: You pull the helmet off and you watch immediately a bit of black, fuzzy facial hair from underneath. As you reveal, you see darkened skin and long black hair with a bit of colored makeup under the eyes and a metal band across the forehead, looking ahead, unmoving, unflinching, locked in place staring past you.
Laura: Is it Gilmore?
Matt: You glance up, and it's Gilmore standing in the middle of the room.
Laura: We killed the two--
Travis: No, we don't know anything yet.
Joe: I command zombie Delilah and zombie Vander to go to the heads and take the helmets off the two heads on the ground.
Matt: The helmets are partially off, so it's easy enough to slip the helms off. To the left, it was less of a halfling and more of a younger girl. Jammed into the armor and a little taller than the other, you can see brown hair with a shock of white in it currently laying back, unmoving and bleeding out. The other one looks to be specifically gnomish, short brown hair and eyes wide on the ground.
Sam: (high-pitched) Is that my girl? Is that my baby girl?
Ashley: I think it's an illusion. I'm hoping. I don't know. I feel this can't be real.
Sam: It's my baby girl--
Ashley: I'm going in. Can I stand over one of the bodies and do a perception check? A medicine check?
Matt: Make a medicine check.
Travis: No, there's no way.
Ashley: 23.
Matt: 23? They're not illusions, and they are both dead.
Joe: I cut the head off of the one in the middle.
Laura: No, don't do it! Arkhan, don't!
Ashley: No! I stand in front of him and say  no! Please don't!
Matt: They still have the bands. Each one of them has this strange brass band across the head.
Ashley: I take my mace, and I slowly try to take one of the bands off.
Matt: You take it off the head of one of the two dead?
Ashley: Yeah, but not touching it, scraping it off.
Matt: It slides off.
Ashley: Does anything happen?
Laura: Can we cast Revivify on them?
Travis: Don't do that.
Sam: Yeah, do that.
Laura: Who is it? Who are they for sure?
Matt: It is Kaylie and Cassandra.
Laura: It's Kaylie and Cassandra?
Sam: Revivify them. Take the bands off and Revivify them.
Taliesin: What is the band, before we do anything?
Sam: Take it off of Gilmore. He's still alive.
Taliesin: This may kill him.
Matt: No, she took it off one of the front.
Ashley: Does Gilmore look like he's still alive?
Matt: He's wounded, but he's still alive and staring forward.
Ashley: I'll do the same thing.
Matt: You pull the band off, and the eyes flicker for a second. (panting) "What happened? Where am I? How--"
Joe: I pull the axe back.
Matt: "What happened?"
Marisha: He doesn't know.
Sam: Save her. Right now.
Joe: I put my hand up over his mouth.
Taliesin: Take them.
Ashley: It's okay.
Matt: He looks down.
Ashley: I stand over Kaylie and I cast Revivify.
Matt: You see the eyes lull back, the stillness of the body as you finish touching the body a warm burst. (gasps) Breath comes back to her and she starts coughing. Sits up and leans over, gasping.
Sam: I go, grab her, and hold her.
Ashley: I stand over Cassandra and I cast Revivify.
Sam: These are big spells, aren't they?
Matt: As you reach out and touch her chest, the brief moment of stillness leads as her eyes slowly blink back, and begins breathing again.
Travis: This is some Seven shit right here.
Laura: That is so fucked up!
Sam: Shaun. Can you get them out of here?
Matt: "Yes, I--"
Laura: How did you get here? Is it really you?
Liam: Do you remember anything, Shaun?
Marisha: Anything that can help us?
Matt: "I was in my workshop, and there was a flash of light. A doorway opened, and it pulled me through and--"
Laura: Can I roll an insight check and see if it's him?
Matt: Roll an insight check.
Liam: I'm taking him by the cheeks. You're in a very bad place. You're in a very bad place and time. You need to get out of here. You need to take these women and go downstairs and hide.
Laura: 21.
Matt: 21? It's Shaun Gilmore.
Liam: You are in no shape to do anything right now. You need to take these two women and hide downstairs. Do you hear me?
Matt: "Where are we? What's going on?"
Liam: There's no time to explain.
Marisha: We're in the tower of Entropis. We're on the back of a titan. Try to get them as far away from here as possible. Vasselheim is an hour away.
Laura: Or you can fight with us.
Liam: No. His head is not where it needs to be.
Matt: "Wait. So if we're in-- We're near Vasselheim? What's Entropis?"
Marisha: No, we're in Thar Amphala. It's been teleported to the back of a titan, which is a giant mountain, which is what we're on. It's from the Shadowfell. You just have to get away!
Laura: We're 15 feet below Vecna. He's right above us.
Matt: "Then what are you going to do?"
Laura: We're going to fight him.
Marisha: And you're going to go away.
Liam: In 30 minutes, we could all be dead. But if we have any chance-- You three need to not be here. You need to go down now.
Matt: "I can get the three of us away. I can teleport us. It's the maximum of what I can do."
Marisha: J'mon Sa Ord is here, the Slayer's Take has probably been vastly compromised. Just get out of here. Get to the woods. Scanlan's right.
Matt: "I can probably take us back to Emon. Why even stay here?"
Marisha: Then go! Go!
Matt: "I'll do that. You're going to fight this Vecna?"
Taliesin: I hate to even ask, but is there anything you can do and still--?
Matt: "If we make it quick."
Travis: I'd almost rather him stay and fight.
Sam: No! He's got to get them away. They're at one hit point each!
Matt: "If you can make this quick, I can leave you with some intense adrenaline, my friend."
Travis: Me?
Matt: "Yes."
Travis: I'm a fan of adrenaline.
Matt: He looks around to the blood on the floor and the two barely living women at his side and says, "If the one you're going to fight is the one that did this to me and them... Leave a scar in my name, if you don't mind. When it's done, maybe carve a unicorn."
Travis: With pleasure.
Matt: You begin to hear heavy footsteps coming up the stairs behind you, heavy footfalls, and a number of other footsteps heading up the tower behind you. He goes and grabs the bodies close. Glancing around you, up the stairway you see emerging the death knight who joined you in the fight against Vecna.
Sam: I grab Kaylie by the face and I say to her Goodbye.
Matt: The one that met you at the top of the tower last time you fought Vecna emerges, looks across, and begins to go for the blade.
Joe: I go straight for him.
Matt: You go straight for him?
Joe: With the death knight? Straight for him.
Matt: Gilmore reaches out to you and casts Haste on you.
Travis: Haste?! (gasps)
Matt: "But it lasts a minute. Hurry!"
Marisha: I hate to say this but Arkhan do you have him?
Joe: Get upstairs! I'll hold him off!
Marisha: Let's go!
Liam: Bless. Shaun! It was an honor knowing you.
Matt: "It will be an honor knowing you all still." Grabbing on to both of the girls and with a flash of light, the three of them vanish. The death knight has turned to reach out and goes to cast something. Arkhan rushes up and slams the axe across his arm, knocking it aside. You can see now, behind them, other cultists and other things begin to head up the stairs. But they're currently being choked at this point where the death knight's being held at the stairway where Arkhan is stepping there.
Joe: Zombies are grabbing for his arms.
Matt: As Arkhan holds off, you guys head up towards the top of the tower. That's where we're going to pick up next week. (screaming)
Travis: What did you do?! You Kevin Spacey from Seven mother fucker! What did you do?
Matt: When you revealed to a god how close and dangerous you were last game, there were going to be repercussions.
Travis: (terrified laughter) Oh my god!
Matt: And he knows how to get to you. He knows your secrets.
Liam: This is a great game!
Joe: This is the most fun I've ever had! (laughter)
Matt: I love you guys. We'll pick this up next week for what will most likely be the final battle.
Sam: Ashley, can you pipe in?
Ashley: I don't know yet. I don't know the schedule.
Matt: If any of you are watching are from Blindspot, find a way to not have her work Thursday evening, please. That went a little longer than we anticipated, but we're at the end of the campaign.
Liam: Joe Manganiello! (cheering)
Joe: Jocks. We're here. Get used to it. (laughter)
Joe: Thank you so much for having me.
Matt: Of course! Thanks for coming.
Taliesin: I've been looking forward to this.
Travis: You're welcome! Any time.
Joe: Tiamat  she ain't so bad.
Matt: Well, she's pretty fucking bad. But when your goals are aligned, it can be useful. Well guys, thank you for joining us for this extended episode leading into the final fray of the campaign. I'm so excited for next week.
Taliesin: Everything's downhill from here. It'll be super easy.
Travis: You've got surprises and then you've got that shit.
Liam: That was fucked up.
Taliesin: I was feeling weird about it.
Joe: I was going to cut his head off. I thought he was some kind of sentinel. He was seeing through his eyes or whatever. I was about to chop his head off.
Travis: Thank god you rolled a one.
Joe: That was the luckiest one.
Matt: That was a lucky fucking one, dude!
Liam: Next campaign, we don't attack anybody! We talk to everybody! Every NPC, every hot dog vender, every lich! Talk!
Matt: That was a fucked-up tactic is what it was.
Liam: Fucked up! You managed in the space of a week to make the choke-out seem like child's play!
Taliesin: You are a monster.
Matt: Vecna is a monster, guys.
Taliesin: I'm so proud.
Joe: My undead brother I'm dragging around with me! This is fucking so fucked up! (laughter)
Matt: Well, thank you guys, hope you had a good time. We'll see you guys next week. Have a wonderful night, and is it Thursday yet? Bye!
Marisha: Congrats to our t-shirt winners! [music]

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello, everyone, and welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play Dungeons & Dragons.
Travis: (shouting) No, we don't want to!
Matt: Tonight should be a very unique and climactic evening. I'm glad you could join us for it. Before we jump into it, we have some quick announcements to get through. First and foremost, our episode tonight is brought to you by our friends at Marvel Puzzle Quest. Thank you so much again for coming and being so supportive of the show. Sam! You have a word to say?
Sam: Marvel Puzzle Quest has epic news, guys! They're celebrating four years strong, starting today! Today, it's literally the only thing on my mind. When I heard that Rogue and the other X-Men are kicking off the celebration, I was like, "Vecna who?!" Forget that an immortal psychopath will probably wipe out three years of hard work on this show! Give me Marvel Puzzle Quest! Today, October 5th, is a big day. Not because we're facing the ultimate harbinger of doom who will surely cut short our lives and story, no, but because, in 11 days, on October 16th-- until then-- Marvel Puzzle Quest gives you free gifts! Double XP rewards, including the all-new X-men versus Apocalypse event, which is the only event I'm thinking of, and the only event that kept me awake last night in a cold sweat until 4:00am. A cold sweat of excitement for Marvel Puzzle Quest! Did I mention that you can recruit Gambit for the first time? I'm not crying inside anymore! Did I also mention Nightcrawler is coming later this month? Nightcrawler, who can teleport around and isn't frozen with fear, contemplating his inevitable demise two hours from now, at the hands of a one-eyed master of hell who will destroy everything and everyone we've loved! So download Marvel Puzzle Quest now for free on Apple and Android devices because I'm so happy!
Travis: Written through wine and tears.
Matt: Thank you, Sam, and thank you, Marvel Puzzle Quest. Do we have any merch updates, Laura?
Laura: (fake sobbing) There's shirts and there's hats and there's hoodies! And there's Tarot cards, and-- No, but seriously, the shirt of Matt, of our evil DM who's about to kill us all, you can get a shirt that has his face on it, evilly smirking, so it's perfect.
Taliesin: The last thing Vox Machina ever sees, immortalized on a shirt. It's the grinning face of our destroyer.
Laura: Check it out! There's a ton of stuff available! It's great. And we've got some really awesome stuff coming up for the holidays, too, so keep that in mind.
Liam: Like Critical Role urns to hold the ashes of your friends!
Laura: Terrible.
Liam: It's me.
Matt: For the Critical Role podcast on iTunes, we have now up to episode 55 released. Hopefully have more announcements as it goes up, as more episodes are available. So go check it out. Slowly getting caught up, piece by piece. Once again, our comic, Vox Machina: Origins, Critical Role comic through Dark Horse, is available. We're going to have a new issue coming up in the near future, so very soon. Issue two. Excited for you guys to see it. Talks Machina is this Tuesday, of course, about this episode. 7:00pm Pacific time, here on Twitch and Alpha, for our wonderful host, Brian W. Foster. We can all drink together on set. Don't forget to submit any of your fanart or gifs to submit@talksmachina.com. Do you have a Wednesday Club episode coming up, too?
Taliesin: We do. It's October, which is wonderful and great. We're going to be covering monsters. We're doing monster books. We're going to be talking about the origins of Groot and some of the big creepy monsters of yesteryear, and some modern creepy monster books. I, Vampire, and etc. Fun.
Matt: Fantastic. Thank you, Taliesin. Also, apparently, Twitch has extended Sub-tember all the way to Sub-tober! Or at least, up until Twitch Con, which is in a few weeks. So if you're a first time sub, you get half off for a few more weeks on every channel. If you want to support this or any of your other favorite channels on Twitch, now is the time to do it before this goes away, or it becomes Sub-Vember. So check it out, and awesome! That is all of our announcements, guys.
Travis: Wait, wait.
Liam: I have enough nervous energy to power the US Navy right now.
Laura: He's shaking his leg so much. Don't move your leg!
Marisha: Going to have blood pressure issues after this.
Matt: Well, let's carry that energy onward as we dive into tonight's episode of Critical Role! [dramatic music]
Matt: Welcome back. So last we left off, Vox Machina had been traveling for a means of stopping the ascension of the Whispered One, Vecna, the lich seeking ascension to godhood. Unfortunately failed to do so, as he transported his Shadowfell city of Thar Amphala into the Prime Material world. Using the Ritual of Seeding that was once responsible for bringing the Raven Queen into the pantheon brought him as well as the sole god on this side of the Divine Gate, and possible god-ruler of the Prime Material Plane. Using the power of his worshippers and of his newfound abilities in his avatar god form, he gave temporary undead life to a long-buried, dead, Primordial Earth Titan that lay deep beneath the ground in Issylra. It has begun hulking its way, closer and closer toward the Dawn Cradle, the city of Vasselheim, as you, traversing through the innards of this titan, making your way within the city of Thar Amphala, sneakily finding your way beneath the dome, which he had constructed to keep outside any of the assailing forces. You managed to defeat and destroy Delilah, made an ally of Arkhan, the oathbreaker paladin dragonborn, sent Sylas off to recover, and hopefully have enough time. You ascended the tower of Entropis, where you fell into one of a number of traps that Vecna had laid out for you, causing you to kill two, almost three, of your closest friends and family. Managing to recover them within an inch of irrecoverability, you sent them with Gilmore off to safety as the black knight made its way up the staircase, Arkhan heading it off at the pass, giving you the opportunity to rise up to the top of the tower to face Vecna, the Ascended. You quickly take these last 20 or so seconds as you rush up the steps, one after the other, your heartbeat pulsing through your body, your breath coming in and out with staggered beats. Vox Machina, what do you want to do with these last 20 seconds?
Laura: I'm going to take out a vial of holy oil, and I'm going to dip my needle arrows that Tary gave me into the holy oil. I'm going to pour the remainder on Trinket's claws.
Sam: How far are we from the entry to this chamber, or whatever?
Matt: You're not entirely certain. As you guys are ascending, you begin to see a peek of greenish light that's peeking up ahead, starting to brighten the spiral staircase as you ascend. You get the sense you're getting close.
Sam: When we get 20 feet away from it, 15 feet away from it, I'm going to cast Unseen Servant and hand him my whip. Tell Scanlan Two: buddy, I need you, but not right away. When this whip falls, come in the room.
Laura: Oh! No!
Matt: The secondary Scanlan takes a moment, looks at you, nods. "Okay."
Sam: I believe in you, buddy. I've always believed in Number Two.
Matt: "Truer words were never spoken. And if you fall, I'll tell the tale of the Scanlan that left me with his Number Two Whip."
Sam: I love you, buddy.
Matt: "I love you, too." You're not sure if you should go in for a kiss or not.
Sam: We shake hands.
Travis: I'm waiting. I'm waiting to see our foe before I smash.
Matt: For the record, as the ascent and the time it's cast, you'll probably arrive at the top of the tower with about-- for the purposes of gameplay and time wishy-washiness, I'll give you about 30 seconds, once the encounter starts, in which the Haste will remain. 25 to 30.
Liam: While that conversation was happening, I tug Keyleth back and the wings flex out and around in a bit of a shell around us. Quickly. Forever and ever and always. I steal what I assume is my last kiss. Let's go.
Ashley: Oh no, I'm already crying! We haven't started!
Sam: Why can't we hear you?
Ashley: Wait, can you hear me?
Laura: There, now we can!
Ashley: Before we go out there, let's hold hands real quick. Just know, I love you guys so much and you're my family. We're going to make it through this, okay? I'm going to cast Holy Aura on everybody.
Sam: What's that? What does that do?
Ashley: Okay, basically, if you stay within 30 feet of me-- I can't even read this because my eyes are watering. You have advantage on all saving throws and other creatures have disadvantage on attack rolls.
Liam: All saves.
Sam: Wait, Matt's correcting you.
Matt: Interesting point of order. They don't have to be within 30 feet of you for it to affect you. It looks like as long as they're within 30 feet of you when you cast it, then you guys can run anywhere.
Travis: Are you serious?! That's even better!
Laura: Okay, so advantage on saving throws? Anybody attacking us gets disadvantage?
Marisha: Is that on melee attacks, or all attacks?
Matt: Attack rolls.
Ashley: When a fiend or undead hits an affected creature with a melee attack, the Aura flashes a brilliant light. The attacker must succeed on a constitution saving throw or be blinded until the spell ends.
Travis: That's fucking great.
Taliesin: That'll do.
Sam: Why haven't we always used this?
Travis: Don't worry about it. She's been at her books.
Liam: She's all growed up.
Matt: Heading up the stairs, the greenish light of the surface greets you as you break toward the top of the tower. This ascent is somewhat familiar to Keyleth, having seen this exact arrival once before, as you were originally scrying on the death knight. As soon as you hit the peak, the wind sends your hair behind you and scattering across your face. As you can see, the extremely strong cyclone that encapsulates the top of this tower is now swirling around you. There are occasional breaks in the clouds, where you see glimpses of the sprawling city of Vasselheim right below you. You see the titan's feet have already breached the outer walls and have begun crushing their way through the Braving Grounds of the city. Columns of smoke swirl upward to engulf the behemoth's legs with each impact. You get the sense the entire city is leaned forward as it's begun to assault thousands upon thousands of soldiers that have swarmed up toward the base of the creature. You can see arrow and spell being flung from a distance. You can see other flying soldiers, wyvern-riders, eagle-riders, across the way that are crashing into gloomstalker clouds that are swooping down to engulf the skies above the city, as the four giant arms of this titan continue to pummel and smash, tossing large towers and temples, breaking into bits of rubble and rock. You can see hundreds of warriors man siege weapons against this unstoppable, ancient threat as giant rocks and boulders go flying past, slamming the sides of the giant dome that still remain holding. However, there you can see the large wedge that you had already left free and open, where the soldiers that managed to break through the initial onslaught of the gloomstalkers are beginning to swarm in and try and make their way in your direction. Bolts of green energy crackle and fork through the swirling clouds around you. Your eyes creep upward to lock onto the terrifying avatar form of Vecna the Ascended. The Undying King-made-God is now a huge skeletal lich body, floating about 40 feet above the tower, staring down at you, tendrils of screaming souls entwined within his limbs, and the tome he has clutched in his right hand. Stretching with every gesture, you see the faces screech and cry in pain as they're withered and torn as his arms shift downward to greet you. The gaping left socket is almost blinding with crackling power, arcs of arcane tethers crawling across his chest and face. His left hand, however, is whole. Seemingly recovered a part of his previous power. The hand of Vecna appears to have been reattached. The artifact now pulses with the same green energy that sparks from his voided socket. Across his long tattered red robes and his dark golden armor, his ribcage glows from within, sending beams of sickly green light out at each gap. And there, floating in the bones, the faint outline of a small humanoid form locked within. Make a perception check, everyone.
Laura: What?
Marisha: Who is it, though?
Travis: Nine.
Taliesin: Natural 20.
Laura: 31.
Liam: 24.
Sam: Eight.
Marisha: 21.
Ashley: 25.
Matt: Ooh, nice. So you five look up to see an unconscious little girl, of human and elven descent. Velora floats, encased within the ribcage of the avatar form. She appears to be in some sort of a trance and is held by nothing but air and energy. A terrible familiar smile creeps across the face, his thin mummified lips curling into an impossibly long exaggerated smile that defies the constraints of the skull that held it. "I was curious who would seek my blessing first. You all have proven driven enough to deserve the personal touch of my wrath. When I discovered your wily tricks merely shifting about beneath my nose, the humor of it was not lost on me. This omniscience is still new. I learned to push my limits with each passing moment. I thank you for showing me. I reward you by sharing with you the ruin of this once beautiful city, a familiar oblivion to you each, now perfected." I would like you all to please place yourselves.
Sam: It's so simple and beautiful.
Matt: You've arrived.
Travis: I feel like it's not what we think it is.
Matt: Place yourselves around this entrance in what order you would've ascended to this point.
Laura: Where's Vecna?
Sam: What is that thing in the middle?
Matt: I'll show you once you place yourselves based on how you ascended.
Travis: We're right near the entrance, right, no further?
Laura: Everybody just came out and we're standing in a big clump right here.
Matt: Unless you wanted to scatter, let's say about anywhere from 15 to 20 feet from where the entrance is as you rush out to look over the side of the wall. All right, we have Percival over here.
Laura: I'm on the other side of Percival.
Marisha: Can you move Keyleth to where Percival was?
Matt: So I'll say over here?
Sam: I'll be next to Grog.
Liam: Where's Vex now? She's over there? I'm going to go to the side of this glowy thing. Can I get there?
Matt: You can get about this far. For just the ascension.
Ashley: I'm going to be close to Grog, too.
Travis: The action that I held coming up the stairs. Can I cast Enlarge?
Matt: I'll say you can do that as he's speaking.
Liam: Can I get any farther with my wings out? I popped them out before we came up.
Matt: Then (whooshing). There's Grog. We'll say you can get, for the sake of placement, about 20 feet up.
Liam: No, I wanted to hover like five feet above--
Matt: To this side? Because you have your wings out, sure. I'll let you get there.
Laura: Trinket is going to stay right at the entrance.
Matt: Right there?
Laura: Yeah. Good boy.
Sam: Guard that entrance.
Laura: He's just waiting to see what's going on.
Sam: This is fine.
Laura: Oh my god!
Travis: What the fuck is that?
Marisha: That's amazing.
Sam: What!
Marisha: Can you see this, Ash?
Ashley: I just see a lot of swirls.
Marisha: Ash, I'm going to take a picture and send it to you.
Laura: Make sure you get his good side.
Sam: Oh man, he looks so cool.
Laura: Did you do this, Matthew? You made this, didn't you? You painted it?
Matt: Well, I had friends help me, because I've been planning a wedding.
Liam: Before he started, that was Optimus Prime. (laughter)
Matt: That was actually converted from my Critter gift a while back.
Laura: Really?
Matt: Yeah. So even the community helped. So to give you some perspective in size to his newly ascended avatar form, all of his power focused into a single, physical entity, that is the Vecna produced since the Ritual of Seeding.
Travis: Shit.
Matt: I would like you all to roll initiative. (screaming)
Ashley: Holy crap.
Travis: Let's do this. Here we go.
Sam: Can I inspire myself for this roll?
Matt: It's an ability check, I think, right?
Sam: Yeah, but I don't have a turn.
Laura: I already forgot. It's like I just walked into Target. I've lost all brain function.
Marisha: Don't fuck me, Gil. Hey, not bad!
Liam: Thanks Gil.
Matt: There we go. Now we got the music going. All right. So 30 to 25?
Travis: 27.
Laura: 25.
Matt: 25 to 20?
Liam: 22.
Travis: Why are you all so fucking quiet over there?
Matt: 20 to 15?
Taliesin: 15.
Marisha: 17.
Matt: And Percival. 15 to ten?
Travis: Fucking gnomes! What happened?
Matt: Ten to five?
Sam: Eight.
Laura: Ashley, what did you roll?
Ashley: Two! (laughter)
Liam: It's like a chime.
Ashley: Off to a good start.
Sam: Unless I can inspire myself.
Matt: If you want to.
Sam: I mean, I'm not going to get anywhere higher in the order.
Laura: You might go before whatever some of the shit that he doles out. He's just going to consistently dole shit out.
Marisha: Oh my god, this is awful.
Matt: Vecna goes first.
Laura: Of course he does, he's a god!
Marisha: You've got to be fucking kidding me.
Matt: As he stands above, he lifts his hand. You watch as the atmosphere above, at the outskirts of this cyclone above the city, a tear in space and time begins to rip. A familiar sound you've heard once before. You watch as giant flaming rocks, three of them, go firing down into Vasselheim. You watch as the apex of the temple of Kord gets impacted and crumbles down to one side in a flaming ruin. You watch as a secondary one slams down into the center of the city, in a familiar district to you, Pike. And a third one goes arcing off towards the temple of the Raven Queen. And with a distant explosion, the flash encompasses that vicinity. This is what you would notice, if the fourth one didn't come flying straight for the top of the tower.
Travis: Goddamn it. It's personal now.
Matt: As it slams into the center of the tower apex, I need everybody to make a dexterity saving throw.
Laura: Everybody gets advantage. Yes, and he gets disadvantage on things against us.
Liam: We get advantage on saves from Pike's spell.
Matt: That's correct.
Laura: Any spell from an evil creature that attacks me takes 4d6 radiant damage and is knocked prone.
Matt: That's correct. So go ahead and roll the damage.
Liam: Is Grog within ten feet of me?
Matt: Grog is, yes.
Liam: Then you get plus two from me.
Marisha: Oh yeah, did everyone pop their blessings?
Laura: Yeah, we all popped our blessings. Yes, Pelor! 12 radiant damage. Woo!
Sam: Hey, I think he's looking pretty rough.
Laura: He's bloodied. He's definitely bloodied.
Matt: So what did you get?
Travis: 17.
Laura: Oh, for saving throws? Sorry, I rolled my--
Sam: With advantage.
Laura: And what is this? Saving throw for dexterity?
Matt: Yes.
Marisha: I get to add plus four right, because we're blessed?
Liam: d4, that's right.
Laura: 29. Plus three. That's 32.
Travis: 17.
Matt: Fail.
Laura: 32.
Matt: Success.
Liam: 30.
Matt: Success.
Marisha: 21.
Matt: Fail.
Taliesin: 15.
Matt: Fail.
Sam: Natural 20. 26.
Matt: Just succeeds.
Laura: Wait, if we roll a natural 20, that doesn't mean it's an automatic success? We still have to add numbers to it?
Sam: Ones are an automatic fail, twenties are not successes, right?
Matt: With a skill set. With a saving throw, I generally consider a natural 20 an auto-success. But letting you know, that's still barely a pass.
Travis: 25 is his--
Sam: DC.
Matt: 26.
Travis: 26 is?
Matt: He just made it. Pike, what did you roll?
Ashley: 20. Not a natural 20, but 19 plus one.
Matt: So everyone who failed, you take 67 points of bludgeoning damage. Halved if you succeeded.
Marisha: 67?
Laura: So 34?
Matt: And 66 points of fire damage.
Travis: What is it?
Matt: 67 and 66, yeah.
Travis: And I take half of that as well.
Liam: And evasion evades all of that?
Matt: Correct.
Laura: Can I do an uncanny dodge for any of that? That's just for melee attacks?
Matt: Uncanny dodge is for a melee attack.
Travis: I'll get the calculator out, because my brain is not working.
Ashley: Wait, what kind of damage was this?
Matt: Bludgeoning and fire.
Ashley: I have resistance to bludgeoning.
Laura: You have resistance to fire, too.
Matt: We'll say 66 points of damage is what you take.
Ashley: Okay.
Matt: Also, Pike and anybody with a concentration spell, I need you to make a concentration check.
Liam: Do I, with the evasion?
Matt: You do not, because you did not take any damage.
Sam: It's a plus what now? Charisma?
Matt: It's a constitution saving throw.
Laura: So you get advantage on that saving throw.
Travis: I remember three meteors last time, not four.
Sam: I mean, there's no way we can beat the amount of damage he did.
Ashley: 22.
Matt: With half the damage? No. So Holy Aura fades.
Travis: Holy Aura fades.
Marisha: Are you serious?
Sam: 27.
Matt: 27? You maintain concentration. Wait, no, because half the damage would be 33. You do not. There's too much damage, no, you're right.
Sam: The whip falls to the floor.
Matt: Wait, you took 30-- I'm sorry, you took half damage from everything. No, it's still 66. So you guys do drop your spells, unfortunately.
Travis: Oh my god. Literally, oh my shitty, undead god.
Taliesin: This a lot. I'm having a hard time figuring out this damage.
Matt: That's okay. Figure out the math here, because it sunders the tower.
Travis: It what?!
Sam: What does that mean?
Travis: It fucking ignites and explodes the tower. Sunders is not a good word.
Laura: So if we can't fly--
Sam: It sunders the tower?
Liam: Break. To split asunder.
Matt: If I could get somebody to take this off here for me?
Sam: But that map was so pretty.
Laura: You're splitting the party!
Travis: Oh shit.
Sam: How did you make that? How did you build that thing?
Laura: This is crazy!
Taliesin: This is not cool, dude.
Liam: Worst Carvel cake ever!
Marisha: Yeah. He ordered these. They are cake stands and I was like, oh are these for our wedding cake? And he was like--
Sam: No.
Travis: You cracked the tower! What is the matter with you?!
Marisha: Cake of fucking death.
Travis: I'm at a loss for what we're looking at right now.
Laura: Matt, this is so cool, but terrible.
Taliesin: I'm at precisely 70 points.
Marisha: I can't believe this.
Matt: All right. So using the photo replication of this.
Marisha: Is it floating, like a gravitational state?
Matt: I also need everyone to make a strength saving throw, please.
Sam: Saving throw at advantage.
Laura: Not anymore.
Sam: What, why?
Laura: Because she lost Holy Aura, because he fucking did all the damage.
Matt: Sorry, it's in the wrong direction.
Travis: That's all right, take your time.
Liam: If I'm airborne, do I make the same strength saving throw?
Matt: No. Anyone who's flying doesn't have to worry about it, necessarily.
Taliesin: Where were you earlier, fucker?
Travis: Let us know if we can help.
Ashley: Oh wait, did you say anyone who's flying doesn't have to--
Matt: Doesn't have to make the strength saving throw.
Travis: You should be okay. Because of your dope-ass Sarenrae wings or whatever.
Matt: So as that detonates and sends it this way, that puts us--
Sam: So Holy Aura's gone?
Laura: Yep. That fast.
Sam: That was fun.
Ashley: That's cool.
Sam: It saved us a bunch of points of damage, though.
Laura: Was he knocked prone?
Matt: No, he's immune to prone.
Laura: Of course he is.
Travis: He's immune to prone?
Sam: How does he make love? (laughter)
Travis: You went there, that fast.
Liam: He's so happy though, now that his hand is back. Let me tell you.
Laura: It's only up against a wall, for Vecna.
Matt: You guys all got slammed and scattered across this tower, from the explosion. Where he is now, currently. Uses his movement to shift over here and move up.
Travis: Best laid plans, huh?
Taliesin: No plan survives contact with the enemy. That's the truth.
Sam: Wait, can your thing still--
Marisha: It should still be able to work, yeah, theoretically.
Laura: Theoretically.
Liam: You sick bastard, Matt, I love you so much. Slash hate you.
Matt: So after the explosion hits, the ringing in your ear begins to subside, your vision returns, and you look about the now-broken tower. You've grabbed on to what you can, so strength saving throws for those who weren't flying.
Travis: 24.
Sam: 12.
Laura: 20.
Taliesin: 27.
Marisha: 19.
Taliesin: 22, I mean. 22. I'm so sorry.
Matt: So everybody but Scanlan makes the save. So Scanlan, with the detonation, you get thrown off the side of the tower and begin to plummet off the side.
Sam: Great. Awesome.
Matt: So I'll put you right there for the time being from the impact of it. Moving back, that's going to end Vecna's turn. Grog, you're up first.
Travis: I'm up first.
Sam: Should I roll initiative for the guy in the hallway?
Matt: Sure.
Sam: Okay, 16.
Marisha: Yeah, the whip is down.
Taliesin: You should've sent the guy in the hallway in first, maybe.
Marisha: I love that from his perspective, you were like, "If the whip hits the floor, come after us." (footsteps) (yelling) (crashing)
Matt: Also, did you roll 4d6 damage?
Laura: Yes I did.
Matt: How much was it?
Laura: 12.
Matt: 12 points of radiant damage to him. The flash hits, he floats up, and now you can see he chuckles, looking down at the destruction. The green tendrils of energy, the vein-like projections that have been clutching the tower together, are now extending out like tethers, grasping the bottom of each floating island that used to be the top of Entropis as they slowly shift, held in place, and rotate around, the storm still cycling around you.
Laura: That's so crazy! They're like floating things?
Matt: Yeah, they're floating, now held in place by these green tethers, and they're slowly shifting. Grog, you're up.
Travis: Hasted, can I attempt to leap from this island to the one that Vax is currently on?
Matt: Yeah, make an athletics check.
Travis: Okay.
Marisha: So it looks like those electro-touchy balls? What are those called?
Travis: 28.
Matt: 28? Yeah, easy. You leap over, it would be 20 feet of movement.
Travis: Can I move to this corner?
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Can I attach the chain of returning to the Sword of Kas, and throw it up to Vecna? Reckless.
Matt: Sure, go for it.
Laura: Reckless?
Travis: Like it matters.
Sam: Everything is reckless at this point.
Travis: Yeah, that's true.
Laura: We all rage.
Travis: 31 to hit.
Matt: 31 hits. So as you're getting the chain, as you leap over and go running across the platforms, you can see the entire platform is lilted to one side and some stones are tumbling and skidding off the side. You can see bits of the stone are charred from the immediate destruction and impact of the meteors. And as you pull the chain out, as you rush and attach it, the voice pulses through your head. "Yes! He's here. Right there. Kill him! Take him down! Deliver me!"
Travis: Can't wait. Okay. Calm down. 22. This is undead?
Matt: Yes.
Travis: Just checking. Ten, 32, 33. Plus enlarge. Plus four, so 37 necrotic damage.
Matt: Necrotic?
Travis: Well no, I'm sorry. Not necrotic. Just 37 regular slashing damage.
Matt: All right, so 37 points of slashing damage. All right. With that you toss the blade up into the side. "Oh." And you see for a second, there's a brief flash of recognition and a slight sliver of worry on his brow for but an instant, before his hand reaches up and grabs towards to try and pull the blade out.
Travis: I pull the chain back, catch it with my hasted action, throw it again. Reckless.
Matt: Okay so you pull it back and make your attack.
Travis: That's 27.
Matt: 27? That hits.
Travis: 20. That's a nine so 34 plus one. 35 points of slashing damage.
Matt: 35 points of slashing damage. As you draw the blade back for the second swing and you rotate it as it goes, "I can taste him," and you fling it upward and it pierces once more into the abdomen. Each time, you begin to grow more and more nervous with the proximity of the blade towards the currently unconscious and contained little girl inside the chest.
Travis: I do?
Matt: Others may. You may be fine. But it's passing within like a foot of her each time.
Travis: Where is she in relation to him?
Matt: Inside the chest cavity.
Travis: Right. Got to keep that in mind.
Matt: Second time as it hits, there's another flash of dark energy. Are you withdrawing it?
Travis: Yes.
Matt: Okay. Make another check to pull it out.
Sam: Is she like in his chest cavity?
Matt: Yeah, contained in it.
Travis: That's a natural 19. That'll do it.
Matt: Yeah, You pull it back. Is that your turn?
Travis: I'm frenzied so I have another attack.
Matt: You do.
Travis: Okay. Reckless. Last one.
Matt: Hold on. No, I'm sorry. Because you used--
Travis: Attack was to throw one, but I only get the one because I can't do attack-attack.
Matt: Correct.
Travis: And then the hasted is another action and then the bonus is to make another attack, but only a single.
Matt: Sure.
Travis: Does that work?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: So it's a 30 flat. No?
Matt: I'm thinking for this, because it's not like the hammer you throw up, returns every single time. It's like you impact and then you have to pull it back each time.
Travis: It takes more than an attack action.
Matt: Yeah, so I'd say you attack, then you used your hasted action to pull it back and let's say you-- bonus action threw it in. So it's actually still in him. So it's currently embedded in him with the chain now taut at the maximum length. He's now 30 feet above you. 35 technically, but you're in large mode.
Travis: I have some speed left. Can I run and jump across? I want to land over here.
Matt: Make an athletics check.
Sam: I know you do, but do we as players care about this girl?
Travis: 19.
Matt: 19? Yeah. That'll work.
Laura: Yeah, you do you.
Travis: I don't know. Up here man, shit's floating in the fucking air--
Matt: As you run and leap and bound, you manage to catch the edge. Let me check real fast.
Liam: I mean I did just kill your daughter.
Laura: It's true. So it is up to you.
Liam: She was brought back, but I did kill her.
Sam: Yeah.
Marisha: Casualties of war.
Matt: Actually, a number of feet up to your strength score. If you move at least ten feet on foot, so--
Travis: Feet up to my strength score?
Matt: Yeah. So you don't have to roll for that. You can move 26 feet with a jump, as long as you get ten feet of run-up because of your speed. So yeah, you leap across without issue. The chain is taut as you Tarzan-swing across the way and land on the other side, still holding on to it.
Travis: How did that feel?
Matt: "Delicious." He's talking to you from a distance. At the end your turn, Vecna's going to use two legendary actions--
Laura: Two legendary actions?!
Travis: Two legendary actions?!
Matt: Yes, to cast a spell. As a reaction, as you glance past. "Oh no, we cannot let that stay near." And as he pulls out and opens his hands, I need you to go ahead, Grog, and make a-- Actually, you don't make a saving throw. Grog vanishes from the battlefield. Gone. You watch as this space closes around it. Grog. You suddenly appear in a darkened tunnel of some kind. You look around and you can see hard walls to each point and ahead of you, it splits in two different directions. Behind you, it splits into three different directions.
Travis: I'm back in the chest of the titan? Does it look familiar? Do I remember?
Matt: It looks completely unfamiliar.
Travis: It splits in two behind me--
Matt: Two ahead of you and then three behind you.
Marisha: Are you in the Maze of the Abyss?
Travis: Do I recognize it?
Matt: No, you've never seen this place before in your life.
Marisha: You're in the Endless Maze of the Abyss. You got to be.
Laura: I don't know what that is.
Travis: It's not my turn anymore.
Matt: Nope. That's the end of Grog's turn. Vex, you're up.
Marisha: It's another plane.
Travis: I completely forgot that happened last time. Of all the tactical things I watched.
Laura: It wasn't him that did it. It was the other guy. It was the death knight that did it to you last time.
Travis: That's right. It was the death knight. How did we fix that last time?
Laura: I'm going to look over at Percy and grab his hand for a second.
Matt: Do enough damage to make him drop concentration. That's what you did last time to bring him back.
Taliesin: I regret nothing.
Laura: Nothing at all. Hunter's Mark!
Matt: Hunter's Mark Vecna. All right. Bonus action.
Laura: Yeah, get ready Vecna--
Liam: 1d6, bitch!
Matt: Oh god.
Liam: He's dead.
Matt: That's not helping.
Taliesin: He's wearing it like a bangle from the 80s.
Travis: I like how he's surrounded by swirls of Aquafresh.
Laura: And I'm going to run over to where Grog had been-ish--
Travis: And mourn?
Laura: Cry over you? Not quite that far. I'm staying against the wall. Yeah, that's better. Not that it matters very much. Then I'm going to shoot him with my holy damage/needle arrow.
Matt: Go for it. Roll for the attack.
Laura: Okay, that is a 30.
Matt: 30? That hits.
Laura: Great. Can I make it a bramble shot?
Matt: Sure.
Sam: I'm falling, right?
Matt: You are. You got lobbed off the side from the explosion and the tower crumbling beneath you. You couldn't find purchase. You grabbed part of the stone and your fingers slid and scraped off.
Marisha: You got something for that, right?
Sam: Yeah, but gets me out of commission for a round.
Taliesin: We've got to figure out how to get Grog back.
Laura: 41 damage. And he has to make a strength saving throw.
Travis: That breaks concentration, right?
Laura: Well yeah, but--
Matt: That is--
Travis: What? Don't look at that. What was it?
Matt: Okay. He's going to burn a legendary resistance. He does not want to be restrained right now.
Travis: He has used two legendary actions and a resistance, right?
Marisha: Yeah, but I think he gets two or three legendary actions per turn.
Matt: So he burns off that. So that was a total of 41 damage. So half that.
Laura: Oh wait! Oh, never mind. Yes, 41 damage.
Matt: So he's going to make a concentration check. Yeah, he succeeds. That's 22.
Laura: Okay. I'm going to hit him again.
Matt: He had to roll a 20.
Laura: I'm going to hit him again with another needle arrow.
Travis: Don't be afraid of rolling ones, man.
Laura: What was that before I hit it?
Travis: 11. Did it move?
Laura: I don't what it was before I hit it with this dice.
Liam: Reroll.
Travis: Reroll.
Laura: Sorry. Actually, I think that was probably it.
Travis: It was lower. Since we're being honest.
Laura: 25.
Liam: Is this your #blessed?
Matt: 25 piercing damage.
Laura: No, that's a 25 to hit.
Matt: Oh, 25 to hit? I'm sorry, yes, that hits.
Laura: Okay. That's good. 25 hits. 19. That's it? I don't get any sneak attack? Nothing?
Matt: 19 points of damage?
Laura: 19 points. Does he get any holy damage from those arrows?
Matt: No. What it does is it bypasses or can hit creatures that normally are immune to non-magical weapons like those ghosts and things, so it doesn't have an additional effect that you can see from it, unfortunately.
Laura: Oh, all right.
Matt: So how much damage was it?
Laura: 19.
Liam: Hey now, this is our first god we're fighting.
Matt: Okay, yeah. He does make his save still. So as the two arrows swish past and slam into part of his neck, it seems to pass through, a period where it's just energy. A second one whisks through the bottom of his body--
Laura: Plus another one point of damage.
Matt: All right. 20. And he glances down at you, the eye flashes, "Oh don't worry, I'm coming for you soon enough." That end your turn?
Laura: Yes. I forgot.
Matt: (laughter) That's amazing.
Sam: I'm inspired.
Taliesin: I feel a little better.
Matt: You've taken enough care through aiming to not strike anywhere near who you recognize within.
Laura: Yes.
Travis: What size would you say Vecna is?
Matt: He would be considered gargantuan. Why?
Travis: Oh, I can't grapple him.
Matt: Well, you have the powerful build. So you're considered large, and you can grapple one size larger than that.
Laura: Trinket is going to look around, really confused, and scooch a couple of squares closer to Pike.
Matt: Okay, perfect. That ends your turn?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Vecna, end of your turn, is going to use a third legendary action to use a Firebolt against-- let's say against you, since you just shot him.
Laura: Great, cool!
Matt: So spell attack. That is a 35.
Laura: To hit?
Matt: To hit, yeah.
Laura: I guess, yeah.
Marisha: Did he do a Flame Strike?
Matt: It's 4d10. Nope, it's a Firebolt, a cantrip.
Travis: (laughter) It's a cantrip?
Matt: 21 points of fire damage to you. As the bolt slams into you.
Laura: Great. He takes 4d6 radiant damage again, from hitting me.
Matt: Go for it.
Laura: Nine points of radiant damage.
Matt: Rolls for concentration. Natural one.
Laura: Oh my God! That means we get Grog back!
Matt: He's going to go ahead and use his legendary resistance to maintain it.
Laura: Can he do that?
Travis: My despair is growing by the second with those words that you just uttered.
Laura: How many legendary resistances does he get?
Sam: Probably five.
Laura: He has as many as he wants. He resists everything.
Matt: That's going to finish your turn, I believe?
Travis: That's a weird feeling.
Matt: I'm sorry.
Laura: We have to keep hitting him and try to break his concentration.
Matt: All right, Vax, you're up next.
Liam: Click the boots. What I'd like to do is fly within ten feet of him. To do that, how far am I flying? I have 120 feet of movement, wings out, hasted.
Matt: Correct. From that distance, about 45 feet.
Liam: Spending 45 feet to get there? Once I'm in ten feet, as a bonus action I cast Vow of Enmity on him. To start. I have no idea if I'm in range? It doesn't seem like I'm in range, but I don't know. But that's within ten feet of him?
Matt: Yeah, about ten feet.
Liam: Just in case, I'm going to use my hasted action to disengage and fly away from him-- no! I'm going to use my regular action to attack twice as a paladin. At advantage, first one (groans), I'm going to use--
Laura: Plus four!
Liam: Right, plus four. Hold on, where did my four go? Someone give me a four! I don't know where my own four went.
Marisha: Take it!
Laura: Oh, I was going to hand him the same one!
Marisha: (laughs) Take the dark purple, moody one! Or I should have given you a different one.
Liam: It's going to be plus one. I already did that. It's going to be a 24 on that, to hit.
Matt: 24 hits.
Liam: Hits!
Matt: Yes.
Liam: I'll roll for the second attack as well. Which is a 25. The first one is Whisper and it does (counting). Oh, shit! I wanted to throw it at the tome. Does that change anything?
Matt: That would be a different roll. Then we'd have to roll again.
Liam: Never mind. 19. Can I reroll the second attack? Nah! Forget it. (counting) 44 for the first attack.
Matt: Okay. 44 points of damage. Natural 18. He makes his concentration check.
Liam: Okay, and the second attack is nine. And I will dump poison into it, which is stupid, but I'm going to do it anyway! He's the only one here. He has to make a DC 15. Come on, big guy!
Matt: He's immune to poison.
Liam: After my two paladin attacks I'm going to--
Matt: Sorry, how many points?
Liam: Nine. Then I'll use my hasted action to disengage just in case he can curb stomp me and I want to fly to here and hover ten feet above that chunk of cake. Just remember I'm floating.
Matt: That ends your turn?
Travis: He has cardiac arrest and dies.
Matt: He's going to continue on.
Marisha: Oh, that heart disease! It's the number one killer!
Matt: Now we're on the initiative count 20.
Travis: Now we're at 20.
Matt: Yes. The dead rise. Bits of scattered bone and corpses that litter the top of this tower, many of which have been thrust off in the explosion and charred and destroyed from the impact, others begin to clack together and rise.
Sam: Oh my God.
Marisha: We're not afraid of this!
Matt: Nine skeletons rise from the ground.
Marisha: Nine?
Matt: Nine of them.
Sam: Nine times!
Laura: Get your skeleton ass away from me!
Sam: That will do it.
Liam: Can we hit the table like we're tilting a pinball machine, and knock him off?
Matt: All righty, so those two take an attack against you, Vex. That is 18.
Laura: To hit? Doesn't hit me!
Matt: Now against Percival, it's a natural 20. You take ten points of slashing damage, as the skeleton pulls this rusted scimitar to the side and rakes it across your chest. Then against Keyleth, a natural three is not going to hit. Against Pike, an 18 is not going to hit. Against you, Vax, that doesn't hit. I think that's it.
Laura: Does your armor, Pike, do anything against people that are attacking you with melee?
Matt: They'd have to hit though.
Ashley: Yeah.
Matt: That is going to finish the lair action. Scanlan Two is up.
Sam: He's going to, if there's a path up--
Matt: He is currently clutching on the side of this. So he didn't have to worry about watching the whip drop. It's the rest of the tower.
Sam: Is he in a place where he can climb, or no?
Matt: Make a general athletics check for him.
Sam: Seven? Plus four. 11.
Matt: 11. Does he want to try and inspire himself? It's an ability check.
Sam: Shit. I want to do so much other than try to hang onto the floor at this point. Shit. I guess he'll inspire himself.
Matt: Okay. Roll a d12 and add to it.
Sam: Wait, roll and add two?
Matt: No, add the roll to it.
Sam: Oh, well that just makes it 14.
Matt: 14 is just enough. It's not super hard to climb this, you get just to the edge there.
Laura: You're little and light.
Sam: Hi.
Laura: Hey Scanlan Two.
Sam: Where is my friend, Scanlan One?
Taliesin: That's all the conversation we can have in one action. No time to respond to that.
Sam: Great. In that case--
Matt: And that's all your movement for him.
Sam: Sure, great, yeah, of course it is. And his bonus action.
Matt: Did he use his bonus action?
Sam: Inspire.
Matt: Well it's not inspiring. It's giving yourself the use of an ability check.
Sam: You tell me, friend.
Laura: My face is so red!
Marisha: I'm sure I'm flushed.
Travis: Pretty sure we're playing this outdoors in Miami right now.
Matt: It does not cost you a bonus action. Your peerless skill does not.
Sam: But it does cost me an inspiration.
Matt: Correct, for Scanlan Two because he has his own pool.
Sam: Shit. There's barely anything I can do.
Laura: Scanlan, you can do so much!
Sam: Yeah, I can do so much. I don't see anything that's going on. I'm going to make an attack on the guy, because that's all I know how to do. On the big man. The god. I'll do-- shit, I can't do that. I'll do a Lightning Bolt at level five.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: He's immune to lightning.
Marisha: He's immune to lightning.
Sam: I don't know that. Do I know that? Would I know that?
Laura: You would know what Scanlan knows, and he did know that.
Matt: He was resistant to lightning damage last time.
Sam: So Scanlan Two would know this.
Matt: Technically.
Sam: Well in that case, I will do a Fireball.
Matt: Level five Fireball?
Sam: Yes, it's using five charges from the Fireball. Oh! No, can't do that. Doesn't have the wand. Never mind! Then in that case, he's going to do Bigby's Hand!
Matt: Okay. Where does Bigby's Hand appear?
Sam: Right under his chin, and it's going to punch him.
Laura: Your wand gives a plus one to spell attacks and shit.
Sam: Oh, he has a wand! Okay. 17 plus 11. 28.
Matt: 28 hits. Roll damage.
Sam: Bigby's Hand. Shit. It's 4d6?
Matt: 4d8, and you cast it at 5th-level?
Sam: Yeah. They're all bad. 12 points.
Matt: No damage, actually. Bigby's Hand slams towards him and impacts to no effect.
Laura: Does it not count as magical? Or is he resistant to bludgeoning?
Matt: You get the sense that only a certain level of magic can break past his magical barrier.
Sam: Oh shit.
Travis: I just swallowed my gum.
Matt: You watch as Bigby's Hand slams into him to no effect and pulls back, and you're like, "That's not good." Make an intelligence check.
Sam: One.
Matt: That sucks!
Sam: Oh no. Oh wow. Okay.
Travis: We are getting an education here in the first round.
Sam: Okay, bonus action. Who am I near? Am I near Keyleth? Can I inspire Keyleth? Is she close enough to me?
Matt: You can do that.
Sam: I will inspire Keyleth. I will sing (singing) 25,677 minutes. Ask Critical Role Stats if you don't believe me. 25,677 minutes. That's how long we've been playing. Playing this game.
Travis: (singing) Talk about fucked!
Matt: All right, so take your d12 inspiration die. Is that the end of Scanlan Two's turn?
Sam: Yes, it is.
Matt: All right, at the end of his turn, Vecna's going to use his last two legendary actions.
Travis: His last two?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: So he has five.
Matt: To cast another spell. As he sees Scanlan One go flying down off the edge and Scanlan Two climb up, he glances down and goes, "You clever little gnome." He's going to attempt to dispel.
Sam: I am going to reaction Counterspell at 8th-level.
Matt: At 8th-level?
Sam: Yes.
Matt: Okay, go ahead and roll. Oh, at 8th-level, it means that it nullifies the spell. He was dispelling at 6th-level.
Laura: Yay!
Liam: Fuck you, Vecna!
Sam: Scanlan will say  Ooh! Look what you made me do. You made me screw up you. You made me screw up you and now you have to do brand new. (laughter)
Matt: You watch the Undying King in his magnificent, horrible form lean forward, going, "What? Ugh." Prepares for whatever he has coming up next.
Sam: I'm sure it's going to be not good.
Matt: That's the end of that. Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: Okay. Thank god. I think Grog is by Vex, yeah? I'm going to cast my 6th-level Bones of the Earth.
Matt: Where do you want to place it? How many does it create?
Marisha: It creates six at 120 feet distance. Five feet wide, 30 feet high. So I'm going to see where Grog is--
Matt: Well, Grog is not on the field. You don't see Grog anywhere.
Marisha: Oh, shit! That's right. Is this useless for me to do right now?
Sam: Yes!
Taliesin: Yeah. We're all ranged except for--
Sam: Get that fucking god.
Marisha: Okay, I'm going to scratch that. I'm going to scrap that right now. I am going to do an 8th-level Sunburst right in his face. 12d6.
Sam: That's a powerful spell.
Travis: 12d6? Holy shit.
Matt: Okay. So constitution saving throw.
Marisha: He's probably got a stupid constitution.
Matt: Rolled a natural three.
Sam: He'll use that legendary resist.
Matt: No. He's going to take it.
Laura: That's five of them now?
Marisha: No, he's taking it.
Matt: He's used two legendary resistances.
Sam: Two? I thought it was three? No?
Matt: No, he's used two.
Marisha: He takes 12d6 and he is blinded for a minute. But he's got True Sight.
Matt: He's immune to blind, unfortunately.
Marisha: Well, he takes 12d6 radiant damage, which is cool. Come on, big money!
Taliesin: Remember, you can reroll things, right?
Sam: Oh yeah, reroll those ones!
Marisha: I am again. Okay, so that's six, (counting). That was almost a six! My finger fucked it up. (counting), 45 points of radiant damage.
Sam: Ooh! He's rolling.
Matt: He rolled a four.
Sam: (gasps) You're back.
Matt: No. He's going to burn his third legendary resistance to maintain. He tasted that sword. He does not want you on that field. You also notice as the detonation of radiant energy blasts his form, "Ugh!" he withdraws a bit and you can see the energy flicker and dropping from within his ribcage, you watch as a slightly burned, unmoving little girl begins to fall out of him.
Marisha: I really hope I didn't kill another kid.
Laura: Hope you didn't kill our sister.
Travis: People never change, Keyleth.
Marisha: Fuck you. (laughter)
Liam: She's off the side, yeah?
Matt: She's plummeting through this crack. Straight down.
Travis: Hey man, at least you hit him.
Marisha: Man, I was just starting to get over that first kid. Not that I would ever get over-- I'm going to use my bonus action to cast a Healing Word at 2nd-level on myself. And then I'm going to take whatever breath I have left and say: Pike! Ouch, hurting. I'm hurting.
Laura: We're all hurting.
Ashley: I got you, boo.
Sam: How did she get hurt that bad? Oh, she took the full thing.
Taliesin: She took 100 and-- yeah.
Matt: So Keyleth, you're going to stay where you are?
Marisha: I'm going to move up a bit, near Trinket.
Matt: Around there?
Marisha: Behind Trinket, I want to be close to Pike still.
Matt: Okay. So there you are. That ends your turn? All right. Percival, you're up.
Taliesin: All right. The first thing I'm going to do is deal with this skeleton that's right in front of me because there's-- actually, yeah. First thing I'm going to do is deal with this skeleton in front of me and take a slash at him with my sword. So that's-- doesn't matter, does it? 20 to hit?
Matt: 20 hits, yep.
Taliesin: I'm going to do 1d8 plus I'm actually going to burn two points of lightning into this too from Cabal's Ruin. So I'll see what one of that does.
Matt: You're on deck.
Taliesin: That's awful. Eight points of silvered piercing damage plus seven points of lightning damage.
Matt: Okay. As the skeleton lunges towards you, you put the barrel of the gun-- Oh, this is the sword! I see. As you do, it cuts right through and bones go scattering off the side as it's destroyed.
Taliesin: 15 did it. That's fine. Next shot, I'm taking the shot with the skeleton that's next to Vex.
Matt: Okay. So you (sheathes sword, gunshot).
Taliesin: Yep. And I killed a thing so I get a grit back. That's 30 to hit?
Matt: That hits, roll damage.
Taliesin: All right, I have to switch dice. That's 1d10 plus 1d6 psychic. I'll burn another one point of Cabal into that.
Matt: For the purposes of this, this is Velora, plummeting down.
Taliesin: 14 points of damage plus five points of psychic and one point of lightning.
Matt: As it's scraping at your betrothed, you fire the gun and watch as the skeleton skull blasts clean off the rest of the body. It scratches one more time before it clatters into a pile of lifeless bones.
Taliesin: I get another grit back. And now, where are there other skeletons? Who's getting it?
Matt: There's three over there, one over there and three over there that are waiting.
Taliesin: I'm going to take a whack at the one that's right next to Keyleth.
Sam: Does he take only magical damage?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: He takes damage from magical weapons.
Laura: So your weapon is magical, isn't it?
Taliesin: Yeah but I'm not going to do-- technically is my weapon magical?
Matt: Animus is.
Taliesin: Okay. So Animus will do.
Laura: So you can do damage against him.
Taliesin: Yeah, but right now I'm better at clearing than anything. I'm not going to be the one who does damage to him.
Laura: I feel like if you can break his concentration.
Taliesin: Yeah, let's have a little fun. For my third shot, I'm going to turn on him. First, I'm going to cast Hex.
Matt: Okay. As a bonus action. Hexed.
Taliesin: He is necro, disadvantage on intelligence because fuck that guy and I'm going to hit him with Animus. I'm going to drop a point of grit for advantage.
Travis: Just chilling. I'm having trouble staying awake.
Taliesin: Damn it. Well, that will do. 31 to hit?
Matt: That hits.
Taliesin: And I'm throwing all of Cabal into it. So that's 1d10, sorry. I'm trying to do this. 1d10.
Matt: Count the lightning damage separately.
Taliesin: Yes, I know. So that's not bad. 15 points of damage plus six points of psychic damage. And let's drop six points of lightning damage into it. Three, four, five, six. That's not bad. 21 points of lightning damage.
Matt: All right. That's 31 total for that. He's going to make a concentration check. Natural 18. He's fine.
Taliesin: Actually, there was one more! I'm so sorry! I forgot to do the necrotic damage on top of that. So with necrotic damage, that's another six points of necrotic damage.
Matt: You notice both the blasts of lightning and the dark necrotic energy seem to be partially wounding but not on the level you'd expect.
Taliesin: Okay. Still what I expected. I'm going to burn an action surge.
Laura: Yeah, hit again.
Taliesin: I'm not going to hit him again because I got no more-- if everything goes well I can do 24 points of damage to him.
Laura: But that might make him break his concentration.
Sam: It's now or never.
Marisha: We've got to get Grog back. Grog has a trammel.
Taliesin: I'm going to use sharpshooter. Fuck it, let's see if that does anything. I'm going to add sharpshooter. I'm going to burn my last grit for advantage.
Laura: You got this, Percy.
Taliesin: Let's see if that hits. This is probably not going to hit, is it? That's a six. That's okay. Yeah, probably didn't hit. Yeah, this is really shitty.
Marisha: How can you tell?
Taliesin: I can tell. 17 to hit?
Matt: Nope. Just passes through one of the open spaces in the ribs.
Taliesin: So I've got two more shots. I'm taking another shot with no advantage.
Matt: Sharpshooter?
Taliesin: Yeah. 19 to hit?
Matt: 19. This one actually hits the armor and reflects off.
Taliesin: Last shot.
Laura: You've got this. You got this!
Taliesin: That's better. 24 to hit.
Matt: That hits.
Marisha: Just on the cusp.
Taliesin: Just on the cusp. So that's my 1d10 plus my 1d6 plus my other 1d6. Is that right? Yeah. That's 15, 22 points of damage plus five points of psychic damage and two points of necrotic damage.
Sam: How do you want to do this? (laughter)
Matt: That is a 22. So this final shot hits him and he barely feels an impact and grins down at you as a baneful gaze curling across the floor. He's now aware of your presence.
Laura: Did he take a concentration?
Matt: He did. He succeeded.
Taliesin: I'm going to break line of sight behind that wall. Just head up there a little bit. About there. Yeah. Actually, still against the wall though.
Matt: Okay. So that moves you up to there. That's your turn? End of Percival's turn, Scanlan. As you are now off the edge, you can see the edge of the tower vanishing away from you, the cyclone whirling above. Part of it catches you on the way out as you hit the edge of the cyclone that's circulating it. Go ahead and make a dexterity saving throw at disadvantage because you're falling.
Sam: 19.
Matt: 19. Okay. So you take half damage.
Sam: Damage?
Travis: Cyclone.
Matt: Would've been 16 points of piercing damage from the shrapnel being spun around it, you instead take eight.
Travis: Eight.
Sam: Okay.
Travis: Sorry.
Laura: (laughs) You're just repeating everything Matt says. (laughter)
Sam: I don't know. I have no good options. Nothing. Of course I can save myself, but I'm trying to do more than just save myself.
Travis: So noble.
Marisha: You have to save yourself so you can help us!
Liam: Save yourself now so you can do something in 15 seconds.
Laura: Or turn into something that attacks?
Sam: (sighs) I'm going to. (fanfare) I'm going to inspire myself.
Matt: As you're falling.
Sam: Yes. I'll start singing to myself. This is a stupid idea. I'll inspire myself, I'll sing: (singing) I give inspiration, it's just what I do. Every time they try to knock me down I just get bold. I give inspiration, every time I do. Every time I open up my mouth it comes out gold.
Matt: For what check are you doing that for?
Sam: Oh no. I'm just giving myself inspiration in general. You can't do that?! Oh fuck. Well in that case, forget it. I don't do that at all.
Matt: Yeah. One creature other than yourself. And you have the ability peerless skill which means when you're making an ability check you can add bardic inspiration to it.
Sam: Do I see anyone? Or can I inspire anyone from my distance?
Matt: No.
Sam: Well then, forget it, I don't do that. Shit balls.
Matt: So in this alternate reality you're singing under your breath, trying to build your resolve as you-- You're up next, Pike, by the way. Be ready.
Sam: I can't do shit! I will Dimension Door to his chest.
Taliesin: What?!
Travis: Oh god, it's on. Here we go.
Matt: With that, there's a burst of purplish arcane energy as your eyes are trained on the massive god-like form of Vecna and there in the vacuous space where Velora once was encased, you see a familiar gnome's form appear in that pocket. So you are currently-- we'll put you there, say you're in the space.
Sam: Not inside the chest, I would be hanging on the outside.
Matt: Okay. So you're on the edge of the rib cage.
Sam: Yeah. Bonus action. Am I within range of any of my friends to inspire them?
Matt: 60 feet from there? I would say maybe, maybe Vex.
Sam: Vex. How you looking? You looking rough?
Laura: I'm looking rough.
Sam: Okay. Then I will sing that same song but as a Healing Word instead.
Matt: There you go, not wasted. Never a song wasted.
Sam: 2nd-level. Okay. And what is it? 2d4 plus six. 11 points.
Laura: Oh, tight. Thank you.
Sam: Oh! Okay. So I've just landed on his chest. I look in there and there's no girl in there anymore. Shit. Do I see Bigby's Hand?
Matt: Yes.
Sam: Do I have enough movement to get to it?
Matt: You could try. Bigby's Hand is pulled back currently, being controlled by the other Scanlan. You could try and leap into it.
Sam: Would I go out of melee range of this guy? Would he get an attack of opportunity?
Matt: No. Because both you and Bigby's Hand are technically right up against him.
Sam: Okay. I'll grab that thumb instead. (laughter)
Matt: So you're still holding on to him or-- SAM; I'm going to see if I can hold onto both.
Matt: You reach out and you grab onto the edge of the other Bigby's Hand.
Sam: Yeah, I'm good.
Matt: Okay. That's your turn. Pike.
Ashley: Okay. Is everybody 30 feet of me? Because I can't really see the--
Matt: No. Let's see. It looks like Scanlan Two, Vax, Keyleth, and Trinket are within 30 feet of you.
Laura: Who, by the way, we didn't do meteor damage for.
Matt: Go ahead and roll a saving throw.
Sam: Oh no. This might be the happiest day of my life.
Laura: You're a dick. Trinket rolls-- what is it, a dex save?
Matt: Yep.
Laura: 19.
Matt: Trinket is in your necklace.
Sam: But still alive.
Laura: He only got 70 points of health.
Matt: Yeah, he just took about 130 points of damage.
Laura: He couldn't do anything! Dang it. He really wanted to help out.
Liam: See you, Trink.
Travis: Take a seat, big guy.
Laura: He even rolled pretty good.
Ashley: So can I fly where I'm in the middle of Scanlan, Percy, Vex, and Keyleth somehow? Within 30 feet of everybody.
Matt: Can do that. So you fly up.
Laura: Maybe not quite that high.
Matt: Yeah, I'll take this down a little bit there.
Ashley: Maybe not over the little crescent. Crevice is what I mean.
Matt: There we go. That'll put you there.
Ashley: Okay. And I'm going to cast Mass Cure Wounds.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Who can she affect?
Matt: The range on that is?
Ashley: 30 feet.
Matt: That'll be Vex, Pike, and Keyleth.
Taliesin: And me?
Matt: Sorry.
Laura: And Scanlan Two.
Matt: Scanlan Two can't heal. So what did you roll?
Ashley: Rolling now. Sorry, guys, sorry. Wait, what's my spellcasting ability modifier? Why am I blanking?
Laura: Is yours wisdom?
Ashley: Yes.
Sam: We're all going to die. Wait. Have you gone yet? Liam, have you gone yet? Did you do anything?
Liam: Prepped for the future and forgot to do what I wanted to do.
Matt: So Pike, what was the end total?
Ashley: I think it's 29.
Matt: Did you add the ten for your blessing?
Ashley: Oh, no, I didn't.
Matt: So 39 points healed to Vex, Percy, and Keyleth.
Ashley: Wow, I didn't know that was a thing too.
Laura: And yourself, Pike.
Ashley: Oh, yes. Okay.
Matt: Yeah. Don't forget, the blessing you have means whenever you heal anybody, they heal an additional ten points.
Travis: What about if you're in a strange tunnel? And you can't see anybody. Do you heal?
Liam: You've got it made. You're safe.
Travis: I mean, I hate to win a game all by myself but I don't see a problem.
Matt: (laughs) Does that end your turn, Pike? You have your bonus action, still.
Ashley: I'd like to move again.
Matt: Okay. You've moved about 40 feet so what's your flying speed?
Liam: It's 40, isn't it?
Ashley: Probably. Know what? I'm going to stay because I don't know what my fucking speed is because I'm panicking now.
Matt: That's okay. I'm pretty sure--
Ashley: I actually don't think I have that sheet.
Matt: That's okay, I have it right here. Blessing of the Everlight. Yep. Flying speed of 40 feet. So you've moved your maximum speed while flying and you've used your action to cast. You can't move any further.
Laura: Do you have a bonus action you want to do?
Ashley: Let's see here. Yeah, okay. So I am going to cast Shield of Faith onto Vex, which gives a plus two bonus to AC.
Laura: Oh, great. Thanks, Pike.
Ashley: You're welcome! Yeah, I forgot to get that sheet when I was home, of the Blessing of the-- wings. Wonderful wings.
Matt: There you go. All right. That ends your turn, Pike. Up to the top of the round, it is now Vecna's turn.
Liam: Hold onto your butts.
Matt: Gets his legendary actions back.
Laura: Ashley, I think it might be in our text chain between you and me.
Ashley: Okay. Let me find it.
Matt: Vecna, looking at the field around. You can hear now, the distant blasts and impacts of the battle below in Vasselheim. You see this giant looming shadow as one of the large mountain-sized arms of the titan swings in the air and causes this brief eclipse over and then slams down into the center of the city. You see dust, rock, and probably a dozen bodies flung in the air from the impact as they drift out of sight below.
Sam: They're okay. They're okay.
Travis: Yeah, they got bounce houses. It's just out. There was a festival going on.
Sam: It was the yearly bounce house festival. (laughter)
Travis: It's all good.
Marisha: That's so horrible.
Matt: Glancing at this, he starts chuckling to himself as the small gnome is crawling across the body and reaching out to the hand. "I do wish most of these creatures would find their way straight to me. It's so much easier."
Sam: That's not good.
Matt: However, he looks off past you. "But you've always been an issue. You're how you all escaped from my clutches last time. Well, how's this for a bit of irony, my dear?"
Marisha: That's not good.
Laura: Who's he talking to? You?
Marisha: I'm under 100 hit points.
Laura: No. Can you resist it?
Marisha: I can try and save it in time.
Matt: Yeah. 120 feet, you're in range. I need you to go ahead and make an intelligence saving throw, Keyleth.
Liam: 1d4 from Bless.
Sam: Is this a spell?
Matt: Yes.
Laura: Do it. This could be--
Marisha: Can I add my inspiration to that?
Matt: You can.
Marisha: Saving throw, right?
Matt: Yes, an intelligence saving throw.
Marisha: I have advantage because it's a spell, right? I have advantage against spell saves?
Matt: This is true. He has to choose to Counter--
Sam: Scanlan One is going to Counterspell this. I don't recognize this spell?
Matt: Make an arcana check. Because you are Ioun--
Travis: What's his physicality doing? Vecna--
Matt: His restored hand is reaching out towards her as he glances down with a grin.
Sam: 20.
Matt: You've seen it used before against a green dragon you once fought.
Laura: (gasp) Oh, Feeblemind.
Sam: Would I know what level to spell--
Matt: You have not cast this spell. You do not know.
Sam: Seven.
Matt: Okay. It's an 8th-level spell so you still have to roll. So I need you to go ahead and roll--
Marisha: Intelligence save. If he fails the--
Matt: I need you to roll your spellcasting ability. So roll and add your charisma bonus.
Sam: 22.
Matt: 22. That'll be enough. (exclamations of relief)
Travis: Oh my god!
Marisha: I am not a vegetable.
Taliesin: No. You aren't.
Travis: Matt, let's just call a truce.
Matt: No.
Travis: I think we've learned our lesson, okay?
Marisha: You sweet, sweet man.
Travis: We'll give you Antarctica, okay? It's really cold there.
Matt: As you finish the incantation, the spell fizzles, his hand out, "Really?"
Marisha: Goddamn it. He's probably looking at you, Scanlan. You have the book! We can't lose you! For real!
Sam: Gulp.
Matt: He's glaring at you. And with that, "Come for a ride with me," (whooshing) and begins to rise up even higher into the air.
Sam: Can I hold onto Bigby? I wish to let him leave while I hold onto Bigby.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: And get my attack of opportunity. (laughter)
Marisha: War Caster. Come on.
Matt: Go for it.
Ashley: Come on.
Liam: Bigby, make a sleight of hand check.
Marisha: Don't fall to oblivion, please?
Taliesin: That would be bad.
Matt: It's okay. Lost the Hex. There we go.
Laura: Hex is back, don't worry guys. I'm freaking out. Oh god, he's so high.
Travis: We need a weight for this.
Matt: It'll be fine. And you.
Travis: Should we take a picture in case it falls?
Taliesin: No, it should be good.
Laura: Unless everything falls. I'm going to take a picture just because.
Marisha: Jenga.
Taliesin: Now, really?
Liam: Permanent Jenga.
Matt: Putting you right around here as he adjusts upward and you're clutching onto Bigby's Hand. What are you doing as your attack of opportunity?
Sam: Am I within melee range to make a Mythcarver attack?
Matt: Sure. Go for it.
Sam: I would like to let the spirit of the sword overtake me.
Matt: It's an action to do it.
Sam: This is only a reaction?
Matt: Correct.
Sam: So a single attack. Then I will use my War Caster ability to cast Bigby's Hand at level six and I will say, you leave when Burt Reynolds says you can motherfucking leave. (cheering)
Matt: Since I don't have a second Bigby's Hand, I'll go ahead and put this as Scanlan Two's Bigby Hand with you and where do you want to place this one?
Sam: Right on his fucking head.
Matt: There you go. There is the Bigby's Hand.
Sam: If he's flying up, I want him to go boop!
Matt: Three Stooges bops him on the head? Go for it.
Sam: All right. So this is 6th-level. 4d8 becomes 6d8, right?
Matt: Correct. Go ahead and roll to hit.
Sam: Oh, roll to hit. Shit. Ooh, no!
Laura: Oh no! Scanlan! Is it a one?
Sam: It's a two. Plus 11 is not going to hit.
Matt: Nope. So Bigby's Hand goes to bop and as it impacts--
Laura: Can you inspire yourself?
Sam: No, no. I've done so much this turn.
Matt: Ability checks. It seems to hit but it gets carried up with Vecna's form and it stands there in front of him. The fingers crack themselves and get ready for the next round.
Sam: 6th-level gone, 7th-level gone. Ready.
Matt: That's going to end Vecna's turn. Grog, you're up. You're trying to make your way through this maze. I need you to make an intelligence check.
Marisha: Come on, Grog!
Travis: Not a problem, you guys. Sit back.
Matt: Let me see if it's intelligence check or intelligence save. It's an intelligence check. So go ahead and roll a d20, add your intelligence modifier.
Travis: My intelligence modifier?
Matt: Yes.
Travis: Two.
Matt: You rolled a two?
Travis: Yeah, I rolled a four.
Matt: Okay. You spend the round rushing down-- you see the left! You turn left and run ten feet and it looks like the same hallway you were just in. So you rush forward and turn right. And you end up and it looks like it's in the same hallway you were in. It seems to be this perpetual maze that you can't seem to escape from.
Travis: Okay. Pike! Scanlan! (whimpering) Okay, okay, okay. This happened before, right? I should be smart. I'm going to take out the cask of ale and pour a little ale into a tankard and I'm going to use the Amulet of the Drunkard to heal 2d4 plus two.
Sam: That's smart.
Travis: I have two actions.
Sam: And then spend the rest of my turn eating mayonnaise. (laughter)
Travis: Three. Seven so I heal nine points. And then with my second action, my second hasted action, I'm going to use my second wind to heal 1d10 plus my fighter level. Ten! Plus three is 13. So I heal 13 more points.
Matt: There you go.
Travis: And that will end. And I will sit (sipping) the rest of the ale and wait for something. Keeping my mind on a small leather pouch in my bag.
Marisha: Oh no.
Matt: All righty.
Liam: Oh boy.
Travis: (laughter) What the fuck happened?
Taliesin: That was a rough six seconds.
Sam: Guys, of all of us, I'm the one who's flying right now. Should not be this way.
Matt: Grog, that ends your turn. Vex, you're up.
Laura: Oh, okay. I'm going to kick off on my broom and I'm going to fly down to Velora--
Liam: I move faster.
Laura: Yeah, but. Brother--
Liam: I'm right after you.
Laura: Yeah, but I'm before you and I saw her fall.
Liam: Your call.
Matt: So you dart down--
Laura: It's not like I want to do it.
Matt: --with the broom. You can get to her, but it'll take your movement and your action.
Laura: Yeah, I'll get her.
Matt: Okay. You swoop down, manage to grab her body and you have her now in your arms.
Laura: Is she awake?
Matt: No.
Laura: Fuck. Do I see any kind of landing around me, anywhere where she can set down safely?
Matt: There is part of the tower, where it impacted, there's still the stairway. It's just cusping up in the bottom of one of these pieces so there's a little bit there.
Laura: All right. But I used all my movement. I can't get to it and get her there.
Matt: If you want to try and toss her?
Laura: I'm not going to toss her. No, she's unconscious.
Matt: Then wait until next turn.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: All right. That ends your turn.
Sam: Wait, what did you do?
Laura: I had to go get Velora. She fucking fell.
Sam: Do we have to?
Laura: I'm not going to let my sister fall.
Sam: It's an illusion, just let her go.
Liam: Can I get within-- yeah, I definitely can. I'm going to fly up and get within 50 feet of this dick.
Matt: Okay. You can do that pretty easily. You're pretty much on the same level as Scanlan and Bigby.
Taliesin: He's engaged, by the way, with Bigby's Hand.
Liam: That's fine, but I have Vow of Enmity so I have permanent advantage at the moment.
Matt: You're able to get there.
Liam: Yeah, okay. So I'm going to--
Sam: We're literally playing three dimensional chess, right?
Matt: Yeah.
Liam: I'm within 60 feet. I'm going to try to throw at the tome in his hand and I'm going to dagger, dagger, dagger, dagger.
Sam: Oh! Four daggers.
Liam: So first one.
Ashley: Get that bitch.
Liam: First one is a 32. No it's not, it's a 33.
Matt: The first attack was with disadvantage because you're aiming for something specifically.
Liam: Oh, okay.
Laura: So that would have been a 13 was the lower number.
Liam: Oh, okay. 28.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: So this is sneak attack damage on the book. Okay. So that's two plus eight is ten.
Sam: The book. What if it's just Lady Chatterley's Lover or something?
Travis: Interdimensional chess with the Steve Jobs of D&D.
Liam: That is 36 for the first attack on the book.
Matt: You watch as the tome that he's holding spatters into pages and he's like, "Huh."
Sam: Aw shit.
Matt: You destroyed the tome.
Laura: Maybe he's just pretending like he's not upset about it.
Liam: I will now start unloading into his body.
Laura: It was his journal.
Marisha: It's okay. Now Becky won't know I was talking shit about her.
Liam: That's a 17 which doesn't hit.
Matt: Right.
Liam: Does not hit. Third attack is 20-- oh wait, what did I say last? 17, 18?
Matt: 17.
Liam: 19. Doesn't hit. Next one is 29.
Matt: 29 hits.
Liam: Okay. And this is just him.
Laura: Was that a dog?
Marisha: I think it was the weird echo-y sound of Ashley's pages turning.
Liam: 17 for that. And the last dagger does 25.
Matt: 25 to hit?
Liam: Yep.
Matt: That hits.
Liam: And that is a measly little four. So that was action, action, action, four. And that's it.
Sam: So what was your total damage?
Liam: I don't know what the total was.
Matt: Succeeds on a save.
Liam: I was after the book.
Matt: He hit him twice.
Liam: And I use my full movement to get where I am right now?
Matt: To get where you are right here is for-- because you're hasted so--
Liam: 120 feet.
Matt: Yeah, so no. It took you about 60 feet to get there. You're right here currently.
Liam: So then I will go to the piece of cake that Percy's on in the dark portion, but again ten feet flying above.
Matt: Right about there, we'll say. So tome's destroyed. The daggers seem to slide into him. He maintains concentration.
Taliesin: Got to drop concentration. Someone's got to hit him really hard.
Matt: That ends your turn?
Liam: Mm-hmm.
Matt: Okay. Let's see here.
Marisha: Wait.
Laura: Wait.
Taliesin: Wait.
Liam: Waiting to dive after Velora. Didn't have anything ready.
Matt: Okay. End of your turn--
Marisha: What do you have? What did you forget?
Sam: No, no. I just didn't hit him. It's okay.
Matt: End of your turn, he's going to go ahead and use two of his legendary actions. "All right. Seems the battlefield has been expended." As he glares down at the gnome and the other gnome. "Let's try this again." Make an intelligence saving throw with advantage.
Sam: I have no more reactions, right? We're still in the same round.
Travis: No, this is a new round.
Matt: But it hasn't come back to his turn.
Marisha: Druid die and don't fuck me, Gil. Don't fuck me, Gil.
Sam: That's cocked.
Travis: No, it's on a page and a marker.
Marisha: Well this one fell off.
Sam: What's that?
Laura: Oh, well that. That doesn't.
Sam: What was it?
Marisha: I mean, it was a floating three.
Liam: It was cocked.
Sam: That was pretty cocked.
Travis: It was on a page and a marker.
Taliesin: I would be happy to let you take that. I mean, personally I normally would, yeah.
Travis: Just let it land flat. It's big.
Marisha: Oh, no. It's a 13.
Liam: With the d4?
Marisha: No.
Laura: Oh, it's a 13.
Marisha: This isn't good. 15 plus my intelligence. Oh, wait my intelligence. Oh, and I'm trained in-- Okay, wait. What did I just say? 17 plus eight. 25.
Matt: Nope.
Laura: 25 isn't high enough? Oh, his thing is 26.
Travis: Yeah, it's 26.
Marisha: Hang on.
Matt: So as the spell energy whips out from his hand and entwines--
Taliesin: Oh, you're inspired!
Sam: Oh, you're inspired!
Laura: That's right, you're inspired!
Marisha: Can I use my inspiration too?
Matt: That's what it's there for.
Liam: All you need is one.
Marisha: Yeah, okay, I'm good! Plus a six. 31.
Travis: Oh my god. I'm going to pull my face off.
Sam: Matt does not like that.
Matt: The cocked die argument was not resolved. You guys just rolled. We'll move forward with it, but cutthroat from here on out.
Travis: Okay.
Marisha: I can take it.
Liam: Can I sacrifice one of my lucks as tribute?
Matt: Sacrifice all your lucks, if you want to.
Marisha: I asked you tell me what to do. If it was cocked or not, you just stared and went like this.
Matt: I was thinking. It's fine. You resist the spell. No effect, no impact.
Marisha: You were thinking? What would you have claimed?
Liam: Moving on.
Taliesin: Moving on.
Matt: We're moving on, it's all good.
Marisha: I don't want to get targeted later, Matt! I want you to treat me fairly, okay?
Travis: I'm pretty sure he's missed you twice. You're going to get targeted. He made me vanish in one turn.
Marisha: I mean on the internet! I mean from people being pissed at me. On the internet.
Matt: You're fine. That then brings us to the initiative count 20. First off, the currently existing skeletons all swarm in on Keyleth as the only one standing. That's three attacks on you. That is 12.
Marisha: Miss.
Matt: 18?
Marisha: Hits.
Matt: And no. So you get one hit. That's seven points of slashing damage to you. Also, you feel this pulse wave of dark energy swell out from outside of Vecna in the vicinity. It cascades out, encompassing the entirety of the area and then fades and all of you feel a little colder on the inside. For the next round, anybody with resistance to necrotic damage, it's negated.
Laura: Am I within that area? If I went down to save Velora?
Travis: (laughter) Hey! Oh god.
Matt: Yep.
Liam: I am sweating all over.
Matt: At this point in time, you hear this roar as the clouds suddenly explode and part from the nearby cyclone and you watch as two gloomstalkers come swarming outward, wounded. One of them slaps into the side of one of the islands and collapses. A second one suddenly gets snatched in the jaws of what, now, you see a sparkling brass dragon emerge from the side.
Liam: Prayers are answered.
Matt: As J'mon Sa Ord flies in, glances right up, in the form of Devo'ssa, towards Vecna, and shouts out in a deep, bellowing, dragon voice, "Your time is done, old one. Fall before us all." (snarls, roars) And unleashes a torrent of flame upward in the direction of both Vecna and Bigby's Hand.
Laura: Thank god you're not there!
Sam: Sure.
Matt: So let's see. That is going to be DC 21. Does not make the save. So that's 56 points of fire damage.
Sam: Oh, shnikes.
Travis: Oh, shit. And he's got to roll for his concentration.
Matt: Yep. Which he does not make.
Taliesin: Oh, thank god!
Travis: He doesn't make it?!
Marisha: Are you coming back? Come back, come back!
Matt: He's going to use his fourth legendary resistance to maintain it.
Sam: Four?!
Ashley: Come on!
Matt: He does not want you on that field, Grog.
Laura: With the Legendary Resistances. Do you get legendary resistance every round?
Matt: No, he has a total of legendary resistances he can use per day. Legendary actions he gets every single round.
Laura: Okay.
Liam: But he has 17.
Laura: Probably.
Sam: Is that 56 points of damage, that's with no save?
Matt: Correct. Well a dexterity saving throw, if he gets one.
Sam: I don't know what my dex is. I'm looking. AC, dexterity of ten, so he rolled a 15. Did not.
Matt: Nope. Nope, 56 points of damage.
Sam: So he lost some points. But he has my hit points? What does he have? I'm looking, I'm looking. Sorry. I got it, you go on with your thing.
Matt: It's okay. Bigby's Hand has hit points equal to your hit point maximum, so yeah.
Sam: Okay. So he's still alive.
Matt: Yeah. Okay. As soon as J'mon roars and shows up, Vecna turns around. "Oh, no, we cannot have this." At the end of J'mon's turn--
Marisha: Don't kill J'mon.
Taliesin: They're such a nice miniature.
Matt: He's going to look about the field and consider what the current importance is, and instead, glance downward and use two more legendary actions to cast Dispel on your Simulacrum. Understanding that you do not have any reactions to counter.
Marisha: You're going to use two to try and do it?
Matt: It's two to cast a spell. And with Dispel Magic, is going to go ahead and cast it at 5th-level.
Sam: I have no reaction, right? It hasn't come back to me?
Matt: Nope. So at 6th-level, it's an 8th-level spell, correct? Simulacrum?
Sam: Yes.
Laura: No, it's a 7th-level spell.
Matt: Oh, but you cast it as an--
Sam: As Wish.
Matt: Right, but it just creates the spell, so it'd be 9th. So with his 5th-level, he'd still have to make an ability check.
Travis: He has to roll.
Matt: Using the spellcasting ability, which is--
Taliesin: Which is what?
Liam: Intelligence and he's hexed?
Taliesin: He has disadvantage on it. Intelligence checks.
Matt: It's ability modifier, yeah, so he has disadvantage.
Marisha: Percy in the house.
Matt: That's a natural 20, but with disadvantage, second one was a 13 plus ten, that's a 23, that's enough. So with that, second Scanlan is dispelled. Off the field.
Laura: Do all of the things that we gave him fall down to the ground?
Sam: Including me.
Matt: Well no, this Bigby's Hand. Yes, actually.
Taliesin: Does that Bigby's Hand vanish with the caster?
Matt: Yes, it's a concentration spell.
Taliesin: Well you got a little bit of a fall.
Matt: So you start falling once more as Bigby's Hand vanishes. You watch as Scanlan Two melts into snow and water onto the ground, dripping off, the clothing and items that he had clattering and rolling off into oblivion. And you begin plummeting.
Sam: He died as he lived  making the world a little bit wetter.
Taliesin: It's about 30 feet from where you are right now.
Liam: And it looks like he's above stone?
Matt: So you would fall to about there. You'd fall prone. One thing, I'll put you there, laying you prone, because otherwise you'll slide. And you suffer--
Sam: Can the audience even see me right now?
Matt: You take 14 points of bludgeoning damage and are knocked prone.
Sam: Okay.
Taliesin: That's not bad. That's doable.
Sam: 14 points of damage does not make me lose concentration, right?
Matt: Nope.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: All right. Scanlan Two is gone. Keyleth, it's your turn.
Marisha: Oh, my god. Already. Oh, my god. You're still fucking gone.
Laura: You should do it, but you should do it when he comes back. That's the thing.
Travis: He's so high up, it doesn't matter right now.
Taliesin: Yeah, right now, it doesn't matter at all.
Laura: How high do they go?
Marisha: 40 feet.
Laura: Psh.
Travis: Yeah.
Marisha: Then I am going to burn my 9th-level Shapechange.
Matt: Okay. What are you changing into?
Marisha: I'm going to turn into a planetar.
Laura: Yes!
Marisha: Pulling this ripcord.
Matt: He's going to use his-- Well no, what's the range on Counterspell?
Travis: He has one more legendary action. One more legendary resistance.
Sam: What was the first hit that we took?
Travis: The fireball. The meteor.
Sam: How many points?
Travis: 66 if you saved.
Matt: You're too far for him to Counterspell. So you transform without an issue.
Laura: Yes!
Marisha: And that's my action, right?
Matt: That is your action, yes.
Marisha: I can move as the planetar?
Matt: Yep. What do you do? Where are you going, Keyleth?
Marisha: Okay, I'm going to fly my 120 feet move speed and come behind over here-ish, but in the air.
Matt: In the air?
Laura: Really using all those platforms of yours, Matt.
Matt: I know.
Marisha: All right, a little bit over, that's workable.
Taliesin: This is amazing.
Matt: There you go. Okay. Is that your turn, Keyleth?
Marisha: Yeah.
Laura: Do you have a bonus?
Marisha: I mean, I don't think I can do a bonus as a planetar, right?
Matt: I mean, I don't think he has anything to do as a bonus.
Marisha: No.
Matt: All right, that ends your turn. Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: There's very little of value that I can do right now. So I'm going to-- hmm?
Travis: Speak for yourself.
Laura: Fucking shoot him.
Taliesin: Not with my--
Liam: Go fishing for Grog.
Taliesin: Fuck.
Marisha: We've got to get Grog back.
Taliesin: Yeah, I guess he's within range, so I'm going to burn my bonus. I'm going to use my bonus to reload. I'm going to take my first three shots and I'm going to take out those three skeletons across the way.
Laura: But there's not even anybody over there.
Taliesin: I know, but it's going to refill my grit so that I have a better chance of hitting him.
Travis: Grit farm. Do it.
Taliesin: So first shot. Actually, here, I'll take all three. Actually, no, just in case something terrible happens.
Matt: Yeah.
Taliesin: That's 20 to hit?
Matt: That hits.
Taliesin: Second one is 25 to hit.
Matt: Hits.
Taliesin: And the third one is a crit. So I get one back already.
Marisha: Crit on a 19.
Matt: You're up after this, Scanlan.
Taliesin: And then, let's do 1d10 plus 1d6. First one takes 17 points of damage plus four psychic.
Matt: 17 points of damage plus four psychic? Scattered and destroyed.
Taliesin: Second one takes 12 points of damage plus two psychic.
Matt: Okay. He also is destroyed.
Taliesin: And the other one takes eight-- The other one is fucking toast. I'm getting into twenties here. Not worth it. So that's one grit, two grit, three grit, so I have four grit back. I'm burning my very last action surge now that I have some bloody grit. I'm trying to remember, can I pull Sharpshooter with a grit point, or can I not take Sharpshooter with--
Matt: You can. You can't combine different abilities that spend grit points, but you can combine Sharpshooter, which is a feat, with any attacks you make.
Taliesin: I'm going to take a Sharpshooter plus violent because what else are we going to do? So sharpshooter plus violent shot--
Matt: So you're just using one point for violent?
Taliesin: One point for violent because it makes it a gamble. I don't have advantage, I don't know why I'm rolling like I do. Here we go. So with Sharpshooter. Yes! It's a crit!
Marisha: Oh my god, you and the 19s!
Taliesin: I rolled a 19.
Marisha: Crit on a 19!
Taliesin: So crit on a 19!
Matt: Which, violent shot, which is double dice from your weapon.
Taliesin: Which is double dice. Not double psychic, just double damage, right? Yeah.
Matt: Correct.
Taliesin: It's just double.
Sam: The golden snitch.
Taliesin: So that is that. Oh, man, this is great. So there's that, and then I have the psychic. That's right here, so damage is-- oh, my god-- 11 and then I double that.
Matt: Correct. You double. So it's 11, that's 22.
Taliesin: No, I rolled them twice, so 11, (counting) 48.
Matt: Okay, so how much dice does it do per shot? It's a d10, right?
Taliesin: 1d10, so with violent shot--
Matt: It's 2d10.
Taliesin: It's 2d10, and then I double the d10, plus 18.
Matt: Right, yeah. Great. So what's the total?
Taliesin: Now I'm adding the psychic damage.
Matt: Right, and how much damage is that total?
Taliesin: 48 plus nine points of psychic damage.
Matt: Okay. 57 points, all righty.
Marisha: Come on. Bring him back.
Matt: No, that's a failure on his concentration. He's not going to use his legendary resistance. He feels pretty comfortable high up. So with that, Grog's giant form reappears right where he left, right there. The maze disappears around you and you land back on the space. Looking around, your friends are in different places, there's a giant brass dragon above you. You see an angel flying above, and you can see on the ground, hurting-- Scanlan.
Travis: Ale solves everything.
Sam: You just took a drink and you're back.
Matt: Anywhere you want to move, anything else you want to do?
Taliesin: I've got two more shots. And remember that you take half that damage at the end of your next turn.
Matt: Correct, so that'll be 23 points next turn. Got it.
Taliesin: Mm-hmm. So for my next shot, I'm going to burn a point. I wonder if a leg-wing shot would do anything here. All right, I'm going to burn a grit, and I'm not going to do Sharpshooter. I'm just going to take a shot. And that's 24 to hit?
Matt: 24 hits.
Taliesin: And that's 13 points of damage plus four points of psychic. And strength save versus 20?
Matt: That is a 17, so--
Taliesin: He drops a little bit of--
Matt: How much does he drop? Does it say?
Taliesin: Well I don't remember. We used to say prone? So I don't know what you would call that.
Matt: Oh, does it say prone?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: He's immune to prone.
Taliesin: Oh, no, but I thought it was like prone if you're standing but 15 feet if you're in the air?
Matt: No, as it says, on a hit, the target takes normal damage and must make a strength saving throw or be knocked prone, which would affect things normally if they were flying, but he's immune to prone.
Taliesin: All right, that's fair. That was fine. Just for fun, then, let's take one more shot and see what happens. That's a natural 20.
Sam: It really is.
Taliesin: It really is. I'm going to die. I'm going to fucking die. He's going to kill me now.
Liam: But gloriously.
Taliesin: Aw, man, I have made a terrible mistake. That's 20 points of damage plus, oh really? 12 points of psychic damage. So 20 points plus 12 which is 32, and his next round, he takes half that as well.
Matt: So next round, he takes a total of 39 points of damage automatically from the hemorrhaging shot. So as each shot (impacts). The crit hits, and you watch him go, (snarling). And as that impact hits, you watch as part of the armor cracks, and there's a brief little wound in the shoulder where you see a glow of energy behind. You see the brief, a tiny little chink in the armor of his avatar form.
Taliesin: Oh, god, I'm not comfortable with that. And I'm taking another ten feet back. I'm starting to back up a little bit, because that was more than I was intending.
Matt: Okay. That ends your turn.
Taliesin: (breathless) Yes, that ends my turn.
Matt: Scanlan, you're up.
Laura: Okay, Scanlan, you've got this.
Sam: Bigby's Hand is still near him?
Matt: Yep.
Sam: Bigby's Hand will attack and strike.
Matt: All right, that's a bonus action, go for it.
Sam: Two.
Laura: What the fuck, get rid of that dice, Sam.
Taliesin: That's the only die you ever roll, man.
Sam: That's my bonus action. Can I use my action to strike again?
Matt: If you wanted to? Generally, I think it's supposed to be like you can, as a bonus action, cause it to do again, so your action has to be something else.
Sam: I have to do something else. That's fine. Hey, question, before we go on. Earlier, you said something, when Ashley did something, and you said, "And when anyone heals in the future, it's a plus ten," or something. What was that?
Matt: That's her blessing from the Everlight. So only she gets that.
Sam: So when she heals anyone--
Matt: It's plus ten to whatever she heals. That's part of the gift she got from her god.
Travis: How high up is Vecna above the deck, would you say?
Matt: Above the deck, let's see--
Taliesin: Got to get you up there, man.
Matt: 75 feet up.
Taliesin: Never mind, it's not my turn anymore, I can't say anything.
Sam: 75, so I can't even hit him with anything, really.
Taliesin: Heal people. Or do a--
Ashley: Healing potion?
Laura: He's got a 9th-level spell. Could do something.
Sam: She's a planetar?
Laura: Yeah.
Sam: I turn into a giant eagle. And I'll fly Grog up.
Taliesin: Yeah!
Matt: He casts Polymorph?
Sam: Polymorph, on myself.
Matt: Oh, shit.
Taliesin: That's clutch.
Matt: All right.
Sam: I stand up using half my movement.
Matt: Yeah. So you'll have half of your eagle's fly form.
Sam: Yeah. I don't know how far they can fly.
Marisha: I think 60 feet.
Sam: I'm sure it takes time to get under him and stuff.
Matt: He's pretty heavy in his large size, so I would say--
Sam: Oh, he's Enlarged. He's engorged.
Matt: You're at half speed while he's on your back. Even your fly speed.
Sam: So it was--
Matt: What's the fly speed of the eagle?
Liam: Giant eagle is 80 feet.
Sam: So it's 40.
Matt: And you used half your movement, so you can get 20 feet up, yeah.
Taliesin: It's cool, next round you can do it.
Sam: Next round I can get close.
Taliesin: Next round he can leap off you.
Matt: We'll put you there and we'll say you're at 20 feet. I'll acknowledge that here.
Laura: Oh no!
Liam: (screeches)
Matt: I need to put tape on the eagle. I can fix that.
Laura: Do you want to hand me that-- Oh, you already got tape, you're prepared.
Matt: I came prepared. All righty.
Marisha: We're like an 80s B-level fantasy movie right now.
Laura: This is amazing, Matt.
Liam: It's beautiful.
Travis: I've seen buffets that are uglier than this.
Matt: Well thank you. Wait until the battle's over before you thank me.
Taliesin: Wait, what?
Sam: No, no, that's fine. I mean, Bigby's Hand couldn't have moved down and gotten Grog and gone back up, right?
Matt: I mean, it would have taken a couple rounds, but you've already made your choices.
Sam: Sure. So Bigby's Hand's gone.
Matt: Because it's a concentration spell, yeah.
Sam: Ooh, he wants to hold on.
Matt: I know.
Sam: (singing) Hold on to your love--
Matt: All righty. So ending Scanlan's turn, Pike, you're up.
Ashley: Okay! So I'm going to-- Tried and true right now. I'm going to Guiding Bolt at 6th-level.
Laura: Fuck yeah.
Matt: Guiding Bolt at 6th-level, all right.
Laura: Guiding Bolt at 6th-level does 9d6 radiant damage.
Sam: Up what hole? Up the butt?
Marisha: Oh, yeah, Vlad the Impaler him.
Matt: Make a ranged spell attack, Pike.
Liam: His bone-dry anus?
Travis: What does that mean? Disadvantage?
Matt: Yeah, it's 120 feet, so you're in range. No, it means you have to roll a d20 and then add your ranged spell attack modifier.
Ashley: Can I fly close to start?
Matt: Yeah, so you can move a little closer, but you have-- He's in range. You have 120-foot range, so you don't have to get closer, but you can if you'd like to.
Ashley: Might as well.
Matt: Okay. I'll say for the purposes of-- We'll know that J'mon is up there.
Marisha: Shamone.
Laura: Shamone.
Matt: Keeping an eye at that point there. Pike will rise up and move closer still to about there. All right. And what'd you roll?
Ashley: A natural 20.
Travis: Did you really?!
Taliesin: You got one!
Ashley: I fucking did. (laughter)
Laura: Does that double the dice?
Liam: Yes.
Matt: It doubles damage, yeah. It's one of the few ways you can crit with spell damage, is if it's a ranged spell attack. So go ahead and roll your damage.
Ashley: I'm taking a picture of this right now.
Marisha: Oh, my god, amazing.
Laura: 18d6.
Marisha: Well you roll, and then you double what you roll. So roll big!
Ashley: Not nine?
Laura: It's nine, just double it.
Matt: Roll 9d6.
Marisha: Come on!
Liam: Big money.
Laura: I like that we're looking like we can see.
Ashley: Oh, big money. Oh shit, that's really big money.
Marisha: Is it?
Ashley: Okay, hold on. Oh my god, I'm shaking so bad you guys. Okay.
Travis: You got it, you got it. Count your death.
Ashley: Hold on.
Travis: I've started to pull out sections of my beard.
Taliesin: I know, I'm freaking out.
Liam: Pickle Rick!
Taliesin: Pickle Rick!
Laura: Pickle Pike!
Ashley: (sighs) Hold on.
Travis: You're good.
Liam: This is the holy light swirling in a ball before it takes off.
Travis: Yeah, this is the Ka--
Travis: --Me--Ha--Me--!
Laura: --Me--Ha--Me--!
Taliesin: --Me--Ha--Me--!
Sam: Marvel Puzzle Quest!
Ashley: Sorry, I keep losing count. I'm sorry. I'm so nervous.
Taliesin: No, it happens to the best of us. I know, this is a lot.
Ashley: Okay. 36.
Matt: Times two. 72 points of radiant damage.
Marisha: Whoa! We need to start getting some trammels in him, I think, y'all.
Matt: And the next attack on him has advantage. You watch as Pike, her wings expanded, flies up in the direction. As she does, she glances upward, clutching the holy symbol of Sarenrae in her hand. Her eyes, which have already been glowing since she brought the blessing upon her physical form, now begin to burst with vibrant energy. As she extends her hand in front, you watch as a singular comet of divine wrath rockets upward, slamming into the front of Vecna's chest. As the impact hits, he screams out and as he looks down, you can see the anger of his eye flaring, the energy now sparking outward with sheer hatred, and you can see the area of the chest where Percy had hit and slightly exposed a wound, there's now a gaping wound in the chest where the Guiding Bolt has hit, and now the energy is crackling across his body, guiding the next attack against him.
Ashley: Wait, I miscalculated. It's 37. Is that what I said?
Travis: You said 36.
Matt: So that's 74 points of damage. All righty, cool. All right, Pike, that's your action and your move. Anything else you want to do?
Sam: Heal some shit!
Ashley: Yeah. Am I able to move back down closer to Scanlan?
Matt: You can get maybe down ten feet.
Sam: Remember, Scanlan is heading up towards you now as an eagle.
Matt: As an eagle. Technically, he's at full health as an eagle.
Ashley: Oh. Okay.
Sam: But we are within range of you.
Matt: Yes, Grog and Scanlan are within range of you.
Taliesin: I am not.
Sam: You can heal yourself if you're down.
Marisha: Are you down? Are you looking rough?
Ashley: I'm not terrible, but let me do-- shit.
Travis: If you're under 100, heal yourself.
Marisha: Yeah.
Ashley: I'm not. Okay, I'm going to Healing Word two.
Matt: Okay, so roll 2d4 plus your wisdom modifier to yourself.
Ashley: For Scanlan.
Matt: Scanlan's at full health as an eagle.
Ashley: Okay, fuck it.
Laura: For Grog.
Ashley: For Grog!
Matt: Okay, so 2d4 plus your wisdom modifier to Grog. End of your turn, Vecna's going to use a fifth and final legendary action to cast Firebolt again. That's going to be-- oh man. It's going to go for the eagle. Seeing the massive man holding the sword bent on his destruction in his hand, wants to stop that ascension.
Ashley: 15, Grog.
Travis: 15. Thank you.
Matt: He pulled it back, or he would have gone with him when he transported to the maze. That is a 30?
Sam: Against what?
Matt: It hits.
Ashley: Plus ten!
Taliesin: To Grog.
Ashley: To Grog, yeah.
Travis: 15 plus ten.
Matt: 25 points of fire damage.
Sam: 26 hit points.
Matt: So you have one hit point left.
Sam: (laughs) Right?
Taliesin: Is that right?
Sam: It's what it says.
Laura: That's fine. You're still 20 feet in the air.
Matt: That ends Pike's turn. Top of the round. Vecna gets all his legendary actions back. Vecna, who sees you all swarming upward, says, "I've enjoyed toying with you, playing, and all this fantastical experience of seeing what you're capable of, but you've severely angered me." He clutches up with his hand across where the wound is. "Let's end this now." With his other hand, raising up, you can see the stitch marks on the flesh of the reformed hand of Vecna begin to bulge, and as he does, the sky above you cracks open a second time as large arcane meteors come slamming down from above.
Travis: Oh boy.
Matt: (singing) More than one 9th-level spell. He is a fucking god.
Travis: (laughs) Oh jeez. Oh no.
Matt: To the ground, so that's a 40-foot radius, so it would hit Scanlan and Grog. Pike, as it impacts here, Pike, you're just out of range of the explosions. Your planetar form, however, is caught in the blast radius.
Marisha: It is?
Matt: So everybody but Pike and Vex are affected by this.
Sam: How many meteors?
Matt: This is another 20d6 fire damage and 20d6 bludgeoning damage.
Marisha: I get advantage on spell saves, right?
Matt: I need dexterity saving throws from everybody who was affected
Marisha: Spell save, right?
Taliesin: Okay, so I have advantage from Cabal's Ruin.
Liam: Hashtag blessed.
Matt: Are you using your reaction on this one?
Taliesin: Not yet. I can wait-- actually, yeah. I'm going to use my reaction, my once per short rest, my spell swallow.
Matt: Scanlan?
Sam: Eagle rolled a ten.
Matt: That's a failure. Grog?
Travis: 18.
Matt: Failure.
Liam: 31.
Matt: 31. Success.
Marisha: 21.
Matt: Both failures, so that is 61 points of bludgeoning damage.
Sam: We're going to need you, Pike.
Matt: And 71 points of fire damage.
Marisha: 61 and 71?
Matt: Correct, so 132 points of damage unless you have resistance against one or the other.
Sam: What are the two types of damage?
Laura: Bludgeoning and fire.
Marisha: Oh, I have resistance against bludgeoning as a planetar.
Matt: Yeah, so it would be 30 and 71, so you take 101 points of damage in your planetar form.
Taliesin: I take half damage because I'm swallowing the spell.
Matt: So you take 65. 66.
Taliesin: 66 points of damage?
Travis: I have resistance to both, so it's 68?
Matt: 66, we'll say. You take the bulk of that. The eagle takes the one, and you transform, and you both plummet back down from where you were, hitting the ground.
Sam: I'm dead.
Matt: Scanlan is unconscious.
Laura: You took less than a hundred. How many hit points did you have?
Sam: I had a hundred points as me, and one point as an eagle.
Matt: Scanlan is unconscious on the ground.
Laura: Oh, you don't restore all your hit points with Polymorph.
Marisha: No, it carries over.
Matt: But you do have Death Ward. (cheering)
Matt: The moment you hit zero hit points, you come back to consciousness. You're still prone, but you're at one hit point.
Sam: Oh god.
Matt: All righty, so Grog took that. Keyleth, you've marked that down, as well? The damage from that one? All right, Percival, since it's a 9th-level spell, you gain nine charges.
Taliesin: I've got nine charges left on Cabal, baby.
Marisha: Oh, that's magical!
Matt: And with that, knowing the circumstance, Vecna is going to arrange himself across the battlefield to this side.
Marisha: That was rough.
Matt: All right, that's going to end Vecna's turn, and for the sake that it is now 9:00, let's take a quick bathroom break.
Sam: What? No!
Laura: We're starting up at Grog's turn.
Matt: We're starting up at Grog's turn. We'll be right back here. Guys, we'll see you back here in just a minute. We'll make it quick, because we've got to rush in. Fast. Hold tight, and we'll see where the rest of this battle will go. See you guys in a minute. [break]
Matt: And welcome back everybody. Before we get back into the fray, the winner in the chat tonight of the Wyrmwood giveaway was TwoOrThreeGodzillas. (laughter)
Matt: Congratulations, TwoOrThreeGodzillas. Enjoy dividing it amongst yourselves. Hope it's a good time for you, small box for a big creature, well done. So bringing it back in, last we left off, Vecna had just sent down another blast of arcane meteors pulled from beyond the realm slamming into the ground and sundering many of you, sending Scanlan into a point of near death where he popped back thanks to an aptly cast Death Ward in preparation for this combat. Vecna's round has ended with him shifting over to the opposite side of the battlefield. Grog, you're up.
Travis: From where I was released by the eagle when Scanlan changed back, I'm 20 feet off the deck. How far, if I was hereish--
Matt: If you were here and had gone straight up then fell back down, which technically would have dealt nine points of bludgeoning damage, reduced to four because you're ever raging. You've landed on the ground.
Travis: And he is off the deck how high about now? What would you ballpark it?
Matt: Vecna? I'd say probably 80 feet from down there.
Travis: This is one of those moments. I'm going to hold my action until I am within melee of, or fucking closer to--
Matt: What action are you holding?
Travis: My attack action.
Sam: No bonus actions?
Travis: I'm a barbarian. I have shit for bonus actions.
Sam: You can't pour anything in my mouth?
Travis: Oh! Oh!
Laura: That's an action, not a bonus.
Matt: To pour it into something else's mouth is an action, but yourself is a bonus.
Sam: I don't know. Is that right, Matt?
Travis: Can I take it myself with a bonus action?
Matt: That's one of the house rules we started the campaign with. Up to you, if you want to apply it to Scanlan--
Sam: Because you won't get any bonuses once you hold your action.
Travis: I know, I know.
Matt: He's at one hit point on the ground.
Travis: I don't want to take it, then.
Laura: Why?
Matt: So you're holding your attack action?
Travis: I'm holding my attack action until I'm closer.
Matt: Okay, that ends your turn. At the end of Grog's turn, Vecna will use his first legendary action--
Travis: Tell you what, I'll use my movement speed to move closer to being underneath, on the other side of Vax.
Matt: Okay, so you move right there, gotcha. At the end of your turn, Vecna going to use two legendary actions, actually. And across the way is going to glance over at the brass dragon that's there who's flying up in the space here, but all the platforms. And Vecna staring about at everything on the battlefield. "You make me uncomfortable with your presence, ancient one," and is going to cast-- I believe this space is large enough for gargantuan--
Laura: Is he going to try and do what he did to Grog?
Matt: Nope! Instead, he's going to create a Forcecage around J'mon. No saving throw necessary, you watch as J'mons wings through their flapping are pulled in as a similar cage to what you saw of force energy deeper within the tower has now encased the brass dragon's form. You see J'mon in their Devo'ssa form is now held within this Forcecage aloft within the air, the dragon begins slamming into each side and momentarily seems to be trying to figure out a way to escape.
Travis: Are they taking any damage from banging against the cage?
Matt: Nope.
Laura: I wonder if that's concentration too? It probably is, right?
Sam: He probably can concentrate on more than one thing.
Taliesin: No.
Sam: No? I don't know.
Matt: So up here in this space is a brass dragon currently encased in a Forcecage.
Travis: Oh, I was going to be like, J'mon give me a ride, and I forgot to say it.
Marisha: And now you can't.
Travis: He just got pet stored, so--
Matt: So that brings us back to Vex's turn.
Laura: Okay, I'm down there with Velora, can I tuck her away in a safe spot?
Matt: You can tuck her in a place where it was once a solid piece of stone that cracked.
Laura: Under my hat, definitely.
Matt: There is an element of what was once solid packed stone that was the central column of the tower that is now exposed broken rock, and the staircase that spirals around it before it abruptly ends and tendrils of green energy begin that hold the platforms aloft.
Laura: And she's unconscious?
Matt: She's dead.
Laura: She's dead?!
Travis: Oh god, here we go.
Laura: Did everybody know that and I didn't know that?
Travis: She was burning and smoking and falling.
Matt: As you grab her body and pull up to the edge to look for a place you look down and there is no breath.
Travis: She took 60 plus points of damage.
Laura: Fuck.
Ashley: We can fix her later.
Liam: If anybody survives.
Laura: I tuck her little body away and hope that it's safe, fucking shit balls. Can I fly back up?
Matt: You go ahead and set her aside, down below in an area where it's safe and you fly up and at your full fly speed you can get to the edge of one of these platforms.
Laura: Yeah, I'll hover away, I'll fly straight up from where I was with her.
Sam: And attack?
Laura: Can I attack him?
Matt: I would say to carefully set her down that would be your action and your movement, but you'd get back into the fray.
Sam: Bonus action?
Laura: I mean, my bonus actions are--
Matt: To be fair, helping going after Velora did manage to avoid you a impact of a meteor storm.
Travis: That is true.
Laura: Okay, tell you what  he knows that I'm down there, I'm sure he sees all but can I come up and hover in the air and bonus action hide behind that wall?
Matt: What I'd say is you'd come up this way and hide behind the wall? I'll place you here but we'll assume you're behind.
Laura: Do I roll for stealth?
Matt: Yes.
Laura: Did you see how that dice did that? It was like, fuck you. 24.
Matt: Good to know. That bring us at the end of your turn. He's now going to spend another legendary action to cast Firebolt at Scanlan.
Liam: Goddamn it.
Taliesin: Is that one legendary action, or two?
Matt: One legendary action for cantrips, two for a full spell.
Travis: And that's his third of this round.
Sam: Shit.
Laura: So you've got one hit point now? So it'll knock you down?
Sam: Do I try to Counterspell this?
Matt: Well you're prone, so he has disadvantage on the attack roll.
Sam: Then can I do Cutting Words? Is it a melee attack?
Matt: What's the range on Cutting Words?
Sam: Probably 60 feet.
Matt: He's not within range. So that's a 28 to hit.
Sam: That misses.
Matt: You suffer--
Travis: One point of damage.
Matt: 17 points of fire damage and are now unconscious once more.
Laura: Great.
Taliesin: It's fine.
Matt: That brings us to Vax's turn.
Liam: With my hasted action, I will cast Lay on Hands on Scanlan and bring him back up.
Sam: Great! That was fast!
Taliesin: This was not going to last long.
Liam: He's got the book, right? Am I within 120 feet of Vecna's face?
Matt: Yes, you are.
Liam: I'm going to latch onto Vecna's face.
Laura: You're going to fly straight at his face?
Liam: I'm going to fly straight at his face.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: That's all my movement to get there?
Matt: Yes, and you're now currently--
Liam: On his face.
Matt: Yes, on his face, which in his form, his head is roughly that large so you'd be clutching his ears.
Liam: I'm flying right in his face.
Matt: You can feel the crackling energy of the gaping socket where the greenish arcane bursts are pulsing from the anger and sheer ability of his arcane prowess, each one of these tendrils is arcing around, two of them crawl across you and your skin goes numb in the places where they touch, and it's cold.
Liam: I will use paladin action to dagger-dagger him in the face.
Matt: Wait, hold on a second. You used your action to--
Liam: Hasted action.
Matt: Hasted action can only be used as an attack, hide object or--
Liam: That's fine, so I use my regular action to Lay on Hands, and my hasted action to attack him once in the face, maybe more, we'll see.
Sam: Don't keep us in suspense for too long!
Liam: I'm going to use my first luck of the night.
Laura: Oh my lord!
Liam: Bad rolls. 24.
Matt: That hits.
Sam: Took three rolls and a bonus.
Liam: Up top! And I'm going to dump 2nd-level Smite.
Matt: And he's undead, so you get the additional smite damage.
Liam: Yeah he is, motherfucker.
Sam: Pass me that not bottle of alcohol.
Marisha: Okay.
Travis: Pass the gatorade?
Liam: I need to write this down before I forget it. So before the Smite, it's 44. And Jesus, I'm forgetting everything. 2d8 plus additional for undead which is 12, so 56, and how much extra for the undead, I can't remember. 1d8? 2d8?
Matt: It's an extra 1d8.
Liam: Seven.
Travis: 63.
Liam: 63.
Matt: Woo! 63 points of damage as you rush up, wings up before right in the face, pull back and jam your blade into the side of the skull as it hits, you can see the skull crack open like a spider web of wound. As you pull the blade back, you can see the sutures are already pulling themselves together and as you're this close to him now you can see there is a slow binding of wounds, there is an element of regeneration to his body. Apparently in his god-like ascension the body itself continually rebuilds.
Laura: Makes sense. He's a god. Of course he does.
Marisha: I mean, I would want that if I was a god.
Laura: That would be a feat I would take if I ascended to godhood.
Marisha: Definitely put that on the list.
Matt: Level six divinity, I'll take that feat.
Liam: Bonus action, I will whisper to him  No fear. And stick one last dagger in his face.
Matt: You have to roll to hit first.
Liam: Oh, do I? That's fine, that hits, that's 36.
Matt: Yeah, that hits.
Marisha: You don't crit on a 19?
Liam: Yes I do with Whisper, but it's not Whisper.
Matt: It's not Whisper.
Liam: Wait.
Matt: But you didn't throw it.
Liam: So it is a crit?
Matt: So the dice?
Liam: It's nothing though, the damage is nothing but he does have to roll a save, he'll be fine, or be afraid of me.
Laura: He's immune to fear.
Matt: Sorry, buddy.
Taliesin: Did he take his bleed damage from me?
Matt: He did, the 39 points of damage.
Liam: Six big points, six big points.
Matt: That's a nasty crit!
Liam: Wait that's Whisper, plus-- 14 big points.
Matt: 14 points. So as you rush up and jam the blade in the side the second time, and pull back--
Liam: 22 points, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, I usually throw daggers, I usually don't get up on people.
Matt: I know. It's all good. So as you jam the second blade in and pull back, he lets you draw the blade, and a grin now curls back. At which point you watch as the wound that was blasted in the shoulder pulses and you can see the gunshot wound suddenly causes some of the more bones in the clavicle area that are now exposed from the impact crack leftover the hemorrhaging shot from Percival earlier. And he's like, (grumble) "Hello." You can smell this wave of decay and as it brushes past you, you can actually feel this weird crawling sensation like the air itself is beginning to pull at your flesh. And that's your turn.
Liam: Yes.
Matt: All right. He is going to--
Liam: Buy me a beer.
Laura: How do we get Grog up there?
Sam: There's a plan.
Laura: Okay. Sorry, I'm sorry. Freaking out.
Sam: Percy's building a ladder.
Taliesin: Keep him distracted.
Sam: All he needs is a wood shop and about 25 minutes.
Matt: Vecna's going to use his last two legendary actions as you stab in the face.
Liam: Uh-huh. Here it is.
Matt: As his hand comes up in front, the hand which now the long skeletal fingers unwind to be larger than the full of your entire body and almost your wingspan, it's almost like the fingers expand longer than they should, and he says, "Goodnight, Bitch's prince." And there's like a flash of dark and you see this wave of cold necrotic energy come to you. I need you to go ahead and roll a constitution saving throw.
Liam: Okay. I'm above 100. So I have no idea if that has anything to do with what's going on here.
Matt: No.
Sam: Oh no. It's something else.
Liam: I'm going to use Luck. It was a good roll, but I'm going to use Luck. SAM. Yeah.
Laura: Do you have to take it if you use Luck?
Liam: No.
Laura: Okay.
Liam: Con save?
Matt: Yep.
Liam: 24.
Matt: 24 does not succeed. I'm sorry. You suffer--
Liam: I've got the necrotic armor on.
Matt: However, unfortunately, the wave of energy that expanded last round, 20 count, negated that, so you take 36 points of necrotic damage.
Liam: Okay.
Matt: From Circle of Death.
Laura: Circle of Death?
Matt: Oh, sorry, it should've been an extra d6 on that. So add three to that, because there's 2d6 every additional spell level.
Liam: That's fair.
Taliesin: He's out of legendaries.
Matt: That brings us to the 20 initiative count. J'mon, desperately trying, does not have the spellcasting prowess of other dragons you've encountered and begins to thrust their body side to side against the Forcecage, unable to escape, roaring angrily within the confines of the spell, as it clusters in the entirety of this majestic dragon's form into this small box held aloft in this space to the side of the ruined tower. At this point in time, you see as the spiraling cyclone around you is whirling, and you hear screeches in the distance, and you watch as flying creatures, four of them, begin to emerge from the sides of it. You see from the back two heavily wounded gloomstalkers giving chase to two wyverns that are damaged in their own right. Flying in, on the back there are two soldiers coming in. As the darkness begins to fade past, you can see the red skin and dark horns, the white hair of Zahra, riding on the side of this wyvern, and behind her, Kashaw, riding in as well. (yelling)
All: Holy shit! Oh my god! What the hell!
Liam: Ah! This guy! (yelling)
Sam: We saw you die!
Will: Never believe it.
Matt: You do see, as they swarm in, the two other gloomstalkers close behind. Both of them appear, at first glance, they themselves are scratched. You see bloodied in the faces. They've been through an onslaught to even break through to the top of the tower. As you see them ride into the brief but crackling light from the surrounding magical aura of the tower, you have seemingly a cavalry at hand. So what would you guys like to do?
Will: My love?
Mary: Hello, darling. You've got a little blood all over you. It's all right.
Will: You look like shit!
Mary: Thank you, darling. Oh my god.
Marisha: He's beauty pageant crying.
Mary: Is there anybody fallen in this, my darling?
Matt: You hear (screeching) behind you. Two of the gloomstalkers that have been chasing you have also pushed through the cyclone, seemingly unaffected by its torrent.
Will: Yeah, we're being followed. Where are we in relation to everybody?
Matt: You guys are right here. Your full move was to get to that edge of the tower, and right now you each have an action. What are you going to do?
Mary: How far up is he from us?
Matt: From each of you, he would be about 55 feet.
Sam: Put on the hurt.
Marisha: That's you! That's fucking you!
Taliesin: This is everything I wanted.
Mary: I'm going in, my love. I fly up within range. I raise my hand, I target his eye, and I cast, or I try, Finger of Death.
Sam: Yeah!
Matt: All right, so. He has to make a constitution saving throw. That is a 17.
Mary: No.
Matt: So he takes 7d8 plus 30 necrotic damage. So go ahead and roll 7d8.
Taliesin: You can use mine. Whatever you need. I only have a couple.
Marisha: Here's some too.
Mary: Eight plus five is 13. How many do I roll? Seven. Oh shit.
Sam: You're up to 20. You're at 32.
Mary: And one more? 38 plus 30 is 68.
Matt: 68 points of necrotic damage. Halved, because he is resistant to necrotic damage. 34 points of necrotic damage. As you reach up, you watch as the beam of sickly green energy slams into the back of Vecna as he's spun around. You saw the eye for a second but in the flurry of realizing you're there, he spins and it manages to catch him in the back of the shoulder. "Oh, how quaint. I learned that when I was but a child."
Mary: Oh, did you! Well it's time to put aside childish things, semi-god.
Matt: What are you doing, Kashaw?
Will: First of all, I'm going, Fuck yeah, baby! So is there anybody directly around Vecna right now? You're on his face?
Matt: Yeah, Vax is flying up in his face right now.
Will: Makes things more difficult.
Liam: Could you aim for his penis?
Will: I could, but why? It's so pretty. I think I'm going to do what I can first.
Marisha: How many penises have you seen?
Will: Well different story. I think I'd like to fly down and get closer to everybody.
Matt: It took your full movement to get to this spot, so you have your action for the turn.
Will: Who is in range for a good Mass Cure Wounds? Is there anybody?
Matt: Within your current range, you have Percival, Grog, and-- what's the range on it?
Will: It is, to Mass Cure, is 30-foot radius.
Liam: And you're on that side.
Laura: But Mass Cure, you can choose a point. Mass Cure Wounds, you can choose any 30-foot sphere within 60 feet of you.
Matt: So with that, you can hit either Grog, Percy, and Scanlan, or Vex, Grog, and Scanlan.
Will: Well Scanlan, I know, needs some help, so I think we're going to definitely do Percy, Grog, and Scanlan, then, if those are the guys that need it the most.
Laura: Yeah, because you don't see me because I'm hidden on the other side.
Will: I'm going to also, for the record, I'm going to do it as a 6th-level spell, so it's going to be 4d8 instead. These are the eights, correct? Testify, my friend.
Sam: Matt, our young lady over here would like to bonus action something.
Mary: If I'm too late-- Can I Hex him?
Matt: You can. Double hex.
Sam: Oh, double hex? He's already hexed?
Taliesin: I have him hexed.
Sam: All right, double hexed.
Matt: By the way, I need you to make a concentration check because you did take a shit-ton of damage.
Taliesin: I took, how much damage did I take?
Matt: It would've been, because you took half of it, so it would've been 60-- So you have to beat a 33.
Taliesin: What is the saving throw?
Matt: Constitution.
Taliesin: I can't, so that's fine. Mine's gone.
Sam: And yours is up.
Taliesin: It is not a 20.
Matt: All right, so yeah. So your Hex is gone, but Zahra's Hex is up.
Will: You guys get 20.
Matt: 20 hit points to Scanlan, Grog, and Percival. All right, anything with your bonus action, or you good?
Will: Can I get away with my bonus action? I used my entire movement to get there, didn't I? So no.
Matt: That ends your turn. All right, also, at this point, the stones begin to shift. You watch as the tether that holds the various columns begins to separate and then begin to rotate.
Sam: Wait, what?
Matt: So this island begins to move. This tower begins to separate to there. This begins to push away.
Sam: We're getting farther apart?
Laura: Fuck.
Taliesin: None of us are on these platforms, though. Those are all skeletons.
Marisha: I'm a flyer, so I'm good.
Laura: I'm hidden on the other side of the wall, so would I have been sitting there on my broom, like, as the wall has shifted away from me?
Matt: Yeah, shifted outward like  "Ah, what?"
Laura: Zahra! Hi!
Marisha: She's distracted. She's like (yells) right now.
Laura: There's shit going on, she wouldn't even have noticed me.
Mary: My darling! Hello!
Laura: Hi!
Mary: I love your hat!
Laura: Oh, thank you! It's very hot, but I'm going to put it on for a second because she complimented it!
Marisha: Okay, in my buff Michael Fassbender, but as a hot chick kind of way, I look down and I go: Grog! The gymnast thing! Whoosh. And I swoop down, my speed.
Matt: Toward Grog?
Marisha: But I'm buff, and I'm bigger!
Matt: I'd say you need about 50 feet to get to Grog. 50 feet of your movement, you get down to where Grog is. What are you doing?
Marisha: I'm going to scoop him up if he can do a little jump and whoosh.
Matt: What's the strength of your planetar?
Marisha: 24 strength.
Matt: Yeah, you could, yeah. You could probably do that. Roll a strength check for me, if you don't mind.
Marisha: Okay, that's fine. I rolled a nine plus seven, so 16.
Matt: So you swoop down, arm underneath Grog's shoulders. It's your action do that, I'll say. Grab and get hold, and then--?
Marisha: Going the rest of my movement, which you said I used 40 feet? 50? So I have another 70 feet of movement.
Matt: You get him about there.
Marisha: Can I use my bonus to dash a little further?
Matt: I don't think you have a bonus to dash, unfortunately.
Marisha: Can I, because you held your action. Can I get up there and give him the cheerleader, like the figure skater, Go, Grog! And see if I can do the, you know?
Matt: You've already used your action, unfortunately. That would be an action to try and do that.
Laura: Oh that's true, he does have a chain weapon.
Matt: We'll say for the purposes of this--
Sam: God, so many levels.
Matt: I know, this is kind of crazy. You guys are about ten feet below.
Marisha: What's the reach on your thing? Can I have him on my shoulder, you know, once again like the cheerleader thing? Ready, go! Okay!
Laura: Can you do anything?
Travis: Not as much as I wanted to do, but I'm not going to get any closer this round. I'm going to use that action to--
Marisha: Can you use your chain as a grappling hook?
Travis: Yeah, but I'm going to take a note from Zahra, and I'm going to, with the Sword of Kas, cast Finger of Death.
Sam: Oh!
Will: Wow!
Travis: Is that an attack action?
Matt: No, it's casting a spell, so you'd have to say you were holding that.
Travis: Okay, I'll attach the Chain of Returning, then, and throw the sword.
Matt: Okay, so as you're pulled up and you're just out of range, you see the wings beginning to falter at the end of the round. You lob the sword up. As you're preparing it once again, the sword's voice pulses into your ears. "Kill him, take him, throw me!"
Travis: Just out of curiosity, you can't fly or anything, can you?
Matt: "No! Hurry!"
Travis: All right. That is a 31.
Matt: 31 hits.
Travis: Yes, okay.
Ashley: Yeah.
Travis: Oh, nice! Ten, so 26--
Liam: We love you, Ashley.
Ashley: I love you guys.
Travis: 35, 39, 43. 43.
Matt: 43, whew.
Ashley: That's my boy, Grog!
Matt: Okay. So as you swing the Sword of Kas upward, it lodges right into the side of the ribcage and up into the spinal column where this little bits of hanging, mummified flesh. You watch as a flash of energy hits in a blast of necrotic, angry dark energy. The sword immediately says, in the back of your mind, "Yes!" as Vecna (sounds of pain). Grasps the blade on the other end, where it's jammed through, and looks down at you. You can see this point of grin, of, "You're going to continue to be a problem, won't you?" So the sword is embedded in his body. You do see, where it's embedded, a secondary spark of that glowing light is beginning to emerge.
Laura: That's good.
Travis: It's a bonus action to pull it out, but I don't have one.
Matt: You don't, no. It's just in there.
Travis: Got a stuck Vecna. All right!
Matt: Keyleth, end of your turn? All right. Percival, you're up.
Taliesin: I'm going to take a shot at one of those nasties that have followed them through, since that seems to be a good use of my energy right now. First shot is a 29 to hit.
Matt: 29 to hit? Okay, that hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
Taliesin: I'm going to, just for fun, drop two Cabal's Ruin in there, for my own amusement.
Matt: I get a sinking sense that Bones of the Earth isn't going to happen?
Marisha: I'm sorry.
Matt: However! If anyone wants some really cool stone pillars--
Marisha: It changed! The battlefield changed immediately.
Matt: Easy to make with a dowel and a Dremel, guys. Recommend it. It's great.
Taliesin: Aw, now I feel bad. 15 points of damage, two points of psychic, and six points of lightning damage to shadowy jerk number one.
Matt: Okay, as it's flying (screeching). It looks heavily damaged. It's taken some hits in the fray, but it's still standing. It's still flapping its wings. It now seems to be noticing all the new targets on the battlefield, beyond the ones it was-- Okay, go for it.
Taliesin: I'm shoot it again. I'm going to drop a grit for advantage.
Travis: Kim Kardashian's fantasy wedding cake here.
Matt: Strangely enough, that's the name for the battlefield tonight.
Taliesin: 27 to hit. I'm not going to drop anything into it, I'm just going to hit him. That's nine points of damage plus two psychic damage.
Matt: Okay. Hits him, You can see the drops of its internal fluids dropping out, but it's still standing there.
Taliesin: Oh, fine. Then I'm going to target the other one with another grit for advantage. That's cocked. Feels bad, I liked that roll.
Marisha: Is that the same roll?
Taliesin: Yeah, same roll. (counting) 24.
Matt: That hits.
Taliesin: All right, and I'm going to drop one, two, three, four, five points of Cabal's Ruin into that one. Drop, motherfucker. Three, four, five.
Marisha: Drop it like it's hot.
Taliesin: That's ten, 18 points of lightning damage. 13 points of piercing damage, and six points of psychic damage.
Laura: Okay, this hat is so hot!
Matt: The other one (explosion) shoots, blasts, and you see the lightning arcing across its body, lighting up the outside of its normally almost nightmare-black flesh. The smoke dissipates and you can see blood dripping from its form, black, and disappearing into the sky beneath you, the wind from the cyclone whipping it out of sight. Still flying in space, though. They're both heavily wounded, but they're still there.
Taliesin: Fuck's sake. That's everything I've got right now. I'm going to try and scoot around the-- I'm going to get a little further back so I can grab onto that orb if things go shitty.
Matt: Scanlan, you're up.
Marisha: If we straight kill him, that's no good?
Taliesin: No, he won't die. You've got to trammel him. You can't kill him.
Matt: You don't know what would happen.
Travis: It's quite clear we know nothing.
Sam: Wand of Fireballs can get him, right?
Matt: The range on Fireball? It's a pretty long range, I'm pretty sure.
Taliesin: Although you can probably hit him with it and not hit Vax.
Sam: I could hit above him.
Matt: Fireball, 150 feet. Yeah, you could totally hit him with it. You're still prone on the ground, by the way.
Sam: I will stand up.
Matt: Okay, you still have about 15, ten feet of movement.
Sam: Who's near me?
Matt: Vex is behind you, Percy's to the front and the right of you. Pike's above you.
Sam: Is Pike within inspiring range, or--? Oh wait, actually--
Matt: Might be, yeah. Any of them would, including Grog and Keyleth. Actually no, because he's up here, he's out of range. I'm sorry, my bad, I forgot. He's right there. I'm like, this will be enough platforms! How can that possibly not be enough platforms? Lesson learned.
Sam: I'll use five of my seven Fireball charges.
Matt: Five of your seven Fireball charges? Puts it at a level what?
Sam: Well it starts at three, and that uses one charge. So four, five, six, seven.
Matt: Okay, so 7th-level Fireball. Dexterity saving throw from him. That is a 21.
Sam: Is that my spellcasting--? No, it's a DC 15. It saves.
Matt: So roll damage, and he takes half.
Sam: Shit, and it's 8d6, 9d6, 10d6, 11d6, 12d6! But halved. Okay, 14, 25, that was good. 40.
Matt: 40, okay. So he takes 20 points of fire damage.
Sam: Yep, and I'll call out, I need a lift! I will bonus action 2nd-level Healing Words myself.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Oh, terrible. Okay, so I get another ten points.
Ashley: Okay, okay, okay.
All: Okay, okay, okay!
Sam: That's it!
Matt: All righty. Pike, you're up.
Ashley: Okay. Is there somewhere I can get where I can be within 60 feet range of everybody? In a middle spot?
Laura: You're pretty close to being that.
Matt: Yeah, actually, you're not that far from it. If you move over to here, about this space, you could probably get within 60 feet of everybody, yeah.
Ashley: Okay, I'm going to do it!
Laura: What are you doing?
Ashley: It's time for Mass Heal, which is 700 hit points spread out.
Matt: Vecna is going to use his reaction blowing a, let's see.
Laura: Such a dick move.
Travis: He's used all of his legendary actions.
Taliesin: He has one last legendary resistance.
Matt: All right, so what's the spell level on that?
Ashley: Nine.
Matt: 9th-level spell? All right, so it's a DC of 19. He has to roll an ability check using your spellcasting ability, which is ten, so--
Sam: I can't Counterspell his Counterspell?
Matt: You're too far away from him.
Sam: But I'm not too far away from her? But that's not how it works, okay.
Taliesin: He has disadvantage because he's currently under Hex.
Matt: That's true. So 17. Natural 17, plus ten. So 27.
Marisha: That's not good.
Matt: (sighs) Seven plus ten, that's 17. It's a 9th-level spell. He needed to roll a 19 or higher, so he fails-- (cheering)
Mary: Hex wins again!
Matt: Well that was-- your hex was gone?
Taliesin: No, it was your hex.
Mary: It was my hex.
Matt: And you said intelligence on that one, too?
Mary: Pardon me?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. Because you called Hex. Sure.
Liam: Question. I'm probably out of range. Am I in or out of range, by his face? Probably just out?
Matt: Because you attacked physically, in melee, you're right in his face.
Liam: Close to Pike-- am I 60 feet?
Matt: Oh. Yeah, I'll say so.
Sam: All right, Pike, divvy it up.
Ashley: Okay, so. Zahra and Kashaw, I love you both--
Mary: We don't need any, darling. We're fine.
Ashley: Okay. But I'm going to give-- all of us get 100 apiece. (cheering)
Will: Good for you guys.
Ashley: You get a hundred, and you get a hundred!
Laura: Wait, Pike, I don't need that much! I only need like 20.
Liam: Does she get to choose?
Matt: She gets to divvy up the hit points however she wants.
Liam: Vax is doing real well. The temporary hit points don't come back, right? Yeah, Vax is doing real well. I'll take a skosh, a peppering.
Ashley: Just a skosh?
Laura: I need 20 hit points.
Travis: And I only need 66.
Marisha: I need a full 100, what about you?
Sam: I need more than a hundred.
Marisha: And you need more than a hundred. But she has plenty left over. Percy and Sam need more than a hundred.
Sam: How does this work, Matt? Does she know all this inherently?
Liam: She can see how fucked up we are.
Laura: So good, you have enough for everybody to get back to max. So that's the thing, everybody's back at max.
Liam: None of the temporary hit points, but your regular max.
Laura: Plus the two for the feast, so.
Taliesin: Yeah, your max plus two.
Sam: And Vecna's also back to full. Right?
Matt: (laughter) Everybody!
Sam: She's really nice.
Matt: All right, so everybody's at full hit points.
Travis: What a fucking boss.
Liam: Love your healers, folks.
Will: Hug a cleric today!
Mary: I can see the steam rising from Matt's head.
Matt: All right, so that finishes your turn, Pike?
Ashley: Trying to think if I should move a little bit.
Laura: Move. Get out of range of him, if you can.
Ashley: Yeah, I'm going to try to get out of range of him and closer to my peeps.
Matt: Okay. So you'll get down, you can move about that far.
Marisha: You have a trammel, right, Pike?
Ashley: Oh, maybe, you know what? I'm going to hang out right there, maybe.
Marisha: Are we trying to get all three trammels in in one round?
Taliesin: That would be amazing.
Laura: That'd be killer. I don't know if we can.
Marisha: I'm afraid he's going to try and yank them out.
Matt: So that ends PIke's turn. Top of the round, we're back to Vecna, who gets his legendary actions back.
Ashley: Oh wait, wait, wait! Is there anyone-- can I touch Grog, or is there anybody I'm near?
Laura: Everybody's fully healed.
Ashley: No, I know, but is there anybody that I can touch?
Matt: You would be able, you could fly up closer to Vecna, or fly lower because you moved, with a fly speed of 20--
Liam: Are you thinking of blessing Grog and Keyleth, or something like that?
Ashley: Yeah, I have a little cantrip that I was going to use, but-- Oh no, never mind, it's not a bonus. Never mind.
Matt: Okay, so Vecna's turn. Frustrated and angry, as his Counterspell fizzles out of his hand, "Very well. First and foremost, no friends." He's going to go ahead and cast a high-level Hold Monster.
Will: It's been wonderful seeing you all again.
Taliesin: The dragon cage is not concentration, is it?
Travis: Oh, the energy cage? Vecna's energy cage is not concentration, right?
Matt: No. It lasts for an hour.
Laura: Oh my god, really? Oh, poor J'mon!
Liam: The face Ashley just made!
Ashley: They're going to be in there for a minute. Nobody wants that dragon in the window.
Matt: Fail, and fail. I need both Kashaw and Zahra to make wisdom saving throws, please.
Travis: The wyverns fall?
Will: They better not fall.
Sam: Wait, is he freezing the wyverns or the--
Matt: All of them.
Mary: I'm going to use Luck. First luck. 22.
Matt: 22.
Will: I rolled a natural one, plus four.
Matt: The wyvern wings immediately lock in place as both of you feel your entire bodies slowly seize up. You, with the wyverns, plummet out of view.
Mary: Do I have a reaction?
Matt: No, you do not.
Liam: Did you just kill our guests?
Matt: You guys plummet out of sight.
Laura: No!
Marisha: Did you have something?
Sam: She did have a reaction! Can she use a reaction?
Matt: What reaction would you like to do?
Mary: Hellish Rebuke.
Matt: Hellish Rebuke? You'd have to take, let's see here. For Hellish Rebuke, you have to be hit first, and then you return, but the Hold spell prevents you from actually taking any actions or reactions.
Mary: Is it Hold Person, or Hold Monster?
Matt: Hold Monster.
Mary: Oh, I'm not a monster.
Matt: It's a type of-- here.
Liam: You're a monster!
Sam: It can do anything, human or monster.
Matt: It's a creature you can see. Hold Person is designated for just people. Hold Monster's a better version which can affect pretty much anything.
Mary: Did you affect me, or did you affect my wyvern?
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: Both.
Mary: How can you do that?
Matt: He cast it at a very high level.
Mary: I'm going to have to leave now.
Travis: You will be avenged!
Mary: As before, we love you guys!
Marisha: There's a lot you can do when you're falling!
Will: We can't even speak, can we?
Matt: No. You both quietly fall off the wyvern as you plummet in silence past the edge, plummeting down the side of the tower.
Laura: You guys got major damage, though!
Mary: At least the baby will be safe! (yelling)
Taliesin: No! No!
Sam: What baby?!
Mary: Avenge us!
Sam: What just happened!
Mary: The three of us!
Sam: Three of us!
Marisha: That was the worst blue balls ever.
Matt: You get an attack of opportunity.
Liam: Oh yeah, okay, sneak attack. On my advantage, because of Vow of Enmity.
Matt: You already used sneak attack before the end of your last turn.
Liam: I have been tweeted at by eight billion people saying that on attack of opportunity on a reaction, I get sneak attack.
Matt: You're right.
Liam: Thanks, eight billion people!
Travis: That's a lot of people. They should all follow your social media accounts.
Ashley: Does anybody get an advantage after the Guiding Bolt?
Taliesin: Nobody's actually hit him with anything since then.
Sam: Oh, oh, oh! I would like to know his wisdom stat, please, Matt.
Laura: Oh, you can do that!
Matt: His wisdom is 22.
Sam: That's what we have to beat with our trammels.
Travis: We have to roll higher than a 22?
Laura: Well no, a 22 wisdom will get him plus seven, or plus six, to his--
Sam: It's a DC ten, plus five for each divine trammel.
Matt: That's his wisdom score. His wisdom saving throw? Is that what you want to know?
Sam: Yes.
Matt: It's a plus ten.
Sam: Plus ten.
Matt: So whatever he rolls, plus ten.
Laura: So he's got to roll a 20 and then add ten to it. So we've got to roll--
Sam: Wait. So the trammel is a DC ten, plus five for each trammel fused to the target. So he's got a plus ten to save. Assume that he's going to roll at least a ten.
Travis: What do we hit the trammels in with? Our strength?
Sam: So we have to get all three in.
Laura: Yeah, we have to get them all in.
Sam: At least two. Wait, is that the stat I should have asked for? I think, right?
Marisha: It gives us a good answer.
Taliesin: That's a 25 if we get all three in.
Liam: I rolled a 34 to hit, so I'm going to start rolling damage.
Taliesin: That's the only thing that gives us a fighting chance.
Matt: You're a little higher there, Vax.
Liam: And I'll dump Smite into it, as well.
Matt: Go for it. So what's the total on that one, the damage you just did?
Liam: I didn't do any damage yet. (adding) Good.
Taliesin: We get all three in, and then we get one round.
Marisha: So if we got two in, then he would have to save over 20, so he would have to roll a ten or higher.
Laura: Which is so easy.
Marisha: We have a 50/50 shot if we get two in him.
Laura: What are you doing?
Sam: And if we get three in him, 75% chance?
Marisha: Yeah, but he can still save from it if he rolls a 16, 17, 18, 19, or 20.
Sam: And you've got to assume that he's got some feat that can get him a ten whenever he wants, right?
Liam: I'm calculating shit. I'm scared to death.
Taliesin: This is, it's hard to do.
Sam: Critters, we love you. Thanks for watching the show.
Matt: You watch as some of his wounds begin to seal up. Looking at him, you get a sense that he heals roughly, we'll say for the sake of this, because it's the end of the game, why not. Heals 50 hit points a round.
Marisha: 50 hit points a round?
Sam: We barely do 50 hit points a round!
Matt: You guys have been doing some good damage to him.
Taliesin: We've been hurting him.
Liam: Well I just hit him for a total, with Smite, for a total of 65.
Sam: Dang.
Taliesin: So that's gone.
Sam: Unless he can halve it or something.
Marisha: Oh wait, you already did your action.
Taliesin: There would be an effect if it were halved. We would know. You can visually see when someone doesn't take the full damage.
Travis: That was attack of opportunity.
Matt: Yeah, you dodged away from him. All right. So that brings us to Grog.
Travis: So we're ten feet below him?
Marisha: How far away is he now? From where we moved?
Taliesin: He was also connected by a sword to a chain.
Travis: Oh fuck, yeah, that's right.
Matt: Nope. I gave him a strength save to see if he managed to push the sword away. Natural 20. So the sword dislodges as he yanks it out of his side. It dangles the chain and you pull it back up.
Marisha: So how far away are we now, roughly?
Matt: From him, you are about, I'd say, 40-50 feet.
Marisha: We were up under him a little bit.
Matt: You were here, so you're about, yeah, 50-60 feet from him that way.
Marisha: If you want to hold again, I can get you up there next. If you want to hold your attack action. I can get you in melee range this time.
Travis: I'll use my bonus action to pull the sword back, so it's in my other hand. I mean, I could roll for it--
Laura: You can do Finger of Death this time.
Travis: No, I'd probably hold my attack. If I hold my action, I can hold one thing. So I'll hold until I'm within melee. Yeah.
Marisha: I can maybe, I can do an arc and do a droppy thing on him?
Travis: Just get me to him. Don't drop me, just get me there. We've got to pull out all the stops. It's all or nothing.
Matt: All right, so you're holding your action?
Travis: Yes.
Matt: Okay. That brings us to, end of your turn, he's going to go ahead and use two legendary actions to cast Telekinesis with an extended range.
Sam: What?! Telekinesis? What's he doing? What does that do? That moves things, right?
Matt: Yes, but he has an extended range on all of his spells because of his-- yeah. For most of his spells, not all of them. So he looks down and begins to rise his hand up. You watch as the central column begins to shift.
Sam: What's on there?
Matt: Lift up higher and higher until about midway, there.
Sam: What's that going to do?
Matt: Going to adjust this a little bit so we can--
Taliesin: He's going to throw a boulder at us.
Travis: Were Zahra and Kash petrified, or--
Laura: They were held.
Travis: Is that a concentration?
Liam: They're going to splat.
Laura: They fell.
Travis: But we're like 400 feet up.
Sam: Yeah, but you just gave damage to Vecna, right? Did he maintain his concentration, Matt?
Liam: For holding Zahra and Kash, and the monsters? Because I stabbed him in the face? Or in the ass as he ran.
Marisha: How epic would that be if they ran back in?
Matt: Natural 20. They are currently now plummeting off the side. You watched them disappear from sight. As he goes ahead and lifts that up, it shifts up into the space. We'll say Pike is about there. All right. And that is his spell.
Sam: What is he going to do with that thing?
Matt: So that ends Grog's turn. Vex, you're up.
Laura: Okay. I'm going to shoot some arrows at him.
Matt: Go for it.
Laura: Am I hidden? Can he see me? He probably can. He can see all.
Matt: He can see you. You don't get sneak attack.
Laura: Of course not. But my brother is not with him anymore.
Matt: Nope. He's currently floating up here right now.
Laura: Cool, tight. All right, then I'm going to attack him with a needle arrow. Natural one. I'm going to attack him with another.
Matt: It fires off to the side. The nerves kicking in to you, unfortunately it doesn't strike true.
Laura: Well I just bundled up my sister. Yeah, that just happened, still. Cool, I'm going to try to hit him again, with another needle arrow. Okay, that probably hits. Yeah, that's a 28.
Matt: That hits.
Laura: It's a plus one, because it's a needle arrow.
Sam: Does it smell like Taryon?
Laura: Yeah. I'm going to call out  For Tary! How about that? 11, is that it?
Sam: Does he have Hunter's Mark or anything?
Laura: Oh yeah. 16 points of damage.
Matt: 16 points of damage, all righty. Got it. All right, does that end your turn?
Laura: No, I'm going to move. I'm going to move around, over to here.
Matt: All right, so you shift over to the side. Go ahead and place yourself here.
Laura: And I'm still on my broom.
Matt: Floating up there. Perfect. All righty. Is that your turn?
Laura: I'm going to use, well, I don't really have anything I can do with my bonus action. Oh no! It's foreshadowing! That's it.
Matt: All right, that's it. At the end of your turn, he's going to use two more legendary actions. As he's off on the other side and he's been lifting this large rock up into the air, it slips up higher and higher, into the center space. He's carefully guiding it to position as he holds it there. He glances about. "Well, it seems, I assume, that many of your tanks are now empty. I hate to be repetitive, but I'm extremely frustrated with how hard it is to kill you!" As he brings his hand, other hand up in the air, you hear an even louder tear as, a third time, the sky opens up. This time, sending a meteor that side, this side, and crashing into the side here, to impact and explode in a 40-foot radius up in the air above.
Sam: Oh god, so he needed ground.
Travis: That's what he was doing.
Taliesin: He has a third spell?
Matt: That's his third and final 9th-level spell.
Sam: Damn.
Laura: Damn it, god power!
Ashley: That's so many 9th-levels, yo!
Travis: Fail, but I'm going to use my Stone's Endurance to further--
Liam: Dex save, right?
Matt: Dex save for everybody.
Taliesin: We got hit by meteor again.
Sam: Any sort of advantage?
Travis: He hit the giant platform that he was raising.
Marisha: Advantage against spell saves, yeah?
Matt: The platform is destroyed from the impact, by the way, so that central column is now missing.
Taliesin: Fuck me.
Marisha: Dex?
Liam: Dex save, yeah. You're blessed, so add a d4.
Ashley: Is this also for people flying?
Matt: Yep, he pulled it right up beneath you and one of the meteors slammed into.
Taliesin: Fuck, man. Nope.
Matt: So Scanlan?
Sam: Nine!
Taliesin: 16.
Marisha: 20.
Liam: 34.
Laura: 34.
Travis: Less than 20.
Matt: All right, so. That is 72 points of bludgeoning damage.
Sam: That's not so bad, right guys?
Marisha: Resisted, so--
Matt: Right, so half of that.
Marisha: 72, so 34, 35?
Matt: 36, technically. Half of 72. No damage to you. Then half damage to you, so take 36. You take full. Percy, you take the full. Then 65 points of fire damage.
Laura: Halved, again.
Sam: So what is that, total?
Matt: So 32, yeah.
Taliesin: So what's the total?
Matt: The total would be 72 and 65, that would be 137.
Laura: He knocked us right back down.
Ashley: Is the fire halved because of the--? And what was the fire again? I'm so sorry.
Matt: So you only take 32 points of fire damage.
Ashley: So 72.
Matt: Yeah. He had other spells at his disposal, but you guys kept fucking healing.
Travis: Stone's Endurance. Six plus six, 12. So less 12.
Taliesin: I'm okay.
Marisha: Thank god we healed. We would've all been dead.
Travis: So 55 points of damage.
Laura: I mean, that would have killed us right off. Straight up.
Taliesin: Yeah, that would've been the end of us. Right there.
Travis: Fucking Pike, man.
Matt: All right, so. That ends Vex's turn. Vax, you're up.
Liam: Okay, so with a split second and that erupted all around us, I have a moment to appreciate all of this angelic fucking flexing and taking all of that damage. I take out my superior healing potion, kiss Keyleth on the cheek, and feed her the potion. That's my action, my regular action.
Marisha: You're feeding me a potion? Hey babe-- (gagging)
Liam: Then I'm flying eye-level with Vecna. Yeah, am I within 60 feet there?
Matt: You're probably a little bit closer.
Liam: I'll get a little bit closer, and then I will use my hasted action to chuck a dagger at his fucking face.
Marisha: You fed me a superior?
Liam: Yeah. Natural 20 with Whisper.
Taliesin: Okay! We've got to start putting some trammels in this guy.
Marisha: Okay, 8d4s.
Liam: (counting) 64, plus the psychic. 69 with Whisper.
Matt: 69 points of damage. All righty.
Liam: And I will bamf there.
Matt: All right, so with that you appear directly into Vecna's face. The blade still clasped in your hand almost, where you appear next to it. It's jammed right into the clavicle area, and as it broke through you can see the glowing energy within the ribcage flashes bright with anger as the eye bursts forth. Where once it was this crackling arcane energy, there's now a visible giant green flame billowing out like an angry fire, (flames crackling).
Laura: You've got one.
Liam: I do, but it's weak. I'll use my last bonus action to stab again. With Whisper. 28. To hit.
Matt: Hits.
Liam: (counting) 20.
Matt: 20 points of damage will be the final attack. All right. That ends your turn? All right, so who's at low hit points?
Sam: Everybody?
Travis: No.
Marisha: What constitutes as low?
Matt: Well here, how many hit points do you have?
Sam: Are you going to use it to kill me, Matt?
Matt: Vecna can see through your physical forms.
Sam: 32 hit points.
Taliesin: 59.
Marisha: 131.
Liam: 129.
Laura: 70.
Travis: 224.
Ashley: 36.
Matt: 36, all righty. All right, he's going to use his third, or sorry, his final legendary action for this round to cast Firebolt at you, Scanlan.
Sam: I cannot protect against that. I have no Counterspell that reaches him. Right?
Matt: At this moment, no. That is an eight plus 16, that is a 24 to hit.
Sam: That hits.
Matt: All right. You suffer 23 points of fire damage.
Sam: Great.
Matt: All righty. So at the end of Vax's turn, that brings us to the 20 initiative count. At this point in time--
Travis: J'mon's still in the cage?
Matt: J'mon is smashing into the sides of the Forcecage and looking around at the rest of you guys, unable to escape.
Sam: Doesn't have Teleport?
Matt: Not all dragons are spellcasters.
Travis: And we can't dispel it, right? I'll dispel it.
Matt: All right, so. Five skeletons rise up from the ground.
Liam: Oh no!
Travis: Around Scanlan?
Liam: Oh, death saves, handing out death saves.
Marisha: Why are they all around Scanlan? Percy's there!
Liam: They're getting ready to do the finishing move on him.
Laura: They're going to try to take him out.
Liam: Take him out, and then stab him while he's down.
Matt: So first attack, natural two. That misses. Second one, natural four. That's 11?
Sam: Nope.
Matt: Third attack, natural two. Luck is working in your favor, so far. Fourth attack, that's going to be a 19.
Sam: That hits.
Matt: Six points of slashing damage.
Taliesin: You're still up!
Matt: Final attack is six plus seven, that's 13. What's your AC?
Sam: 14.
Matt: Oh, shit! So these skeletons are swarming you, hacking and swinging away, trying their best to finish you off, and you barely dodge through some of them--
Laura: He's so little the skeletons are swinging above him!
Sam: I'm at three.
Matt: At this point in time, you glance over and see a fist grab the rock side of one of these platforms--
Sam: No, it doesn't!
Matt: You watch as a second gauntleted fist hits the side, and climbing up over the edge of one of these platforms you see immediately the red-scaled face and horned body of a heavily-wounded but still-living Arkhan making his way up onto the platform. (cheering)
Taliesin: Oh, let's go! This is on. It's fucking on.
Marisha: You're not going to kill another of our friends in front of us, are you?
Liam: Vox Machina, This. Is. Your Life!
Joe: You didn't think I was going to miss this party, did you? Sorry I was late.
Marisha: Joe, don't die.
Matt: You watch as one of the hands removes itself from the building, and you can see this translucent set of chromatic wings that are drifting off of the giant, armored dragonborn's shoulders.
Laura: You've got wings?
Joe: I had a flight potion. Red Bull.
Marisha: Gives you wings!
Joe: Thank you, Mike Mearls, by the way.
Sam: Bro-barians.
Joe: The bros are back!
Travis: Let's go.
Marisha: (singing) The bros are back in town!
Matt: What do you want to do? It took most of your flight to get to this point. You have another action, though.
Joe: I have another action.
Matt: Well you have an action and a bonus action.
Laura: Where are you at, Arkhan?
Taliesin: Right down there.
Joe: I'm down on the ground?
Sam: Super far from the guy.
Joe: I am super far. Okay. Did my friend get my signal?
Matt: He hasn't arrived yet.
Joe: Okay.
Sam: (whispers) That's what he calls his dick!
Joe: Then I guess I'm going to--
Matt: There are still two gloomstalkers also that are about to take their turn.
Joe: Okay. So I can fly 60?
Matt: Yes. But you've used your movement. You'd have to use your action to dash.
Joe: Use my action to get up there. Okay. Then I am going to get within-- Okay, 60 and a bonus action? So could I get up to him and then use a bonus attack?
Matt: He's unfortunately more than 60 feet away from you. Yeah, you can get to about this point with a full 60 movement.
Sam: Can you throw anything? Cast anything?
Joe: I could throw a javelin. One of those fun little javelins.
Sam: There's also a bunch of pop-up undeads around us if you want to mop them up.
Joe: How high is he up from about there?
Matt: At a glance, close to 80 feet.
Joe: 80. Okay. Then I've got to get up to where Pike is.
Matt: Okay. So dash action? Using these chromatic wings granted by the flight potion and the dramatic effect of Tiamat's blessing, you manage to glide up next to Pike, both of you with your very opposite visual of god-granted wings, side to side. You see Pike with singe marks on her face, her hair tousled, the bludgeoning causing blood to pour from the side of her ears and the corner of her mouth. You look over at Arkhan next to you, part of his flesh has been necrotically burned away and you can see heavy wounds. It looks like he's sustained a bit of a heavy fray with the death knight, but he's not being followed at the moment.
Joe: So I hold up the helmet of the death knight and the head of Delilah, and drop them down into the crack in front of them. And I guess I'm going to try to throw a javelin.
Matt: As a bonus action?
Joe: As my frenzied bonus action.
Matt: Okay, yeah.
Travis: Hell, yeah. Why not? We got it, man.
Joe: Okay, that's a 20 to hit.
Matt: 20 to hit? Unfortunately, it hits the front of Vecna's body, and you watch as the javelin splinters apart into a hundred different pieces of wood and metal.
Joe: Javelins not so good.
Sam: You got any healing, you got any bonuses, you got anything?
Joe: Not like the healing bonuses-- reactions.
Travis: We look like healing bonus people to you?
Matt: Both of these guys arc upward, gloomstalkers. This guy here is going to shriek. He gives out this horrible sound. As it swings out, I need wisdom saving throws from both Scanlan--
Laura: We're immune to fear and you have advantage on any wisdom saving throws.
Matt: This isn't a fear-based thing.
Taliesin: Is it magic?
Matt: It is magic.
Taliesin: All right, so I have advantage. Natural 20.
Travis: Come on, snitch. More of that.
Sam: 13.
Matt: Okay. Wait, you have Freedom of Action cast on you, right?
Sam: Yeah. Freedom of Movement.
Matt: It's a paralyzation effect. It has no effect.
Taliesin: Yeah. I can't be paralyzed anyway.
Matt: Nope. So this one, however, is going to land and is going to try make an assault on you, Percival. That's going to be 28 to hit?
Taliesin: Oh yeah, that hits.
Matt: You suffer 17 points of piercing damage and seven necrotic. 24 total. It's going to also claw you. And that's a 21 to hit.
Taliesin: That also hits.
Matt: Take 13 points of slashing damage.
Taliesin: All right, so that's (counting) 22. I'm at 22 hit points. That's fine. I can handle that.
Matt: All righty. That is going to bring us to Keyleth.
Marisha: Okay. Still in our synchronised swimming stance, I fly up and--
Matt: So you fly up from this point. Got to pull you up a bit.
Marisha: I'm going to drop Grog onto Vecna and then do my own thing.
Matt: Okay. So you fly up. Grog, what are you doing at this point?
Travis: I'm going to use that held action to attack twice.
Matt: Okay. You'll be falling if she drops you.
Travis: No. My first attack is going to be a grapple and with the second attack, I'm going to shank him.
Matt: Roll an athletics check.
Marisha: Can I give him a little bit of a boost?
Matt: Yeah. Totally.
Marisha: Okay!
Travis: 23.
Matt: 23? Rolled a 16 plus five. That's a 21. So you succeed!
Sam: Wait. He's grappled?
Matt: Well I mean, grappled is not going to stop him--
Sam: He's immune to grapple.
Matt: No, he's not immune to grapple. But it does not stop his movement because of his size. But you're attached to him. So currently, at the moment, you are locked into Vecna's current little-- I'll put you there.
Laura: Just hanging out.
Travis: And instead of a d10, I'll hit him with a one-handed versatile d8. Reckless. Natural 20. (cheers and laughter)
Sam: Is that a--
Liam: Natural 20.
Travis: Natural 20.
Sam: That's a crit! That's a critical roll?
Marisha: Oh man, it took 114 episodes that we finally have a title name drop in our show. It's a critical roll.
Matt: It's just crazy.
Sam: Trammel that shit.
Travis: 14 plus 12. Help me.
Liam: 26!
Travis: 26. Thank you. 26 plus 14 is--
Joe: 40.
Sam: Oh shit!
Liam: You've said that like 17 times.
Sam: I've had advantage on all saving throws this whole time and I haven't been using it.
Joe: How many of those things do you have?
Sam: From the Blessing of the Knowing Mistress!
Marisha: Don't forget your blessings!
Sam: That wouldn't have been any better.
Travis: 58, 64.
Matt: 64. With a one-handed strike, right? Just a d8?
Sam: Oh! Is that necrotic? What is it, bludgeoning?
Travis: 68, 76--
Matt: It's the brutal critical, right?
Travis: There's one more after the 76.
Matt: Well it's only two dice, technically. Because you took levels in fighter. That was my fault last time.
Travis: 81.
Matt: 81 points of damage.
Sam: How much were necrotic?
Matt: None of them. It's all slashing. Sword of Kas!
Travis: One thing.
Matt: Kill fucking Vecna. As Keyletar lifts and thrusts you upward, you reach out and as Vecna tries to dodge out of the way, you manage to grab onto the side of the ribcage. As you're clutching on the side of it, and by the way, the rib itself is this wide around your hand, although with your titan form, your fingers barely close around it. You swing and dangle, and as you do, you take the blade and jam it right up into where the force of the greenish energy in the chest where the ribcage is, and as you strike it, there's a burst of energy out from inside out of him, and Vecna screams as the sword at the back of your mind goes, "Yes!" You guys watch at this point to those who are close by, the red glow of the coal-like glow in Grog's eyes, the vampiric eyes are flaring now as the anger of the sword is now synchronizing with his hatred. As you jam it inside, the burst pushes the blade out, but now you can see another little sparkle of light within the inside of that pulsing glow in his chest. You can see now, three distinct, currently available weaknesses in his avatar form. However, he will continue to heal and if he heals, those begin to close. So yes?
Marisha: Okay. So after he does that, Keyletar is going to swing around and find another one of those openings and I'm going to take my greatsword and do my multi-attack and jam it right into one of his openings and open it up a little wider. Got to get it nice and good.
Matt: Go for it.
Marisha: Okay. Getting it nice and good! Okay, so first attack-- opal dice, don't fuck me. You always fuck me. 18.
Sam: You get a plus four on something, right?
Marisha: Yeah, on attacks too! (gasps) 22?
Matt: 22 just misses. His AC is 23.
Marisha: We learned something! Second attack, got to roll better than a fucking four! That definitely hits.
Matt: All right, so go and roll your damage on that.
Marisha: Okay. 4d6 plus seven, and then I get 4d6. I don't do this normally. Okay, six, ten, 15 plus another 5d8 radiant damage.
Sam: Ooh, that's a lot!
Marisha: Mm-hmm, because I'm a planetar!
Sam: Pat Planetar.
Marisha: Not bad! Eight, five is 13. Another seven is 20. Ones, not for sword damage. 22 and another six, 28!
Laura: 28 plus 15.
Matt: 28 plus 15?
Joe: That's 43.
Matt: Ooh. 43 points of damage. So as you strike with the first swing of the greatsword, as it strikes across, it hits the side of the armor and bones and cleaves off, no impact. But you use that momentum to swing it around and jam it up towards one of the open wounds, right where the blast in the shoulder was, that Percy left earlier and was then opened by the rest of the party. As you jam it inside, you can feel the heat of the bursting arcane energy from the inside of his body, his avatar form fighting with every bit of impact and the proximity's almost beginning to hurt your face, but as you can see, a pretty decent wound.
Marisha: All right. That's my turn, I guess.
Laura: Oh! You have to take 4d6 radiant damage because you hit me with a meteor shower.
Matt: That's true! You can roll that for me.
Sam: This guy's getting hurt!
Taliesin: Yeah, but he keeps healing--
Marisha: Trammel time.
Taliesin: Trammel time.
Ashley: Is he looking rough? (laughter)
Matt: Other than those openings on his body, doesn't look too bad. But he looks pretty rough to begin with, because he's a lich. It's hard to tell.
Laura: Ten damage. Radiant damage.
Liam: Stop. Trammel time!
Marisha: Stop. Trammel time!
Matt: All righty. That ends Keyleth's turn. Percival, you're up.
Taliesin: I'm in melee with this thing? I'm going to take a shot at him with the sword. I'm going to give it a swing. Well this is fine. It's my sword. So it's a 21 to hit.
Matt: That hits. Go and roll damage.
Taliesin: All right, I'm going to drop two points of Cabal's Ruin, or at least one point of Cabal's Ruin. I want to try and end this shit.
Marisha: Who are you fighting? The zombies?
Taliesin: No, the birds. That's 13 points of damage plus one lightning.
Matt: Okay. As you swing the sword around, you see it bite at you and you take your hand. Using Diplomacy as a gauntlet to protect you, you grab the side of its face and push the snapping jaws to the side, and using that opening, you take the blade and slip it up into its throat and it immediately collapses. You duck out of the way as its body falls, lifeless to the ground.
Taliesin: Next thing I'm going to do is take a shot at that terrible thing over there. And I'm going to burn a grit for advantage and hopefully get it back by killing it dead. Here we go. Thank god I did, because that was terrible. 25 to hit? And I'm also going to put one more Cabal's Ruin into that, just to put him down.
Travis: It's a good system, right?
Joe: I'm in shock.
Taliesin: That's 16 points of damage, two points of psychic damage, and two points of lightning damage.
Matt: The second one has suffered enough damage to be picked off, and part of its jaw gets blasted off, and it melts into that liquid black smoke-like disappearing ether.
Taliesin: For my third action, oh god, I'm going to run down a little bit. I'm going to try and get three of these guys in a line.
Matt: Okay, so you're moving down this way?
Taliesin: Just a little bit. I'm going to be one space away. I'm not going around that way, but I'm going to try to back around.
Matt: This way? Okay, yeah, you can move over here.
Taliesin: I don't want to get too far away, because I'm not done with my movement. I'm trying to get the shot as I run.
Matt: That's 20 feet, and you can fire and hit three of these skeletons in one shot.
Taliesin: I'm going to drop a grit for a line shot. Piercing shot.
Marisha: Yas, grit, yas.
Laura: And then get three grits back if they die.
Taliesin: I know.
Marisha: Get it, son!
Taliesin: That's a hit. That's 31 to hit.
Matt: Roll damage.
Taliesin: That first one is ten points of damage and three points of psychic.
Matt: That's just enough to take them out. The first one is destroyed, and the damage is maintained. Roll for the hit on the next two.
Taliesin: That's 22 to hit, and then dear fucking god.
Laura: Oh no, Scanlan!
Matt: I know.
Sam: Don't worry, he's going to die in that surround anyway.
Marisha: No, shut your mouth.
Taliesin: And I get all my grit back.
Marisha: Which is hot.
Joe: You've got a little shielded person.
Laura: Don't you have a healing potion left?
Sam: Yeah, sure. 4d4? That'll do great.
Matt: Final roll? This guy's also in the line.
Taliesin: That was 38 to hit.
Matt: They all three from one shot. It goes through their various spinal columns, causing them to shatter across the stone and slide off the side.
Taliesin: I'm going to run in next to Scanlan and as my bonus action, hand him a superior healing potion. Can I not get quite there? Oh, in that case, if I didn't have time, keep a little closer to the orb.
Marisha: The most expensive healing potion.
Sam: Is it organic?
Taliesin: In that case, for my bonus, I'm going to take a healing potion. What is a superior worth?
Laura: 8d4?
Marisha: 8d4 plus eight.
Joe: I know because I took one on the way up, after the death knight.
Matt: All right, so as you're doing this, Percival, Scanlan, you glance down and can see into the city of Vasselheim, at this point. Large columns of smoke are spilling up from the city. You can see at various temples, there appear to be various clusters of divine energies beginning to emit. It looks like there are clerical groups that are in the process of trying to conjure or find ways to protect the city, but at that moment, you can see a dozen or so angelic entities that have been summoned by one of these temples swarming in as about 25 gloomstalkers swipe in, and they begin to harry each other. At that moment, you watch as a giant arm of the titan swings upward and annihilates pretty much all of them in one swing: gloomstalkers and devas alike. All smashed and scattered in one swipe of the arm, as another one immediately with the momentum slams down into the city of Vasselheim, and the whole area below begins to shake, though you guys are currently tethered by these platforms; you don't feel the impact, but you see the city around and hear the empty, echoing impact of that fist on the ground.
Liam: Screams of thousands?
Matt: Yes. All right, that ends Percy's turn. Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: I'm up?
Matt: Yep.
Taliesin: Get some healing and stuff, boy.
Sam: Who's near me? Can I inspire Pike?
Matt: She's just in range. She's 55 feet from you.
Sam: I don't know what she's planning on doing, but I'm hoping it's something to help me. What?
Ashley: What do I get? A d4?
Sam: I will inspire you. I guess for my bonus, I should take a healing potion. For my bonus, I'll take a superior healing, which is what?
Matt: 8d4 plus eight.
Sam: 8d4? It's too much to roll.
Liam: You're carrying the football, man.
Joe: Nice reference.
Liam: Once a year, I can do that. It takes a year to rest.
Joe: Welcome to Jocks Machina.
Sam: 25.
Matt: 25 plus eight, so 33.
Sam: That's a lot!
Matt: That's your bonus?
Sam: You said 33?
Laura: That's good!
Sam: What was I at before? One. I was at one.
Matt: Yes, you were.
Sam: Am I prone or anything? I'm about to get hit by a goblin or something, aren't I?
Taliesin: There are two skeletons. They'll go down quick.
Sam: I'll hold my action until after Pike's turn.
Matt: What action are you holding?
Sam: Otiluke's Resilient Sphere, at level five.
Marisha: On you?
Sam: On me.
Matt: (laughter) Okay. All righty.
Marisha: Good call.
Sam: I have to stay alive.
Matt: Pike, it's your turn.
Ashley: All right. Mass Cure Wounds.
Travis: Mass Cure Wounds?
Ashley: Yes. Am I within 60 feet--
Sam: Who's near me?
Ashley: Percy, Scanlan, Vex?
Matt: Let me find out real fast here. Mass Cure Wounds. Up to six creatures within a 30-foot radius sphere within 60 feet, so you could cast the sphere-- it's a 30-foot radius sphere, so you could get yourself, Arkhan, Percival, and Scanlan in it, if you wanted to.
Laura: That's good.
Ashley: Great. Done. Doing it.
Sam: What's that? What do we add?
Matt: 3d8 plus her wisdom modifier. Plus ten.
Sam: She rolls.
Matt: Yeah, she rolls.
Sam: From New York. This is a 3,000 mile--
Laura: In the future, you play D&D across states.
Marisha: Across states, yeah.
Sam: Is she playing with lasers because it's the future? Remember when Mary and Will were here?
Travis: And then they got frozen.
Liam: How excited we were.
Matt: Sorry.
Ashley: 40 points.
Sam: How much?
Ashley: 40.
All: Whoa!
Matt: 40 points to all of you guys.
Marisha: That's good.
Sam: My action is triggered. I'm in a ball, and I'm pushing against it so I don't roll off the edge.
Taliesin: Can you put the ball slightly into the ground, or no?
Sam: I don't know. I don't know how balls work.
Matt: I disagree, sir.
Travis: All the women in Exandria disagree.
Liam: Not in my experience.
Joe: To whoever's doing my little bar at the bottom: I came in with 111 hit points. I now have 151. In case you're doing this thing down here.
Sam: I've never seen a show. We have bars down here?
Ashley: I still wanted to move a bit and do a bonus.
Laura: Where do you want to move, Pike?
Ashley: Could I hover on top of land? I want to stay in the air, but hover on top of land, please.
Matt: Sure.
Laura: You want to be right below where you were, basically?
Ashley: I want to stay the same height, but if for some reason I fell, there would be land. And then as a bonus action, I'm going to take a superior healing potion that I have. And that will be my turn.
Matt: That ends Pike's turn. That brings us back to the top of the round, which is Vecna's turn. Gets his legendary actions back. All right.
Taliesin: He's still Hunter's Marked, which is remarkable.
Matt: Actually, I need you to make a concentration check.
Taliesin: I'm so sorry. I said that out loud. Goddamn it.
Laura: What do I add to it?
Matt: How much damage did you take from Meteor Swarm?
Laura: I can't remember. It was 30 plus 30 or something. It was halves of everything.
Matt: So a 32, we'll say is the DC.
Laura: And I add it to what, my constitution?
Matt: It's a constitution saving throw.
Laura: No. 17.
Matt: Your Hunter's Mark is gone.
Laura: You know what? It's fine.
Matt: Thank you for the reminder.
Sam: Give Matt a couple.
Laura: It should have been gone.
Sam: Man, this fight is crazy.
Matt: Vecna, who is clustered in this space, seeing the sphere appear down below, and realizing the issue of the immediate vicinity, is going to cast a 6th-level Circle of Death right in the space where he's at.
Travis: I'm going to use my reaction with Mage Slayer to make a melee weapon attack against him. And he will have disadvantage on his saving throw to maintain his spell, if it is a concentration.
Matt: It isn't a concentration check.
Liam: But you still get to fuck him up.
Matt: I need a constitution saving throw from Keyleth, Vax, and Grog.
Travis: And I have advantage on this.
Marisha: Is this a spell, so I have advantage, as well?
Matt: It's a spell, yes.
Travis: What kind of a save?
Matt: It's constitution, so you would not have advantage, technically, right?
Travis: I have advantage because of Mage Slayer. It finally came into effect.
Marisha: 16 plus seven.
Matt: 23. Does not succeed.
Marisha: 23 still doesn't succeed?
Laura: No, it's 26 you have to succeed against.
Travis: I rolled a 26, exactly. On the dot. Right there.
Liam: Natural 20 plus eight, so 28. I used luck to get it.
Matt: Gotcha. So that's half damage. That will be 10d6.
Taliesin: It's not going to be that bad.
Matt: That's going to be 41 points of necrotic damage, reduced to 20 to all three of you, because you saved.
Marisha: I take the full 49?
Liam: 41.
Marisha: 41.
Laura: Are you immune or resistant to necrotic as a planetar?
Marisha: No. I'm resistant to radiant.
Travis: I'm going to make that melee attack against him. Reckless, bitch. Oh, so close to a 19. Damn it!
Laura: Go, Philip!
Sam: Go, Philip!
Marisha: Holy shit.
Travis: 38.
Sam: Liam, thanks for introducing me to Dungeons & Dragons.
Liam: Do you like it?
Sam: I'm beginning to like it.
Travis: I rerolled the second one because I reroll ones and twos.
Matt: That ends your reaction.
Sam: (whispering) He doesn't know what to do.
Taliesin: No, he doesn't know which of his toys to play with.
Joe: (whispering) He's got so much good stuff, he doesn't know what to do.
Sam: He has level ten spells.
Matt: All righty. You used your reaction. Doesn't want to take another sneak attack from you. He's going to stay, because you guys moved too close right now. He's going to stay right there. He's right now grinning. You can see the flame bursting out of his left socket, the hand pulsing with power.
Sam: Yeah, can't move.
Laura: Where are we at? Whose turn is it?
Matt: End of Vecna's turn. You're up.
Marisha: Pike, Grog, and Vax.
Travis: Trammel round, right? Do I need to roll to maintain my grapple?
Matt: No, he just needs to break the grapple.
Laura: Trammel him!
Travis: I'm going to take the trammel out of the bag of holding.
Matt: That's a valid point, actually. I should have remembered that, and I'll do this as the current circumstance. Because he does have the hand returned to him, each of you should have taken 2d8 cold damage for each hit. I forgot to mark that on the sheet.
Liam: We've dropped a lot of damage, as well.
Marisha: For melee? Melee hits? I got one on him.
Matt: That's nine points of cold damage to you, Keyleth. We'll put you at 11 points of cold damage, nine points of cold damage, and another ten points of cold damage for you.
Liam: Wait, what's the total for me? Nine, ten, and 11 all to me? Okay.
Matt: And then Grog, since this is the first time you've hit him in melee, that's been twice, so that's ten points of cold damage, reduced to five, and five reduced to two. Every single time you melee hit him, you take 2d8 cold damage. That was my fault for not remembering that.
Liam: Every time we hit him.
Matt: Yep. In melee.
Marisha: Everyone's remembering their blessings and all the cool shit they do?
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: Pike, you have a cool blessing. Is it doing everything?
Laura: She's flying.
Marisha: You fly and you heal better. You're pretty good.
Travis: All right, we're going to kick this off. I'll take the trammel out of the bag of holding.
Laura: Do it!
Travis: I'm going to aim for one of those green openings and fucking try and shove that bitch in his torso.
Matt: You have the wound there, you have the inside of the green energy force there, and then you have one on the side of the head.
Travis: Well, I'm holding onto his rib, right? Can I get his head?
Matt: You could probably climb up a bit and go for it, because you're pretty big.
Joe: Muscle up.
Travis: I do a strict muscle.
Joe: On an axle bar, too.
Travis: Yeah, the thick fucker.
Matt: Roll a strength check.
Marisha: Jocks Machina.
Matt: You have advantage because you're raging, yeah.
Marisha: Come on, Grog.
Travis: We're okay, kids. We're okay. It is a 20, even.
Matt: 20 is the DC for applying a trammel on a strength check.
Travis: That shit takes years off my life, y'all.
Matt: It's not athletics. It's whatever your strength modifier is.
Travis: Just strength. Thank god for the Titanstone Knuckles.
Matt: As you climb up, you pull out the trammel. He had the Raven Queen. Who has Ioun's trammel?
Laura: Pike has Ioun's. You have mine, right? And then the Raven Queen's is the janky one.
Matt: Ioun didn't have a trammel. Sarenrae never gave one. It was Ioun. Yeah, so Pike has Ioun.
Laura: He has Pelor, and he has the Raven Queen.
Matt: As you climb up, you take the trammel, its large, spiraling platinum form. Shout and jam it as hard as you can into the opening on the side of the head. As he turns to look at you, the flame burning, the trammel pierces into the side of Vecna's massive skull and temple. As it buries in, you can feel the flames from the impact burning around your fingers, as if the very surface of the sun is threatening to burn your hand off. The pain is extreme, but you push through it, and as you jam it, you can feel it spiraling in, and you turn it and twist. As it digs in, Vecna (roars) gives out this horrible screaming yell, and as it pulls in, you watch as the very end of it seems to glow with this bright, yellowish sun-like light. It's locked into place.
Travis: Oh shit.
Marisha: Oh my god, we've started this.
Travis: That was one. I have another attack.
Matt: That's your action.
Travis: I have my hasted action. Is there any point in hitting him?
Sam: Yeah, because he can heal!
Travis: I'll make another reckless attack against him. That's 28 to hit.
Matt: 28 to hit? All righty.
Travis: (counting) 32. That's 32 points.
Matt: All righty.
Travis: And I will burn my only action surge to whale away some more.
Matt: Okay, go for it.
Travis: Reckless. This is two more attacks?
Matt: Two more attacks.
Travis: Damn it! Come on, fucker, hit. 33 to hit.
Matt: 33 hits.
Travis: 24, 29, 36. 38 points on the first one. Last reckless. Natural 20.
Matt: Jesus Christ.
Sam: No way. That's going to be a lot of damage.
Travis: Just one-handed, so it's a d8. Doubled, though.
Marisha: Oh, Pike is after Scanlan.
Taliesin: Scanlan can hold his action.
Marisha: Scanlan could hold his action.
Sam: Scanlan is going to hold his action.
Travis: And two damage dice. 57. 61.
Matt: 61?
Travis: Not as high as the other one. There were some low ones. Actually, that second to last one was a one. That's an eight, so 68.
Matt: As the sword is cleaving into the side as you're holding the trammel now for support, jamming at it, you can hear the laughter in the back of your head. "How does it feel? I will usurp you. I will take you. I will be you!"
Travis: What, now?
Sam: That is the sound of the craziest bat house ever.
Travis: That's my turn.
Matt: That ends your turn? All right, at the end of Grog's turn, he's going to use two legendary actions here. What's everyone's hit points right now?
Sam: Mine is a big fat zero around me, because I'm protected.
Joe: 151.
Taliesin: 88.
Matt: Keyleth, what's your hit points?
Marisha: Currently, 81 as a planetar.
Liam: I'm at 78.
Laura: 70.
Matt: Grog?
Travis: 197.
Matt: Pike?
Ashley: 106.
Matt: Okay. Let's see here. Yeah, let's do Finger of Death. Why not?
Travis: Don't be so fucking casual about it!
Sam: Sorry, guys. Can't save you.
Matt: It's going to be at Vex.
Ashley: Oh, come on.
Travis: No.
Laura: I have plus four to saves, if I have to roll a save.
Travis: I already used my reaction to hit him.
Laura: We have advantage on saving throws.
Marisha: You have Death Ward going.
Matt: That's going to be a constitution saving throw, if you don't mind.
Laura: Constitution.
Ashley: Come on, baby.
Laura: Okay.
Marisha: And you're blessed.
Matt: Bless is concentration, correct?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Make a constitution saving throw to see if you maintained it.
Liam: 26.
Matt: Okay, so I'll let you do that. What did you roll?
Laura: 23.
Matt: 23. That does not succeed, unfortunately. You take 64 points of necrotic damage.
Laura: I'm resistant to necrotic damage because of my blessing!
Matt: You are.
Travis: You're in! Okay. You're good!
Matt: 32 points of damage.
Sam: Oh wow. That Finger of Death.
Joe: That was the bless, right there.
Matt: All right, Vex, it's your turn.
Laura: I fucking hate Finger of Death!
Sam: It's the worst!
Laura: And I'm going to Hunter's Mark him! And I'm going to hit him! I'm going to try, at least.
Travis: How many hit points Vecna got left?
Laura: Instead of Hunter's Mark, I probably should have taken a superior healing. I probably should have done that. Yeah, can I counter? Can I un-Hunter's Mark him and take a superior healing? I already said it. It's fine if I already said it. I said it! Okay. Fuck it, I'm going to try to sharpshooter him, because everybody's up there.
Sam: Come on, ranger. Be a ranger.
Laura: 31 plus three is 34, minus five to hit.
Matt: Yeah, that hits. Roll damage. Vax, you're up next.
Laura: Oh, and I get sneak attack because there's a bunch of people on him. Okay.
Sam: Responsibility?
Liam: Don't worry about it.
Sam: What responsibility? We're all carefree Joes and Jills here, right?
Travis: Do you want to talk to Vecna about maybe melee hitting me?
Laura: 39 damage.
Matt: That's your first arrow?
Laura: That's my first arrow, and I'm going to try to do the same thing again.
Taliesin: He takes radiant damage when he hits Vex now.
Laura: He does take 4d6. Thank you. 13 points of radiant damage. And I'm going to try to hit him again with sharpshooter. 28. I moved that. I'm going to roll it again, because I didn't see what it was. 29 minus five is 24 to hit?
Matt: Okay.
Laura: That's cocked.
Joe: Shout out to John Castle for winning the dead pool backstage. He guessed Scanlan Two correctly.
Liam: Question for the DM  Before, when I was watching him shove the Pelor trammel in, did it look like it took a lot of muscle, specifically, to get it in there?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Laura: 18 was the second attack damage. And I'm going to hop on my broom. I'm already on my broom. I'm going to fly so I can get closer. I'll hover here. I want to be closer to Pike. Is it possible to get across to the other side?
Matt: You can move 50 feet on the broom, so you can get about here. You won't be able to get all the way over.
Laura: Could I get here? Am I within range of Pike, then? 60 feet? I'm higher than I would be.
Matt: You can try. You can coast to about here.
Laura: Okay. I'm going to be about that height, but I want to be over the edge.
Matt: Okay. That ends your turn, Vex?
Laura: Yeah!
Matt: All righty. Let's see here. He's going to spend two points to cast another spell.
Travis: He's used four this round.
Laura: Who did Arkhan come in after?
Travis: Vax.
Laura: Did we skip your turn the last time?
Joe: I had to move.
Sam: Is J'mon doing macrame in there?
Matt: J'mon is trying to find a way, or hoping for an exit from here.
Laura: Raging for 12 seconds, really.
Matt: He's going to cast Disintegrate down onto your orb, Scanlan.
Sam: Don't worry, it can resist anything!
Matt: Except for Disintegrate.
Sam: (screams)
Travis: And there it goes, just like that.
Matt: The sphere dissipates around Scanlan.
Sam: I feel so naked.
Travis: What level spell was that?
Matt: Disintegrate was a 6th-level.
Sam: Great. Burn those spells.
Travis: He's got a bunch more.
Matt: That brings us to Vax.
Marisha: Goddamn. I don't know what to do, man.
Liam: I pull out the trammel. Do you have a free hand? Or a belt? Yeah, you've got a belt.
Travis: Do I have a free hand?
Laura: Your hand would be open.
Matt: You had the sword out right now in the other hand.
Liam: So no free hand. Can I use the hasted action to shove my trammel into his belt?
Laura: Or into the bag of holding?
Liam: Or anywhere?
Matt: I'll let you do that as a hasted action.
Liam: The Raven Queen's trammel. I did a perception check and got a 28.
Matt: You did see, it was a fair amount of strength it entailed to apply.
Liam: Yeah. And then I'm going to-- (sighs) fuck, I'm going to get in his face again and use paladin attack-attack. That's 29 to hit, the first. Keep him hurting. (counting)
Travis: Scanlan, how's your athletics?
Liam: 33 for the first attack. Second attack is a 21, so I think that misses. And then I've got a bonus action left. I'm going to stay where I am, and I have a regular healing potion. I'm going to down that. That's 4d4 plus four, right?
Matt: All righty. At the end of your turn, he's going to use his fifth and final legendary action to cast Firebolt at Scanlan again. That is a 34.
Sam: I take off my hat and gladly accept the fire.
Matt: 22 points of fire damage.
Marisha: Can we survive one more round? Because if not, I can grab that thing from your belt and try to go for it, Pike can get there in time, and he can do the thing.
Taliesin: Are you okay?
Sam: I'm alive.
Taliesin: That'll do.
Marisha: If not, we try and survive one more round for you to get it in. I'm nervous I'm going to fuck this thing up.
Travis: Are you going to try to do this now?
Marisha: I've got plus seven to my strength. I've got to roll 13 or higher.
Travis: Mine is plus eight.
Marisha: But he gets advantage.
Matt: Vax, is that the end of your turn? That brings us to the 20th count. The stones are going to shift.
Laura: Oh no, it's moving again!
Marisha: Strength checks?
Taliesin: Strength modifier.
Joe: I'm even on strength checks, I think.
Sam: Who moved? Oh, the stones moved?
Matt: The tendrils are still holding them in place as they're slowly rotating and shifting around the battlefield. Skeletons are going to both attack you, Scanlan.
Sam: Sure, man. Bring it.
Matt: That is a 14, so you take seven points of slashing damage. And that is a natural 19, so you take another seven points of slashing damage. 14 total.
Taliesin: That's the end of those skeletons, though. They're about to go away.
Matt: All righty. Arkhan, your turn.
Joe: I fly straight up into this motherfucker.
Sam: Yes, Arkhan!
Joe: My magical dragon wings.
Sam: I was a guest at Archon once. Pretty good convention.
Taliesin: St. Louis, right?
Joe: It's nice that they named a convention after me. Great. I'm going to strike with Fane-Eater.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Okay. You're strong.
Joe: 23.
Matt: 23 just hits.
Travis: AC is 23.
Joe: I only have a few 1st-level spells. I'm pumping a 1st-level divine smite, so we're going 2d8 for level one, 1d8 for undead. Okay. 2d8 for my axe.
Matt: You guys are keeping these other wounds from sealing up.
Liam: We are picking his scabs.
Sam: When Grog attacked with the trammel, it was a strength check?
Matt: Yes.
Joe: 37 points of damage. Strike number two. Natural 20! (cheering)
Travis: Fuck yeah!
Joe: Fuck yes. I've wanted to crit with this axe so bad. Great. On a crit, I roll an extra 2d8 that are necrotic, but whatever. We can use anything we can get. I will pump another 1st-level smite into that one, so it's going to be 5d8 plus 2d8 necrotic.
Liam: I'd like to point out that we have two barbarians and two paladins up here right now.
Sam: We had two bards.
Joe: Does the necrotic double? Because it's double all dice?
Matt: Oh, for the critical? The dice would, as well.
Joe: The dice would, as well. Okay, great. All right.
Sam: What do you think? It looks close. I don't know, though.
Joe: 50, plus five points of necrotic, which doubles to ten.
Matt: Brings it back down to five. He is resistant to necrotic damage, so each of these necrotic hits are doing less damage. Nevertheless, it's still 55 points of damage in one crit hit, which is awesome.
Joe: That was radiant mixed with slashing.
Matt: Right. The rest of it went through fine.
Joe: The ten goes down to five. Okay, great. Okay, for my final trick, I am frenzied. That's going to be good. That's going to be a 29.
Matt: 29 hits. Roll damage.
Joe: I will spend my third and final 1st-level smite. (sighs) Let's go. Not bad.
Matt: Keyleth, you're up next, by the way.
Marisha: (nervous laughter) I know. Ugh, my deodorant wore off a little bit ago.
Joe: 43.
Matt: 43?
Joe: So what was that, 43 plus 55? What was the first hit?
Matt: First hit was 37.
Joe: 37?
Matt: Not a bad round.
Travis: Dude, that axe is nasty.
Joe: 135. That's my biggest round. That was 135.
Sam: Triple digits?
Travis: That has only happened a handful of times on this show.
Joe: 1st-level smites.
Travis: Holy crap.
Matt: A little bit of reduction because of the necrotic, but still pretty fucking nasty. Ending Arkhan's turn, that brings us to Keyleth.
Marisha: Am I taking yours, Grog? Are we going to try this?
Laura: Do it.
Marisha: Okay. All right. I reach over into Grog's belt, grab out the trammel, and the hole that's there--
Matt: Which one? You have the shoulder or the inside of the belly.
Marisha: I was working at the one on the shoulder, so I'm going to go for the one I've been working on. Rappel over, grab it, and then rappel back in.
Matt: Okay.
Joe: I regain an equal amount of hit points off a crit with Fane-Eater. How many hit points did I get back?
Matt: Five.
Joe: It would have been ten.
Matt: Because it was resisted, you only did five damage.
Joe: So I get five back. Ooh, so I suck a little bit of his soul out.
Matt: You pull the trammel out. This is the somewhat-damaged.
Sam: Oh shit, Marisha's trying for this one?
Marisha: Here's the thing. Either we do this and we try and get all of them in, and then you get it at the end of your round, or else we've got one more round. Oh my god. I hate this so much!
Taliesin: Close your eyes and roll.
Matt: This spiral-crafted spike, the trammel of the Raven Queen. Your wings unfurl, and you arc over back to the shoulder where you had already dug your blade in. You can see the bursts of green arcane energy and life force of the avatar form bursting outwards. You pull back with the trammel. Roll your strength check.
Marisha: Do you want to give me one of your dice? It's your trammel. One of your die?
Liam: One of my die?
Travis: You're going to go with somebody else's die for it?
Joe: Listen, what are you feeling right now?
Laura: Whatever you do, add your d4.
Marisha: Is it a d4? Is it an attack?
Matt: This is an ability check.
Laura: Never mind.
Liam: I feel like my luck is tied up with the existence of the world, so could I give her one of my lucks?
Marisha: Oh my god. I turn, and grabbing Vax's die, I look over my shoulder at him.
Taliesin: This got weird.
Marisha: Oh my god. I hate this so much.
Sam: It's a critical roll. (groaning)
Laura: Oh no.
Matt: What was it?
Marisha: A three, so ten.
Matt: Unfortunately, as you reach back and attempt to jam it into the space, Vecna's body shifts just out of place, and as the trammel smacks into the shoulder and armor, you hear this terrible shattering sound as the trammel--
Sam: Even with the plus four? No.
Matt: It breaks in your hand. You're one trammel down. I'm so sorry.
Taliesin: It's okay.
Travis: It's okay.
Liam: She barely even gave that shit to me. Keep going!
Joe: How many do you need?
Taliesin: We don't know. The more, the better.
Sam: We're down to one.
Marisha: If we get two in, he has a 50-50 shot.
Laura: She might be able to pass it to Grog, too.
Taliesin: She's got a high strength. But we want to try to end the round.
Matt: That's how the dice roll. It's all good.
Sam: Bonus action. Do you want to do anything? Do you want to heal?
Matt: Bonus action or movement?
Marisha: Bonus action. I'm a planetar. I don't have bonus actions.
Matt: Okay, then that's the end of Keyleth's turn. Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: I'm going to take a step to my left, and I'm going to drop a grit and I'm going to take a line shot at those two skeletons and make them go the fuck away. That's a 27 to hit.
Matt: That hits. Roll damage, and then roll for the second one.
Taliesin: That'll do. 15 points of damage plus five psychic.
Matt: All right. He is disintegrated, and then roll for the second one.
Taliesin: That's an 18?
Matt: 18? You can't misfire on the others. It still hits. Both are destroyed.
Taliesin: Okay. And I get my grit back. So I'm now going to back up against the wall. All we can do at this point is take two more shots at Vecna.
Matt: As you're starting to figure out here, what the damage pressure does is it reduces the DC required to apply the trammel.
Travis: The damage pressure?
Matt: Meaning the damage you guys put on prevents the trammel DC from climbing up.
Laura: Oh, that's good.
Taliesin: So I'm going to take another shot. I'm burning some grit for advantage, and I'm taking a sharpshooter shot. Shot number one. Natural 20! That'll hit. And let's double that up. Where's my d10? Where's my d6? That'll do. That's nice. That's (counting) 31 points of damage plus three points of psychic damage, so that's 34, plus he's going to have a bleed next round.
Matt: Correct.
Taliesin: And I get a grit back, and I'm burning my other grit for another shot.
Matt: Go for it.
Taliesin: And yeah, that's another crit!
Matt: 19?
Taliesin: 19. And that's not quite as good, but that'll do. 26 points of damage plus five psychic damage, which he'll also get half of that bleed next round. And I get my grit back. And I'm going to use my bonus to finally reload, because that was everything I had!
Matt: Gun is reloaded. That finishes Percival's turn. Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: Bigby's Hand.
Marisha: Wait, you're not going to hold your turn?
Sam: Bigby's Hand, level five. Lift me up, inspire Grog. That's it.
Marisha: And then you'll hold your action?
Sam: That's my action.
Matt: It's going to carry you up. There you go.
Marisha: I thought you were going to hold your action so you could read the book after Pike did the trammel?
Matt: It's too late now.
Sam: We need to get the last trammel in.
Marisha: I would have given Grog the trammel, dude!
Travis: We're not sure if Pike's going to make it.
Laura: Yeah, he might have to do Pike's, too.
Matt: What are you doing?
Sam: I'm going to go up near Pike, and I'm going to inspire Grog. That's it.
Matt: How do you inspire him?
Travis: Do the Taylor Swift song.
Sam: I'm going to sing  (singing) Sunday, Monday, Sarenrae! Tuesday, Wednesday, Sarenrae! Thursday, Friday, Sarenrae! Sarenrae! She's my bae! Praying all week for you!
Matt: Take your d12 for that, man! All right, Scanlan, that end your turn? All right, that brings us to Pike. Your turn.
Ashley: Okay, how far am I from my best pal Grog?
Matt: You are about 55, 60 feet from him.
Ashley: Can I get to him?
Matt: Not with your fly speed of 40, no. You can get to him, but it'll be both your move and action this turn.
Ashley: Fuck. Can I also pass him something when I'm there?
Liam: You can hold it out to him.
Ashley: Yeah, okay, so I'm going to fly up as far as I can. I'm going to hold out the trammel and stick it-- what? No?
Travis: Yeah, you're good.
Laura: It's just that Vecna gets to go between us.
Joe: That one in the middle's about to topple over if you don't push it.
Taliesin: Got to give a little pressure.
Matt: We'll say for you, Pike, you're about ten feet below Grog. Keep that in mind.
Travis: If she double dashes?
Matt: Oh, a double dash? Oh, then you're right there. Never mind. So you are good. There you go.
Sam: Relay race.
Matt: All righty. So that's your turn, Pike?
Ashley: Yeah. That's all I can do, right?
Matt: You have movement, movement, and you have a bonus if you wanted to do something.
Ashley: Can I hand him the trammel?
Matt: Not as a bonus action, no.
Ashley: Fuck. Okay, I will also cast Guidance on Grog.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: What's that?
Liam: That's key. That's great. It'll buff you a little bit on your strength check.
Ashley: Before the spell ends, a target can roll a d4.
Liam: d4 on a skill check.
Ashley: Add the roll to one ability check.
Matt: All right, that end your turn, Pike?
Ashley: Yeah.
Matt: All right. End of the round, Vecna gets his legendary actions back. Grog, Haste fades from you. As the spell fades, you feel your muscles lock up, and your entire body is currently stunned for the next round. That's what happens when the Haste spell ends. So as you're clutching, your muscles lock up, and you're still holding onto the trammel, but your entire body is locked up as exhaustion takes over, and you're basically having to hold yourself there in place.
Joe: Hold your action. Pick something good and hold it.
Matt: Vecna is going to cast, with his last 7th-level spell, a 7th-level Banishment spell. I would like both Pike and Grog to make charisma saving throws, please.
Sam: Oh, but I Counterspelled it at 8th-level. Ooh! (laughter)
Sam: That's why I got closer, motherfucker! (laughter and applause)
Travis: Oh shit.
Liam: Oh shit. Now I am the master.
Matt: Oh, well done. So as the Banishment spell fizzles in place--
Travis: You are a steely-eyed motherfucker, man.
Joe: That was clutch.
Matt: Vecna glares right in your direction.
Marisha: Oh my god, Scanlan.
Matt: All right. No words, just seething hatred in your path. That's going to end Vecna's turn. Grog, you're up.
Travis: I'm going to hold my action until I can move.
Matt: Your stun fades, but that's your turn.
Ashley: Wait, would stun be affected by Freedom of Movement? Or vice versa?
Matt: What's up?
Taliesin: Freedom of Movement would not have.
Travis: Yeah. I guess I'm straight-up stunned, huh? Can't move or take actions until its next turn. I can't move or take actions until my next turn.
Matt: Yeah, he loses his whole turn. At the end of Grog's turn, he'll use two legendary actions. He's going to cast, through the Hand of Vecna--
Liam: Mass Cure Wounds.
Matt: He's starting to run low on high-level spell slots. You guys have been running him ragged!
Travis: Oh, he doesn't have another 9th-level Meteor Strike? Another 12th-level Halley's Comet?
Taliesin: 7th-level's something fierce, though.
Joe: You both have matching dice?
Taliesin: Yeah. I love these. They're cruel, but I love these.
Matt: He's going to cast Finger of Death at you, Scanlan. Scanlan, I need you to go ahead and make a constitution saving throw.
Joe: That's good.
Sam: That's really good. 28.
Matt: That's a success. You take half damage.
Sam: Half damage.
Matt: So you take 49 points of necrotic damage, half of it.
Travis: Half of 49.
Sam: Alive!
Marisha: You're still alive?
Matt: That'll be 24 points of damage.
Laura: Are you resistant to necrotic?
Sam: No.
Taliesin: But he made his save.
Laura: I know. I just was hoping it would be half again.
Matt: How much health are you at right now?
Sam: 14.
Matt: Holy shit! Goddamn it!
Joe: That was a huge roll!
Matt: I'm both frustrated and proud. All right. Well, that ends Grog's turn with that. Vex, you're up.
Laura: Bonus action, I'm going to take a superior healing potion. So that's 8d4?
Matt: 8d4 plus eight, yeah.
Travis: Mercer, at the end of my turn, the stun fades? Or at the end of the round? I don't get a reaction or anything?
Matt: I would say it goes through the full round, it would be at the next round I'd say.
Laura: Okay, so I'm back up to 67 hit points. Fuck. Oh! No, stun, there's nothing you can do to take the effect of stun away, is there?
Matt: Yes, Greater Restoration.
Laura: Oh, that's it? Not Lesser?
Matt: I don't think Lesser gets rid of stun, unfortunately.
Laura: Fuck me. Okay. All righty. I'm going to fly up to Scanlan, and I'm going to cast Cure Wounds at 4th-level. That's 4d8 plus my wisdom. Oh, that's good! 14, 21, 27. 27 plus three. 30 points healed!
Sam: May I do a cantrip on her? Minor Illusion, just to turn her skin green. (laughter)
Matt: I'll allow it.
Travis: (singing) I'm flying high, defying gravity!
Sam: Exalted. Exalted form.
Laura: Thank you. (singing) Something has changed within me.
Sam: The hat. The broom.
Laura: All right, but it's so hot. But I'll do it.
Matt: And that's the end of your turn.
Laura: That's as far as I can move, right? I can't move any more?
Matt: To get up there? You can move five more feet.
Laura: Can I get over the edge of the floating building so I'm not flying over the crevasse?
Matt: We'll say right there. I'll put you right there.
Laura: Thank you.
Matt: You're right over the edge. Okay.
Laura: (singing) Just Scanlan and-- (speaking) No, sorry. That was terrible.
Joe: Okay, for the artists' sake, Grog and Arkhan are right next to each other.
Travis: Just so you know.
Taliesin: Always.
Laura: Whenever possible.
Joe: In case anyone was out there--
Sam: Hands shoved in each other's crotches.
Liam: Getting each other ready.
Joe: Just lubing up. Glistening.
Travis: Shit. Body-glide. (laughter)
Matt: All right, Scanlan. I would like you to-- Here it is. I'd like you to make a wisdom saving throw, please.
Sam: Not great. 15.
Matt: 15.
Laura: Why so low?
Sam: I have negative two wisdom.
Laura: You do?
Sam: I do.
Marisha: Why have we not made fun of you for that way more throughout the years?
Sam: Why do you think I make stupid decisions all the time?
Matt: Scanlan. In the grasp of Bigby's Hand, you suddenly become a tiny little fox!
Liam: Where's Pike?
Sam: Do I maintain concentration?
Matt: You maintain concentration.
Sam: But I'm a fox.
Matt: Correct.
Sam: What do I say?
Joe: You're a sly fox.
Sam: I'm a fox.
Joe: Are foxes' wisdom better than Scanlan's?
Matt: He Polymorphs you into a fox.
Travis: Pike, can you undo Polymorph?
Sam: Wow, that's terrible. Foxes can totally talk and cast spells, though, right?
Matt: No.
Taliesin: So is this a concentration spell?
Sam: Wow, that's shitty. That's a shitty low-level spell use, Matt Mercer. (laughter)
Joe: And that's a spell, correct?
Matt: That's the end of that. All right.
Taliesin: And that's not a concentration spell.
Sam: Polymorph is. But I don't actually know if that's what he used.
Matt: That was the end of Vex's turn, Vax, you're up. Polymorph: an unwilling creature must make a wisdom saving throw to avoid the effect.
Sam: Why do I have written down constitution? Well, I'm wrong.
Matt: Okay. I'll double-check. Wisdom saving throw. So anyway. What are you doing?
Liam: Do I in my knowledge in having watched this crazy motherfucker with Polymorph know if striking him and taking away his little bit of life, he poofs back, right? Okay, so bonus action to disengage from Vecnards, and I'm going to fly at that fox, and I am going to strike him with the flame tongue dagger. (cheering)
Liam: Raven Queen sends her regards, fox!
Marisha: Did John have a dead pool on when it was going to fall?
Taliesin: I would have gone with the tower.
Marisha: That would have been my bet.
Joe: Was there a Jenga pool?
Matt: All right. So we'll say you were there, you were there.
Travis: The fox is by your left hand.
Joe: Left hand, right.
Matt: There we go. I see it. There we go. Fixed!
Liam: Thankfully, it's not sneak attack, but I rolled a natural 20 and rolled a one, so the dice get doubled to two, plus my modifier of six on the flame tongue is eight, so he gets hit for eight hit points of damage. Do I see a gnome or a fox?
Sam: I assume fox will not survive very long.
Joe: I don't think a fox has eight hit points.
Marisha: We know a kitten has one hit point. Wait, five? Two hit points? A kitten's worth? A kitten's worth of hit points.
Liam: It's a fox. It's like a cat or a dog. It's nothing.
Sam: You might have to dagger-dagger-dagger me.
Matt: We'll say six hit points. So a total of how much damage was it?
Liam: It was eight total.
Matt: So you take two damage.
Liam: And we'll call that my hasted action, and with my regular action, I will put my hands on the side of Ioun's chosen and use Lay on Hands to give him 20 hit points back, and then I will use the rest of my movement to fly back into Vecna's fucking face. And I have no attacks left, but I'll stay there.
Matt: All righty.
Laura: Jenga.
Liam: Jenga!
Matt: All right, at the end of Vax's turn--
Sam: At the end of the night, it's going to be up in the rafters!
Matt: He is going to cast a fifth-level Banishment.
Laura: On who?
Travis: There's a fucking treehouse on top of the Fraggle Rock construction.
Matt: So I need a charisma saving throw on Grog and Scanlan.
Sam: 21.
Travis: 12.
Matt: Both Scanlan and Grog (poof) from existence. Bigby's Hand remains, because concentration is maintained-- oh god!
Sam: Everything's breaking. Pike broke. Pike straight-up broke.
Ashley: That's okay. It's okay.
Sam: Right, the first roll was a nine, right?
Joe: Oh no. What's that?
Sam: The first roll I did was a nine? It was nine, yeah.
Joe: It was either a six or a nine. I don't know.
Matt: Look at that.
Joe: You have glue?!
Matt: Hopefully it hasn't dried up.
Sam: Here, we'll work on it while you DM. We've got it. Give it over here.
Matt: There you go. (laughs)
Travis: I do have advantage on them because of mage slayer, just in case.
Laura: And you would have gotten to attack him!
Travis: Oh, that's actually a 20! I rolled a 19 on the advantage roll.
Matt: It's not enough, unfortunately, and mage slayer is a reaction. They both vanish from the space. All right.
Taliesin: Did he take his half damage from me, by the way, from the crits?
Matt: Yes, he did. 22 was the total from that one. All right. That brings us back to the 20. At which point, the dark energy emanates once more, removing any sort of necrotic resistance from anybody within the vicinity.
Liam: Removing resistance?
Laura: Yeah, we don't get necrotic for the next turn.
Matt: Arkhan.
Sam: Did Pike give the trammel already?
Travis: No, she had it out in her hand. She couldn't give it to me.
Sam: She still has it?
Marisha: But you're gone, so that sucks.
Laura: But if we can break his concentration, they come back, right?
Joe: Okay, that's going to be 31.
Matt: 31 hits.
Joe: That's a straight-up 2d8. And yes, I said "two die eight," people at home. I'm old school, okay? I learned how to play in the 80s, and we say "two die eight." Not bad. That's going to be 30 points of damage.
Matt: 30 points of damage. All righty.
Sam: Halved? What kind of damage?
Joe: It's 30. Straight-up slashing.
Travis: He has disadvantage on his saving throws.
Matt: That's going to be a 21, so he succeeds on the first hit.
Joe: Okay. 27.
Matt: 27 hits.
Sam: Come on, roll big.
Joe: That's another 30 points of damage.
Matt: 30 points of damage again. Making his save. That's ten plus seven. That's 17, so yes, because the DC is 15 for the damage he takes, so he succeeds.
Travis: And that's with disadvantage, too!
Sam: You got this, friend. No, you don't got this.
Joe: 23 for my third attack.
Taliesin: That hits.
Laura: Big damage.
Joe: I can't do much more than what I did before, but that's 25. Get a one. Roll a one!
Matt: That's a two. Two and a three!
Sam: Two and a three?
Matt: Yeah. (cheering)
Matt: Damn it. Okay, then.
Liam: Back in the game!
Matt: Okay. Arkhan, end of your turn?
Joe: That's it. That's all I've got.
Matt: All right, that brings us to Keyleth.
Marisha: Okay, you have the trammel. No, Pike has the trammel. Scanlan, how many hit points do you have?
Sam: 62.
Marisha: Do I do more damage to this guy, or do I heal Scanlan? Pike, what about you?
Ashley: I'm at 106.
Marisha: You all right?
Ashley: Yeah. Heal Scanlan.
Marisha: Scanlan's got the book.
Liam: He's the most important. I'm not important.
Marisha: Fuck. Yeah, I'm going to fly down and do a healing touch on Scanlan.
Sam: Keyleth, I can take care of myself.
Taliesin: Shut the fuck up.
Travis: Shut your beautiful mouth!
Marisha: You've got the fucking book!
Travis: God. I'm rubbing my thigh, but there's nothing wrong with it! (laughter)
Sam: I can't get any superglue to come out of this shit. I've been biting on it. I've been doing all kinds of shit to it. We need a knife.
Matt: Well, no wonder it's not coming out.
Joe: I've got more work for you to do. Put the shield back on.
Sam: I need a knife or scissors.
Matt: (laughs) You chewed the end closed!
Travis: Did Arkhan break?
Matt: Yeah, the shield came off.
Sam: It's okay. It's the last episode.
Marisha: 39 plus three, so 42. You get 42 hit points.
Sam: Me?
Marisha: Yeah.
Sam: Oh shit, that's actually great!
Marisha: And you are freed from any curse, disease, poison, blindness, or deafness. And I'm going to use the rest of my movement to go up and get in Vecna's face, as well, and be like, what's up? Oh hey, we're pulling an Alfred Hitchcock right now! Birds. Birds!
Travis: "You can't see me" doesn't work because you're in his face.
Marisha: I'm John Cena.
Matt: All righty, that brings us to Percy.
Taliesin: There's been a lot of damage done this round, hasn't there? There's been a reasonable amount.
Joe: Watch that, because it's going that way. Or you can put him on the base or something. Or we could pretend he's on top of that thing.
Marisha: This is my favorite mini game!
Taliesin: I've got a weird question  if I burn a grit point for an arm shot, can I make him drop his hand?
Matt: What's that?
Taliesin: If I burn a grit point for an arm shot, can I make him drop his hand?
Matt: No, it's attached to his body.
Taliesin: I know it's stitched on--
Matt: It's attached to his body.
Taliesin: If I hit it a bunch--
Matt: You can't shoot his hand off.
Taliesin: That's fine. I was spit-balling. I'm going to curl around the corner and I'm going to hold my turn for-- who's the last of us to go? I'm going to hold my turn for any spells that he casts, and I'm going to blast him three times the second he casts a spell on anybody. Right after a spell, I'm going to hit him.
Matt: Scanlan, your turn.
Sam: My turn? I've already inspired Grog.
Liam: Hold for Pike.
Sam: I'll hold for Pike.
Matt: All right, what are you holding?
Sam: I'm going to hold the book! And I will inspire Pike.
Laura: Yeah, that's good.
Taliesin: Man, he's looking way too smug.
Travis: Yeah, he's got one legendary resistance left. He's been saving it.
Sam: I'll inspire Pike, yeah.
Matt: All right. So Pike, take your inspiration die. What do you say to Pike?
Sam: I will sing to her  (singing) She's a good girl. (groaning)
Sam: That's it. (laughter)
Sam: (singing) Loves her Scanlan.
Matt: All righty. Pike, it's your turn.
Joe: (singing) Loves chicken.
Ashley: No. Let's not do it. Okay. Passing over the trammel to Grog, is that a bonus action, or that's my action? Because I'm right next to him?
Matt: I'd say handing it over point-to-point, I'll allow it to be part of an action because he's right next to you and he's capable now.
Ashley: Okay. Because I was going to also try something else, but I don't know if I can. I was also going to try to clasp my holy symbol and try to see if I can do Divine Intervention.
Matt: Okay. Roll 2d10. Roll the first one; tell me what you get.
Travis: Yeah, fuck it. Why not, right?
Marisha: Can you bring that third trammel back? You get to ask your god for something awesome.
Liam: This is the giant dragon punch. We saw in the past.
Ashley: Six?
Matt: Okay, that's not a success, unfortunately. I know, sorry! Sarenrae's influence cannot break past this barrier right now, with your proximity to Vecna. The sheer force of his current presence is too strong.
Ashley: All right, I'll pass the trammel to Grog.
Sam: You aren't going to use your inspiration? All right, whatever.
Ashley: Can't use it for that. Can I subtract whatever I roll for the inspiration?
Matt: (laughs) Unfortunately, no. He's going to attempt to Fire Bolt--
Joe: You mean reverse math?
Ashley: Yeah, reverse math. (laughs)
Matt: Going to Fire Bolt you, Vax. That's going to be a 21 to hit.
Liam: No, fuck you.
Travis: I'll use my reaction now that the end of the round is over with to make an attack on him.
Matt: Well, it's not until the very end of the round.
Travis: Oh, I thought it was the very end.
Matt: Now it's the end of the round. You have control of yourself back. We're back at the top of the round, which is Vecna.
Travis: I've stopped peeing myself.
Joe: Matt, we've got a good thing going on with this glue now. Could you pass me Arkhan back?
Liam: I love that we are working on miniatures at the table.
Joe: It's helping us with our nerves.
Liam: Oh, it's very calming, working on minis.
Joe: You got some watercolors back there, Matt? (laughter)
Matt: Strangely, no.
Liam: On his utility belt.
Joe: We got tape. We got glue. We got everything.
Matt: Oh, this will be interesting.
Ashley: I have a question. Has Vecna still been healing with each round?
Travis: We've been dealing some pretty good damage.
Liam: Yeah, we've been hurting him pretty bad.
Travis: Especially with Ark--
Liam: The Ark reactor.
Ashley: That was crazy.
Sam: Wow, this is the fucking craziest game ever. It's midnight.
Taliesin: Is it? I can't feel anything.
Marisha: The fact that none of us are dead.
Matt: Trust me, I know.
Sam: Marvel Puzzle Quest!
Matt: Vecna is going to, through the Hand Of Vecna, begin to attempt to Teleport.
Laura: No!
Taliesin: I take my shots.
Marisha: Fuck that hand.
Joe: Fucking chop that hand.
Travis: I do have a reaction.
Liam: Does reaction work like attack of opportunity?
Travis: No, I do. I have a melee reaction.
Taliesin: I'm going to take my shots. Shot number one. Yeah, as long as I've got reaction I knew what I was doing.
Matt: Because you held action, so yes.
Marisha: And how far can he go?
Joe: He can go anywhere.
Taliesin: That would have been 25. These are all sharpshooter, fuck it.
Sam: Do I have a reaction?
Matt: You would.
Sam: Is it worth it?
Liam: To keep him here? Yeah. He's running away.
Marisha: He's trying to run away, trying to teleport away.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: Are you going to try to Counterspell?
Sam: I'll Counterspell.
Matt: Okay. What level?
Sam: Nine.
Liam: Oh.
Marisha: (whoops)
Joe: That was pretty clutch.
Marisha: That's right, you used your Wish last night.
Matt: Well, that definitely works. (laughs) Okay, then.
Travis: I'm still going to hit you.
Matt: Go for it.
Sam: That was going to save Vax.
Travis: Can I take the Sword of Kas and aim for the Hand of Vecna? Can I try and chop the wrist?
Matt: Sure. Try for it.
Travis: Why not? Reckless.
Matt: You have disadvantage on the attack, though.
Travis: Okay. Well, I have advantage normally, reckless, so just a straight roll. 32?
Matt: Yeah, that hits.
Liam: Yeah. That's our Grog.
Laura: That's our Grog!
Sam: I'm sorry, Liam.
Laura: Anybody got a camera so we can put this in the scrapbook later?
Taliesin: No. It's okay.
Sam: Sorry, bud.
Travis: 33. Hand stay on him?
Matt: Hand stays on him, yeah.
Travis: Okay. Cool. That's just my reaction.
Joe: You trying to chop off his hand?
Travis: Yeah, thought I'd maybe Luke Skywalker his hand.
Matt: That ends Vecna's turn. He seems extremely frustrated.
Taliesin: And he just took from me, because I took my shots. It was 26 damage plus one psychic for the first one. Goddamn it. The other one hits, and again, goddamn it. 24 damage plus one psychic. And the third shot probably does not hit. Third shot does not hit.
Matt: Okay. (gunshots) Everyone's swarming up around him, and each time he tries to cast a spell, even in his current divine form, he's growing more and more frustrated. You can see now as this hulking entity is still bursting into Vasselheim and destroying, you can see a moment of panic in a fresh god's eyes. Ends Vecna's turn. Grog, you're up.
Travis: With all the rage I've ever had, I will reckless attack. Grab the trammel from Pike and aim it right in his stupid chest.
Matt: Go ahead and make a strength check, Grog.
Travis: Yeah, enough. Inspiration because fuck it, why not? Yep. That's 33.
Laura: You don't get that because it's strength.
Travis: Oh, right. 33.
Laura: He's marking off a resistance. You just did that, didn't you?
Matt: That's actually not what I did, but you can think what you want. All right, so what's the grand total on that?
Travis: 33 was the total.
Matt: 33. As you take the trammel, grabbing the bottom of the ribcage, curving it underneath, you thrust it up into the core center, it seems, of his chest, where the avatar arcane energy is amassed. And as the trammel squeezes in, you hear the guttural rage from the inside of Vecna, screaming, "You dare!" And as he inhales, the force of the voice is pulled back into a moment of weakness, and once again, you can see the fear flickering in the eyes. The burning rage of the green flame begins to diminish ever so slightly as the second trammel is applied.
Travis: Cool. I'm going to keep hitting him. I have my hasted attack.
Matt: You don't have a hasted attack. It faded.
Travis: Oh, that's right. Sorry. Yeah. My bonus action is a straight-up reckless. 17. That's a million. 35 is to hit. Eight, 24, 32, 42. Enlarge. 44.
Matt: As you're cutting through the body, you see bits of Vecna's avatar form tattering and falling apart. I would like you to make an intelligence check.
Sam: 22.
Matt: You were told and knew that you could not kill a god. A god that ascended from a lich form generally has the capability, if the body is destroyed, to reform elsewhere. You begin to get the sense that at a certain point, if you end up destroying this avatar form, it might ruin everything.
Sam: As in, don't use the book?
Laura: As in, don't keep attacking him.
Sam: As in don't kill him.
Laura: If we keep attacking him, he's going to take too much damage.
Marisha: The trammels are in.
Sam: The two trammels are in? He has one more legendary save.
Joe: Read the book.
Travis: Literally, it's all we got.
Liam: It's Reading Rainbow time.
Joe: Time to cross the streams.
Taliesin: If we're not careful, this gets worse.
Sam: Is someone before me?
Matt: Grog, that ends your turn. Vex, you're up.
Marisha: We're all before you.
Laura: What's your hit points at now, Scanlan?
Sam: I'm fine.
Marisha: Just tell us what your hit points are.
Sam: 106. I'm fine.
Laura: I'm going to cast Cure Wounds on Scanlan at 3rd-level. 19 plus three is 22 hit points, and I'm going to fly down next to Percy.
Matt: You get roughly to the edge here with your 50 movement. I'll say you can land. Sure. I'll allow it. Okay. That ends your turn. Vax, you're up.
Liam: I'm going to use a bonus action to look over my shoulder and see everyone that I know. I'm going to see my sister and her husband. I'm going to see the woman that I love. I'm going to see Grog. I'm going to see Arkhan. I'm going to see my friend Scanlan. And then I'm going to dig into Vecna's eye and stab away.
Laura: Don't do too much damage!
Liam: It's too late.
Travis: What? It's not too late. Retcon that shit. You haven't rolled a thing.
Liam: No?
Travis: No. He just told us.
Liam: I will use it to grapple.
Matt: Okay. So make an acrobatics or athletics check.
Liam: Should I reroll?
Matt: Actually, for grapple, it may just be athletics. Let me double-check here.
Liam: Two rolls here, unused.
Matt: It's an athletics check, so roll athletics.
Liam: That is a 22.
Matt: 19 plus five, 24. Grapple fails.
Liam: All right. That was my-- (clattering over Skype) (laughter)
Ashley: I was getting a tissue, and I dropped a fork.
Liam: That was my hasted action. I'm going to stay here and fucking hug Vecna's face.
Matt: All right. That brings us to the 20. The buildings shift back once more across the ground. These begin to rotate and spread outward this way. That one merely stays where it is. At this point in time, Arkhan?
Joe: So we don't want to do any more damage?
Taliesin: No.
Joe: All right. I'm going to attempt to grapple his arm with that hand on it.
Matt: Okay.
Joe: That's good. That's a natural 19. What would I add? Proficiency plus strength?
Matt: This would be, on a grapple? That's athletics check.
Joe: Oh. Athletics check.
Travis: I don't think the hand comes off unless the person goes.
Joe: 30.
Matt: Okay, and that was a 19, so you are currently grappling the hand.
Joe: Okay. And that's my whole action?
Matt: That's an attack to grapple.
Joe: Attack. Oh, attack. What do I do with my other attacks? Hold? There's no way to twist the hand off? He tried. He tried it before.
Matt: It's on there pretty tight. It's not just a hand you can cut off. It's an artifact. It's returned to its original owner.
Marisha: I would be dropping my planetar shape which is making me fly right now.
Joe: Can I hold my bonus?
Matt: No, it's an action.
Joe: I'm out.
Matt: Spent your turn, yeah.
Joe: Is there a way to pull him down?
Matt: Not at this size and the fact that you're flying there; he's too big.
Joe: All right. Then I'm going to hang. Just going to grapple.
Matt: That brings us to Keyleth.
Sam: What you got, girl?
Laura: Can you grapple him?
Sam: Grapple and pull him down.
Marisha: Okay. Yeah. I'll take the other side that Arkhan has not. Grab the other side of him and try and grapple him, leaving him open and available for Scanlan.
Matt: Make an athletics check.
Sam: You have no spells that don't do damage? Nothing that holds, nothing that silences? Nothing that feebles? Not as Keyleth?
Marisha: I'm a planetar. If I drop this, then I fall. What am I doing? Athletics check?
Matt: The current avatar form looks like it's--
Joe: It's about to go.
Matt: It's pretty bad.
Taliesin: Yeah, we do not want to kill him.
Marisha: Oh, I had bonuses to saving throws that I didn't even fucking realize. It's pretty good. 23.
Joe: Sorry, on saving throws, anyone within ten feet of me gains plus four.
Matt: So you now have Arkhan grappling a hand, you have Grog grappling the side of the torso. Keyleth, you turn over and grapple part of the body. You guys are basically holding Vecna at bay at the moment.
Sam: We can always bring you back.
Matt: Is that your turn, Keyleth?
Marisha: I don't even know what I have that would make him burn it. I don't really have anything. I don't think he would go for it.
Taliesin: This just means we have to live through one roll. I'm holding my action for any movement or anything that he may do. I'm holding my action for signs of life.
Matt: Scanlan, it's your turn.
Sam: Chapter One  The rites of banishment are ancient and powerful. They cannot be stopped by anyone, not even a god. I read. I read powerfully and strong.
Matt: All right. He's going to make his wisdom saving throw with a DC 20 because of two trammels. That is a 17. He's going to use his last legendary resistance to succeed.
Taliesin: Next round.
Matt: The text goes blurred to you on the book, so you cannot read it for a full round. Somebody else could.
Marisha: A full round.
Joe: What is the basis of reading that thing?
Sam: Someone needs to cast a 3rd-level spell on it.
Laura: I have 3rd-levels left.
Matt: It's still glowing. The text is glowing for an hour.
Marisha: It's an arcane thing though, right?
Sam: I can't read it, but other people can?
Matt: Once you've put the spell slot into it, the text becomes visible.
Laura: Which you did.
Sam: I did that.
Matt: Correct.
Taliesin: So now you can only try and read it. Anybody can try and read it any six seconds as long as it-- What language is it, again?
Joe: If you fail, then you can't read it for a round.
Matt: Is anybody else here trained in arcana?
Liam: Trained in arcana?
Marisha: That was what I was asking. None of us are, unless you are, Arkhan.
Joe: Arkhan does not have an arcana.
Marisha: So we have to hold this motherfucker down for a round?
Matt: You do.
Sam: Is Pike-- No, she's divinely--
Matt: I don't know. Pike, are you trained in arcana? Do you have proficiency in arcana?
Ashley: I don't know. I don't think so.
Joe: Anyone else intelligent? What's that?
Travis: You're grappling him too, right?
Taliesin: So long as you guys all hold--
Matt: This text is far too illegible for somebody who isn't trained in arcana.
Marisha: Hang on, is it something I can do as a planetar that can read all languages and is also telepathic?
Matt: Planetars can read all languages?
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: You can certainly try.
Laura: Give it a try, Keyleth. Because what difference does it make? You have nothing to lose.
Matt: So at the end of Scanlan's turn--
Sam: Wait. Is anyone else?
Marisha: I can read all languages as a planetar.
Joe: It's like the scene in Monster Squad when the kid goes, "Is she a virgin?"
Matt: At the end of Scanlan's turn--
Sam: I cast my bonus action inspiration on Keyleth.
Matt: Okay. How do you inspire her?
Sam: (singing) Here's the story. Of a lovely druid. Who thought she could fly as a goldfish. But she couldn't, and she became fish paste. And I wish I had Wish.
Matt: Take your d12 inspiration die.
Marisha: Okay. I have it now.
Matt: Okay. End of Scanlan's turn. Going to use two legendary actions to attempt to cast Dominate Person.
Taliesin: Can he do it without arms?
Matt: Well, not both arms are currently grappled to the point where the arms can't move.
Taliesin: Okay, because there's a lot of people grappling him.
Matt: He's also a very big guy. Grappling is more of holding onto him and preventing him from moving, but he can still move. It's a hard thing. It's a little wishy-washy at this size. All right, so Scanlan, I need you to make a wisdom saving throw.
Sam: I'll cast Counterspell.
Matt: At what level?
Sam: Three.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and roll. (shouting)
Taliesin: What!
Marisha: For no reason.
Joe: Scanlan has had the craziest last hour ever!
Taliesin: Can't deal.
Liam: Oh my god.
Joe: You just killed, dude.
Marisha: Oh my gods. Oh my Pelor. Oh my Sarenrae.
Matt: So now it's Pike's turn. Pike, your turn.
Ashley: Okay. Am I close to Keyleth at all?
Matt: Yeah. You're actually right up there with Keyleth.
Ashley: Okay. I'm going to float by Keyleth.
Matt: What are you doing?
Ashley: I'm going to float by Keyleth. Cast Guidance on her.
Matt: Okay.
Ashley: And as a bonus action, cast Sanctuary on her.
Matt: Okay. All right. That finish your turn, Pike?
Ashley: Yes.
Matt: All right.
Ashley: Can I move again?
Matt: You can move if you want.
Ashley: I want to move close to Grog.
Matt: Okay. That's easy enough. You guys are all clustered around him. Okay. That ends Pike's turn. End of your turn, he's going to use two more legendary actions to attempt to cast 4th-level Banishment on Scanlan. He's running through what things he can.
Marisha: 4th-level Banishment on Scanlan?
Matt: All right. Make a charisma saving throw, please.
Marisha: Come on, charisma.
Liam: Burt Reynolds, do it.
Sam: 30. I'm charisma as fuck! (laughter)
Joe: This is craziness!
Sam: First roll two. Second roll 18.
Joe: We got to go to Vegas after this is done!
Matt: Top of the round. Vecna's turn. Legendary actions are returned. At this point now, the titan has waded into the center of Vasselheim. Each progressive round, it's been this one footstep after the other. You can hear screams and yells, but you also see the divine temples in the distance are beginning to summon various bits of divine energy from those in the clerics that reside within the city. You can see a storm has now merged with the darkness that Vecna has spread over the city, and lightning bolts are beginning to be brought down in a familiar crack that you heard when you were battling Groon. As you can see now, the acolytes of the recently fallen Trial Forge are bringing their rage down upon the exterior of this entire swarm of gloomstalkers and the titan. Vecna is going to try again. He's going to cast another Banishment on Scanlan. "Would you just be rid of me, finally? Go! Die!" Make another charisma saving throw.
Travis: Does Vecna have to speak to cast Banishment?
Sam: Not good. Not good, both.
Joe: Does anyone have anything that negates--
Taliesin: You can inspire yourself.
Matt: Well, not for a saving throw, he can't. What did you roll?
Sam: 18.
Matt: Scanlan, with the book, vanishes from sight. At this point, Vecna, who's being held by all, (chuckles) "Come on, show me what you're worth."
Travis: I'll do that right now. I'll use my reaction against mage slayer, and I'm going to punch him in the face. Just punch.
Matt: At this point, you watch as one of the titan's arms is now rising up over the tower. You get the sense he's getting really desperate.
Travis: Oh Jesus. Just trying to break concentration, so I'm going to (punch).
Sam: Do what you've got to do.
Matt: Go for it, Grog.
Travis: Reckless.
Matt: As Vecna's lifting his right hand up, even in the grasp, you can see the titan's arm rising up like it's being puppeteered by Vecna as it puts another shadow down upon the top of Entropis. This large multi-hundred-foot-wide ram of sheer rock. All right.
Travis: 25 to hit. 1d4. Three plus eight.
Matt: Total damage is?
Travis: 11.
Matt: 11? Okay.
Travis: He's got to roll at disadvantage.
Matt: He does. 12 and 12 plus seven each. So yeah, he succeeds. That's the end of Vecna's turn, who's locked in place. Now it's your turn, Grog.
Taliesin: He has healed 50, though, in theory.
Matt: He did. He healed 50 hit points in the last turn.
Sam: So hit him 50 points, Grog.
Travis: All right. I'll hit him with the sword of Kas. Reckless. That's a critical. That was a 19. I'm not used to hitting on those. Oh shit.
Laura: Oh no. Just the one to break his concentration.
Sam: Roll high.
Travis: I already rolled high.
Liam: Close your eyes.
Marisha: It didn't help for me earlier; I rolled a three.
Liam: Close your eyes.
Travis: Oh, fuck me. Oh shit. 28.
Laura: Oh my god.
Travis: 36. That's a one, but I've got to re-roll it. 42. Yeah. 58.
Taliesin: Yeah. He wasn't like 20 points away.
Matt: Okay. So he has to make a DC at half that, which is going to be DC of 24.
Taliesin: Disadvantage.
Matt: Well, no. Not on this.
Travis: On saving throws? If I damage you--
Matt: Oh. Any time with mage slayer? Oh, that's right!
Travis: When you damage a creature that's-- yep.
Matt: 18 to a natural one. (shouting)
Matt: Man, that's crazy.
Sam: You made this world, Matt.
Matt: Yeah, I know. And with that, Scanlan appears back in place.
Travis: I will forego the rest of my turn.
Matt: Oh shit. Okay, that's the end of Grog's turn. Vex?
Travis: Oh my god.
Taliesin: Huddle in fear at this point.
Laura: Yeah, right?
Taliesin: Hi. I'm back there. Come join me.
Marisha: I use my action to go fetal.
Laura: What's your health at?
Taliesin: I'm fine. I'm 88.
Marisha: That's under a hundred, though.
Laura: I know. I'm going to cast Cure Wounds at 3rd-level on Percy. Six, nine. So 11. No, 12, sorry.
Matt: Okay. That's your turn.
Laura: For my bonus action, I'm going to take a greater healing potion.
Matt: Go for it. Okay.
Laura: So that's 4d4.
Matt: Are you going to move, as well?
Laura: Yes. Whoa, that's good. 11 plus four is 15 to me. And then I'm going to run over to Percy, and I'm going to hold his hand.
Matt: Just enough movement to come over and hold Percy's hand.
Laura: But I'm going to keep looking up at what's going on up there.
Matt: Okay. As you guys stand there looking up, hand in hand, glaring as Scanlan reappears in place, and with the shadow now looming over Entropis in a long line across the city of Thar Amphala as this massive titan arm is rising up. That's going to end that. Vax, what are you doing?
Liam: Okay. I would like to cast Compelled Duel on Vecna. It's a long shot, but I'm going to do it.
Marisha: The fuck is that?
Liam: One creature that you can see within range must make a wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the creature is drawn to you, compelled by your divine demand.
Joe: It's a weird paladin spell.
Travis: There's always a one out there.
Liam: So I would like to do it.
Matt: All right. That is a 24.
Liam: Sure. Okay. So that didn't work. For my action, I would like to steal a bonus kiss from Keyleth of the Air Ashari.
Matt: I don't believe you've kissed her in her Keytar form, so it's a new experience for you.
Liam: Every different form-- male, female, big, tall, small, whatever-- I'm in love. And I would like to use my regular action to fly in front of Scanlan Shorthalt, five feet in front of him, and splay my wings as wide as they can and flip the double birds to the biggest dick on the fucking planet.
Marisha: (air horns)
Liam: In front of Scanlan.
Matt: The tape is wearing off. It's worked well enough for most of it. Vecna's going to take attack of opportunity on you as you rush by.
Liam: Good.
Joe: Can he take an attack of opportunity physically with me hanging onto his hand and her on the other hand? I'm just along for the ride?
Matt: You're swung along as he strikes. (screams) Swing in place. That's going to be a ten. There we go. 27.
Liam: That hits. I'll use uncanny dodge to reduce it to half.
Matt: Okay. All right. That is 24 points of cold damage, and you're immune to paralysis, so it doesn't do anything else. All right. Arkhan.
Joe: Okay. Everyone's appeared. I'm grappled. There's nothing to be done here. Can I hold movement or is it hold action?
Matt: Just an action.
Sam: You have to name the action.
Joe: Okay. I will hold my action in case he disappears.
Matt: Okay. Keyleth, it's your turn.
Marisha: Okay. I fly down over Scanlan's shoulder and attempt to read the damn book.
Matt: You probably have to take the tome from him to read it.
Joe: Wings in front, wings in back? This is crazy. This is a cool tableau.
Matt: Scanlan's being held up by Bigby's Hand in the center. Black-winged angel of fate and death on one side. The white-winged planetar of Keyleth representing life on the other.
Marisha: With antlers. Always antlers.
Matt: You take the book from Scanlan. You spend your action to try and read it?
Laura: Yes.
Liam: Yes.
Matt: Which you can, because your planetar form--
Marisha: Do I get anything? What do I do?
Sam: Nothing.
Marisha: I've got inspiration and d4, right?
Matt: You just read it. It's his saving throw.
Marisha: He saves.
Matt: He saves. You just read it. You begin to recite from the text like Scanlan did. As the mysterious words begin to emit from the--
Travis: What is it?
Matt: Let me take a quick picture of this.
Marisha: What does that mean? It's always good or bad. [music]
Taliesin: Should be texting that fast.
Matt: As you read from the book, page after page, the words come out, something you don't seem to understand in your mind, but the form understands, and as it does, the runes glow. You look up as the trammels begin to glow. One, two. You hear this sucking sound. How do you guys want to do this? (shouting)
Laura: Oh my god.
Matt: Describe your support of this. You guys are holding Vecna back. How do you prepare for this, as he's currently being held by these trammels in place?
Laura: I grab Percy up on the broom so we can fly up.
Travis: I take out the immovable rod out of the bag of holding, and I put the heel of my hand against the trammel as it starts to push, just to help it.
Liam: I grab Scanlan like a football for old times' sake and I come up behind Keyleth and I kiss her on the cheek and stare forward.
Marisha: We all spoon each other as a winged spooning circle while holding Scanlan while holding the book.
Sam: Bigby's Hand is gently tickling my taint. (laughter)
Travis: I make sure Pike's with me over here.
Ashley: Yeah. I fly up next to Grog, and if he has a free hand, I hold the other hand.
Travis: Yeah. I hold hands with Pike.
Matt: As you guys are there, clutching him in this form, you watch as suddenly the dark clouds above begin to part directly above the tower as the titan arm is lifted up and beginning to make its way down in your direction as the shadow strengthens. The trammels (explosion) in the side of the head. "No. Too long. Too long!" (agonized yell) As they suddenly vibrantly brighten, you watch as the lattice of the Divine Gate begins to spread out around his body, the energy begin to consume his form. And within one bright, fiery, sun explosion-like flash and a sound like a deafening thunderclap not feet from where your body is, all of you are thrown from the detonation as Vecna claps out of existence. You all begin to fall as the entirety of the field dissipates around Thar Amphala. The first sunlight probably ever to really touch the city hits. As you watch, waves of gloomstalkers dissipate as the cloud slowly pulls away. The large titan arm grinds to a halt from above as its entire undead body halts, locked in place, the magic that maintained it no longer of this plane. You fall. There is a platform not too far from you. I would like those who were clasping on to Vecna to make a strength saving throw to try and capture yourself on the edge.
Joe: Is anyone within ten feet of me?
Laura: Grog and Pike are.
Joe: You get a plus four.
Travis: Sick.
Ashley: Am I rolling, as well?
Matt: You're flying; you're fine.
Sam: Can J'mon catch anyone?
Matt: Unfortunately, the force cage is still in place. It lasts for an hour.
Travis: I rolled a 22.
Matt: 22, okay.
Joe: 17.
Matt: Okay. You both manage to barely catch on to the edge. The strain is immense, and you both still manage to suffer 23 points of general strain damage. Technically, it's the fall damage, but you caught yourself. You barely pull yourself back up onto these platforms. The tethers still remain, holding it, but you don't know how long it'll be there, as the energy is subsiding around this tower. You all take a moment to imagine what you've lost, what you've gained. Everything has led to this moment. And in the quiet and the stillness, you hear a new sound. It's thousands and thousands of distant voices cheering from the city of Vasselheim below. Of wyvern and eagle riders above you. But a small example of the hundreds of thousands of lives you may have saved.
Laura: I'm staring at Vax.
Marisha: Same. Holding on desperately.
Matt: Anyone else do anything?
Sam: Yeah. I go up to Vax. Palm over to him.
Matt: The hand did come off, actually. The body vanished, but the hand, the artifact still remains behind.
Joe: Then it's time to destroy this thing once and for all. I kneel down, and I place the hand down on the ground. I raise my axe above my head and I say a prayer to Tiamat. And I bring the axe down and chop my hand off, put Vecna's hand on, use my healing pool to heal, and teleport out. I'm sorry, it was just business. Until we meet again.
Marisha: Wait. What?
Taliesin: Did we just get janked? We just got robbed! It's hard to get out of here, isn't it?
Matt: (laughing) You guys watch as Arkhan--
Liam: See you in the next campaign, motherfucker!
Marisha: Oh my god.
Liam: Power move!
Marisha: Oh my god.
Taliesin: Okay, that just happened.
Marisha: All right, you know. Yeah. Don't congratulate him! Don't encourage that!
Matt: Without even the mental strength, the emotional strength to take in the ramifications of what just transpired, you all look to each other in this moment of victory. A year's journey. And you breathe a sigh of relief, true relief. And that's where we're going to end tonight's game. We'll pick up on this next week. Holy shit, you guys.
Taliesin: What. Holy fuck, man.
Travis: Holy cow.
Matt: You are the luckiest motherfucker, I swear to god.
Travis: "Ooh, but I dispelled it. That's why I moved closer."
Liam: Lucky and smart.
Matt: All of you guys.
Travis: MVP'ed it.
Sam: You trained us all.
Taliesin: We learned it from watching you.
Marisha: We learned it from watching you.
Sam: Yep, we did.
Taliesin: Wow.
Matt: Okay. Well, on that note, those of you who are still with us, thank you for being so patient.
Sam: "Those of you who are still with us?" It's fucking everybody.
Matt: I hope so. I know it's been long. We're at 12:40.
Taliesin: Yeah, it is late.
Laura: It is so late.
Matt: But what a way to finish a final boss, man.
Liam: I didn't use two of my luck. I saved them!
Travis: After all this time, you finally saved them.
Matt: As a note, he had ten hit points left. (gasping)
Taliesin: Okay, that could have gone real bad.
Liam: Real bad.
Matt: And his ability discorporation. When Vecna drops to zero hit points, his avatar form is destroyed but his essence travels back to his phylactery demiplane just beyond the Prime Material, and he is unable to take physical form for a time.
Travis: That punch was super close.
Laura: But he would have still been a god, technically?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: Oh my god.
Ashley: Ugh.
Liam: We would have had to have done five more games for this thing to end.
Matt: This would have gone into a few more sessions, and he would have come back with far more knowledge and far more preparation before he's up against you guys.
Taliesin: Yeah, nope.
Sam: Everyone was clutch. Pike.
Marisha: Yeah, everyone.
Sam: Keyleth for the win. The most wisdom she's ever had. (laughter)
Marisha: In another form. Can read all languages.
Liam: Sam. You were trying to save a Wish for me?
Ashley: Matt!
Travis: Yeah, the gnarliest map of all time.
Matt: I'm glad that worked out. (applause)
Matt: All right. It's late.
Taliesin: It's so late.
Laura: I love you guys.
Matt: Love you guys.
Taliesin: Love you.
Travis: We pick this up next week.
Taliesin: Oh yeah. Oh, we ain't done.
Liam: Yeah. I get to play the first two minutes of the game.
Laura: Shut up.
Matt: Shut up.
Liam: Love you.
Travis: Johnson, we love you.
Laura: Johnson!
Liam: We're so glad you were here from the start of the game, Ash!
Matt: It's 3 30, 4 30.
Laura: What time is your call in the morning?
Ashley: I don't have to work tomorrow. (cheering)
Matt: Thank you Blindspot for releasing her early enough to come play with us tonight.
Taliesin: Thank you, Blindspot. Oh my god.
Matt: Thank you guys for watching. We'll pick this up next week. Until then, rest well, we love you, and is it Thursday yet?
Taliesin: Yeah, it is. [music]

[END OF EPISODE]