The following lines contains multiple episode transcripts of a Dungeons and Dragons game played by a group of players. Each episode transcript is delimited by [START OF EPISODE] and [END OF EPISODE]. The transcripts are followed by a question about the game statistics. Answer the question based on the transcripts. Do not try to guess, estimate or approximate the result. Do not ask the user for clarification or follow-up. Do step-by-step reasoning if needed. Return the final answer in \boxed{{}}. 

The following lines contain the mapping between player names and character names.
Matt plays the character DM.
Laura plays the character Vex'ahlia.
Travis plays the character Grog.
Marisha plays the character Keyleth.
Orion plays the character Tiberius.
Taliesin plays the character Percy.
Liam plays the character Vax'ildan.
Sam plays the character Taryon.
Ashley plays the character Pike.
Felicia plays the character Lyra.
Mary plays the character Zahra.
Wil plays the character Thorbir.
Will plays the character Kashaw.
Kit plays the character Lillith.
Jason plays the character Garthok.
Chris hardwick plays the character Gern.
Chris perkins plays the character Shale.
Patrick plays the character Kerrek.
Noelle plays the character Tova.
Jon plays the character Lionel.
Darin plays the character Sprigg.
Joe plays the character Arkhan.

Use this mapping when answering the questions below.

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello, and welcome to this evening's episode of Critical Role! We'll be with you in just a second. Unfortunately we're down a Travis Willingham tonight, but in Grog's stead we have the rest of the party venturing forth into the Emberhold after just recently discovering Lady Kima. We shall see what happens very shortly, but in the meantime, let's go ahead and give you guys some character backstory. [dramatic music]
Ashley: Pike grew up on the outskirts of town, near the Bramblewood. Her ancestors were a family of deep gnomes with quite an unfavorable reputation. Thievery, destruction, and trickery left them with the curse of the last name Trickfoot. Sarenrae, the goddess of healing and redemption, had other plans for Pike's great-great-grandfather Wilhand, who left his family at a young age after a dream, a dream that changed the course of the Trickfoot family. Wilhand devoted his life to Sarenrae, and pledged from then on that him and his family would live a life of service and devotion. As a child, Pike seemed to have an affinity to heal. Whether it was animals, people, or even flowers, she felt she had a purpose in making things whole that had once been broken. She studied and learned the ways to heal through divine magic. She lived a peaceful life, quiet and simple, until one day Wilhand was captured and almost killed by a group of goliath barbarians. One of the goliaths took a stand against the murder of the innocent gnome, and he himself was beaten, bloodied, and left for dead, abandoned by his herd. Wilhand went to Pike for help. She prayed and healed this barbarian as best she could, bringing him back to life. When he awoke, she discovered his name was Grog Strongjaw. After that, they were the best of friends, a rather unlikely pair. Little did she know that in a few years' time Grog would soon return the favor and bring her back from the clutches of death. (roaring, crunch) After being killed in battle, Pike felt angry. She wanted to be stronger so that it would never happen again. She spent four months at sea, training with the men and women aboard a ship called the Broken Howl. Gripping her holy symbol in one hand, and her morningstar in the other, this time, Pike is ready.
Travis: Right, listen up! If you have ale, then you have a friend in Grog Strongjaw. A goliath of towering height and size, this barbarian has an appetite for the two great loves in his life: combat, women, and ale. Wait... Easily the brains of the group, Grog is often consulted for his vast knowledge of shapes, colors, and shiny things. Also ale. In his early years, armed with his two-handed great axe, Grog often enjoyed proving his might amongst the ranks of his family's wandering herd. But after coming upon an unsuspecting elderly gnome in the woods, he objected to the killing of such an innocent life. A creature of impulse, Grog felt only pity for this terrified little thing. His disobedience cost him dearly. Beaten bloody and banished by the herd leader, his uncle Kevdak, Grog was abandoned and left to die. Exiled from his herd, it was then that the relative of the very gnome he fought to save, saved him. It was the kindness of a gnome cleric named Pike that healed Grog, bringing him back from death's edge. And they have remained close friends ever since. Most nights, Grog can be found challenging entire taverns to wrestling matches! Or accompanying Scanlan to the nearest house where you pay for lady favors. Also ale.
Marisha: A first impression of Keyleth would leave you with little information on the half-elven druid. You might even think that her social awkwardness due to her sheltered upbringing is kind of sweet. Of course, it would be unwise to underestimate her based on first impressions. Under that unintimidating petite frame is a vicious beast waiting to be unleashed, whose natural powers have made even the fiercest of champions pee their pants. Literally. (laughs) Born to the Air tribe of the Ashari people, Keyleth was raised with a deep love of nature and the elemental magics. It is her people's inherent duty to protect the delicate areas in Tal'Dorei, where the four elemental planes begin to bleed with this realm. Since she was a little girl, she had quite a knack for air manipulation and beast-shaping abilities. Well, if you consider kittens and flying squirrels to be little beasts. Which, I do. Anyways, it wasn't long before the headmaster of the tribe, her father, Korren, realized her true prodigious abilities and she was inveterated to succeed him as the next headmaster. Just like that, her jovial childhood was stripped and replaced with endless spell memorization, teachings from ancient traditions, and exceedingly high expectations. Every druid leader to be must embark on a journey to seek out the sister tribes in order to introduce and establish respect amongst the fellow headmasters. They call this the Aramente, or Noble Odyssey. When her father felt she was ready, he set her on the path to truly discovering herself, not knowing when, or if she will ever return. As she hiked down the mountain towards Stillben, she meditated on the task ahead. Part of the Aramente is proving yourself a strong warrior, a valiant protector, and a wise and compassionate leader. With this knowledge, one thought plays in repeat in her mind: is she even worthy?
Taliesin: Percy was the third of seven children, born to a noble family who lived far to the north, in the ancient castle of Whitestone. With so many siblings to share the burdens of lordship, Percy turned his attentions to the sciences, engineering and naturalism. One day, a mysterious couple, named Lord and Lady Briarwood, came to court. During a feast held in their honor, the Briarwoods violently took control of the castle, killing or imprisoning everyone who would stand in their way. Percy awoke chained in the dungeon, only to be freed by his younger sister. Together they fled, chased by the Briarwoods' men. As they ran, Percy's sister took several arrows to the chest and fell. Percy kept running, eventually jumping into a freezing river and floating unconscious to freedom. He did not remember waking up on a fishing boat. He barely remembered the next two years, as he slowly made his way as far south as possible. Then, one night, Percy had a dream. A roaring cloud of smoke offered him vengeance against those who destroyed his family. When he awoke, Percy began to design his first gun. (gunshot)
Sam: Oh, you haven't heard of Scanlan Shorthalt? Well, gird your loins, ladies, because he has his eye on you. A talented musician, master of disguise, and dashingly handsome in his own mind, Scanlan sings songs almost as much as he sings his own praises. Born a poor gnome, Scanlan used his endless charm and soaring tenor voice to croon for coin and support his single mother. One day he was discovered by a half-orc promoter, and joined Dr. Dranzel's Spectacular Traveling Troupe where he learned the ways of the world, and honed his skills as a bard extraordinaire. A loner much of his life, Scanlan has never quite come to terms with the violent death of his mother at the hands of a goblin invasion. While his years on the road provided many, shall we say, educational experiences with the opposite sex, deep down Scanlan yearns for the one thing he's never known: the true love of a fellow gnome. Still, Scanlan considers himself a lover first, performer second, and fighter distant third. On the battlefield, he'll support his allies, but rarely draws blood unless it's to protect fellow gnome, Pike. Count on Scanlan for a hearty laugh, a rollicking song, and a twinkle in his eye that melts hearts and makes the females swoon.
Orion: Greetings and salutations. I am Tiberius Stormwind. I hail from a town called Ty'rex, located in the heart of Draconia, born from a politically respected family. At the age of 15, I succeeded in passing the Sorcerer's Rite, showing prodigy-like control of my magic. The judges and the Draconian High Council were amazed at how powerful my spells were for how long I had been training. At 20 years old, I was the youngest appointed member of the Magic Guild in Draconian history. For the next few years, I almost went mad from the malaise of being a guild member, as it's rather boring. However, one day I happened upon a chamber, unused for quite some time. In the room were stacks of books and maps of the surrounding cities and areas around the known world. For months I would frequent the chamber, and learned of artifacts from legend. After a long period of research, I made a list of artifacts that caught my eye. I brought these findings to the high council and was told that all of the information in the chamber I had stumbled upon was either believed to be fiction, or unsolvable mysteries, and hence were lost forever. I found those answers to be unacceptable. A year later I devised a ruse and managed to convince the city council to lend support in me leaving Draconia on a mission of peace and diplomacy for the surrounding kingdoms, going from town to town and making friends and allies, in and for the name of Draconia. Being a red dragonborn, I had quite the task on my hands in that respect, but it was exactly what I needed, so I could explore the world and find these artifacts, as I felt the truth was out there. Some may describe me as buffoonish, but I say poppycock to all that. I am much sharper than most give me credit for. I just don't pay attention to things sometimes. I've also been known to be rather cunning, loyal, happy-go-lucky, and well, dangerous. I can't help but show my true scales every now and then. But overall, I think I'm quite friendly for a dragonborn.
Liam: Never entirely welcome in the company of elves or men, Vax'ildan learned at a young age to skip past formality, preferring instead to invite himself in your door. Along with twin sister Vex'ahlia, Vax was born by a chance encounter between elven royalty and human peasantry. Raised by their mother in their early years, the twins were eventually sent off to their father in the elven capital of Syngorn, but their cool reception among the elves there never warmed, and their time in the capital didn't last. The siblings stole away one autumn night and set out on the open road. After a few years of wandering, they eventually decided to return to their mother, and journeyed back to the lands of their youth. But instead of finding their childhood home, they returned to a pile of rubble. Their mother was gone, their home burned to ash. Pressing the townspeople for answers, they learned of the day the dragon came. With their ties all severed, Vax'ildan and his sister set out to find their fortune together in Tal'Dorei. An outsider since birth, Vax quickly learned to solve life's challenges in his own particular way, often by sidestepping them entirely. And when his knack for circumventing adversity isn't enough, the way of blades the elves schooled him in more than makes up the difference.
Laura: Like so many half-elves, Vex'ahlia has spent most of her life suffering the cool reception of a people who don't fully accept her. Born of a human mother and an elven father who only later in life took an interest in their existence, Vex'ahlia and her twin brother Vax'ildan quickly realized the only people they could truly rely on in this world were each other. It was at the age of ten when the two were taken from their mother, and brought to live in Syngorn, the isolated elven city for which their father was an ambassador. He quietly took them in, but always kept an icy distance, and after too many years of disdainful looks, the pair decided to leave his indifference behind, and set out on their own. Vax took to the cities, stealing small trinkets and learning the ways of the thief, while Vex kept to the woods. She preferred the isolation. Always the keen observer, she learned to hunt and to track, to spy and to shoot. And through a series of fateful events, earned herself a companion in the form of a bear, her own stolen Trinket, to fight alongside her and protect her fiercely. Also, he is adorable, and gives expert massages. [dramatic music]
Matt: Hello everyone, and welcome back to the next episode of Critical Role. We unfortunately are down one Grog this evening, as I mentioned before.
All: (distressed noises)
Matt: We are missing him terribly. We'll see what terrors will transpire in his absence. However, though! We do have some fun things to announce real fast: first off, we're still giving away promo kits for every 50 subscribers we get, so we'll be having those randomly drawn from everyone in the chat room every time 50 subscribers are joined to the channel, I guess you would say. Also, every ten subscribers we're giving away Steam keys for different games, so also cool giveaways, which is kind of fun. I want to take a moment also to mention our... charity, there, that's the word I was looking for, it's been a long day. (laughter)
Matt: Our charity, 826LA, which we're putting up links in the chat room for you guys if you're able to donate. It's a fantastic program that tutors children, helps with creative writing and general literacy skills. It's a wonderful program, you can look it up at 826LA, you should Google it, find the website, it has all the information you need. It's a really great charity and we're still pushing that through our show every week, so thank you for all who have donated, and if you have the opportunity to, I highly recommend it. Also! I wanted to let you guys know we have-- Marisha wants to mention a cool sponsor tonight or at least a promotional push we're pushing.
Marisha: Yes! Yes! Friends of the show, Espionage Cosmetics, hooked us all up with some awesome nerdy manicures. We'll tweet pictures of our nails, so yes, we're all wearing awesome nails and we're going to be doing a giveaway from Espionage. Their tabletop bath bombs, which are awesome d20s--
Matt: d10s, technically.
Marisha: Oh, d10s-- No, there's a d20! There's a d10 and there's a percentile die!
Matt: No, you're right! I saw the wrong side of it, my apologies. Forget I said anything.
Marisha: So yes, and we'll probably also go ahead and throw in a Critical Role signed picture as well with this. What you have to do is tweet @EspionageMakeup, is their twitter, @EspionageMakeup and #CriticalRole, and tell them what your favorite character is from Critical Role and who your favorite nail wraps are today and then we'll pick at half-time a winner.
Matt: Indeed. So fantastic. I may have some more stuff down the road we'll be able to talk about but in the meantime, let's go ahead and get everyone caught up to speed with what has transpired recently on Critical Role. So the party, to give you a quick overview for those who have just joined us, they were given a mission to seek out a female halfling paladin named Lady Kima of Vord, who had been missing, going on a vision quest, apparently seeking some deep, dark evil that had begun to simmer and grow beneath the dwarven city of Kraghammer. The party managed to make their way to the city, delve deep within its caverns to discover an entire series of caves, and what eventually led to the Underdark itself. A subterranean landscape of terror and darkness. After a series of battles with some duergar, which are kinda ashy-skinned evil dwarven offshoot people, characters, and a few brushes with some illithids or mind flayer creatures, they managed to befriend one, or I should say, ally with one named Clarota. Who has been traveling with them, who has apparently been kicked away from his society and wishes reentry to save them from the kind of ominous presence of this unseen, barely spoken entity called K'vorn. K'varn. (laughter)
Matt: Long day. Long day. So upon traveling deep into the recesses--
Sam: Don't worry Matt, you just have to talk for three straight hours.
Matt: (laughs) I know. I know. (laughter)
Marisha: Your day is just getting started.
Matt: I know. But yes, so they have now, after a series of battles, found their way into the magma-covered, kind of obsidian jagged caverns where the Emberhold, the duergar fortress currently resides, where they believe Lady Kima was. Upon finding a way in, unfortunately announcing their presence to the fortress itself, they managed to find Lady Kima in a torture chamber beneath Emberhold, save her, slay her oppressor, and now they have, after a tenuous alliance was made-- as Lady Kima and their mind-flayer friend Clarota are very much at odds-- a very tenuous alliance was forged. And they now journey back up to the main basement floor, or main base floor of the Emberhold proper. And that's where we left off last time. So, hope you can absorb all that, guys. (laughs)
Sam: We are inside this fortress.
Matt: Correct.
Sam: We are moving towards the armory. We're trying to find the armory or something, is that right?
Matt: You're trying to find, essentially-- Lady Kima has mentioned she wants to find the rest of her equipment that she says is either in an armory, or she mentioned a vault. And also she knows-- she mentioned something about vengeance to those who run the keep. So she stormed up.
Laura: We're following her, right?
Matt: You've followed her back into the base floor of the Emberhold itself. You all currently are now back kinda where you started after you snuck into the side passage of the Emberhold.
Laura: And she said she would lead the way to the vault?
Sam: Can we be quiet for a second and see if there's any footsteps around us or guards marching around? Are we in immediate peril or do we have a second?
Matt: Certainly. Everyone go ahead and make an immediate perception roll.
Sam: Okay.
Laura: So fast!
Marisha: Website went live, if you want to announce that now or later.
Matt: Later. Two?
Laura: No, 22! (laughs)
Liam: 28.
Ashley: 13.
Taliesin: 24.
Orion: Fail.
Sam: Ten. (laughs)
Matt: That's a fail! All right, so-- You've got to be ready!
Marisha: 27!
Matt: Okay. (laughter)
Sam: I'm sure he'll give you half of that.
Matt: Nearly at the ready. All right, so as you all take a moment and kind of steel yourselves, your ears perk up and you can hear what sounds like echoes of distant footsteps down hallways, far out of sight. You hear some movement across the stone ceiling above you that eventually comes to a stop. And you wait for about a minute, and the entire place is now in a very eerie silence.
Liam: They know we're here, still.
Laura: But they don't know where we are.
Liam: No.
Orion: Maybe they went to sleep?
Taliesin: Lady Kima, do you remember where the vault is? Do you remember how we can get back there?
Matt: Kima turns to you, her eyes still peering back, and she's creeping towards the edge of the hallway. She looks back at you, briefly, and says, "I've only seen half of this stronghold before they captured me. As far as I know, probably somewhere on the second floor."
Laura: What floor are we on now?
Matt: "The ground floor."
Liam: The ground floor.
Laura: Right, cool.
Ashley: So it's just one up? (laughter)
Matt: "Apparently."
Liam: Were there stairs-- When we went down that set of stairs there, was there also stairs going up right there, or stairs going up?
Matt: There were stairs-- Right there? No. There were stairs going up in the first room you entered.
Laura: Oh, right! So we could go back in the little storage room.
Liam: We could.
Laura: And go up.
Liam: We should just spend the next three hours in the storage room.
Laura: Let's go in the storage room and go up.
Liam: Lady Kima, allow me to take a peek around the corner, see what's going on. So I'm gonna go stealth.
Matt: Okay, go ahead and roll stealth.
Liam: And inch past her. That's good. 29.
Matt: 29? All right. She begrudgingly steps back. You can see there's that eagerness to get in some sort of a fray or to feel somebody else bash along the side of this greatsword that she borrowed from you guys. She lets you pass. You creep up along the edge. As you do, you see-- back here there is, in the middle of this hallway, a series of doorways, and what looks to be a large room in the center of the chamber where two duergar currently stand.
Liam: I turn back to the group.
Taliesin: (whispers) How about the other way?
Sam: Why don't we just kill them?
Liam: Isn't that a corner-- a dead-on corner right there?
Matt: This is another hallway.
Liam: Another hallway.
Sam: Let's go kill the duergar.
Laura: How dark is it in here? Is it like--
Matt: No. It's pretty dark in here. Like, with low light vision, you're able to see maybe a good 30 to 40 feet ahead of you. There are a few of those red crystal clusters that give off a little bit of light, incrementally, but duergar themselves, you've gotten to the point where you see they like it very, very dark. They actually aren't needing light. This is more of a courtesy to guests they may have.
Laura: So potentially, brother, we could take them both out if you throw your knife and I do an arrow.
Orion: Wait, didn't we see further past that, 'cause that's where Grog did the-- (crushing noise)
Sam: No, this is the area that we haven't been in yet.
Liam: I just put up a hand, and then slip around this direction and slip down this second hallway that you revealed.
Matt: All right. As you step past, you do see, this room here is a little ajar; the inside looks to be a storage room. There's just a series of boxes, barrels, and various--
Laura: (gasps) Maybe you can put yourself in a box and walk around.
Marisha: (gasps) Yes! Metal Gear Solid it!
Liam: I continue to creep away from my sister, specifically.
Matt: All right, you glare down the side of this hallway. It leads to two other smaller rooms down the way, with a split towards the back end. There does not appear to be anybody visible in that hall.
Liam: All right, I got this, I'm going to keep going.
Sam: Wait, what about us!?
Laura: Why are you doing this?
Matt: All right, so you go past this way.
Sam: Jesus. Two duergar, we can take them out in a second!
Matt: Now this hallway, there appears to be an opening to this room, no doorway.
Laura: Everybody wait while my brother goes on a field trip.
Matt: And this additional room, you do not currently see an entrance.
Liam: An opening that's not a doorway? Or--
Matt: I mean, there isn't a door in the way, it's just an opening.
Liam: The door is open. All right, so I'm going to press against the wall, up to the edge, wait for five seconds, see if I can hear anything, and then if not, curve around and peek in.
Matt: Perception roll.
Liam: 20.
Matt: 20. You take a moment and listen. You hear what sounds like a light crackling of some sort of a fire? And the occasional dull ring of metal being hit against metal.
Sam: What was it? Metal against metal?
Liam: Okay, I'm going to get low to the ground, and peek in the door.
Matt: All right. Peeking through, you do see, indeed, it is some sort of a smithy, with two kilns, or two anvils, set up, a work table in the center, and there is one lone duergar that, apparently, in the middle of his work, has not been paying attention to any of the ruckus going on around, and is just in the middle of hitting some sort of long, thick piece of black iron, and it's just, (ting ting), sweat dripping down the front of his brow, the room itself is-- even against the corner of the doorway, you can tell the temperature is a lot warmer on the inside.
Liam: And his back is to me, currently?
Matt: It's kinda to the side to you. He's currently looking-- working out the anvil, banging down.
Liam: So this way?
Matt: Yes.
Liam: Oh, but I see the door on the other side, so I take the earring--
Sam: Oh, why don't you just keep going forever?
Liam: -- take the earring and I whisper to my sister, (whispers) follow along.
Laura: Oh. I've been invited on the field trip, guys!
Sam: Just you?
Laura: Just me!
Sam: Come on!
Laura: Who else can stealth?
Marisha: I'm a stealthy panther right now.
Laura: Do you wanna be something and pop in my pocket? (laughs) That sounded wrong.
Matt: You haven't had a short rest yet, and you do--
Marisha: (clears throat) I was gonna say, I'm still a cat form. But I can accompany you.
Laura: I should not go with you, I can't stealth for shit right now. (laughter)
Laura: I rolled a seven.
Liam: (whispers) Send Scanlan up.
Laura: (whispers) Scanlan.
Sam: Huh, what?
Laura: My brother's calling for you.
Matt: You feel the oppressive force of Clarota's voice in your heads simultaneously say, "I can also accompany."
Ashley: Good plan. Good plan, Clarota.
Sam: All right. I'll step ahead and go invisible.
Matt: All right, so mark off your next Invisibility spell. As you vanish, Clarota also kind of waves his hand for a moment, and his image disappears the same way Scanlan's did.
Sam: Ooh! He does that too?
Matt: Apparently.
Laura: What did he do?
Sam: He went invisible! (sings) We're walking down a hall, nobody's watching us. (laughter)
Matt: As you're humming to yourself--
Sam: Oh no!
Matt: You make your way down and eventually towards the back of where Vax is pressed against the--
Liam: I can feel Scanlan's flute pressing into my buttocks.
Sam: That's not my flute! (laughter)
Liam: So I turn to them, and then I start-- I pass the door.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: I'm gonna go around the corner to that other door.
Matt: All right.
Liam: And now I'm going to stab the duergar in the neck.
Matt: All right! Go ahead and roll for an attack!
Liam: Natural 20, natural 20! (cheering)
Matt: That's how you start the game.
Marisha: It's a good day! I feel like it's gonna be a good day.
Matt: All righty. So go ahead and roll damage. This is a sneak attack, as he didn't-- it was not aware you were there.
Liam: I'll use my keen dagger, I think. Four plus seven is-- This is a pencil, right? Okay, 11. Where-- how do you make it work? 11.
Matt: All right.
Liam: Eight, 13--
Sam: Get him in the neck so he can't yell.
Liam: Ooh. 66.
Matt: You don't multiply the modifier. The modifier goes on at the end. So it's the dice roll plus your sneak attack, multiplied by two, and then the dex modifier at the end.
Marisha: That's a lot!
Liam: Okay.
Matt: Plus seven, I think, right at the end.
Liam: Yeah, that's right. So it's the damage plus the sneak attack, double that--
Matt: And then add the plus seven at the end.
Laura: That's 28 times two plus seven.
Liam: 26.
Matt: Splitting hairs here! That's enough. So.
Liam: One plus two plus two plus one.
Matt: So you hear this, 'Tink! Tink! Tink!' (pause) That's it. Without even a guttural noise, the dagger buries itself in the base of his skull. You see him just (grunts) and slump down to the ground.
Liam: I catch the hammer and I start going 'Tink! Tink! Tink!' And wave the two invisible beings into the room.
Ashley: Hey! What happened in there?
Sam: We're here! We're ready to fight. What do you need us to do?
Matt: Kima at this point-- You can see her hand kind of tensing around the sword as she looks back at Grog, whose hands are also wringing his greataxe. "I want to kill something!" She kind of backs off to the side and sees the other duergar that are there.
Ashley: (Grog voice) I want to rage!
Matt: And she's going to go ahead and run around.
Liam: Don't waste my natural 20, Kima. Come on!
Laura: Man, you can't control Kima!
Marisha: This is why we don't have AI in the party, guys. You can't control the AI.
Matt: You know you guys are telling a very, very angry woman right now to be patient. Doesn't seem to make a ruckus.
Laura: Can I sneak up to the corner at least, so I can be ready to attack those two bastards?
Matt: Over to here? All righty. Trinket, who hasn't seen you in a while, is sticking to your back.
Laura: I sit there and I kind of pet him as I look around the corner.
Matt: Okay. Trinket is enjoying the petting. All right, so that duergar's down, the current armory section appears to be completely open and at your disposal. There are a series of partially made weapons kind of scattered in a pile. There are some ingots, and even some raw iron material in the far corner. Other than that, it just looks like your general smithing workshop.
Sam: Is Kima with us now?
Matt: Kima is currently looking around this section with you guys.
Sam: Kima, do you see any of your equipment here that you wanted?
Matt: She glances around, goes and move some of the piles by, turning over the room as quietly as she can-- not as quietly as you'd like-- but quiet enough. "No. Nothing's here."
Sam: Can't you just take one of these things and call it a day? (laughter)
Matt: She glares in the direction of your voice.
Sam: I'm invisible, I--
Matt: "This will do me just fine for now!"
Sam: Oh!
Matt: "Right. Let's keep looking." She leaves the room. She starts heading down this way--
Liam: All right, I'm following after her, tiptoeing after her.
Laura: We should go after her. 'Cause we're all gonna split up.
Liam: Yeah, I speak into my earring and say zubba zubba zubba zubba.
Laura: Let's all go in that back way and see if we can stealth around.
Matt: Okay. For everyone else, stealth check.
Taliesin: Oh boy.
Ashley: Here we go!
Orion: Yes! Natural 20!
Matt: Disadvantage on you, Pike, because of your heavy armor.
Ashley: So that means I roll twice?
Matt: Roll twice, take the lower.
Ashley: I take the lower one.
Orion: Now as that happens, I want to cast Mage Hand and I want to cast Light on it, and I want to slowly have it drift down there.
Matt: They're both concentration spells. You can have one or the other.
Orion: Dagnabbit.
Matt: Mage Hand isn't an actual object, unfortunately.
Orion: Dagnabbit. Okay, fine. Instead I cast Prestidigitation and I make a little glowy orb, and it's a little flickery, and I cast-- I think I can maybe try, what, 15 feet?
Matt: Okay. And where are you casting it? Just in the middle of this hallway here?
Orion: No. To my left.
Matt: Here?
Sam: He wants to see in the dark place.
Orion: I wanna see in the dark place.
Matt: There is no entrance to this room currently from what you can see. It's just a wall. There is a door on the opposite side.
Sam: Now it's a well-lit wall.
Orion: Hm. All right, well, I follow after the bear. (laughter)
Matt: All right, so what was your stealth roll?
Laura: Oh, it was 17.
Matt: 17. Roll for Trinket.
Laura: Oh gosh.
Sam: (bear noises)
Laura: I thought he just got what I got. Crap.
Sam: Not good.
Laura: What do I add to it?
Sam: Nothing.
Matt: Add his dex modifier. Trinket's dex modifier.
Laura: Okay, hold on. Hold on. Oh, good.
Liam: 11.
Laura: 11.
Matt: All right, as you guys are making your way down the hallway, slowly--
Laura: I kinda clamp my hand over his mouth and tell him to shush.
Matt: You guys make your way down here. One of the duergar glances over--
Sam: Oh boy.
Matt: -- utters something to the friend at his side and he goes--
Liam: I heard the bear and I start sliding my back down along the wall.
Laura: Oh crap. I turn around and notch my arrow for them.
Matt: Okay, Trinket moves past
Taliesin: I walk up to the very, very edge of the hallway.
Liam: And I'm stabbing! Stabbing, stabbing! Stabbing.
Orion: Matthew, behind the bear.
Matt: You move behind the bear?
Orion: Yes.
Matt: You are right there and they both see you
Orion: No, no, the other bear. I mean, the other side of the bear.
Matt: As you're walking behind Trinket, all this transpires simultaneously. Right. And they saw the bear and then saw something move behind it. Their attention was got. They see you and they start walking towards--
Liam: Stabbing duergars, stabbing duergars.
Matt: However, as they pass there, you get one shot at this guy as he passes past you. Go ahead and make your attack.
Orion: I wave at them.
Matt: Okay. (laughs) Tiberius waves at them.
Marisha: I go ahead and move up next to Percy.
Orion: Hello. I don't think they're our friends.
Matt: Unfortunately, the space is a little limited for your size. You have to wait for the rest of them to let you by.
Marisha: Oh, but Grog's behind me. He's not here, right? Where's Grog?
Matt: You're a big cat right now.
Marisha: I'm a big kitty.
Liam: I rolled a 15.
Matt: 15? 15 does barely hit.
Liam: Okay, so same keen dagger.
Matt: As you go ahead, move around the corner and fire. Two arrows?
Laura: 17.
Matt: All right. Second one? Same guy or different targets?
Laura: Same target. He's right in front. That one hits too, that's 19.
Matt: Both hit, go ahead and roll damage on both.
Liam: 32 for me.
Matt: Okay. So as you watch them both walk past you, one of them continues past with his hammer out, rushing towards whatever he sees moving at the end of the hallway, probably Tiberius after Trinket. The next one that comes past you, you reach around and just take your dagger and swing it across the back of his neck area. You manage to sever the base of the spine and he just crumples into a pile in front of you. The other one-- Damage?
Laura: 22 with the two arrows. Nine and 13.
Matt: Both arrows impact his chest. The duergar steps back for a second, surprised by the moment, looks really furious and begins to step forward, his size enlarging.
Taliesin: I knock him right in the face with the butt of my gun as he rounds the corner.
Matt: All right. Go ahead and make a stealth check to see whether or not he sees you.
Taliesin: I can't use my previous stealth roll?
Matt: Not for this point. This is an active combat.
Taliesin: Damn it. Eight.
Matt: Okay. So you still get the attack, but you don't have advantage, 'cause he's aware you're there. As he's running past you, he glances and sees you in the corner of his eye and is preparing for the blows. Go ahead and roll your attack.
Taliesin: What do I add to this, by the way? I've never done a physical attack.
Matt: You're hitting it with the blunt. Go ahead and roll a d20 and add your strength modifier and four.
Taliesin: All right. Natural 20! (cheering)
Marisha: Look, it's flashing!
Taliesin: It flashes if I hit a natural 20.
Matt: All right, so go ahead and roll damage. It is a 1d4 plus your strength modifier.
Taliesin: So that would be 2d4 plus my strength modifier, because it's a natural 20.
Matt: Correct, yes.
Taliesin: That's six points of damage.
Matt: Well, it's five on there, right?
Taliesin: My strength modifier is one.
Matt: Okay, so that's five times two is ten plus one. 11 points of damage.
Taliesin: 11 points of damage.
Matt: Which will do it. As the duergar sees you, is rushing past with his hammer, about to fall back and swing at you, you rush out from behind the corner with the blunt end of your weapon and just whack him in the side of the temple.
Sam: Girly scream.
Orion: What was that?
Taliesin: (whispers) We're good, we're good.
Matt: Unconscious on the ground. Alive but unconscious.
Ashley: He's not dead? Can I-- so he's at a disadvantage, basically?
Matt: He's incapacitated.
Ashley: So can I go up to him and slit his throat with my mace of disruption? To make sure he's dead?
Matt: If you'd like to?
Ashley: Yes, I want to.
Matt: Okay.
Ashley: Is that really bad, though?
Matt: Pike walks up and grabs the back of the duergar's hair, holds it back and using the jagged edge of her mace of disruption, tears open the throat of the duergar, which then spills all this blackish ichor across the ground.
Liam: She went renegade, folks. She's gone renegade.
Ashley: I just wanted to make sure he didn't come after us.
Matt: Grog looks impressed but also slightly worried as the man who grew up alongside you. All right, so that happened.
Liam: And then she says, okay, I'm gonna dismember the body. Hold on. (laughter)
Laura: Torture weapons.
Sam: Because I'm invisible in the thing with Lady Kima, I get up on a stool to see if I can catch some cleavage. (laughter)
Sam: Just peek over, peek in.
Matt: The leather armor that she wore is a full torso-covering leather armor piece, I apologize.
Sam: (sighs) I give up.
Matt: Sorry, Scanlan. She is-- Yeah, which by the way, I mean, it's not just so much the fact that Pike did it, it's the fact that Pike did it by running a jagged, blade-edged mace across someone's throat. It was less of a slice and more of a--
Ashley: Is Sarenrae gonna get really mad at me?
Matt: We'll see.
Ashley: They're really bad! If they're really bad guys, they were super bad. The duergar are so bad. She'd probably be happy--
Orion: Right, Pike, but man, that was rough.
Matt: We'll find out.
Taliesin: He had a little duergar back at home.
Matt: So, given this case, now the rest of the party is able to move forward. This hallway now, you can only see about that far down with the current light source. You can see Kima is now moving across--
Sam: Aw, she's just going?
Laura: Go listen-- aw, she's still going that direction?
Liam: All right. I'm tiptoe-jogging behind Kima.
Marisha: Can we do something to slow her down?
Sam: I can stop her if you want?
Marisha: Well, I mean, can we-- I mean, we don't wanna stop her I just wanna be like, hey, slow, girl.
Laura: She's-- you know what? I bet she's pretty noisy too!
Matt: She's wearing leather armor, she's not very noisy right now.
Liam: I carefully place a hand on Kima's shoulder, and do a little, sort of, curtsy motion. Allow me, I can--
Matt: Okay, as you do so she kinda stops and looks back over her shoulder and gives a begrudging nod. But you can see she's-- there's shaking, her hand holding the greatsword is currently shaking with rage.
Liam: I say-- (silent) Two words, three syllables. (laughter)
Matt: All right, so. Coasting down this hallway. It leads down to an open doorway and a closed doorway immediately to your right. And then the room to-- actually, the doorway's to your left, and to the right you see another wall to another room that you don't have a doorway currently available.
Liam: There's a door to my left and a door straight ahead, right?
Matt: Correct.
Liam: Okay, I inch up to the closed door on the left and place my ear to the door and listen.
Matt: Okay, go ahead and make a perception check.
Liam: Yeah, natural 20.
Marisha: What?!
Ashley: Come on!
Sam: Yeah. It's gonna be one of those nights.
Laura: I need that one! Oh my goodness.
Taliesin: Don't. Jinx it.
Matt: I'm gon' kill all you.
Laura: No! (laughter)
Matt: You put your ear to the side, and you hear nothing.
Liam: Okay. Do I sense any kind of-- I'm checking for traps on the door.
Matt: Okay. Yup.
Liam: Trap's perception, right? 26.
Matt: So the door itself does not appear to be trapped. It does appear to be locked, though.
Liam: All right, well, I pull out my picks. And I get a three on that, so--
Matt: That's okay. It's a really, really, really crappy lock.
Laura: Oh!
Matt: You notice that the door itself, it has a locking mechanism on it. It was kinda half-locked, and as you push, it opens up, into a commode.
Liam: Aw, yes!
Matt: There's nobody in there. It is a room with what looks almost like a bench, with a series of holes cut into the bench. It's a communal--
Liam: Well, I'm tempted to close the door for a moment, but I will press on instead.
Sam: Check for loot! (laughter)
Laura: Gross!
Liam: All right, so I'm going to inch towards that open door ahead of me, see what's around the corner.
Sam: I'm gonna follow-- I'm gonna inch up behind him as well. I'm still invisible, right? How long does that last?
Matt: Okay. It's concentration for quite some time, I believe.
Marisha: Actually--
Taliesin: Really quickly-- Oh, do you want to go first?
Marisha: No, you go.
Taliesin: Does anyone want to hide these bodies that we've just scattered about--
Laura: Yeah, that would be good!
Marisha: Inside the loo.
Taliesin: It's a perfect place for them to be interred.
Liam: So, Pike, hold still, please.
Ashley: I'm not moving!
Sam: Pike, eviscerate the bodies!
Marisha: Here, I'm gonna-- I'll walk over, in tiger form, and I just grab one by the scruff and start dragging it.
Matt: Grog helps out. You guys move the two bodies slowly over into the restroom area.
Marisha: Wait, we kinda prop them up to kinda like Weekend at Bernie's them, yeah, make them just look like they're, you know, passed out.
Matt: Okay, as they're both generally laying back, like they just got really drunk and barely found their way to the toilet.
Sam: And throats slit. (laughter)
Matt: It's really rough blockage.
Marisha: We take that one and kind of like lean him forward so you can't tell immediately.
Matt: Okay. All right, that's not a worry. You bring that up to that little area there. All right.
Liam: Well done, there.
Taliesin: Oh, thank you.
Matt: You guys move forward to that. Grog has come over here to be able to help. Now, looking down this hallway, here you can see--
Sam: Who we got, who we got?
Matt: This side opens up--
Laura: All I want to do is find the damn treasure room.
Matt: Looking into this room, it appears to be a barracks. A room that is just filled with different beds, all apparently empty.
Laura: Oh, they're up and looking for us.
Marisha: Apparently empty?
Matt: From what you can see.
Marisha: Can I use my keen smell to see if I smell any duergar in there?
Matt: Sure. So you slowly approach the door using your keen senses, which opens up this hallway a little bit visibly to you. You can see it goes back quite a bit. Sniffing this room, you can tell that there were duergar there recently. Apparently, at the moment, though, there is no immediate scent that matches a duergar. So the room, for the most part, has been completely evacuated.
Marisha: Okay, I kinda-- even though I'm not a dog, I'm a cat, I still kinda point. I go into pointer face. You know? Like--
Orion: Pointer face?
Marisha: You know, like a pointer.
Liam: Yeah, angling your nose forward, all right.
Sam: I think Keyleth has to pee. (laughter)
Sam: I never had a cat.
Liam: All right, I'm gonna start sliding down that hall there, ignoring this other passage, and get up to the door and again place my ear to it. Oh look, there's the front entrance.
Matt: As you look to your right, this is a large foyer-type area with two red carpets that are rolled on the sides of it that lead to the front of the main double-sided, large ten-foot-tall stone doors of the front of the fortress. To your left, there is a double wooden door, about eight feet tall each side, about five feet wide, that are currently closed, leading into whatever this large chamber is immediately to your left.
Sam: Can I hang a right and go down that other hall?
Taliesin: We should check out what's in that other hall.
Sam: Is there a door over there?
Matt: There are two doors, actually.
Sam: Closed?
Matt: Both closed.
Sam: I'm going to listen into those doors.
Matt: Make a perception check.
Sam: Natural 17. (cheering)
Marisha: Gotta love that nat 17.
Matt: Listening in, you don't hear any noise.
Sam: That could mean nothing.
Liam: Are you at the double doors with me?
Sam: I'm to the right. I went the other way.
Liam: Okay. I'm going to listen at the big wooden doors, and I rolled, oh, not that great. 17.
Matt: All right. Listening in--
Orion: I scootch up ahead of Grog like, excuse me, excuse me.
Matt: As you listen back, there is no noise internally, except for the slight squeak as you put yourself against the door. It shifts a little bit, making no noticeable noise, but it appears the doors are unlocked, or there is no lock.
Laura: Oh no.
Matt: You're not hearing anything from inside that one door you're at.
Sam: Wait, I just heard a noise?
Matt: No, you hear no noise coming from that room.
Sam: Oh, okay. Stinking Cloud, can I go through doors, or do I have to see what I'm casting it at?
Matt: You have to have sight, unfortunately. I mean, you could peek very low.
Sam: I'm going to open the door and look.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: 'Cause why not?
Matt: You open the door. It appears to be some sort of a guest bedroom. It's a singular bed that's in much better condition than the barracks, it's empty, it's well-made. It's more lit than the other rooms. It seems to be a room that's designed for either non-duergar riff-raff or general soldiers or guests or people that would come to the fortress to stay, so.
Sam: Okay.
Liam: I'm going to try to peer into the door, and I haven't talked about this before, but I'm wearing a cloak of elvenkind, which means I have advantage on stealth, and enemies have disadvantage on spotting me, so I'm going to lean my head in.
Matt: All right.
Liam: Do I need to roll for stealth or am I already stealthed?
Matt: For this, you're already stealthed. So as you glance inside the room, you see what appears to be a great hall of some kind. There are large wooden tables, there is a fire pit in the center that has a number of mostly burned wood that is mainly just small darkened embers with a little bit of glowing yellow and red to it. There are stools scattered about the room, you can see there are remnants of some of a meal that hasn't been fully cleaned up yet on some of the tables. But the room appears to be empty. You do see a slight glimmer across the way on one of the tables.
Liam: Oh, I'm going to go check it out.
Laura: (whispers) Get the sparkly thing.
Matt: All right. Everyone else, what are you doing?
Sam: Can I look around the guest bedroom? Just kinda snoop around up in things?
Laura: Can I ask him, I'm asking you what you see in there. What do you see in there?
Liam: I don't know yet, hold on
Laura: Is it sparkly?
Liam: I'm going to try to sense for traps in this room.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: I'm going to snoop in the barracks.
Matt: Snoop in the barracks.
Liam: 14.
Orion: I'm going to make my way around all this riff-raff, uh, no, uh, yes.
Matt: You push your way through. "Excuse me, excuse me, pardon me." Pushing through everybody.
Orion: I'm going to go past where Vax is in the room down that hallway, then I'm going to do my Mage Hand thingy again. Oh, my Prestidigitation.
Matt: Down this hallway?
Orion: Mm-hm.
Matt: Okay.
Orion: Slowly, five feet by five feet.
Matt: All right. You see slowly, as you move down this hallway to check it out, a secondary set of barracks that are also apparently empty.
Laura: Where are they? The stairs are up in the storage room, man. That's where we just were.
Matt: You see a secondary commode that is open. And as you glance around the corner as the light passes by you see there are two duergar currently coming down the hallway this direction.
Marisha: Oh shit!
Orion: I just stop! And I creep back.
Matt: Okay. As you creep back, you hear footsteps coming your way quickly.
Liam: I'm going to the door, then, I can hear that. Inside the door, inside the door.
Matt: Oh, inside the door there?
Marisha: I'm going to stay actually right there, just right at the threshold.
Matt: Okay. The rest of you guys?
Laura: I mean, I'm so far away. I can try to get up there but--
Matt: You can glance, there's still a hallway around that way if you wanted to go around.
Laura: Okay. I'll go around the back way then.
Matt: Okay, so you move around--
Laura: With Trinket!
Matt: Trinket follows up behind. Makes your way up there. Scanlan, you staying in that room?
Sam: I'm taking a dump on the guest bed. (laughter)
Orion: They don't see me, right?
Laura: I like walk by the door and see that happening (laughter)
Sam: But also just covering it up with a blanket afterwards.
Matt: Okay, well, you're in mid-process, this is all happening very quickly.
Sam: Oh. (grunts)
Ashley: I'll go around back behind where Trinket and Vex just went.
Matt: Okay. Because of your little legs you get about that far. Your little legs carry you.
Sam: I'm invisible. It's poop. (laughter)
Matt: (sighs) (grunting and laughter)
Marisha: It's apparating poo.
Taliesin: I'm staying in the hallway,
Sam: Scanlan's just like, I hate this mission.
Matt: Okay, so. Tiberius, as you're backing up, both the duergar turn around immediately, seeing you, and rear back with javelins, throwing them directly at you.
Orion: Oh! I'll cast Blur instead.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and roll initiative real fast to see who gets off first what.
Orion: I'm not going to count that. Oh, I'll count that. 19. (laughter)
Matt: What, why didn't you count it?
Orion: Because it flew out of my hand, I didn't roll it.
Matt: Okay. All right.
Orion: Yeah. (laughter)
Orion: It's on camera, tell them to play back.
Matt: So you go ahead and cast Blur. You guys see as Tiberius comes running back, (startled sounds). He manages to cast a spell really fast as two javelins come flying towards him. His visible image begins to actually blur; the outline looks almost like there's two mirror images of Tiberius in the same place that are both shimmering and preventing them from actually telling where he's actually standing. The first javelin comes in at a 14.
Orion: Nope.
Matt: Second one comes in at a 17.
Orion: 17. Yes.
Matt: Oh sorry, no, it's a four, 'cause it has disadvantage. So both javelins just whish past. Looks like they pierced part of that kinda shimmering blurring form, but both just ricochet off the walls of stone and come clattering to the ground. Kinda near back where Kima and Grog are. They both step out of the way as they land.
Marisha: Ha-ha.
Matt: All right, so that brings us to-- that was your action. Who else wants to take the next action?
Liam: I'm gonna hold.
Laura: I can't see anything, can I, from where I am?
Matt: It's kinda dark, and you can see movement in the distance.
Laura: Can I hop on Trinket's back and see if I can see higher?
Matt: You can try. All right. So you hop on the back of Trinket, (laughs) looking over the top, and you know Grog is kinda blocking part of your view, but you can see, with your low-light vision, what looks to be Tiberius' form shimmering and two duergar-height individuals that are partially blocked by him. So they do have partial cover, or three-quarters cover. Do you have the feat that ignores that?
Laura: I don't know? I don't know.
Matt: (laughs) Because you don't know I'm going to say no.
Taliesin: It would be called Sharpshooter.
Matt: Yeah it would be called Sharpshooter, is the feat.
Laura: No, I don't have that.
Matt: Okay, yeah. So go ahead and roll for attack on one or both duergar, up to you.
Laura: 21.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: And 23.
Matt: Okay. The 21 misses, the 23 hits. Because they have cover and because it's so dark it's difficult to make out their form, but you do manage to hit one with the arrow.
Laura: Okay. I Hunter's Mark him.
Matt: Okay. Next time, make sure you do that before you attack. Otherwise it won't count for the attack.
Laura: Okay. Okay. 13, uh, 12! (laughs) Math! Stay in school.
Matt: (laughs) All right. There you go. 12, then add your Hunter's Mark bonus to that as well.
Laura: Oh, good, one.
Matt: All right, gotcha. So one arrow sinks in the shoulder, but doesn't appear to be stopping his angry advance towards Tiberius. Let's see. You're staying where you are?
Liam: Waiting.
Matt: All right. You guys are actually kind of like pinched off in the hallway right here, so as you guys are all kind of--
Sam: (strained) Don't say 'pinched off' to me. (laughter)
Matt: -- as you're doing this, Tiberius, you're right there. The two duergar catch up to you and both, now that their javelins are out of their hands, pull out their hammers with their bonus actions and come down at you with an attack each.
Marisha: Run, Tiberius!
Matt: That's gonna be a six.
Orion: No.
Matt: And a 17.
Orion: 17 hits.
Matt: Okay, yeah, that Blur is saving you, man. All right, so as the one-- both the duergar are kinda like swelling with frustration, anger. It's an ability, you've now gotten to the point where you can see, these duergar can actually temporarily increase their form for stronger blows and attacks. Comes and strikes you for 12 points of bludgeoning damage as the hammer comes cracking down, finding purchase on your torso, and it kinda pushes you back a few inches. That's gonna bruise tomorrow morning.
Marisha: Can I do a combo move with Grog, assuming that he would agree with me that it's gonna be super cool?
Matt: He'd probably agree with you, what do you wanna do?
Marisha: Okay. (laughs) Thanks, Grog! So since Grog's kind of there-- Can we arrange like a fastball special, almost? So have him like kind of go up and crouch and I'm gonna bust out--
Matt: How are you going to communicate this to Grog?
Marisha: He-- with--
Liam: (meows) (laughter)
Matt: I'm gonna have to say, unfortunately, that's not gonna work out for this moment. Grog's attention is on the duergar and you are a giant cat.
Liam: Hey, I'm gonna sneak behind Tiberius and stab that guy.
Laura: It would've been so cool, though.
Ashley: That would've been really cool.
Liam: And since Tiberius is there, I can get sneak attack damage, 'cause one of my allies is there--
Matt: All right, just a second there, you're still holding, let's finish Keyleth. So Keyleth, what are you doing?
Marisha: Well, is Grog in my way?
Matt: Grog is there. You can attempt to leap over Grog.
Marisha: I was wanting to vault off Grog's back, is what I was wanting to do.
Matt: You can do that without asking him.
Marisha: Yeah, that's what I was going to do.
Matt: No, you were saying you wanted to tell Grog you were going to do that. But yes, you can still do it. So go ahead and roll an acrobatics check.
Marisha: No, you asked how I was communicating it.
Laura: Just do it, Keyleth!
Marisha: So I'm gonna come out and I'm gonna vault off his back and try and do a pounce over top of Tiberius for that duergar that's closest to you. What am I rolling?
Taliesin: Acrobatics.
Marisha: Acrobatics? Is this an acrobatics thing?
Matt: Yes. From around the corner, you pull back, leap up, jump onto Grog's back and attempt to spring off of it.
Marisha: 11.
Matt: 11, okay. (laughs) All right. So you jump off of Grog's back. Grog, not expecting it, instinctively ducks down and the force you push off, as he's not aware there's going to be a giant cat there--
Marisha: Uh-huh.
Matt: -- in doing so, it doesn't give you the momentum you need. You are able to jump over him and get kind of into center of the fray. But you do not have the pounce attack, unfortunately.
Marisha: Okay. That's fine.
Matt: But it gets you there, at least.
Marisha: Oh, can I not attack?
Matt: You can attack, yeah.
Marisha: Okay, okay, okay. I'm gonna go ahead and do my bite attack.
Matt: Go for it.
Marisha: I'm gonna go right for his throat. Still with the same intention that I had in mind.
Matt: Okay, this is the one that took the arrow from Laura.
Marisha: Okay, 17.
Matt: 17? That hits. Go ahead and roll for damage.
Marisha: 1d10 plus five. Where's my d10s? Ten damage. Piercing damage.
Matt: Ten piercing damage, all right. So, as you rush forward, you bite at him. You see he pulls back, but you get a big, meaty chunk of his forearm and clamp down, and you feel a snap, some sort of bone in the middle of his arm and he gives out a horrible-- (yells) sound, as he takes the butt of his hammer and hits you on the snout. Doesn't do any damage, but it's enough to get you to kind of let go of your grip a little bit, and he rips his arm out of your jaws. Leaving that kind of nasty, irony taste of duergar blood, that you've now become accustomed to, unfortunately. That ends the round. Now you have Tiberius and a cat in your way.
Marisha: (meows)
Liam: Do the doors go in or out, that I'm by?
Matt: The doors go in.
Liam: In. So I'm just gonna go like this (hinges creak) and throw a dagger and say peek-a-boo at the same time. (laughter)
Matt: Okay. As you step out (fwip).
Liam: That is a 29 to hit.
Matt: That does hit.
Liam: Okay.
Matt: You do not get sneak attack bonus, unfortunately.
Liam: Even though my ally is five feet away from him? I thought I remembered that rule.
Matt: You do if you are in melee with them.
Laura: Oh, right.
Matt: You get the bonus if you're both like flanking them, or you're like harrying them in combat. Because you're at a distance, you don't get the bonus.
Liam: Okay, so that is a nine. And then I'm going to follow-- the nine of damage.
Matt: All right.
Liam: And immediately follow up with my other dagger, which also hits.
Matt: All right, go ahead and roll damage on the second dagger. Which is 1d4 plus what?
Liam: Six. That's a nine.
Matt: Nine, okay. So, after the guy rips his arm out of Keyleth's face, essentially, a dagger comes swinging out from behind the doorway, stabs him in the other shoulder. You see he looks down at it confused for a second, and as that dagger vanishes in a puff of dark smoke, returning to your-- the side of your hilt, he looks up just in time to see the second dagger catch him right in the middle of the forehead, and he just falls onto his back at that point, unmoving. That duergar is stripped.
Laura: What-what!
Matt: Who's up next? Who wants to do anything? Who hasn't done anything yet this action?
Sam: Is there is a door next to me for another room?
Matt: You're just finishing.
Sam: Oh, I'm just finishing, okay.
Matt: Sorry. So, Pike, have you done anything yet?
Ashley: Can I-- Is there a door there? Somewhere, right there?
Matt: You move around here, there is a door over here, yes.
Ashley: I can't really do anything. Check it out, check it out.
Liam: Yeah, bust in. You can't stealth.
Matt: The door is a secondary guest room.
Liam: And now, poop on this bed.
Ashley: All right. (laughter)
Taliesin: I can't do anything that could make noise anyway.
Matt: It is a guest room of equal design and dressing as the one that Scanlan, you are unaware, is currently fouling. (laughter)
Ashley: Maybe I get a sudden urge for some reason to just poo on the bed. (laughter)
Matt: You can do what you want. Be aware, Pike as a character has her intent, the more you stray from that, the more it will have ramifications for her in the end.
Ashley: Yes, I know, I'm just kidding, That's not what, that's not what I want to do. I was just, had this feeling that Scanlan was doing something and I felt that--
Sam: She could probably hear, muffled from behind the door, (grunts).
Ashley: Okay, so I'll just-- I guess I can't do anything while I'm in there, so? Can I just--
Matt: That's about as far as you're able to move. You can still use your action if you wanted to do anything, but right now your vision is currently fairly well-blocked by a woman and a bear, and a man the size of a bear.
Ashley: Yeah, okay, so I'll just hang out there.
Matt: Okay, so that brings us back to Kima, who currently doesn't have any sort of way of getting over there, kind of frustrating, trying to find a way over.
Marisha: It's a narrow hallway.
Matt: Clarota, who is still invisible, is just gonna hold on that point.
Orion: As everybody is doing this, I'm going to-- why are you blocking me, I'm not supposed to be this close to this thing! Keep going.
Matt: Okay, Percy! Stand there? All right, Tiberius, you're up.
Orion: Oh, like I was saying. Well, shit.
Sam: Aren't you right next to the guy? Kill him.
Matt: Do it quick, or we are gonna move for the next turn.
Orion: Okay, I'll just lift up my hand and go, Firebolt.
Matt: Okay, point-blank Firebolt. Go ahead and roll your spell attack.
Orion: Okay, okay, 20.
Matt: 20, all right. That'll hit, go ahead and roll for damage for the Firebolt.
Orion: Okay, ten, 18, 20, 21, 23.
Matt: 23 damage? All right. So as you instinctively pull back, you release the blast of Firebolt energy, the duergar who is currently harrying you with this warhammer takes the brunt of it right to the bottom of his face and his torso. The studded leather armor that he's wearing tears open with a sheer flaming burst of the impact of it, and you see most of his skin is charred and burned at that point. He reels back for a second, looking very, very hurt but not quite put down yet.
Orion: As my bonus action, I'm gonna spend two sorcery points and do it again. So I roll for that. It's a 22.
Matt: All right, the second blast, as he reaches back, before he can get a chance to get back to his feet, the second blast hits. This time, it sends him off his feet, flying about five to ten feet back, skidding across the ground.
Orion: 15 damage.
Matt: Yes, and that puts him, still on the floor, laid out with a burning, kind of crippling, crispy scent in the air of what was once a standing duergar, now dead and burning on the ground.
Marisha: So once again I grab him by the scruff, take him, and put him in the bathroom.
Liam: I give a couple of pats on Tiberius's shoulder and start to inch down the hall.
Matt: All right, as you guys are doing this, Scanlan steps out of the guest room, getting his pantaloons back on.
Sam: My invisible pantaloons.
Matt: Yes. You hear the footprints of Scanlan, you being still invisible, you essentially just--
Sam: I phantom pooped. Did I find anything in there, by the way?
Liam: Just relief.
Matt: You found a fun way to prank duergar.
Marisha: Oh, yeah, did I find anything in the barracks?
Matt: Over there? No.
Taliesin: Did Liam-- Did Vax find anything shiny in the room? The shiny thing.
Liam: No, I got interrupted. That's a good idea, thanks for the reminder, Percy.
Taliesin: You're welcome, yes.
Liam: Checking for-- I checked for traps before, but I can't remember what I rolled. I'm sure it was successful.
Matt: Go ahead and roll again. (laughter)
Liam: 17.
Matt: Okay, as you push the door open and get a glance inside of the main hall, you don't see any traps across the floor.
Liam: Okay, I'm gonna go check out the shiny thing.
Matt: Okay. Everyone else staying out in the hallway?
Sam: I'm coming with him.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: If I can get there.
Matt: You manage to scoot through, dancing around folks, people kind of let you get by. Anyone else?
Laura: Yeah, sure, I like shiny things.
Marisha: I'm burying my shame, again. Burying the duergar.
Matt: So, you're dragging the duergar over in the--
Taliesin: I'll go in, too.
Ashley: I'll follow, I'll follow.
Laura: We're all going. It's a big, happy room.
Liam: So say we all.
Marisha: Well, I guess I'll go after I bury duergar.
Matt: Yes, as you guys step in here, move up towards the back corner, where there's the shiny glint. Tiberius, you stay inside or outside?
Orion: I'm going to wait for everybody to go inside.
Marisha: We will be Team Outside Posse.
Matt: Kima walks in, Grog goes to start making his way in. As he does, you go over towards the glimmer. The glimmer on the table, you look, it's just formless and kind of this weird spark of light. It then vanishes, and the doors that you guys entered--
Laura: (singsong) It's a trap.
Matt: -- slam behind you, with Tiberius, Grog and Keyleth all kept outside of the room.
Ashley: No!
Matt: The rest of you guys, the flames go to darkness and the entire room goes pitch-black.
Marisha: Oh, shit!
Laura: Oh, no, we don't have light.
Liam: In the darkness, I say, fuck! (laughter)
Laura: Stupid, stupid, stupid!
Orion: I motion to Grog and I'm like, you know what to do, damn it.
Matt: Grog's gonna go for the door, however, at this point in time, I'm going to ask for--
Laura: Can we stealth? I mean, I guess we're all kind of--
Sam: Ask for?
Liam: Roll for Deus ex Machina.
Sam: Oh, You're gonna ask the chat room something?
Matt: No, no, no. I'm not. I'm working out what's actually gonna happen here. All right, so, suddenly there is a cacophonous bit of pain streaking through Pike, Vex, and Clarota. Guys, go ahead and make an intelligence saving throw.
Sam: Intelligence?
Laura: All of us?
Sam: Some sort of a mind thing.
Laura: Oh, crud.
Marisha: Intelligence.
Laura: Oh, oh, oh! Oh, no, I don't get any advantage in this.
Liam: 13.
Matt: Not you, just you two. So what's the--
Taliesin: Never mind, that was such a good roll.
Ashley: What was that? That's a one. (laughs)
Matt: Okay.
Ashley: I rolled a one!
Matt: So in the darkness, suddenly there is this searing pain, like some sort of screaming sound is blasting you from the inside of your very mind. You two are both currently stunned.
Laura: Oh, crud.
Sam: Who's you two?
Laura: Me and Pike.
Ashley: I did bad things, I did bad things. I shouldn't have killed a man while he was down. Wait, so what does that-- That means we just can't do anything, right?
Matt: On every turn, you get to try and break that, but right now neither of you can--
Marisha: Every turn they have to try and break out of it? It keeps going? It's like a keep-going thing?
Matt: You both just sit there, grasping your heads, just screaming in pain as your body is unable to function or listen to any thought process. Clarota also unfortunately falls victim to this and is also unable to make any actions.
Sam: Oh boy!
Liam: I'm pulling out my flametongue dagger to try to get a little bit of light in here.
Matt: All right, however-- You, as you are currently pulling out your flametongue dagger, you feel a presence nearby, and with a little bit of embers around the fire, you see, out of nothing, a figure step into view that apparently was not visible but a moment before. A tall, lithe figure, with long limbs, fingers and a wrapping of facial tentacles coming towards your face.
Sam: It was invisible.
Liam: I see him, I'm gonna stab, I'm just gonna stab.
Matt: Before you get the chance to stab, you get a surprise attack from this guy.
Laura: Oh, no, what if he sucks our brains out?
Matt: All right, that comes to an 18 versus armor class.
Liam: Yeah, he got me.
Matt: So, as you go back for your blade to pull it out, he grabs you by the shoulders and pulls you, and the tentacles wrap around your face and pull you into this horrible toothy maw. You feel this tearing pain sensation as its teeth begin to dig into your face.
Ashley: No, no, no, no.
Laura: Oh my god, he's gonna die.
Liam: That hurts. A lot.
Matt: You take 17 points of psychic damage as the actual presence of the tentacles pulling on your face, you feel it's kind of grabbing your brain and trying to hold it in place. You are currently considered grappled.
Marisha: Son of a bitch.
Matt: Now, guys, everyone roll initiative. That was a surprise round.
Marisha: Surprise round.
Matt: Yes.
Marisha: 'Cause they got the drop on us
Taliesin: That'll do.
Orion: What's going on in there? I hear lots of ruckus.
Sam: We'll be out in a minute.
Orion: Don't give me that, Scanlan. Oh. Scanlan, you can hear me. What's going on in there?
Sam: We're all dying.
Orion: I turn to Grog. They're all dying.
Matt: (laughs) All right, so 25 to 20?
Sam: No one.
Matt: All right, 25 to 20, no one-- almost forgot, go ahead and make an intelligence saving throw.
Liam: 23.
Matt: 23, all right, you feel the presence of its mind pressing into your brain and you manage to, through the pain of its tentacles pulling you towards its mouth, shrug off its current attempt to push into your mind.
Liam: I'm thinking of the middle finger.
Matt: That's a good thing. Okay. So you're still grappled but you're not stunned.
Sam: Is he a piece on the board yet?
Matt: Both of them are now visible right there. All right, so, 25 to 20?
Laura: Nobody.
Matt: 20 to 15?
Liam: 17.
Taliesin: 16.
Orion: 17.
Matt: 17 and 16, all right. So actually, Grog is going first. All right, and Percy. 15 to ten? Ten to five?
Marisha: Oh, oh, wait, 13. (laughter)
Marisha: Sorry, I was thinking about shit.
Matt: That's okay. Ten to five?
Laura: Nine.
Taliesin: Thinking about shit.
Marisha: Thinking about life and death. (laughs)
Taliesin: Word.
Matt: All right.
Sam: Two.
Ashley: Oh, so did I. Best friends.
Sam: Besties. Twinsies.
Ashley: Gnomesies. (laughter)
Sam: We're still-- Mr. Dungeon Master, sir, this is all the same day. I don't get any of my spells back?
Matt: No, you guys have not rested. All right, so first, the top actually-- Kima is at the top of the initiative order.
Marisha: Kima, get it girl, get it, get it girl.
Matt: Kima angrily leaps on top of the table and goes running down with an angry yell, and leaps down toward the one that's currently grabbing onto you with its grapple. As she's running a little bit of light bursts, as you can see this divine energy begin to burst and glow off the edge of the greatsword that she's holding. She leaps down, and with a giant arc through the air that lights up that portion of the room with a brief sweep, the blade comes down towards-- oh, that'll hit. Second attack also hits.
Ashley: Yes, go Kima.
Matt: So that comes to-- okay, using her Divine Smite ability on top of that, she manages to deal 37 points of damage to it.
Taliesin: Damn.
Matt: As she finishes both of her strikes simultaneously. The mindflayer, however, does not release its grasp on you. You are still considered grappled. That ends her turn. Grog now is gonna angrily attempt to bash into this door, is gonna make an-- actually no, no athletics check, he's going to go into a rage and hitting away at the door. (growling)
Liam: (Grog voice) I would like to rage. (laughter)
Laura: (Grog voice) I would like to rage. (laughter)
Matt: All right, that puts a total of 32 points of damage, that's enough. So Grog just takes two big swings. The first one comes through, cracks the door in half, splitting it down the center. Rears back a second time, cleaves through the door entirely. What little bit is left on the hinges, he kicks out with his foot, leaving now this side completely open to the interior. He then moves in around Clarota. That's as far as he can get in this current turn. That brings us to Vax.
Liam: What can I do while grappled, nothing until I'm ungrappled?
Matt: Well, no, you can try and make an acrobatics or athletics roll against them to try and break free.
Liam: Okay, but then do I have an action once that's done or that's the action?
Matt: I'll let you use that as your move.
Liam: All right, so I'm gonna try to use, I guess athletics is what I would do.
Matt: Or acrobatics, up to you, whichever's higher.
Liam: Well, that would be acrobatics.
Matt: Acrobatics, then.
Liam: 27.
Matt: 27?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: That'll do it.
Liam: Okay.
Matt: You manage to, just in that moment of it being struck with the two blade strikes from Lady Kima, you manage to pull your head free from its grasp. And just manage to right yourself now, the throbbing pain in your head of what you just narrowly avoided still there.
Liam: Okay. Poison dagger in hand, I roll an 18. Does that hit?
Matt: Okay. 18. Currently that does hit, yes.
Liam: I wanna grab him by the calamari and stab him in the eye. (laughter)
Matt: Okay, go for it.
Liam: That's what I did, so-- and then if I'm five feet-- if Kima's there, I can sneak attack according to the rules?
Matt: Correct.
Liam: All right, so I'm gonna stab him in the eye. One. Plus the sneak attack damage is two, four, ten, 13, 19, 38, plus seven-- 45.
Matt: 45. All right. So, as you--
Liam: With the poison dagger.
Matt: Right, the poison dagger. I think you've already used the daily poison ability on this.
Liam: I don't remember, so it's just a stab.
Matt: Okay. So the 45 points of damage. You pull back and you jam it into the side of its eye. You can see as it rears back, a spray of dark-colored liquid kind of warms the side of your face. As you pull the blade back out it rears back and (growls). You can hear its voice piercing into your head going, "I will eat you one way or another!"
Ashley: No, you won't!
Laura: Did it distract him enough that we lost our thingy?
Matt: That's your main attack?
Liam: I mean, I would imagine between ungrappling and stabbing, is that it for me? Or do I get my second attack, I don't know?
Matt: You can get your second attack, I'm sorry.
Liam: Okay, well I think, go fuck yourself, and stab again. Nine plus-- 19.
Matt: 19? Yeah, that hits.
Liam: Other eye, other eye. No sneak attack. Two plus-- eight.
Matt: Eight. Okay. As it rears back and you hear it saying that, you pull back and you grab with your off hand the cluster of tentacles in the front of its face and pull it down. As you do, the inertia-- you jam the blade into the other eye. As you do, you hear this blast burst of angry scream inside your head, before it goes dead cold, silent, and the mind flayer falls to the ground.
Liam: I fucking hate these things!
Matt: All right. That brings us to Clarota, who's currently stunned and fails save, Clarota's still stunned. Tiberius.
Orion: I look through the door.
Matt: Look through the door.
Orion: What's going on in here? Are there any enemies I can see?
Matt: You can see over here, barely. It's very dark in the far corner, you can see just the shape of some humanoid there.
Orion: Oh. Okay, is he-- (laughs)
Matt: What are you doing, Tiberius?
Orion: (laughs) How tall is the thing?
Matt: From what you can see, it's maybe roughly six, seven feet. Grog's blocking most of it.
Orion: No, like, we're in a bunker, right?
Matt: Right now, you're in this giant great hall with giant tables and stools everywhere.
Orion: And the ceiling is--
Matt: You can't see the ceiling right now, there's no light.
Orion: Oh.
Matt: The room is near pitch-black, like there's just very little light in there currently.
Orion: I will waltz in behind Grog.
Matt: All right.
Orion: I cast Light.
Matt: Okay. The room all of a sudden bursts into view, you can now see the walls, the ceiling-- it's a smooth stone room. There is a large chandelier currently hanging from the top of the ceiling. It's about 25 feet up to the ceiling in this current room.
Marisha: (gasps) There's a big chandelier. That's fun.
Orion: And now do I see that guy better?
Matt: You do, yes. You see now there is a mind flayer currently ducking behind one of the tables right now. You can see a number of your friends in the party are currently clutching their heads, silently screaming to themselves, unmoving.
Orion: Ah, right. There's another one of those guys over there!
Marisha: Wait, there's another one?
Orion: Yes!
Marisha: There's two?
Matt: There's two.
Orion: I spend three sorcerer points.
Matt: How many sorcerer points do you have left? You spent a lot over the past couple games.
Orion: No, I have not, because I didn't do anything last game, because I was all recharged.
Matt: That's true, actually. Okay. Just keep track of that. So how many do you have left?
Orion: I have eight right now. Now I'll spend it to go down to--
Laura: Five.
Orion: Five. 'Cause math.
Matt: Okay, got you. Cool, good on you.
Marisha: Fantasy math. Once again, 826LA, after-school tutoring. Good charity.
Orion: I could have used it. I cast my pillars, or Grand Columns, as I like to call it, and (piston sound) all the way up and smash that little bastard.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: Smashy smashy.
Matt: So what's the save you get past that for the spell?
Orion: He does a dex save, and he takes 6d6 damage, and the dex save is to see if he's pinned or not.
Matt: Right. It does make its save, I believe, it's 21?
Orion: Oh, my, what?
Matt: Rolled a 21 versus your DC of your spell, which I believe is not higher than 21.
Orion: No.
Matt: So yeah, so he still takes the damage, but is not pinned.
Orion: Which is 15, 18 points of damage.
Matt: Okay, 18 points of damage, and manages to pull out of the way just in time as it slams into him, he darts off and catches himself on the ground, kind of slowly levitating above the ground as he comes to a stop. The pillar then slams into the roof, this section here. Actually splinters part of the table, which is now kind of lifted off-kilter at an angle. Yup. It--
Orion: Oh, so that-- does that mean he's in the air for a whole round? 'Cause how it works is, he's all the way up to that height, but he gets to come, or fall, back down if he makes the save. That's how-- so he has to travel that distance, so does he cast Levitate as he's coming down?
Matt: How I'm playing it is, the impact of the pillar suddenly slamming in from underneath is what does the initial damage, and he manages to roll off before it slams into the ceiling. He kinda-- So. However, that ends your turn. The mind flayer, now looking around and seeing the room lit up, seeing the entire group now in this room, looks around at everyone, puts its hands together and concentrates-- and as it does you see its form (sucking noise) vanish.
Marisha: Damn it!
Matt: A few seconds pass, you guys manage to shrug your stun, and Clarota as well.
Ashley: Whoa, what happened?
Marisha: That's not good.
Laura: What happened?
Marisha: They really know we're here.
Laura: We need to get out of this room, then.
Taliesin: Let's just search the rest of this floor as quickly as possible.
Marisha: As quickly as possible.
Laura: Grog, can you always put down the dust of tracelessness?
Matt: "All right, I will." He's doing his flower-girl moment. Passes behind you guys. All right, so, what is the current mode of action for you guys?
Marisha: I'm going to go ahead and dart down this hall that we know is for sure empty.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Exit the other side of the great hall that we're in.
Matt: All right.
Laura: And I think we should all go back-- we should go to the second floor.
Matt: Through here.
Liam: Walking in that door.
Matt: You look through here and see what appears to be some sort of a kitchen. You can see shelf units, you can see what looks like a few tables, you can see some kitchen elements.
Liam: I'm gonna walk all the way in, all the way in.
Matt: All right, you walk all the way in. There's a door towards the back--
Liam: The right, what do I see?
Matt: The right, you see what looks to be a doorway that's partially open that leads to a staircase.
Liam: Up or down?
Matt: Looks like it's going up.
Marisha: And what's in this room? I'm looking over here.
Matt: Okay, you look over here. It's a double door that is currently closed.
Taliesin: I will head in your direction as well.
Orion: Eight, two of my d6s to heal up.
Matt: You haven't taken a short rest yet. You have to-- you guys have to stop and take ten minutes, 15 minutes to rest to do that, so--
Sam: I'm gonna look all over the great hall and see if there's any cool stuff in there.
Matt: Make a perception check.
Laura: I think what we should do-- Everyone, I think what we should do is make our way back to the initial storage room we were in and go up that stairway, because that one's hidden. It's by a hidden entrance, people aren't gonna think about that one as much as main stairways.
Taliesin: I agree, I think we should-- I agree with that, I just think we should check the rest of the floor as well. Just double-check everything, make sure we didn't miss the--
Liam: Vax is heading back to the group.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Percy and I are checking this room with the double doors. Do you have any trap checks to see if it's locked?
Liam: I do!
Matt: Okay, so Percy and both you guys open this doorway. It opens up into what looks to be another smaller eating hall. This one's nicer, this one has one long table. This is probably where the more socially risen--
Taliesin: Take a quick look around.
Marisha: Yeah, anything in there?
Matt: Looks like it hasn't been used for a day or two.
Taliesin: All right.
Marisha: No cool goodies?
Matt: No current goodies in this area, no.
Taliesin: So we'll go-- just keep going down and check the rest of that hallway.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: There's a lot more, you guys. I think we should go find the vault on the second floor.
Matt: All right, you guys press down here. There apparently are now-- you can see there's another set of double doors--
Liam: Vax is following.
Matt: All right.
Laura: I think I should gather the group and try to make it back to the other storage room. Just to get us out of this area specifically.
Matt: So you guys are all moving back with--
Laura: Is that cool?
Matt: -- Vex to return to the previous storage room?
Marisha: We can do that. Yeah, go for it.
Taliesin: And you'll hear us if anything goes wrong. Yeah, we'll power through it.
Laura: Use your earring.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: I'll go ahead and very-- I'm just gonna kinda use my keen sense-- or sorry, my keen smell again to see if I can smell any duergar in the area.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and make a perception check with advantage.
Marisha: That's pretty good. Oh yeah, I'll take that first roll, which was seven-- 27.
Matt: 27. You smell that on this floor, there doesn't appear to be any duergar in your immediate vicinity. There is a strong, lingering scent of them coming from the doorway that you're currently at.
Marisha: A strong, lingering scent?
Matt: Correct, like it-- you can kind of tell there was a recent moving of a large number of duergar.
Marisha: But probably not present.
Matt: You don't know.
Marisha: Whatever. I guess we'll see what's in here.
Matt: All righty.
Marisha: Peeky, peeky.
Liam: I kind of parkour past Percy.
Matt: Okay.
Orion: Parkour past Percy!
Marisha: Parkour, parkour!
Matt: You open the doors into what appears to be a large temple chamber, a place of worship. What you see are a series of long, wooden benches that are arranged to look towards the center. There is an altar to the right that is a risen kind of stone dais, and in the center there is a stone table, an altar which has a piece of black cloth wrapped over it and something on top of it you can't see from this distance. In the center of the room there is a 12-foot-tall statue of what looks like an extremely strong armored duergar clutching a giant warhammer and a shield.
Marisha: Hm. I'm gonna-- oh wait, I'm a tiger.
Matt: Yup.
Liam: I'm gonna perception check the room. Which is high. 27.
Matt: 27? There does not appear to be anybody inside this room.
Liam: Screw this room.
Matt: However, do you have a religion--
Taliesin: I would like to do a religion roll.
Matt: Roll religion, guys.
Taliesin: Nine.
Liam: Nine.
Ashley: Could I do a religion roll from where I am?
Matt: You are not over there, unfortunately.
Marisha: That's what I was gonna do, is tell somebody to get Pike over here real quick.
Laura: Do you guys have earrings?
Ashley: I can put on my sprinter's boots.
Liam: Yeah, Pike, Pike? There's some sort of religious artifacts over here. Could use your expertise.
Matt: Pike, you make your way through, eventually coming down this hallway-- (clanking)
Marisha: She's coming! I can hear her coming.
Ashley: Hey guys, I'm here! Did you know I was coming? (laughter)
Matt: Go ahead and make a religion check.
Liam: Don't stab anything.
Orion: I'm gonna follow suit, but slowly.
Ashley: 17.
Matt: All right. As you're heading that direction slowly, best that you can tell right now, this room is definitely a small temple built to-- and the name kind of escapes you, the words trying to form in your head for a second, and then eventually you come to realize this is a chapel to Laduguer. Laduguer is the deity of the duergar. It's the god that basically freed them from their original enslavement from the illithids, and they worship as a pinnacle of power, strength, and conquest.
Orion: I make it up to where those guys are.
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: Let's keep searching.
Sam: Hey, what's the darkness right next to me? Is there a door there? What is that?
Matt: There is a door right over here.
Sam: Oh. I'm gonna open it.
Matt: Okay. All right. So you go ahead and open the door. It opens up into what you can immediately see is a chamber that is some kind of magical laboratory. You see in the far corner, hunched, a robed duergar, and as you open the door, there's a slight sound, a click sound, and a jet of greenish fume begins to spray up into your face. Make a constitution save.
Sam: Oh, god. I don't even know what that is! (laughs) 15.
Matt: 15? All right. So you take 11 points of poison damage. However, you can feel the poison forcing its way into your lungs. You manage to back out of the cloud in time and cough it up and your general physical well-being-- you resist most of the effects of the poison. However, this poison fume trap did appear to go off and as the smoke slowly dissipates, you hear a chuckle across the other side.
Orion: As I hear the noise, I--
Matt: You don't hear the noise, you're too far away.
Orion: Oh, shit.
Matt: You guys do hear it, though.
Laura: Okay, I come over there and see what the-- what just happened.
Matt: Okay, as you rush over, Scanlan's backed up away and you can see there's this chamber here.
Laura: Is the poison still in the air, or is it--
Matt: It's dissipated at this point. It's thin enough. You still can smell it, and it smells awful, like a very, very heavy, electrical fire-type smell.
Laura: So I can see that guy?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: So should I notch an arrow and try to hit him?
Matt: It's up to you. What're you going to do?
Laura: All right, I attack him, then!
Matt: All right, go for it then.
Ashley: Attack him! Get him!
Laura: Shabang! Oh, dang it, I didn't do it. I meant to Hunter's Mark him and transfer it over, but that's okay, I didn't say it.
Matt: You didn't say it this time.
Laura: That's 30. For the first.
Liam: You did say shabang.
Laura: I did say shabang, and 16 for the second.
Matt: Okay, both hit. Go ahead and roll damage on each.
Ashley: Hit it. (music flares up)
Laura: Well, sort of. 15 and eight.
Matt: 15 and eight. All right.
Liam: The music is on.
Matt: All right. So both arrows you've been firing over the top. He's kind of hard to see with the table and from being crouched in the corner, but both arrows still manage to barely make their mark. One kind of pins him against the wall, and he looks at his shoulder briefly, looks back at you, raises his hand, as he begins muttering something under his breath. As he does, your arrow (shnk) through his hand and he tries to shake it, and now he's pinned to the wall with an arrow in the middle of his hand.
Laura: Yeah!
Ashley: Yeah!
Laura: Trinket! Oh no, I used two attacks.
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: Dang it.
Matt: You can still tell Trinket to move. What are you gonna do?
Laura: No, no no, I'm gonna hold him there, 'cause he's already in the room.
Matt: Okay, got you. All right, so what are you guys doing over in the temple?
Liam: Exiting.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: No! Look and see if there's anything cool, first. What was that thing that's covered up by the blanket on the altar?
Matt: You keep walking towards it?
Marisha: Yeah. What's up with that?
Matt: You make your way, you look at the top of the dais where the altar is, and on top you can see the black cloth that is wrapped over it. The scent gets to you before the actual visual. It's freshly rotting flesh of some kind, and as you glance over, you can see there is a heart that has been cut from a body and it's at the point where the blood has coagulated and begin to become thick. It's roughly dwarven size.
Marisha: I get up and I grab it in my mouth.
Matt: Okay. It tastes disgusting.
Marisha: And then I walk over to Vax and I lay it at his feet. I kind of nudge it with my nose.
Matt: She got you a heart.
Liam: I scritch Keyleth behind the ear, but nudge it aside with my toe and exit the room.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: I did scritch her ears, but I'm going to continue down to the end of the hall.
Matt: This way?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Okay, you make your way into what looks like a giant foyer, into a secondary entrance in the side of the fortress.
Liam: I just walk all the way over to the corner, stealthing.
Matt: Make a stealth check.
Liam: It's high, it's 28.
Matt: 28, got it, okay. So, as you make your way through, you eventually careen to this corner. You can see another hallway, what appears to be another room of some kind. You also glance back and see there are two sets of stairways that go up and down.
Liam: What's behind me?
Matt: This is a giant foyer that leads outside of the fortress.
Liam: And the edge of the map this way?
Matt: This way here? This way? This comes to an abrupt end at that point, a rocky wall into the mountain itself that it's buttressed up against.
Liam: Okay, I'm gonna keep coming this way, stealthing.
Matt: All right. As you move through--
Laura: What's happening with that dude I-- are you doing all this while I just pin down--
Liam: Yeah. I don't know what's going on back there. I'm just walking around.
Matt: So, you glance in this room. There's an open walkway and what appears to be another barrack section, also completely empty.
Liam: Screw that. Do I see a door for this room that's still darkened out? Then I'm gonna keep sliding along the wall.
Matt: Okay, as you slide along here, to make your way around to a door there.
Liam: Okay. Pressing my hand, just to see if I can check any for traps.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: 26.
Matt: 26, all right. The door does not appear to be trapped.
Taliesin: I'm gonna be heading in that direction anyway.
Marisha: Agreed. Same here.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: I would like to stealth through the door.
Orion: Before I leave, I carefully examine that statue.
Matt: Okay, what are you examining?
Orion: The facial features of the god, the deity, right? Is that what he is?
Matt: Yeah. Okay, so you look at the face of Laduguer. You can see it's very, very old, it's very well-crafted. You can see a lot of very meticulous craftsmanship went into its creation. It almost glistens with a perfection that is out of place in an area that is so covered in soot and various other volcanic activity-based mineral deposits.
Orion: I'm gonna do a quick arcana check, just to see if there's any kind of mystical thing around it or anything like that. And it's 19.
Matt: Okay. There is some sort of a hum to the air that has an arcane element to it, but you are unable to pinpoint what it necessarily means or what the source is.
Orion: Interesting. Knowing that, I kind of gather my thoughts and I head towards where the rest of the group is.
Matt: Okay, so, while you're opening the door, the mage in the far corner kind of looks about sporadically and looks down at the arrow in its hand and its shoulder and just kind of fearfully, "Wait wait wait! Wait. Stop. Don't attack. Let's have a conversation."
Laura: Speak fast. Before I kill you.
Matt: He leans forward, kind of pulling the arrow out of the doorway. (groans in pain) Starts hobbling towards you a little bit.
Laura: Can we all-- we go in the room and Trinket goes up next to him and, like, gets all up in his face?
Matt: Okay. As you both enter, both of you make constitution saving throws. As two more plumes of poison (pff) out of the ground as both you and Trinket walk in.
Liam: Good.
Laura: 15?
Matt: 15, okay. And for Trinket as well.
Laura: Oh, I should've been so smart, but I wasn't. (laughter)
Laura: 14 for Trinket.
Matt: Okay. You take seven points of poison damage.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: Trinket, however, takes 14 points of poison damage.
Laura: Oh man. What did I get, seven?
Matt: Seven. And Trinket is currently considered poisoned.
Laura: Oh no!
Sam: What does that mean?
Matt: It means disadvantage on attack rolls, disadvantage on ability checks.
Laura: That's okay.
Matt: And now there's a bear coughing and kind of thrashing about the room. The table it bumps into and it kind of topples over.
Laura: Is this like a turn thing or can I do something?
Matt: Well, this is just a reactionary moment of you guys coughing and trying to get out of this poisonous fume.
Laura: I mean, can I quickly cast Protection from Poison on Trinket?
Matt: You can, yes.
Laura: Okay. I do that.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: And that cures it.
Matt: That completely removes the poison?
Laura: Yes it does.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Yay Trinket!
Matt: Well done. So that's your action. You now, as you are checking the door and you open it up, you hear all this commotion going off to the side now. Scanlan, you're over there as well, watching as more plumes of these poisonous smoke bits.
Sam: If I get close to the door without going through it, can I see the guy?
Matt: You can move over and look, you can just barely make out his form. It is a dark room that is currently filled with a slowly dissipating green cloud so it's hard to make him out.
Sam: Okay, well then I will just-- fuck (laughs). Well, if I can't see him then I will just yell at him.
Matt: All right.
Sam: I'll yell with Vicious Mockery. I don't like you very much for poisoning me and my friends, you're a poopy head! (laughter)
Marisha: So vicious.
Laura: That is threatening.
Marisha: Damn.
Sam: Ooh. That does seven points of damage.
Matt: Seven points from Vicious Mockery? All right! (laughter)
Matt: I don't know how that works.
Sam: It's Vicious Mockery. It's an attack.
Matt: That's crazy.
Liam: That's, like, 80 points of damage!
Marisha: And who said that words couldn't hurt people?
Taliesin: And bonus damage to his mother, wherever she may be.
Marisha: Sticks and stones can break my bones, but words can hurt.
Matt: Okay. So it has to make a will saving throw, against your DC. It rolls a three. It does not. So, as you shout out into this room, the currently fearful duergar mage kind of glances, eyes slide about, hears these words and you see him wrack his head for a second with a sudden sense of self-loathing and disappointment. (laughter)
Matt: His hands drop and it looks like for a minute his intent to begin muttering some sort of incantation is momentarily distracted.
Orion: Nice!
Matt: All right, awesome.
Ashley: Can I start moving back?
Matt: Yeah, you can start moving back this way.
Liam: I hear that, but I'm still going to poke my head stealthily through the door and see what I see. Do I need a new stealth check or?
Matt: Yes you do.
Liam: Okay, great. So that is a 32.
Matt: All right, you glance inside at what looks to be some sort of a training room. There are-- most of the floor itself is stone, and in the far corner there is a large section that is mainly just sand and dirt and there are a number of wooden training structures. You know, various shields and wooden bars that are used as a means of training for weaponry. There's what looks like a giant rack of weapons, full of arms and stuff.
Liam: Anything good-looking?
Matt: Go ahead and make a perception check.
Liam: One.
Matt: Most of the materials in this room look like the basic duergar fare.
Liam: These don't look very good.
Taliesin: I was going to run in and take a look around anyway so--
Matt: (laughs) Okay. As you run in, go ahead and make a dexterity saving throw.
Taliesin: God damn it. Okay.
Sam: (sings) Traps, traps, traps-traps-traps.
Taliesin: 24.
Matt: All right, so. You take ten points of lightning damage as you feel a tile on the ground trigger and then spring up, and as it does, you hear this sudden high-pitched whine as blue energy streaks up from the floor, runs through your body. Thankfully, you manage to dive out of the way and touch the ground to ground the energy, minimizing the damage. But yeah, you triggered (laughs) triggered a trap plate. You're beginning to get the sense that a lot of this tactic of this fortress now has been to lead you guys through a--
Marisha: Maze?
Matt: A maze of traps.
Sam: A labyrinth.
Liam: Before we hurt ourselves any longer, we should--
Laura: We've got to kill this guy. Or talk to him at least.
Liam: We need to get to the main event here.
Matt: All right. At this point, Kima is now-- As Kima hears you shouting all these curses into the room, Kima pushes past you, and pushes past you. You can see Kima coming into the room behind you guys. Steps over the broken table, down in front of the circle, and grabs the mage by the front of his robe, pulling him into her face. The mage at this point is still kind of reeling from the fact that you managed to strike him so deeply in the heart of his hearts.
Sam: He's just not a nice man.
Matt: However, Kima, with a look of absolute death in her face, grabs him and pulls him forward and says, "Listen, where is the rest of your fucking army?" She's going to make an intimidation check.
Taliesin: Yeah! Damn.
Matt: He does not succeed in resisting that.
Laura: Yes!
Matt: The duergar is pressed against the wall now, and she's slamming him against the back of a bookshelf. "Look, all right, they're waiting for you up there, all right? You're not going to survive this. At this point, the entire city's probably waiting for you in the outside of the fortress and those that are upstairs are well-prepared. Okay? Your best chance of survival is laying down your arms and surrendering. I'm looking out for your best interests here."
Liam: Kill this asshole.
Marisha: Kill him.
Matt: Kima, who is still holding him against there, you can see her hand releases the scruff and he takes a deep breath for a second. But before he can finish exhaling, she goes in, immediately grabbing his throat and squeezing it extremely tight. As she does, you see his tongue, dangling out the side of his mouth (strangling noises) as she's cutting off his entire air supply. She pulls forward and takes the greatsword and begins to slowly push it into his abdomen. As she does, he starts screaming in terrible pain. You can see her just slowly pushing the blade through his body into the bookcase behind. As she does, she goes, "You're gonna tell me, right now, who they have waiting for us upstairs." As she begins to push all the way to the hilt now, he's pinned up against the bookcase and probably a portion of the stonework behind him. He's now got blood pouring out the sides of his face and outside the front of his nose. The duergar being held up against the wall says, "Whatever you haven't killed. The army's probably up with the king himself. They're all waiting for you and I hope they piss on your body when they're done!" At which point she takes the blade and twists it. As she does, he gives this guttural yelp and his eyes just go blank. Blanker than the duergar eyes normally are.
Orion: I make it to the doorway and go, what is going on in here?
Laura: Are there any-- taking that in-- any healing potions or anything in here that we could use?
Matt: Go ahead and make an investigation check.
Sam: Can I look at the door and see if the trap will go off again if we step through it again?
Matt: Perception check.
Sam: 20.
Matt: Looks like, from glancing about the room and getting a feel for it, there were three traps that were all placed directly at the front of the door, basically to give him a point of defense, they've all been triggered, so you don't have to worry about any more in this room.
Laura: Is this still considered the Underdark?
Matt: This is, yes.
Laura: Oh, cool!
Sam: I'm going to go in and look around some more.
Matt: You're looking around as well?
Sam: Look around for potions and stuff.
Laura: Oh, that's considered the-- aw, I could have been rolling twice for all these damn things!
Matt: (sings) Remember your abilities.
Laura: (sings) 25.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Who's the singer here, people?
Matt: Sorry, Scanlan. So, as Kima pulls the blade from its body, kicking it off the greatsword and wiping it across the leather on the side-- the leather that you gave to her! And a little part of you is like, (sadly) hmm.
Liam: That's all right. Worth it. This halfling's hot.
Matt: So you guys made your way back, Clarota's there, against the corner, and Grog rushes over, just feeling like he was ready for action. "What's going on?"
Ashley: You're too late.
Marisha: This might be a good time to stop for a moment.
Matt: That's up to you guys, as I say, do you guys want to take a short rest?
Laura: Did I find any potions? Did I find anything?
Matt: Yes. Glancing around the room, you manage to find two potions of healing, one potion of superior healing.
All: Ooh.
Laura: What is that? That's major.
Marisha: That's cool.
Matt: You also find one vial of some sort of weird, viscous yellow liquid that you cannot identify.
Marisha: Oh, don't open that. Who knows how long those guards had to be staked out here? Don't open that.
Sam: Can I do a-- can I investigate it or arcana it?
Matt: Sure, you can give it a go.
Sam: Yeah. That's a one.
Laura: Oh good.
Sam: Oh wait, no, that's a seven. These dice are horrible. Anyway, it doesn't matter. It's bad.
Matt: It looks delicious. No, actually, you can't make out, it has some changing color as you kind of swirl the bottle and watch the texture inside shift and change with the centrifugal force. You can't make out anything about its intent, but it does feel like it's a potion created with some effect.
Sam: Tiberius, do you want to drink this?
Orion: No! What is it? I check it for 18.
Sam: For what?
Orion: For whatever you're trying to hand to me.
Matt: 18 arcana? Okay. You take a look at it. It definitely is magical, you don't have a lot of experience with alchemy but you gather that the effect that it would have upon imbibement would be to alter your physical form in some way, you just don't know the specific effects.
Orion: Absolutely, Scanlan, I'll take that for now. And I put it in my pouch.
Taliesin: Let's take a short rest.
Matt: So, as you guys all kind of enter this room, this brief safe zone to take a short rest, if you feel you want to heal yourself up and regain any short rest-based abilities, do so.
Marisha: Can we talk about what this duergar just told us?
Laura: Can we go to the bathroom before we do that?
Matt: That's what I was going to say. We can return-- So we're going to take a quick bathroom break, we're going to play the videos again, we'll return here in just a second, as the next element of the attack on Emberhold continues.
Marisha: Oh, and this is your last chance because after the break we'll pick a winner for the Espionage giveaway. So, last chance if you want to tweet @EspionageMakeup and #CriticalRole and look at our sweet nails! They're awesome. They're cool.
Matt: (whispers) Galaxies! All right, see you guys in a second.
Orion: I have text and whatnot. [break]
Matt: Welcome back, guys! All right, so we've had ourselves sufficiently rested.
Zac: Indeed we have. We have a Tabletop Promo Day kit to give away, because you guys got the 50 subs since we started today.
Matt: Which is awesome.
Zac: And we'll give away another one with another signed poster at the end of the night if you get another 50. So we're about to give this away, but I just want to remind you guys to donate to 826LA. That's the group that Critical Role is supporting, and these guys are here out of the graces of their heart, and it would be very helpful for you guys to donate to them and show your love for Critical Role by donating to the charity. We'll post the link in the chat. Get those donations rolling!
Matt: Awesome.
Zac: Zac out!
Matt: All right, thank you, Zac! Couple of quick things. You wanted to announce the Espionage--
Marisha: Yes! Our winner for the Espionage Bath Bombs Tabletop from @espionagemakeup goes to (drumroll) Danny Carr. Who is @Eleine35. So, Danny, I'm pretty sure you follow me on Twitter, just PM me your address and I'll get these out to you. And thank you!
Matt: Yeah, did you follow him? Because you have to follow him--
Marisha: Oh, I have to follow-- Oh, well then I'll follow Danny right now.
Matt: Awesome! Also, as a heads-up, guys, we've had some people perpetually asking us about the shirts that we made.
Orion: You mean these shirts?
Matt: That shirt right there. So, we have a-- it's a temporary-- it's very basic, but we have up, if you guys ever want to go to critrole.com, we have a limited run of those shirts currently available for purchase.
Marisha: Very limited, like once they're gone, they're gone.
Laura: It's less than-- probably less than 15 of each size, less than that, probably. It was a small amount.
Liam: I was wearing mine earlier today and I only rolled 20s. Only.
Marisha: It's true. So, it's www.critrole.com, and, yeah, and the site is still under construction, so. But we managed to rush it out, and I wanna give a huge shout-out to Michael Whitesman, who's a big friend of ours, for helping us make the website
Orion: Thanks, Whitey!
Marisha: @whitesly, if you want to bug him, and, yeah, so, if you buy--
Orion: That's his nickname! It's not like a--
Marisha: Whitesly! His last name is Whitesly.
Orion: I know. But I said, "What's up Whitey," like, to him personally, and then they look at me like, "Oh my lord, that's so racist." (laughter)
Orion: And I'm like, no, no, it's his nickname. It's okay.
Matt: That is actually his nickname.
Liam: I'm just sad that you don't call me Whitey.
Orion: I mean, I can.
Liam: Okay. Let's start. After this game.
Marisha: Anyways. Anyways, you can go buy t-shirts now, which was the whole point of that. At critrole.com. And there's a limited run. Once they're gone, they're gone.
Matt: The cost includes shipping. We'll get-- we're packaging them ourselves. We'll have, hopefully, more in the future, but this is the first attempt at trying to do something like this for you guys, so--
Marisha: Yeah. We're doing this all ourselves just to, just 'cause-- See how this works. You guys--
Laura: And that includes the shipping, that's why the price is--
Ashley: So future t-shirts-- Were you guys saying something, like it would be artwork from--
Marisha: Yes, this was, we got this from @rusegafdi. He wore this at Tabletop Day, so--
Laura: A very similar design, so yeah.
Marisha: Yeah, so we're-- we decided we're going to do, like, fan-designed t-shirts. So, once every so often, we'll do a fan-designed t-shirt, and yes. And then-- but they'll all be limited, so yeah!
Matt: Yeah. Shipping, shipping is included with the price, guys, don't worry. But yeah. So, anyway, check that out! Thank you guys so much, and let's go ahead and get back to the game proper.
Crew: Hey, the t-shirts are sold out already. They're now sold out. They bought all of them.
Marisha: T-shirts are sold out!
Orion: Wait, what?
Taliesin: We didn't even finish telling you people!
Laura: No they're not.
Taliesin: Let us finish our sentence first!
Matt: Okay, so, so, so the limited run was very limited--
Marisha: Holy shit!
Matt: I guess we'll have to order some more, then.
Sam: Uh, mental note  make more t-shirts.
Marisha: We didn't know! We didn't know!
Matt: We were gauging interest. I guess there's interest.
Marisha: I'm sorry! Now I almost feel guilty. Congratulations to the 100 people who got 'em.
Orion: Hold on. Tiberius is gonna work some magic, and then try to conjure up a few more. He was unaware there was a shortage of, of those-- okay.
Matt: Sorry, guys, all right, well, we'll-- thank you guys very much, we'll get more to you very soon.
Marisha: I don't know what to say! Oh god, I'm like, going to cry.
Laura: Second run, yeah! Just hashtag them critical role and we'll-- oh, but if you're selling them already, there's somebody that's making really cool t-shirts on Redbubble, but if you're making them there, like, we can't print them too, so, like, just submit them to us, and then we can--
Matt: Yeah, we'll figure it out! Anyway, guys, thank you so much! Let's get to the game!
Taliesin: Thank you! Cool!
Sam: Guys, guys, the chatroom just solved the Israeli-Palestinian conflict! (laughter)
Matt: Thank you so much, chat! Nice.
Taliesin: We've got a box of stuff coming right for you right now. Thank you.
Marisha: Oh my god, I'm like, shaking.
Matt: All right, so. For all who didn't get 'em, we'll have more soon, I promise.
Liam: Do you guys like D&D? What is that?
Marisha: (laughs) We didn't know if people liked our show or not!
Matt: So. So. So, you've housed yourselves into this enchanting room, this magical laboratory, and taken about a 15-minute rest. You're able to use any of your unused hit dice to heal yourself up if need be. Any--
Ashley: Oh, well, where's everybody at? 'Cause maybe I can just do a-- some healing up.
Taliesin: I just spent a healing surge, so.
Laura: Well, he's, well, as far as health goes--
Liam: I'm low, yeah, I'm pretty low.
Ashley: Yeah, what are you at?
Matt: How many hit dice do you have left?
Liam: I know, I have, I don't have that many left. I'm at, like-- I accidentally erased it, but I believe I'm at 30?
Ashley: Ooh, yeah, you-- I need to, I'll get on that. Anybody else? What's everybody at?
Sam: I can sing to you and give you an extra little roll.
Liam: I'd like you to sing to me, either in the game or on another day.
Sam: Are you Vex or Vax? (laughs)
Liam: I'm Vix.
Sam: All right, I'll sing to you and-- are you gonna use a dice?
Liam: Thank you. Ah, let me see how beautiful your song is
Sam: (sings) Heal the Vax, make him a better elf.
Sam: (sings) For you and for me and the entire adventuring band.
Ashley: (sings) For you and for me and the entire adventuring band.
Sam: (sings) There are duergar dying, if you cared enough for the adventurers, you'd bring Vax back to help us with the stabby-stab. Thank you, thank you, thank you.
Liam: And please, vaccinate your kids. (laughter)
Liam: I mean, don't Vax-inate them.
Matt: Yeah, there's the difference. All right, so.
Sam: You get a 1d6 for that.
Matt: So, an extra 1d6 healing to anyone.
Liam: Who needs more than one? Three, okay.
Ashley: I healed you, 18, which was actually low, but I rolled really high for each roll. That's my--
Liam: Oh, thanks. That's very good. Okay, great, I am almost tip-top condition, thank you. I have a blister.
Matt: So, as you guys manage to pull yourself out of your rest mode, you now glance out, and the hallway's still quiet, you can hear the movement of footsteps up above you. What is your intent?
Sam: To win!
Marisha: Okay. Wait, what are we gonna do, 'cause here's-- there's an army waiting upstairs for us?
Liam: They know we're up there, but Kima needs her stuff, and we need to kind of put an end to this problem.
Marisha: I'm gonna hop out of tiger form, by the way, since we rested and stuff.
Sam: Wait, they're above us?
Liam: Yeah, they're all upstairs, including the mind flayer who vanished from the room we're in, so I'm sure he told everyone what's going on. But they don't know we've found the secret entrance, so I think we should go-- Vex'ahlia's correct, we should use the stairwell near the secret entrance.
Orion: Are we sure there's no other way out of here, through this particular floor? Is that the only exit?
Laura: There's-- I mean, there's the front entrance, there's that door over there, there's like two other stairways, but we should use this back one, by the back entrance.
Liam: Also, Lady Kima, our purpose here was to find you, but your purpose is somewhat greater than our own. What do you suggest we do in this moment?
Matt: As she stands up, and she holds the greatsword and swings it a bit. "What I'm seeking lies deeper into this cavern. Whatever is at the heart of this illithid scourge." And she glances over at Clarota-- who's in the back corner, hands folded-- and there's a slight mental hiss sound in her direction. "There's something far darker at the heart of this temple. I've seen it. But I have my thoughts and my ideas, but I need confirmation before I speak of any doom-saying. However, the link between those foul creatures and the assault that's currently mounting against Kraghammer lie upstairs at the center of this duergar people."
Sam: Oh, here? Here at-- where we are now? Yes, here?
Matt: "The link between this K'varn character--"
Liam: And let me ask you this. We can be on the same page, we can go up and fuck shit up. However, your weapons and armor-- would they be a great help? Should they be our short-term purpose, or should we just go up and try to end this problem?
Matt: "To be honest, we've entirely lost the element of surprise. I would not wish to sacrifice as foolishly for a few additional trinkets of my own when I feel that this should do well enough, as long as we manage to work together and be smart about this."
Laura: So we should potentially just leave this castle for now and go find K'varn, rest up--
Sam: No, no, no.
Liam: No, Kima is saying this is the main event.
Sam: She just said there's a link upstairs. The link from-- to K'varn that we need to--
Laura: I get it! Okay. Yeah.
Matt: "How do you think K'varn is able to send these armies up again and again towards the back door of Kraghammer?"
Laura: Right.
Matt: "Besides, if we go on and leave them as they are, who's to say they wouldn't come up behind us, and then we're fighting a two-sided front once we get there?"
Laura: Then let's-- We gotta go upstairs.
Liam: Vox Machina, our years are short. Let's make good use of them.
Sam: Let's leave this decision up to Grog.
Orion: Absolutely not! (laughter)
Matt: Grog's standing there clutching his greataxe. "I say, I haven't been able to kill much since we got here. Let's kill something!"
Orion: That's a terrible idea.
Laura: Have some ale before we go out, Grog.
Matt: "Oh, yeah, of course." And he goes into his bag of holding, and pulls out his now half-empty cask, and you see him frown as he hears it clink around. He pours everyone a small drink, to what is now an empty cask.
Laura: This could potentially kill us all.
Travis: Vox Machina.
All: Vox Machina!
Laura: Scanlan had a great idea, though. Should we talk about what Scanlan wants to do?
Sam: Ah, yes, I have an idea. But also, are there two stairs up to the top floor?
Liam: There's multiple.
Sam: Perhaps we should use more than one. One, half of our band go up, create a diversion. The other half sneak up and kill, kill, kill. That's one option. The other option--
Liam: Pike leads the diversion group.
Ashley: Definitely the stealthy ones with me. (laughter)
Sam: Ah, I do have an idea about gaining the upper hand on our first meeting with this army that's upstairs. An intimidation technique of some sort.
Marisha: You're not going to kill another pony, are you?
Sam: I can't anymore.
Marisha: Good.
Sam: Much as I would love to. No, but we've heard over our eavesdropping that some of these duergar bastards are scared of that strange chimera sort of hodgepodge, human centipede thing? We could be one of those with a little bit of deception, and all of us sort of piling on each other. We could act like a big scary monster and go up and freak the fuck out of them.
Marisha: Ah! That's actually a really good idea.
Laura: -- all of us piled on Grog and Trinket and you as the bases, and we become this--
Sam: They would probably be, at least for the moment, intimidated a bit, and we could get a few licks in before they realized we're just a pile of idiots running at them. (laughter)
Laura: I like it.
Marisha: So we're basically gonna be like three kids Little Rascals-style on each other's shoulders with a giant coat?
Sam: But that could be the diversion, at least.
Marisha: Okay, well then, why don't-- I actually like this idea. Why don't we have a few of our stealthy members, why don't we have the twins be in the shadows, and picking people off while--
Laura: That's true, 'cause I've got range, so that makes sense.
Marisha: Right, why don't we have some of our ranged people-- I'll transform. I can transform into-- how about a giant scorpion? That sounds fun.
Sam: Can you transform into anything?
Marisha: I can transform into beasts. They have to be beasts.
Sam: How about the type of beast that we know would scare them, like that big triceratops thing that we saw with the big metal thing on it.
Marisha: I can be a rhinoceros-- I can be, like-- Can I do dinosaurs? I can be a dinosaur, right? That's a new thing I can be, right?
Matt: Up to a certain point.
Liam: What if you were a scorpion, with a dragonborn tail sliding around and a gnome on your front leg and a--
Marisha: Well here's, oh wait wait, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, hang on, hang on, hang on, this might be crazy-- wonder what would happen if I drank that weird yellowish potion? While I'm a monster?
Laura: No, It could be poison, though.
Marisha: But I'm wondering if you can, like, if I can transform into a monster and then you with Polymorph can maybe just transform.
Orion: Stop talking, stop talking! Hold on. (laughter)
Marisha: You don't have to snap at me.
Orion: No, no, no, you're brilliant, your highness.
Marisha: Oh, thank you. I mean.
Orion: I have an idea, I have an idea.
Liam: We're off the rails, here.
Laura: Tell it to us, Tiberius, what's the idea?
Sam: Does it involve shitting on a bed? (laughter)
Orion: Eventually, actually, yes.
Taliesin: Aren't you empty yet?
Orion: This is what's going to happen. As far as we know, they're all duergar up there, correct?
Laura: Mostly, except for the mind flayers. And another big monster probably, they might have--
Ashley: Which I saw in a vision. I think that's what's controlling them
Laura: Oh no, that's K'varn. No, no, no, he's at the other one.
Ashley: Sorry, read it wrong.
Orion: This is what will happen. Those who can go stealth, we will creep up there. I will go invisible myself. I will be in front. You closely behind me.
Sam: He has a name.
Orion: Vax. There we go. You closely behind me, and whoever else can stealth follows suit. I will cast Alter Self and turn myself into their god.
Sam: Their god?
All: K'varn?
Marisha: But you don't know what he looks like.
Laura: Oh, or into that other thingie.
Orion: I absolutely know what he looks like.
Matt: You mean Laduguer?
Orion: We just saw his statue.
Marisha: Well. that's not K'varn though.
Orion: But that's who they worship. As I give my, whatever the hell I come up with to say at that particular time--
Sam: Maybe you should think it first, think it through first.
Orion: As soon as the mind flayers catch on, and I turn to Clarota, and I turn to Kima, that's when all of you will strike at them first. The rest of you will wait 'til I shoot off a couple of Fireballs at the duergar once they figure out we're full of crap. 'Cause I'm sure that might happen unless I'm super convincing, which I hope that's the case-- But I think that's our best bet to keep a certain element of surprise.
Marisha: So wait, so wait, are you going to be their god, and I'm still going to also be a crazy monster, as like your pet crazy monster, with our stealthy team, or just--
Taliesin: I think the only thing better than their god would be their god on top of a giant scorpion.
Laura: Ooh!
Marisha: Ooh!
Liam: I have faith in you, Tiberius.
Marisha: You'll be like Xerxes.
Ashley: Can I cast, 'cause I've been wanting to use Thaumaturgy. Which can make your voice three times as louder.
Matt: At the moment he would be speaking, yeah.
Ashley: At the moment he'd be speaking, okay, so let's do that.
Laura: Oh, that's going to be so cool.
Marisha: Some theatrics.
Liam: I love it when a good plan comes together.
Sam: So some of us are stealthing, you're being a big god who talks loud and is riding a scorpion.
Ashley: So maybe I'll tuck behind him, on top of you the scorpion, and then when you're getting ready to talk I'll just (whoosh) and then you'll-- your voice will be, you know, you'll have--
Liam: Yeah, that's good, that's good.
Sam: How about this-- so, just to clarify, are we all going up the same staircase, or are we going up two separate staircases, Vex and Vax--
Laura: I think we should just go up the same staircase. There's too many of them. If we split up we could just all die.
Sam: You don't know what-- there could be a million rooms up there.
Liam: We have no idea what's up there, but Tiberius has got a plan, I like it.
Laura: If he's the god, we just go in behind him as the god.
Ashley: What if we did like your Dimension Door? Is it too not very god-like if he's coming up the staircase like, hey?
Sam: The Dimension Door's off the table.
Liam: Tiberius, Tiberius. Tibs.
Sam: But don't use the god thing. But don't use the god thing until we get to the big group. The big thing, if you see a guard, don't turn into a god, you gotta see like more than five people before you turn into a god.
Liam: Tiberius.
Orion: Yes, Vax?
Liam: Do you intend to go up one of the other stairways? I believe this one by the entrance, the secret entrance we came in, will afford us the element of surprise. Do you think you want to go up one of the others?
Orion: No, let's go up that one.
Liam: And make a distraction, right? Your plan is to make a distraction.
Orion: Yes, of course.
Liam: You're a brave dragonborn.
Marisha: I'm going to cast Pass Without a Trace on the party. Everyone stay close.
Liam: Who's the stealth party, not you, you and me, you.
Marisha: Well, all of us, all of us I guess, until we get upstairs.
Laura: Potentially all of us will be stealthed except for Tiberius, and you who is a scorpion, and you who's riding behind Tiberius.
Ashley: I'm riding on her, so I probably won't be rolling for stealth.
Matt: Uh.
Ashley: Just kidding.
Matt: You'll be rolling.
Ashley: I probably won't roll well, just putting it out there.
Matt: You hear in the back of your mind this subtle, soft, echoing chuckle. "You're all crazy. I like it." (laughter)
Matt: At which point, Kima, who's listening to all this with a look of kind of awe and curiosity says, "You know, for once? I actually agree with the thing." (laughter)
Matt: "All right." Takes her greatsword in her hands. "Lead the way."
Ashley: So you guys are stealthing up first?
Marisha: We all have Pass Without a Trace as long as you stand close enough.
Liam: Wait, wait for the inspiration.
Sam: I have some inspiration dice to give out, that I can give out as bonus actions. Can I give it out before we go into battle?
Matt: I would say like momentarily, right beforehand.
Sam: Okay, good to know. But I can't mass give it out, just have to give it to one person.
Matt: It's one of those things where it has to be in the moment when the adrenaline's pumping, I think, for it to last into the combat.
Sam: Okay, and do we want to send Clarota and Kima off through a different staircase so we have at least a backup plan?
Laura: No, no, no stick together. Too big of a group of an army upstairs to split us up.
Liam: Don't split the party.
Sam: In those action movies, when there's one guy who goes away for a while, he comes back at the end and saves the day. If we did that--
Laura: That's not going to be us!
Liam: We few, we happy few. (laughter)
Liam: About to go and do something very stupid. Let's do it.
Matt: So you are venturing up which stairway?
Laura: The secret one, the one by-- in the storage room.
Matt: All right. So. You guys--
Marisha: We got this. We got this.
Laura: Oh no, Grog fell over. Oh my gosh.
Marisha: It's been a good day. What are you going to say? Are you thinking about this? Think about something.
Orion: Okay.
Marisha: Start thinking about this now.
Liam: There are rooms up there.
Taliesin: What's the name of the god again?
Marisha: Laduguer.
Ashley: Can I take off my armor right now?
Matt: You'd become a soft target. All right, you guys all make your way up, and you're all squeezing into this tiny, tiny room. You're all shoulder-to-shoulder, essentially. You come up to the top area, there's a small box, and there is just a single stone door.
Laura: Check for traps.
Liam: Excuse me, sorry, sorry, sorry, sorry, sorry, sorry, sorry, sorry, excuse me Kima, sorry, sorry, All right, my hands are on the door. I'm going to check for traps on this door. I get a 21.
Matt: Okay, you take a moment and you place your hand along this stone surface. You find that there's a low hum to it.
Liam: Careful, careful, careful.
Matt: And you can tell that there's a small, almost like a thin whisper of string laid across the very top of the stone, where the wall meets it.
Liam: Of course I can, of course I can. I'm going to take care of this, hold on. Yeah, this is thieves' tools, correct? 26.
Matt: 26, okay. You come up and you find that this is a very, very fine hair trigger. This is actually a partial enchantment as part of a magical trap. You know that with the slightest hint of false vibration to it, the door shifting or hitting it in the wrong place will trigger whatever this trap is. And so you bring your tools up, you manage to place one at the base of each point at where this arcane silver thread lies across. Simultaneously, you take your daggers and place them underneath the thread at each ends and sever them both at the same time. The thin whisper of a string just slowly glides down and vanishes into a small sparkle of light.
Sam: Cut the red wire.
Liam: I'm just going to lay my ear on the door and see what I can hear. That is 21.
Matt: Hearing it, you hear what sounds like a low mutter of somewhere in the neighbourhood of ten to 15 low voices, and the slow, small shuffling of many, many, many, many footsteps.
Liam: Shuffling, you said? And if I listen for a moment, do I-- does it continue?
Matt: It, kind of, couple of footsteps, some talking, soft footprints. You can hear the scraping of metal--
Liam: And it's the only way we can go is through this door, right? We're all smooshed into this hallway--
Matt: There is a hallway this way.
Laura: Oh, so we stealth down the other hall, we try.
Liam: So I mooshed everyone away from this hall.
Matt: The whispers and voices aren't directly on the other side of this wall, they're just in that room echoing through, but you do hear a lot of people there. All right, so, what are you doing?
Laura: Well, well, stealthing down that hallway. Can we check for traps, check for traps, I look, I'm perceiving.
Matt: (laughs) Roll for perceiving (laughter)
Liam: 23 for Vax.
Laura: Oh, I get twice that, good. Oh, good, that was way better.
Matt: (laughs)
Laura: Ten.
Matt: Okay, no traps.
Laura: Yay!
Matt: You both glide your way up and peek around the corner. What you see immediately are six duergar all stationed in this hallway guarding what looks like two large doors and entrance to this main chamber. And they're all just standing there, weapons ready, looking around.
Sam: Wait, which is the main chamber that you just--
Matt: This big chamber here that you--
Sam: Oh, that we were listening to at the door.
Liam: Vax sneaks back to the group and motions Tiberius over, and Keyleth over.
Sam: We're doing this?
Liam: One moment, one moment. Lightning, Lightning, who knows Lightning?
Marisha: Are you gonna try to Lightning Bolt an entire line?
Liam: Do you know the magic of lightning? I've seen you do it before, I've seen you.
Marisha: I do know it right now.
Liam: You know it? Anyone who knows Lightning, I've seen it done on the battlefield with us, person to person to person.
Sam: I can do it.
Matt: Who is up once again, clearing his throat in your presence.
Sam: Hi! Scanlan here.
Liam: Scanlan, you know how to harness the power of electricity.
Sam: I don't wanna brag, but I'm a regular Ben Franklin over here. He's a guy, he's a gnome I knew once.
Marisha: Scanlan, can you and I focus our Call Lightning spells together? To Lightning these--
Sam: I mean, mine's so fricking powerful.
Liam: If Scanlan and one of the others does Lightning at the same time and it goes through that line, we could drop them all at once.
Laura: But that's noisy, they'll come out.
Liam: It's not that noisy, it's not like armor banging around.
Laura: I think it's gonna be noisy, it's not a stealthy attack.
Taliesin: It's a quick way to get rid of six people, though.
Orion: Oh, is that what we need to do?
Liam: There's a row of duergar around the corner, they're all in a line like Radio City, we just-- if I can get-- Scanlan, if you-- what about you, Keyleth? Do I remember light-- or do you bring it down from above? Tiberius.
Orion: What, what?
Sam: Do you want me to shock 'em?
Orion: Oh, I have an idea. Okay, I'll peek around.
Matt: Okay, make a stealth check.
Orion: Sweet.
Marisha: You have plus ten because of my Pass Without a Trace.
Liam: You've got six duergar in a row. Is there anything you can do that's--
Orion: 27.
Matt: That's when you see this long row of duergar that are all kind of armored and ready, guarding the front of this chamber.
Orion: I cast Watery Sphere at the end of the last guy and create a giant ball.
Liam: Wait, you're doing it now?
Orion: What does it look like, Vax?
Matt: Okay, so this giant water sphere appears. At which side of the wall?
Orion: On the last guy. Yeah, and I draw it towards us.
Liam: Vax is grabbing the gnome and tossing him out to the right, out here at the front of the group.
Orion: And I stop at the last guy.
Matt: Okay, as the water sphere begins to pull in. Saving throws, what's your DC?
Orion: My spell DC, 17.
Matt: This is a dexterity save? All right.
Sam: One at a time.
Matt: All of them fail! (cheering)
Marisha: This is gonna be cool, this is gonna be cool. It's gonna put them all in one spot.
Sam: They were already in a line.
Marisha: No, now we can electrocute them and they're wet!
Matt: There is now an entire clustered sphere of water that is containing a mishmash of duergar.
Marisha: Lightning Bolt!
Matt: Call Lightning. All right, so, as Keyleth, you step forward, out in the hallway, you bring your arm up and there's this small cluster of dark clouds beginning to form and swirl up on the top of the 20-foot hallway. As it swirls, you bring your arm downward, and there's a sudden crack of thunder, a loud blasting sound that echoes through the hallway. As the lightning strikes the center of the sphere, the water itself bursts as the actual cacophonous blast of the lightning loosely shakes the aquatic sphere. However, go ahead and roll damage.
Marisha: Do I get any more damage because of the--
Matt: You get an additional two dice of damage to each one of the duergar because they are contained in the water.
Orion: Yeah!
Marisha: So 5d10?
Matt: Correct.
Marisha: Do I roll for each one?
Matt: You just roll once, and that's across the board for all of them, and they are at a disadvantage because they are in the sphere.
Marisha: Oh, and they're at a disadvantage?
Orion: Yeah, yeah, because I'm like holding them up.
Marisha: All right.
Matt: It's really funny, because two of them rolled 20s in a row, but they're at a disadvantage.
Marisha: Nice. Not too shabby. So we have ten, 19 plus 18, bringing it to 28 plus three, 31 plus one. 32.
Matt: Okay. So the sphere explodes, the actual stone on the ground you can feel shake and shudder with the impact of the lightning storm. All but one of the duergar are blown apart and scattered across the wall Akira-style, just (splat) against the walls. One of them is still in the center of the sphere, now looking charred and burnt, and eyes wide open with anger and frustration.
Marisha: Scanlan, go!
Sam: I say, (chants) you ugly, you ugly, yo mama says you ugly! And I cast Vicious Mockery. (laughter)
Matt: He rolled a 14 vs the DC which I think is--
Sam: 19.
Matt: All right, how much total did you do?
Sam: Just a five.
Matt: How much did you do, total?
Marisha: 32, total.
Matt: Hold on. So as the duergar is currently held aloft in this aquatic sphere, half-charred and burnt with pieces of his friends floating in the water around him, he hears through this kind of warbling sound, "You ugly, you ugly," and he sees everyone kind of step in the hallway clapping with you, and he kind of looks around at himself, looks at his situation... and eventually just gives up and takes a big old gulp of water and drowns inside the aquatic sphere. (laughter)
Sam: Yes! I shamed him to death
Ashley: Amazing.
Marisha: (laughs) What a terrible way to die.
Matt: Good news is, you guys royally screwed over six duergar, one of which you shamed him to death. (laughter)
Matt: You have definitely, however, announced your presence at the chamber.
Liam: Vax spanks Tiberius on the tail and says, get ready to deity! Going stealth.
Marisha: I say-- I go, get on my back, get on my back, and I piggyback him.
Matt: You transform?
Orion: I do.
Matt: No, Marisha, did you transform?
Marisha: Well I'm piggybacking him, just now. I'm literally just piggybacking Tiberius waiting.
Matt: Okay, so Tiberius, you leap onto her back.
Orion: Mm-hm, and I cast Alter Self, and I turn to--
Liam: Scanlan, Vex.
Ashley: I'm going to cast the thing on him.
Matt: Okay, so you cast Thaumaturgy on him to give him a vocal emphasis, a roaring, booming voice. Do you stay with him or do you move back with the rest of the group?
Marisha: Oh, oh, Pike Pike Pike Pike Pike. What kind of animal would this god use? Would you know what kind of animal the duergar would worship? Do you know?
Orion: It's a religion check.
Matt: Religion check.
Marisha: What kind of animals he might like? You know, check out-- you know, animals.
Ashley: 14.
Matt: You have no idea. You know the deity exists, you don't know of any sort of animal, beast or creature symbolism that would befit a duergar god.
Ashley: I have no idea.
Marisha: I guess a scorpion, a scorpion sounds good? Scorpion. Giant Scorpion.
Matt: Keyleth's form shifts. As you see a bunch of arachnid-like legs sprawl out the side of her torso, her form condenses into a dark, chitinous shell as two giant claws form out the side of her body, and a giant poison stinger curls up from behind. Tiberius kind of holds on during the transformation--
Ashley: I'm going to go back, because if they see me, then they'll know something's fishy.
Matt: All right, the rest of you are here. So. You feel this kind of divine energy cascade around your throat. You can feel your vocal cords themselves are temporarily infused with some sort of divine presence. You've transformed yourself now into the visage of this duergar deity. Standing at probably a good-- what height are you going at?
Orion: How tall are the--
Matt: The duergar are about four-and-a-half feet tall.
Orion: So let's make him six feet tall.
Matt: All right, six-foot-tall duergar standing there.
Laura: The two of us get back by the other twin door, and get ready to bust into that entrance.
Sam: I'm with them. We're the stealth party.
Liam: I'm in fact nudging Grog away from this door towards the front towards Tiberius. I don't know, they're not that strong.
Matt: What are you doing? Grog says, "Which way, which way do I go?"
Liam: Vax kicks Grog in the butt and sends him forward. Go help Tiberius!
Matt: "I'm walking back for you."
Laura: Grog, don't do that. Not that far. Grog, come back, because if they see him--
Orion: No, stay in the corner, Grog. Wait 'til I say help me, and then come kill everything.
Matt: He looks like he's listening. Mostly. (laughter)
Marisha: Back him up. Back him up.
Matt: You hear shifting in the doorway from the front where you guys are. What's the plan? What's doing what?
Sam: Who's going in first?
Orion: Is this going to be the entrance where we're going in?
Laura: Yeah you bust in and be a god.
Marisha: Oh, are we busting in?
Laura: When you give it, we'll go in the other way.
Marisha: Fuck if I know.
Orion: That's your job. Bust the door open.
Matt: All right, go ahead and make an athletics check.
Liam: I'm simultaneously checking our door for-- no, I already did. It's unlocked, and untrapped. Never mind.
Marisha: Giant scorpion. Athletics. Plus my dex, I'm assuming?
Matt: No, plus your strength.
Marisha: Strength, that's pretty cool, though. 22.
Matt: A 22.
Marisha: I rolled a 19.
Matt: All right, the doors splinter open. The doors are actually broken off the hinges.
Orion: As that happens, I cast Light and I cast Prestidigitation.
Sam: Concentrate. Don't cast too much shit.
Orion: I can't hear what's going on. I hear some annoyances in the background as I cast Prestidigitation to make my voice louder.
Laura: No, she already did it. It's three times louder than it normally would be.
Orion: Oh, shit.
Marisha: So just keep focusing on your Light.
Matt: As you guys come bursting in--
Liam: Holy shit.
Laura: Yeah, there's a lot of them.
Marisha: Maybe do some Prestidigitation where you move shit around.
Ashley: Oh ho ho. What!
Marisha: Oh! Hello, everybody.
Liam: (Grog voice) I would like to rage.
Laura: (Grog voice) I would like to rage.
Laura: Oh, no. Basilisks!
Liam: What?
Laura: Those thingies!
Marisha: Oh, that's right, they have those pet basilisks. Remember?
Matt: So the doors burst open and you guys come through. All of the duergar stand there with their weapons at the ready. You can see in the back, on this raised platform, where the cloth stops, there is two thrones, at the top two duergar sitting on the thrones at the ready. You can see two kind of lizard-like creatures in the back on chained leashes. However, all of the duergar that are ready to strike as you burst through, take a step back, looking extremely confused about what's going on.
Orion: (shouts) Silence! All of you, silence!
Sam: We weren't talking.
Orion: Who knows who I am?
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Marisha: Get it. Get it. Get it.
Liam: Yep. Yep yep yep yep. Vax is quietly moving along the back wall.
Sam: Our door is open?
Liam: It is now.
Laura: Yeah we're going to try to stealth in and sneak attack them.
Orion: 16.
Laura: Oh god. Oh god.
Matt: Okay. The duergar in the front take another step back, looking both frightened and awed. The one nearest to you takes his hammer and throws it to the ground, and takes a knee.
Orion: Well, it looks like there's one saved soul at this point in time.
Matt: At which point two of the other ones nearby kind of look at each other and look back at the one who's on on the ground. They put their hammers down, and they kneel as well. At which point, in the back, you see the two throned figures stand up. One of which you can barely see in the dim light outside of your Light spell that's currently gleaming above you. This long, almost-touching-the-floor black, braided beard that drags right over this heavy-set plate of jagged black iron metal. A giant sword in his hand. "You're kneeling below this false idol."
Orion: Silence!
Matt: "This imposter!"
Orion: As I cast-- As I say silence, I blow a big plume of fire out of my mouth, and I cast Control Flames.
Matt: So the light (pff).
Orion: I don't cast Control Flames. I just do the Fireball for effect. I don't do Control Flames, because that's a concentration spell.
Matt: All right, so you do Fireball. Where are you casting Fireball? Or just doing it to do it?
Orion: Just (fwoosh).
Matt: Plume of flame. Roll an intimidation check.
Taliesin: You guys, what are you doing right now?
Liam: I'm moving along the back wall. I want that illithid.
Orion: 18.
Matt: Okay. Make a stealth check. Who else is going in there with him?
Laura: I go in and stand at the walls next to the door.
Liam: 32.
Matt: Okay, your stealth roll?
Ashley: I'm so stressed.
Marisha: I know! I feel like I'm going to have a heart attack.
Matt: So you rolled a--
Orion: 18.
Matt: Okay, you can see this figure-- which you are gathering at this point is probably King Murghol-- still holding his sword aloft, looks back towards his wife who's sitting in the throne next to him, who is just standing up kind of confused.
Orion: That's right, boy. I am Laduguer! You know, and you know your deeds as of late might upset my rest.
Matt: All of the duergar are now looking over their shoulders back towards the king and watching this transpire between the two of you.
Orion: (shouts) All of you, lay down your arms!
Laura: 32.
Matt: 32. You're moving in, everyone else staying in the hallway?
Ashley: I'm not moving. I'm like this!
Matt: As you guys push in further and further, the group that are kneeling move back in sheer fear and horror. At which point the king takes a step down off of the throne area onto the next platform, weapons still at his side and says, "Men, I've trained you. I've raised you. I've fed you and I've kept you alive."
Orion: And I don't care for you to finish that sentence! I cast Fireball. Right fucking-- Right on him.
Sam: That's an attack right there.
Orion: Of course it is!
Matt: So the blast hits him and a 20-foot radius that will grab everything in that radius. Including you. So go ahead and roll damage. 8d6.
Liam: It's all right.
Marisha: 8d6.
Liam: Heal me, Pike, heal me. Heal me in three minutes, heal me. This is gonna hurt. This is gonna sting.
Marisha: Oh, god damn. Come on, you got this. You got this, Vax.
Sam: You want it to be a lot, but not too much. (laughter)
Liam: A little less than 55.
Orion: Uh, 25.
Matt: 25, okay.
Orion: Oh, I'm sorry, 30.
Matt: Okay, good. So it explodes around them. You see all of them kind of shield themselves from the blast of flame. As it spreads out--
Liam: Wait, I'm doing the rogue thing that I can't remember the name for.
Laura: Uncanny Dodge?
Marisha: Uncanny Dodge?
Liam: No, it's something else.
Orion: Quickly. Quickly.
Matt: So while you're looking that up-- The duergar brace themselves and they have an innate natural resistance against things magical in nature.
Liam: Evasion!
Matt: So they all take the brunt of the damage, however, it does not do as much as you hoped to the group. All of them look hurt, but definitely not taken out of the fight. The two lizard creatures you now have a better look at, you do see it's familiar. They have numerous sets of legs, and though the chains hold them at bay, both of them glance up instinctually. I want you, Tiberius, to make two constitution saving throws.
Sam: Traps.
Orion: Yes.
Liam: DM. Evasion, if I make a success I get half-damage, if I fail I get-- If I fail, I get half-damage, if I succeed I get no damage. I think I failed. I got a nine.
Matt: Yeah you take half-damage. So you take the-- What was the total damage on your Fireball? So you take 15 points of fire damage. So as you glance about the room now, you look over and both of these lizard creatures kind of look towards you. You kind of look back and forth-- there's a slight gleam in their eye. Suddenly you feel your form begin to tighten up, instant. You are considered restrained, which means you are at disadvantage to all your attack rolls and ability checks for right now.
Orion: Hold on, I still have a bonus attack I can do before that happens, correct?
Matt: No, this is as it's happening. Your turn is still happening.
Orion: I got it.
Matt: This is all kind of a fluid moment. Things happen as they happen until initiative is being rolled, which is now. So everyone roll initiative.
Marisha: Sneaky sneaky.
Laura: Oh, great.
Matt: All right, so, 25 to 20?
Sam: Natural 20.
Matt: Plus your--
Sam: Nothing.
Matt: Plus nothing for dex. Okay.
Sam: Oh, for dex. Plus nothing.
Matt: Okay, so 25 to 20?
Taliesin: 23.
Liam: 21.
Matt: 21, all right, all right.
Taliesin: Yeah. Sneak attack.
Matt: All righty, 20 to 15?
Laura: 19.
Orion: 17.
Matt: All right, 15 to ten?
Marisha: I'm nine.
Ashley: Five. Not to brag.
Marisha: (laughs) Big number five.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: I just noticed your shirt. It's really great.
Sam: Guys, tune in every week for this kind of intense action.
Laura: Unless we're all dead next week. In which case--
Liam: -- Mama put the coins on my eyes.
Matt: All right, that brings us to top of the round. Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: I'm going to hold off until-- I'm actually going to delay my turn until post-Pike.
Orion: Can I still yell out shit while this is happening? Even though it isn't my turn?
Matt: I mean, you can yell like one thing.
Taliesin: I'm loud and I've got range, so I'm going to let the room fill, and then I'm going to come in and get some.
Orion: As this is all going down, I'm going to yell, those who want to live, throw down your arms. That's what I do.
Matt: Okay. That brings us back to the top. Vax, you're up.
Liam: Okay, I use my bonus action to click my boots of haste together. And I tap-dance over to the illithid, and I'm going to use two daggers to stab him in his eyeballs.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: First one hits, it's 18.
Matt: It is a critical because it does not see you and has not acted yet this combat.
Liam: Yeah it is. So I just take my keen dagger and I shove it in his eyeball. 1d4 is two, plus--
Marisha: Feel like I'm going to have a heart attack.
Taliesin: We're going to be fine. It's nothing we can't handle.
Marisha: Nothing we can't handle.
Liam: 19, 28, plus 36 is the first dagger into his eyeball.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Second dagger also hits for a little less, for seven points of fire damage in his other eyeball.
Matt: All right. Gotcha. So the first one actually jams into one of its eyes. It didn't even see you, it recoils back, slapping your hand back out of the way. The other dagger strikes and just gleans off its shoulder. However, it turns around with its other eye and it definitely knows you're there.
Liam: I'd like to circulate my hands to kind of carve out the eyeball area. (laughter)
Matt: No, it pushed you off.
Liam: Yeah, okay, okay, it's all right.
Matt: All right. That brings us to Grog.
Sam: (Grog voice) I would like to rage.
Liam: (Grog voice) I would like to go to a whore house.
Matt: He goes into a rage. And Grog is going to go ahead and take his axe with the chain on it and throw it toward the first duergar he sees, which is right here. Throws it. All right, that is a-- That's going to miss. He rolled a four. Swings past. He's going to make an athletics check to see if he can bring it back. That he succeeds. So he throws the axe. It swings past the duergar, clangs to the ground, uses his chain, he yanks it back, catches it in his hand. His turn is spent, however. Next up is Scanlan.
Sam: I step into the room, lining myself up with those two pig, creature, beast things. In a line. Yeah. Can I also catch the king or no?
Matt: No, it has to be a line. It has to go straight.
Sam: Going for the guys. I don't want to scald you. You're already hurting. I'm going to go straight across the piggies and make them squeal with Lightning.
Matt: All right. At the start of your turn--
Sam: Oh shit, there's a trap.
Matt: No, at the start of your turn you come up and the creature looks over and you guys make eye contact. You weren't averting your gaze. Go ahead and make a constitution save.
Liam: Saving throw, saving throw. Come on, Scanlan, you lucky motherfucker! Roll high.
Sam: 17, plus what?
Matt: Plus your constitution modifier.
Sam: 19.
Matt: All right, so, as it glances over at you, there's a shine in its eye, and you feel all of a sudden your form, for a second, tense, and you shrug off the effect, untouched by it. Now, go ahead and take your turn.
Sam: I cast Lightning on the two beasts. In a straight line.
Matt: Okay, so you pull back and you unleash a lightning bolt. It goes streaking across the room.
Sam: If I can get the king, I'll try.
Matt: Unfortunately, he's just out of the line array, but it does streak across and blast both of these now visibly basilisks in front of you. You hit automatically. Just go ahead and roll damage. (laughter)
Marisha: Oh sweet, sweet dice rolls.
Liam: Let it rain!
Marisha: Let it rain d6s from the sky!
Sam: 29.
Matt: 29. One fails its saving throw, one makes it. So 29 damage to one, and 14 to the other.
Sam: And then, for bonus action, I inspire Vax with a little ditty.
Matt: All right.
Sam: (sings) I want to sing a song of inspiration, of inspiration! (laughter)
Matt: All righty, that's it. That ends Scanlan's turn. King Murghol's turn, now. King Murghol is going to-- It sees this blast of lightning streak past now, as it blasts, just barely passing in front of it, hitting both of his pet basilisks. Now seeing that there's, like, a full army between himself and the current intruders, one of which is visibly stiffening, he glances over at this tiny gnome individual, who now gave loose to this bolt of energy. Grabs his blade with both hands and goes running towards you with an angry-- but he uses a bonus action, quickly, to pull out a vial, pop a cork, chug it, shatter the glass on the ground. As he does, you can see his arms actually billow and grow extremely strong and thick with muscle.
Marisha: What color was the vial?
Laura: What color was the vial?
Matt: This was purplish in color. He then runs forward. And is going to take his turn, swinging at Scanlan.
Sam: As he does, I sing (sings) Dodge that sexy attack-oh white boy. (laughter)
Sam: I sing my-- what is it called? Counter-- Cutting Word-- no, yes, what? Cutting Words! And I try to distract him as he's attacking me. What is that, a d8?
Matt: A d8 off of his first attack.
Sam: Five.
Matt: Five. Okay, well, he rolled a 20, which brings it down, oh, a total of 20, which brings it down to 15. What's your armor class?
Sam: 14.
Matt: Oh. Second strike is a 13. Third strike is a 12. Wow, he just can't hit at all this turn. But, however, the one strike he does get on you, the sword comes down, streaks across the front of you, and as you're finishing your last, final note of that song, you take 18 points of slashing damage.
Sam: Okay, okay, okay.
Ashley: Where you at?
Sam: I'm fine.
Ashley: Where are you at?
Sam: I'm fine. I've got more than him.
Matt: That ends his turn. This brings us back to Vex!
Laura: That's me! I cast Hunter's Mark! Actually, I just transfer it, because the other one died. I transfer it to the king. And then I cast-- First I want to move Trinket over and-- oh no, I can only move Trinket. Okay, first I'm gonna cast Conjure Barrage. It's a 60-foot cone. So I want to see how many of them I can get.
Matt: You can, you can get-- let's see. That'll get everybody.
Laura: Can I angle it so I don't hit my buddies?
Matt: You can angle it in a way that will-- well, if you wanna get the king in it, you're going to hit these two here. And Grog.
Laura: All right, I'll hit them.
Matt: Okay, so, you will be able to hit everything in that row. So go for it. How does the effect on that work?
Laura: I roll 3d8.
Matt: All right, so go ahead and roll 3d8.
Laura: That was on a corner. Oh good! 17.
Matt: 17, okay. And what's the effect on the spell, like what do they roll against?
Laura: They roll a dexterity saving throw.
Matt: Dexterity saving throw. King makes his, with a 20. So he takes half-damage for it, or no damage?
Laura: Half as much, yeah.
Matt: Okay, so what was the total again? It was-- What was the total originally? It was-- what was the total?
Laura: The total? Was 17.
Matt: 17. Okay, so that is eight damage to the king.
Laura: Plus a Hunter's Mark.
Matt: Right, so roll the additional one on that.
Laura: Four.
Matt: Four, gotcha. All right. The basilisk also does not make its save. What's the DC on this?
Laura: DC. What do you mean?
Matt: Your spell DC. At the top of your spell page.
Laura: Yes. It's 14.
Matt: 14.
Laura: Oh, I did get a-- I didn't add my spell attack bonus! Should I have done that?
Matt: No, that's just to hit something with a spell.
Laura: Okay, cool.
Matt: All right, so basilisk in front makes it, so it takes the eight damage. Okay, the rest of the duergar, they do make their saves, they take half damage. However, with the spray of arrows that comes flying out of the front of your bow, you manage to take out five duergar in one swipe. The others ones remain, damaged but still standing. Also, now dexterity saving throw for you, Tiberius, and Grog.
Marisha: Natural 20.
Orion: 19.
Matt: Nice. So both you guys take eight damage. Grog fails, Grog takes 17.
Laura: I'm sorry, Grog.
Matt: "It's all right." All right, Vex, is that the end of your turn?
Laura: Oh, I move Trinket in, and I want to-- If I can get him to illithid, I want to get Trinket close, like kind of behind the queen. No, no, I want to get him near. That way he can flank.
Matt: Okay, all right. That ends your turn. It is now Lady Kima's turn.
Sam: Ooh, I forgot about her.
Matt: Kima rushes in angrily. She has to make a saving throw. Succeeds against the basilisk, as it glances past. Rushes forward, in combat with both King Murghol and the basilisk. However, as she goes in for King Murghol, screaming, the blade of the greatsword arcing across the air with a divine glowing energy, you see it aiming for the king, but then looks to her side and sees this dangerous lizard creature, recognizing it in a moment, she changes her trajectory and swings next to the lizard with her first strike. That is a-- that hits. And that strike does just enough damage. She cleaves that basilisk in two with her first strike. With her first strike, using the inertia, she turns around and strikes at King Murghol. However, King Murghol, seeing her come forward, takes his sword up and manages to parry hers to the side. Both of them lock for a second as he steps into her and kind of glares into her face. "Oh, you're supposed to be downstairs for playtime." Pushes her off with his blade..
Marisha: Playtime? I don't-- (laughs) I know, all the ladies are like 'ew'.
Matt: That brings us to Queen Ulara's turn. Queen Ulara is now standing over there with Trinket towards her back. As she instinctually does this, she goes ahead and reaches up, places her hand on the front of her robes. You can see this duergar woman with kind of long, reddish hair that she's let flow to the back, to the small of her back. She stands up out of the throne. As she puts her hand on her chest, her form shimmers, much like you saw earlier on Tiberius, in your earlier battle. She moves back to there.
Orion: As she does that, I try to Counterspell it.
Matt: That's a reaction?
Orion: Yep.
Matt: Okay. So let's go ahead and do the contested roll.
Orion: Contested roll.
Sam: That was almost the name of this show. Not as catchy.
Orion: DC equals ten plus the spell's level.
Matt: Okay. So the DC is 12. Go ahead and you roll that.
Orion: DC is 13. It's a third-level spell. Right?
Matt: Blur is second-level.
Orion: Oh, I thought Counter-- Okay, I see.
Matt: Yes. So, Counterspell. Go ahead and-- Oh-- interrupt a creature in process of casting a spell. If the creature is casting a spell-- third level or lower, it fails and has no effect. So, yeah, it just counters it entirely. So, the-- her form begins to shimmer for a second. All of a sudden, Tiberius, your attempt to go ahead and counter the spell, that burst of energy you're trying to put through the Blur vanishes. She looks back at you.
Orion: What do you think you're doing, lass?
Sam: You still trying to be a god?
Orion: I'm in that form still. (laughter)
Matt: Yeah. So with her sorcery points expended on that quick cast, she turns around for her main action, puts out her fingers, and you see these blasts of blue energy begin to rocket out from her fingertips, across the room, in what is a Chain Lightning.
Liam: Shit. He's got the iPhone out.
Matt: So, this'll be towards-- actually, this'd be towards you, Vex, Kima, and Scanlan.
Laura: All right.
Liam: Did you say Vex or Vax?
Matt: Yeah, Vex and Vax, both of you.
Laura: Wait, you're all the way over there.
Sam: Yeah, you're all the way over somewhere else, right?
Matt: Over there, yeah. Chain Lightning, man. It's a bitch. All right. All right, so. Vax, go ahead and make a dexterity saving throw.
Liam: Not good. Seven.
Matt: Seven, all right.
Liam: Can I use Evasion, or-- Uncanny Dodge or Evasion?
Sam: I gave you some dice. I gave you, I gave you some dice.
Liam: You did give me some dice.
Sam: It's not going to be enough, though.
Liam: So now I'm at 13, but can I use Evasion or Uncanny Dodge? Evasion is for area effects, Uncanny Dodge is--
Matt: Well, you've already used one for the area effect, the other one reduces the damage by half.
Liam: All right, Uncanny Dodge.
Matt: Okay, so you're reducing the damage by half?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Okay, so instead, you take 18 points of lightning damage. However, both Vex and Scanlan and Kima all have to make dexterity saving throws as well. She makes hers.
Sam: Not great. 14. I have no dexterity.
Laura: 16.
Matt: 16, okay. So you took, was it 18 lightning damage, I said?
Liam: Oh, I didn't add any dexterity. I add a 9 to what I got, which means I'm at 22.
Matt: Just, you mean, your dexterity modifier? 22? Okay, then you would've taken half damage, make it quarter damage, so you take half of that even. So keep that in mind when you make your dexterity saving throw. So, that would give you total how much damage? So, it was 18 you took, right?
Liam: Yeah, and we halved it to nine. Five?
Matt: So, 36 damage to Scanlan and to Kima, and to you, Vex. 36 points of lightning damage. That ends her turn. Tiberius, you're up. So you, it's your turn now, as you're now on top of the scorpion still.
Ashley: It's okay.
Marisha: You're on top of me. I'm holding you!
Ashley: I got you.
Orion: Cool. This is-- there's still on the altar that's raised above-- and all that.
Taliesin: You've got a problem down there, to be fair.
Orion: Where we're at?
Taliesin: You've got the witch problem to deal with.
Matt: What do you got, Tiberius? Quick, before you miss your turn.
Orion: I shall miss nothing. I'm going to stay right where I'm at.
Matt: All right.
Orion: I'm going to snicker, and I will (laughs) hand out, put out my hand, and give my little ring a rub, and let out a Fireball from it, right where no one else but these buttholes will get hurt.
Matt: All right, so (laughs), I'd say probably a 20-foot radius around would put it about there.
Liam: (Tiberius voice) What is the Common word for it?
All: (Tiberius voice) Butthole.
Matt: So, as you polish off the ring and release it, the bead of red energy streaks across, blasting the floor, the secondary explosion, giant Fireball just bursts into the room, go ahead and roll damage on that.
Orion: Six, I have enough, there's a four, this is terrible, help me count, eight.
Marisha: Okay, well, we have all these twos. Let's put the twos side by side. That's fun. Uh-huh.
Laura: Your turns are taking so long!
Orion: 18. 23!
Matt: 23. Okay. The rest of these duergar detonate, blasted away out of play. Just, their bodies go thrown against the walls and the various pillars in the room. There's two pillars over there, they're kind of holding the ceiling up. The rest of them just go thrown about the room. The queen takes a bit of the damage, but seems to shrug off most of it.
Orion: I'm going to spend two sorcerer points. And I'm going to reach out my hand, and I'm going to form an ice knife and-- where is the queen, actually?
Matt: Right there.
Orion: Oh, very good. I'm going to throw the ice knife right there.
Matt: Okay. Right there? All right.
Orion: And I cast it at level two.
Matt: All right. So you get to throw at a target, though, right? Or are you just throwing on the ground to do the radial? Okay, so you take-- you form the ice knife, you throw it, it streaks across, slams into the stone floor and explodes, sending shards of ice out. Go ahead and roll damage.
Orion: Which is 3d6, because it's at level two now.
Matt: Correct. Saving throw, which it succeeds.
Orion: Much better. 14 points of damage.
Matt: Okay. Both succeed for half damage. So seven points of damage to each. All right, got it, cool. That ends your turn, Tiberius. Clarota, now--
Orion: How do you like them apples?!
Matt: Clarota steps forward-- Seeing the other mind flayer there, steps past and decides to go into a contest of wills against it.
Marisha: Contest of wills, staring contest, staring contest!
Matt: All right, this is intense. All right. Clarota is going to step forward and begin to intensely stare at-- you can see the air itself seems to shimmer and push, like a strange bubble shifting between the two of them at this connection point. Mind flayer, now one-eyed and seeping liquid from the side of its face, glares back at him. Fails his saving throw.
Marisha: That's right, he does.
Matt: This mind flayer suddenly diverts its attention away from Clarota and towards the queen. (cheering)
Sam: The old Dominate.
Ashley: Tight, tight, tight. (laughter)
Matt: That ends Clarota's turn. All right. The duergar would go if they weren't all blasted to hell. That brings us to Keyleth.
Marisha: All right. I'm going to go right for the king. You're coming for a ride, Tiberius. I'm gonna make a straight line. I have a 40-foot movement, pretty straight movement.
Orion: All right! Let's get 'em!
Laura: Oh no, Tiberius fell off.
Matt: There you go.
Marisha: Okay, I'm in melee, yeah?
Matt: Yes, you are.
Marisha: All right, I'm gonna do my full three multi-attack.
Orion: I'm maniacally laughing.
Matt: You are going to have a disadvantage on the tail attack, because you have Tiberius on your back and you're trying to make sure you don't hit him with your tail.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: So, first two claw strikes.
Marisha: Okay, first one, probably not gonna hit. 12?
Matt: No, that does not hit.
Marisha: Second one. 16?
Matt: Does not hit. Clink, clink! Off the armor. Tail strike.
Marisha: Tail strike. Two. Ten. Nothing.
Matt: Yeah, unfortunately just his thick suit of armor-- you're just hitting at him with the giant scorpion claws, but nothing seems to be getting through.
Marisha: God, you're so heavy, Tiberius, god!
Matt: You hear this clacking scorpion angrily (scorpion sounds).
Marisha: My balance is wonky.
Matt: Pike, you're up!
Ashley: All right, time for some healing. So pull me in there. I'm gonna do a-- I'm gonna do a Mass Cure Wounds. At level five gives, which I thinks gives-- thinks? Which methinks gives me 4d8? Plus my spell ability modifier. Okay, so--
Marisha: Get your heal on.
Liam: (Yoda voice) 4d8 you would give.
Ashley: Oh, so, 20. 20 points of healing for whoever would like it.
Matt: For everyone who's in the radius. Everyone but Grog, essentially, gets healed for 20 points. Grog's too far away from you, unfortunately.
Sam: Thank you, my love.
Matt: All right, Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: All right, I'm going to just get-- just step into the doorway to take a look. I'm just stepping one step. And now I'm just going to shoot-- can I-- I'm just gonna try and-- The minute I recognize what a basilisk is, since I've faced them before, I'm going to do my best not to look and take a shot.
Matt: Okay, so go ahead and fire with a disadvantage against the basilisk on the far end of the room.
Sam: Don't you shoot me.
Marisha: Oh, that was a pretty one.
Taliesin: I get 16 at my disadvantage.
Matt: 16 at disadvantage? That does hit. Go ahead and roll damage.
Taliesin: Nice! I'll be taking another shot, too.
Matt: Also, Tiberius, make another constitution saving throw.
Taliesin: Six points of damage.
Matt: Six points of damage to the basilisk, got it.
Taliesin: I'm going to take another shot, though. 16 again.
Orion: Ten.
Taliesin: 16 hits. This time I do 12 points of damage.
Marisha: 12 points?
Taliesin: 12 points. And then I'm gonna duck back around the corner again.
Matt: Okay. Cool. As you duck around the corner, you've gotten these strikes in, and as you're trying to-- as you finish your blows on the duergar king, Murghol, in front of you, you hear this clanking sound as Tiberius's now fully stone form falls off of the scorpion onto the ground, beside you.
Sam: Oh no! He's stoned!
Ashley: You turned to stone?
Laura: 'Cause of the basilisk.
Liam: We've dealt with this before.
Laura: Basilisk blood, we can fix it.
Sam: I think you pee on the body and it cures them.
Ashley: Can I-- I can't, I have to go--
Sam: Let's try it and find out.
Matt: The basilisk now takes its turn.
Liam: (stone Tiberius voice) Please, no!
Matt: Steps forward onto the edge. It's going to go ahead and-- it's gonna be for Lady Kima. It's going to attempt to make its stare at her. Lady Kima--
Ashley: Close your eyes!
Laura: She's smart, she's closing her eyes.
Matt: Lady Kima, who's currently in this blood frenzy against the king, unfortunately is not paying attention. Off to the side, the basilisk gets a glance out, which she looks at from the corner of her eye, she sees the movement over and has a hard time pushing through the stiffness as the gaze begins to take a clenching effect on her body.
Laura: Oh no.
Computer: All set, let's go.
Generated voice: All set, let's go.
Matt: Yes, thank you. Let's do that. Oh, Waze. Why's my phone on? All right, so, that brings us to the-- Oof, okay.
Liam: (computer voice) I'm sorry, I can't help you with that, Vex'ahlia.
Matt: This mind flayer, who's currently Dominated, steps forward and is going to attempt to make a tentacle grab against the queen. Queen Ulara manages to dodge out of the way, seeing this coming, and just backhands it, while taking a step back. Unfortunately does not cling with the tentacle. That ends its action. Yeah, unfortunately that didn't hit. All right, next, at the top, that brings us to Vax.
Liam: I'm hasted. I'm gonna try to go stealth again from where I am. So I'm stealth, 17-- 30. Okay. I'm going to scuttle along the floor and leap on the back of the basilisk and try to stab it in the eye while looking at the ceiling.
Matt: Well, at the start of your turn, it's within 30 feet of you and you can see it. Are you going to--
Liam: Not look at it, no, no.
Matt: Okay, so you're taking disadvantage on this attack. So you move behind, you're hidden.
Liam: 15 for my first attack.
Matt: Your first attack, that will not hit, unfortunately.
Liam: And second time, 19 for the second attack.
Matt: That does hit, yes.
Liam: Okay. Feel for the eyes, stab it with keen dagger-- Four. 11.
Matt: Okay. As you rush over, you take your first strike at the basilisk, you see it reel back and slap around its tail. You barely just get out of the way, and as you see its head turning around to attempt to glare at you, you instinctively take your offhand dagger and place it directly into the eye socket of the basilisk. It sinks past your fingers and you feel that warm rush of blood and gore against your hand. As you pull back, it just slumps to the ground. (cheering)
Ashley: We'll get you some of that-- we'll get you some of that blood. Blood! Basilisk blood!
Liam: I only moved ten feet. So who's stone right now? Tiberius and-- wasn't-- aren't two people?
Matt: Lady Kima is mid-effect and Tiberius is solid stone.
Liam: I've got Haste on-- If I've got Haste on, can I get to Kima? 'Cause I've got haste boots.
Matt: I would say, yeah, you could spend the rest of your movement doing that, yeah.
Liam: Okay, and I use my thumb to slide some of its blood off the blade and drip it onto her eyes.
Matt: Okay. All right. That ends your turn. That brings us to Grog. Grog turns and is going to go ahead and go raging, frenzied, against the queen. And a critical hit. (cheering)
Marisha: He crit?
Orion: Yeah.
Matt: The first hit, she's gonna go ahead and use her reaction to do Shield, it's going to up her defense. First attack misses, so two attacks miss now and the last attack is a critical hit, which is nice. So that's a--
Marisha: No crits for you! Crit happens, whether you're here or not.
Matt: All right, so that's 31 points of damage. Oof, that's a hefty chunk. All right, that ends Grog's turn. That brings us to Scanlan!
Sam: I'm next to the king, right? I'm near the king? Over there.
Matt: Yep. You're right next to him.
Sam: Okay. I just make eye contact with him and I mentally tell him that he really has the urge to try to do a headstand. Lay down his weapon and he really just wants to see if he can do it. (laughter)
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Suggestion.
Matt: Okay. (laughs) What's your DC?
Sam: 19.
Matt: All right. This is through the hand cone?
Sam: Through the hand cone, through the hand cone.
Matt: Okay. That will be a 20, unfortunately. Makes his saving throw. He glances back towards you with a look of confusion for a second. Looks at his feet and like begins to reach forward and then steels his mind and looks up at you angrily. All right.
Sam: Can I also, as my bonus action-- Who's around me? Who needs inspiration? Who needs inspiring? Who's-- yeah, oh, shit. I'll give Pike some inspiration, 'cause she's my awesome sweetheart.
Ashley: What do I get?
Laura: You get 1d8.
Ashley: Hey, thanks, man.
Matt: Next up is King Murghol, who's furious now. Both of his beasts have been slain and most of his men have been completely torn asunder by multitudes of arrows and fireball spells. He, now growing in physical form, on top of already the musculature he acquired from that potion, is going to make his three attacks against whatever is nearby. That's actually going to be-- actually, that's gonna be two strikes against you, Scanlan, since you just now tried to make him stand on his head, and one against Kima. (laughter)
Matt: That is a 15--
Sam: Hit.
Matt: -- a 24--
Sam: (higher voice) Hit.
Matt: -- and against Kima is a 20, that also hits. So all three hit.
Liam: Nobody puts baby in the corner. (laughter)
Matt: Oof, all right. So the first strike hits you for 21 points of slashing damage.
Sam: Still alive.
Matt: The next one hits you for 23 points of slashing damage.
Sam: No longer alive (laughs).
Ashley: You're no longer alive?
Laura: Are you unconscious?!
Matt: Scanlan falls unconscious on the ground from the two strikes of the king. The third strike back towards Kima, who's currently seizing from the effect of the spell. She's restrained, so he has advantage.
Liam: But she's got the basilisk blood in her eyes.
Matt: There's a process to undoing a creature into stone. To your knowledge, it does not seem to be having an effect. However, Lady Kima takes 22 points of damage. All righty. That brings us to-- Vex, you're up.
Laura: Oh, that's me. Every time!
Liam: I'm Vex.
Laura: No, you're not. Okay, I'm gonna hail, I'm gonna-- hail of arr-- no, yeah, Hail of Thorns? At level three.
Matt: Okay, at who?
Laura: At the queen and the illithid. So, I should've transferred my bonus action over to-- but I didn't, that's okay. That gives me-- I should've done this before, I'm an asshole, I'm sorry.
Liam: But what about in the game?
Laura: That gives me 2d10.
Matt: Additional damage to the arrow.
Laura: Yes.
Matt: So it explodes around, right? All right, so, fire the arrow. So, as your bonus action, you go and you grab one of the arrows out from the back, and as you pull it back you can see a bunch of these little thorns begin to grow and sprout from the actual shaft of the arrow. You release it and as it arcs across--
Laura: Yes! Natural 20! (cheering)
Matt: Against the queen. All right, go ahead and roll the damage for the arrow and the damage for the spell. And all that doubles.
Laura: Oh, awesome.
Marisha: (sings) All that doubles is gold.
Taliesin: (sings) Only shooting arrows.
Orion: (sings) In a butthole.
Laura: Yeah, all of it doubles.
Matt: The bonus at the end doesn't double, just the dice.
Laura: Oh, so, 36--
Matt: 36 points of damage. Yeah, plus the seven. And then it does-- it explodes? In a radius. And it does the dice damage, the 2d10, to--
Laura: To everything within five feet.
Matt: All right, so the mind flayer and Grog.
Laura: Oh, right, yeah, I should've hit the mind flayer with that arrow. No, it would've still hit Grog. Okay.
Liam: Grog is a tank.
Laura: They have to make a dexterity saving throw.
Matt: All righty. Grog does not make it and the mind flayer does not make it.
Laura: Yes!
Matt: All right, cool. All right, second arrow you can fire now if you want to.
Laura: Second arrow. I'm gonna fire from my flaming bow. I've got one shot on that left. At her again.
Matt: All right.
Laura: And that's a 28.
Matt: That hits.
Laura: And that's nine plus a ten, where's my ten? There they are. That's plus two. 11.
Matt: All right. You see flames begin to burn up along the side of her robe and she's looking really flustered and frustrated at this point. All right, that brings us to Kima's turn. No. She's made of hardy stuff. Kima currently is fighting this, is going to go ahead and release an entire-- all of her attacks against the king Murghol as he's right in front of her. She has disadvantage on that, unfortunately, because she is restrained. She's gonna make two attacks against him using Divine Smite, expending a 3rd-level spell. So that's 3d8 extra damage to each strike. So the first one hits. Both hit. All right. She's going to do it twice. That's gonna be 6d8 additional damage.
Marisha: Ooh! That's hot.
Matt: Oof. Okay. So, as Kima rears back, her first strike comes down and hits overhead, into King Murghol's armor, and as it does, it hits. The blade only goes about a few inches in, but then all of a sudden the blade heats up white-hot and actually buries itself an additional six inches into his shoulder. He screams out in pain, reaches up and grabs the blade and as he does, his hand actually burns in the process. She pulls the blade out, around and swings it down again, sinking another eight inches into the side of his torso. This time with a giant arc of white divine light into the side. He looks like he's starting to bleed out from the two of the wounds really heavily. The king is looking a little rough. That ends Kima's turn. Kima's going to try and make a saving throw. Kima pulls the blade out, and turns to stone herself.
Laura: Oh shit. Shit, shit, shit. He's still at like really high health, too. The king.
Sam: What, he is?
Matt: The king is looking a little rough.
Sam: You never know. He might just start doing a headstand. (laughter)
Matt: The queen's turn.
Laura: Oh no.
Matt: The queen looks over at Grog in front of her, kinda frustratedly, uses a bulk of sorcery points, puts her hand up towards him as he's pulling his axe back angrily. He fails his save. And he puts his axe back down and looks towards the rest of the group.
Marisha: Oh no! Not again!
Matt: Eye color glazed over.
Sam: He's so easily influenced.
Laura: No, he's under her control.
Matt: So that was her sorcery points, her quick action. She then says, "We're not gonna die this day alone and I won't die. My love, I'm sorry, but there's much more work to be done." And she raises her hand up and you see this buildup of green arcane energy at her hand. She turns it towards the rest of the group, faces it up towards the ceiling and releases this pulse of arcane, green, ill-looking energy that blasts into the stone ceiling. As it does, the stone itself disintegrates in a large chunk, and a glowing mass of seeping, hot, molten magma begins to pour into the room.
Marisha: Oh shit!
Orion: Where's it coming from?
Matt: It's now coming from right here.
Laura: Oh my god.
Liam: (sings) TPK. TPK.
Matt: So now, magma is pouring onto the throne room from above. The giant fall that is on top of the fortress is now peering into the room.
Sam: (high-pitched) Someone grab me and leave.
Matt: That brings us to Tiberius, who is stone. Clarota currently looks around and--
Orion: Hold on. Am I conscious in stone form?
Matt: No. You are a slate. You are a blue screen. You are Grog after the intellect devourer.
Ashley: Oh god, this is bad.
Matt: Okay. (laughs)
Sam: Pike, it's all on you, dude.
Marisha: Do you have water?
Ashley: I can create it.
Matt: Clarota steps back and grabs Lady Kima and begins dragging her back through the doorway.
Laura: Oh god, we've got to get out. That's a retreat.
Matt: Pulling her down towards the stairway. That brings us to Keyleth.
Sam: Keyleth. Keyleth. Get us out of here.
Marisha: Okay, okay, okay. I come out of the form. Yes, thank you.
Matt: It's a free action.
Orion: Isn't there a dead basilisk right in front of us right now?
Matt: There is a body of a dead basilisk on the ground, yes.
Marisha: I'm going to take Wind Wall. I'm gonna cast Wind Wall and try and wrap it around the lava column and try and contain it within the Wind Wall, cooling it down. Essentially making a tornado-like vortex around the lava.
Matt: Okay. For the purposes of this, I want you to go ahead and make a basic religion check.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: Wait no, not religion. For you it'd be nature. Just for the purposes of my thought, I think a nature check would be an interesting way to see how this plays out.
Marisha: 18.
Matt: 18? Okay. So, as you bring this gust of cold wind, swirling around, the column of magma begins to cool and darken as Trinket is like backing up against the wall and the magma is starting to singe the edge of Trinket's nails. It cools to a dark, black, kind of rockish color. And the magma fall ceases, but you can see parts of it breaking and beginning to break past that shell exterior. So you've slowed it.
Marisha: This isn't gonna hold for long! Somebody rub some blood on Tiberius, quick, and let's get the hell out of here! I'm just holding this.
Matt: Holding it there? Okay. That brings us to Pike.
Ashley: There's so much to do. I don't know if I should heal you, if I should rub blood on you or if I should go try to remove the curse from Grog.
Laura: See if you can get the curse out of Grog. Because if we've got to retreat, then--
Ashley: Can Remove Curse remove the thing off of him?
Matt: From your knowledge, no, it's an arcane effect, not a curse.
Ashley: That's an arcane effect. Okay, so, Grog might be on his own for a little bit. Okay. So can I heal Scanlan and then also rub some basilisk blood on Tiberius?
Matt: From your previous experience, it's not the blood directly. The blood itself has to be distilled into a specific alchemical form to reverse the effect.
Orion: We just drank the blood last time.
Matt: No, it wasn't drinking. After the battle, you guys took the blood, prepared it, and then used it as part of the recovery.
Marisha: Will someone collect some blood?
Matt: Okay, so you heal Scanlan. How much does he heal?
Orion: The king's almost dead.
Marisha: Do we want to kill the king? Do we need somebody alive to help us?
Ashley: Oh, 19, 19!
Matt: So you're healed 19. You're on the ground, prone, but you're conscious now.
Sam: Hi!
Matt: You look up at Pike and smile and you look over and see this large column of magma that's now cracking through stone and pouring into the throne room again.
Ashley: Is there anything else we can do? Is there anything else I can do at this moment?
Matt: No, this has been a heal, this has been-- no, okay, you can move, that's about it.
Ashley: I can move? Can I take anyone with me while I move?
Matt: I will say you can drag him. You'll be at half speed.
Ashley: Can I try to drag Tiberius away from the magma?
Matt: You can try. Make a strength check.
Sam: You're two feet tall. He's a dragon.
Matt: Let's say athletics, do athletics.
Ashley: Athletics? 19.
Matt: Okay. So, you grab onto Tiberius, you rush over after healing him, grab and start dragging him towards the entrance. At half-speed you manage to get him three squares, that's as far as you got. As you're pulling back, the king, as a reaction, gets one strike on you with his sword. That's gonna be a 19.
Ashley: Get outta here. (laughter)
Matt: Your AC is 20?
Ashley: It's 20.
Matt: So the blade hits you--
Ashley: I just flip him off. (laughter)
Matt: The blade comes down towards you, but with a flash of divine energy in your shoulder armor, it just gets deflected off the side and you glare at him out of the side of your face. And continue to drag Tiberius out of the room.
Liam: Now go home and get your shine box. (laughter)
Matt: All right. Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: All right. I'm going to step into the room, to give some cover. Right about, probably just slightly on the other end of this.
Matt: Where, over here?
Taliesin: No, like, next to Keyleth, like near Keyleth.
Matt: Oh, you're gonna have to go around here, then. This is a really harrowing place.
Taliesin: Okay, the first thing I'm going to do, is I'm going to-- I've got my ice shot loaded. I'm going to take a shot at the break in the ceiling and I'm gonna try and ice it over.
Matt: Okay, all right. So as you pull over, you go ahead and aim up with your ice shot ready. Go ahead and fire.
Taliesin: That's 20.
Matt: 20 definitively hits. It's not hard to do. Go ahead and roll damage and that will signify how long and how much it will stop. So just the ice damage. Not the actual bullet, it won't do anything. So just--
Taliesin: Oh. So just the ice damage
Matt: Just the ice damage.
Taliesin: Two.
Matt: Two. Okay. So as you blast up, you can see, as the magma's beginning to pour down again, you blast it and it immediately-- a spot cools into a rock and begins to slip again. You've maybe given yourself a couple more seconds. That may be what you need, you don't know. But that's all you got on that one.
Taliesin: Okay, my next shot, I'm just gonna turn to the king and just shoot.
Matt: Okay, go for it.
Taliesin: I'm also gonna spend a point for additional damage. And I'm also taking Sharpshooter for additional damage.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: That's 16.
Matt: 16 versus armor class will not hit, unfortunately.
Taliesin: Oh! Wait, okay, no, I just, I don't get the-- oh god, it's not Pathfinder, gah!
Matt: Yeah.
Taliesin: Okay, that's fine. I'm gonna spend my bonus action to take another shot.
Matt: Okay, so you're using your Action Surge?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. So Action Surge. You now have two more attacks. Go for it.
Taliesin: 23, eff you.
Matt: That hits. (laughter)
Taliesin: That's nine points of damage.
Matt: Nine points of damage, got it.
Taliesin: Taking another shot.
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: This shot's fire, fire bonus damage. And I'm also gonna spend another grit point to maybe do a little more damage. 28 to hit.
Matt: That hits. Go ahead and roll damage. With the extra grit point you do two dice, right?
Taliesin: Yeah. I get a bonus die, I just have to find one. Oh, that'll do. That's 17 points of damage plus one point of fire damage.
Matt: Nice. Okay, so, the next-- the first shot fires, just ricochets off his armor and streaks across the room. You get his attention, though, and he looks back at you with this kind of wild look in his eyes, the muscles tensing. You can see the armor actually bending and twisting against his physical form underneath. However, the next shot blasts off side of his jaw, there's actually a giant gap now in his flesh as he looks back at you and you can see his teeth. And as he grits down towards you, now definitely intent on getting vengeance on that, the second shot (impact sound) takes off a chunk of his head. You can see the skull exposed on where you've now taken a piece of flesh off the top of his scalp. He's looking pretty rough.
Taliesin: Let's move it, people. And I'm gonna take like a step back towards the door. Just with what's remaining of my movement.
Matt: Okay. You can get back to there. All right. That brings us to--
Taliesin: Oh, I killed him, didn't I? No, he's not dead, damn it.
Matt: He's not dead yet. Not dead yet.
Taliesin: I know, that would've been so cool.
Matt: All right. The mind flayer, who is no longer dominated as Clarota took his attention off of that for the time being, looks around at everyone, sees the circumstance, the magma flowing down, and just grabs his chest and you can see his form blink out and vanish.
Orion: (groans) He peaced out.
Matt: That brings us to the top. Vax. At this round, by the way, is broken and has begun to spread, the magma has now filled this much of the room. And it's quickening.
Liam: My boots of haste are on, so I run-- I just dart right around Grog, around that column, up to the queen, while pulling out my keen dagger, I speak my mother's name, kiss the blade and shove it in, right into her collarbone.
Matt: All right, go ahead and roll for the attack.
Liam: So that's a two, but I'm gonna use Luck. I get ad-- 20.
Matt: 20 does hit.
Liam: Because of it, and because Grog's there, this--
Matt: Grog is not an ally, currently. You do not get Sneak Attack.
Liam: Don't get Sneak Attack, all right. Three, ten, then. That's the first attack. And the second one also hits, that's a 29.
Matt: All right.
Liam: Is ten.
Matt: Ten, nice. So the first blade plunges into her clavicle, she maneuvers out of the way to the point where it misses any vital points, but still sinks in. She looks at you angrily and you can see her dull white, ashy, duergar eyes flash with an intense arcane rage. As you pull the blade out, her eyes dart around with some sort of a plan, a thought process going through her head, as the other blade sinks into the side of her torso she spits out blood that actually spatters across your face. She pushes the blade out and you see her preparing herself for something. That ends your turn. Grog currently moves forward towards you.
Liam: (Grog voice) Wrong direction!
Matt: That is a 25 versus armor class.
Liam: Yeah, but Uncanny Dodge!
Matt: How many times can you-- you've already used that. It's once per encounter. Once per encounter you can use that. Next one is a 21 versus armor class?
Liam: Once a round.
Matt: Once a round you can do it? Okay, well never mind. So take half on that first attack. All right, so. First strike comes at you with a-- oof, that'll be 19 points of damage. Reduced to nine.
Liam: Yeah, okay.
Matt: Second strike hits you for a total of 15 points of damage. So 24 total.
Marisha: Could be worse.
Matt: And that's Grog's go. That brings us to Scanlan.
Liam: That really hurts, Grog.
Sam: With my knowledge of the arcane arts, do I have any knowledge that using my Dispel Magic spell would work on Grog? Or do I just have to try it?
Matt: It's a possibility. You know the spell that's been cast on him-- you use it. There is a chance, but it has to be a contested roll.
Liam: You could roll a 20.
Marisha: You could roll a 20.
Sam: Does it take my move to just stand up?
Matt: Yes, it does, unfortunately. So it's your call.
Sam: But I don't have to be standing to cast a spell--
Matt: No, but I would say it's going to be difficult, it's going to give--
Sam: All right, I'll stand up.
Matt: All right. You get back up. What are you doing?
Sam: And I will-- Jesus, is it better for me to get out of there or get the king?
Laura: Yeah, get the king. You may be able to kill him. He's on his last legs, probably.
Matt: He's looking pretty rough.
Sam: Yeah, but Keyleth is right behind him.
Liam: Do it. Stab him.
Laura: You can attack him with your sword.
Sam: I am a tiny, tiny boy. I can only do--
Laura: Do it anyway. He's at his last legs. It would be epic, Scanlan.
Matt: What do you got? Go ahead, quick. Magma's pouring through.
Sam: Okay, I swing my Singing Dawnblade at him. (laughs) I have a dawn blade. It's just so lame though! It's so weak!
Matt: Okay, so. Go ahead and roll for an attack, d20.
Sam: A natural 20. (cheering)
Marisha: We said he could roll a 20! We called it! Who called it? We called it.
Matt: So, roll the dice.
Sam: So that's eight.
Matt: You rolled an eight. Times two, that's 16, plus whatever the bonus damage is for the sword.
Sam: Plus seven. Plus the dawn blade gets another bonus attack at disadvantage.
Matt: It does. So, you strike with a critical hit, doing-- let's see, that's eight, 16, plus seven, 23 points of damage, go ahead and roll for a second attack.
Sam: I've never hit anyone with a sword before! Five.
Ashley: Can I give him a War God's Blessing and give him a plus ten?
Matt: You can.
Ashley: All right, plus ten, so fifteen.
Matt: So what's your total? You rolled a five, plus--
Sam: Five plus-- ten-- I don't know, what am I adding? I've never used a sword before!
Matt: Add your proficiency modifier, which is four, plus your strength modifier, so that's five to that, which is ten, makes it 20, which hits! Roll damage on the attack. (cheering)
Marisha: Kill him, kill him!
Sam: Six!
Matt: Six points of damage. All right, six on that plus your strength, which is one. Seven. Plus the dawn blade, which is-- that's eight. So that's eight damage on top of the 23. How do you want to do this? (cheering)
Sam: I-- as I draw back the blade, I say, oh! You should've stood on your head! And I lop it off.
Matt: So. As you say that, you-- the blade vibrates to the sound of your voice, like the echoing of a song of Scanlan behind yours in almost a chorus out of nowhere. The blade streaks through the air, coming down, slitting across the back of his Achilles' tendon. He instinctually falls to one knee, which is kind of the height level for you. As you do, you bring the blade around with a flourish and take Murghol's head off his shoulders. It spins, tumbles to the ground, and rolls across the floor into the magma. Blackened beard curling back as the rest of his face is melted away by the lava, which is now pouring pretty heavily into this room.
Sam: (sings) Scanlan make you feel good!
Matt: All right. So that's your action. And your movement. And your bonus action. No, you did your bonus action to do the extra attack.
Sam: Oh! Great, great. I don't know how to use swords!
Matt: All right, so. That's the end of your turn. Wow! You used a sword! And got a kill! On a boss!
Sam: Yay!
Ashley: Good job, Scanlan!
Matt: All right, King Murghol's turn would be now, but he's on the ground. Vex?
Laura: I call Trinket back. Get him away from that lava. I run past, 'cause I can't-- can I see? Do I have an angle or is it being blocked by molten tornado?
Matt: You-- it's completely blocked right now.
Laura: Can I run across behind it?
Matt: Through here?
Laura: Yeah. Is that magmous right now?
Matt: Yeah, it is. It's still pouring! She slowed it down, but it's still breaking through and pouring out slower. It would be even bigger if they hadn't slowed it.
Laura: Okay, then well, maybe I won't run in that direction. I run in the other direction and down-- yeah. So I can see.
Matt: Go for it. Roll for an attack.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: First attack.
Laura: First attack is (sings) 20. No. 19.
Matt: Hits.
Laura: Yes! Okay. 14.
Matt: 14 points of damage.
Laura: Second attack is-- Second attack is (sings) 21!
Matt: Hits. Roll damage on that.
Laura: What's that? 12?
Matt: 12 to hit?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Or 12 damage?
Laura: 12 damage.
Matt: All right, 12 damage.
Laura: Oh, um. Hunter's Mark. Damn it. Bonus action!
Matt: Yep. All right, so both arrows (impact sounds). One clips her in the leg, and the other embeds itself in her abdomen. You see she grabs for it. She's looking really rough. Next is Kima. Kima's stone. It's now the queen's turn. She looks over at you who's stabbed her, the arrows in her abdomen, and she looks up at Grog and says, (sighs) "We've got business elsewhere." And she reaches out and touches Grog. Both of them blink out, Dimension Door.
Sam: We've lost Grog again!
Matt: A very familiar purplish color as you've seen you cast it, they Dimension Door out of the entire vicinity.
Sam: Son of a--
Marisha: This is the second time we've lost Grog.
Matt: At which point, the stone rocks crack on the column and the magma now goes into full pour.
Laura: We've got to get out!
Matt: You guys have to get out of that tunnel. What do you do now, what's the process?
Ashley: We run!
Sam: Wait, we gotta get our stone friends out.
Matt: So, this is going into a skill challenge now.
Laura: Yeah, we all run out that--
Sam: No, we don't all run out, they're stone, we have to drag them out, yeah.
Liam: Who all's stone, it's Tiberius and Kima? Okay.
Marisha: Can we-- where's the magic carpet? Throw their asses on the magic carpet!
Laura: Grog has the magic carpet. Grog had everything.
Sam: Wait, Feather Fall, do you have Feather Fall?
Ashley: Before, before we leave, can I take some of the basilisk's blood and put it in a vial?
Matt: Okay, this will be the first skill challenge. Go ahead and make a dexterity check.
Ashley: Dexterity check?
Marisha: Oh, can we get the magic carpet now?
Matt: No, the magic carpet is in the bag of holding. That thing is huge. You carry that with you, you would be at disadvantage for everything you've been doing.
Orion: Oh, I see.
Ashley: 18!
Matt: 18, okay, so. I mean, you go over to it, and you manage to gather up into your wine skin a little bit of basilisk's blood, best you can. The magma pulls close to you and you manage to just take six points of fire damage from just the general heat of the magma now pouring into the room. It's spilling out and now just continuing to fill the rest of this chamber.
Liam: I shout to Percy, come, Tiberius, now!
Taliesin: We pick him up.
Matt: Both of you guys make an athletics check.
Sam: Oh, it's not a strength check?
Matt: For this, this is just an athletics to pull them all off.
Liam: 19.
Taliesin: 17.
Matt: Okay. You guys grab and pull Tiberius out of the room. It takes the two of you to heft him over. You manage to pull him out of the way, that works out well. Down the stairway, all right. We don't need the video for this, we're just going to do this visually. So, you guys manage to bring Tiberius down the stairway. What are you doing, Scanlan?
Sam: I'm unfurling my Bull's Strength scroll and reading it so I get a plus five to strength? Is that a thing?
Matt: All right, so that's Enhance Ability. So you go ahead and give yourself Enhance Ability. Your strength is now-- you have advantage on all of your strength checks.
Sam: Okay, and I start to help, who was pushing Kima? I'm gonna help push Kima out.
Laura: Oh wait, no! Wait, didn't Clarota take Kima?
Matt: No, Clarota pulled Kima out of the room.
Laura: Oh, so we're all fucking fine, let's just get out.
Matt: So you guys are fine.
Marisha: I go ahead and on our way out I cast Create Water, and I kinda just use my air ability and make a mist to try and like mist the lava that's coming towards us.
Matt: Okay. You do, but the magma's so intense and this has filled so much of the room now that you get a localized area. The rest of it just kinda flows around and continues to fill the space. All right, so. All of you guys make a dexterity check to try to get down quickly. Go for it.
Ashley: Can I make another one?
Matt: Yes, everyone makes one.
Taliesin: Natural 20.
Liam: Natural 20.
Orion: (hoarsely) I rolled a 19!
Marisha: 20.
Sam: (sings) Seven!
Ashley: Four!
Laura: Do I get to roll twice 'cause of terrain?
Matt: Because of-- yes you do.
Sam: Do I get my Enhance Ability?
Matt: Not for this one.
Orion: I would like to note that I am frozen like this.
Matt: Okay, Tiberius is.
Laura: 29.
Matt: Okay, gotcha. So, Pike and Scanlan, both of you guys are, unfortunately 'cause you're smaller and your legs are moving, you guys rush down the stairway and curl around. As the rest of you make your way to the door, which is currently closed, you are all kinda gathered at the exterior of that hidden doorway. It's currently dark and held shut on where you guys entered. However, you two, the magma's now reached the stairway. It's beginning to pour down off the top, and it manages to catch the two of you. You guys each take five points of heat damage from the magma's proximity.
Liam: To the two ladies?
Matt: No, Pike and Scanlan. You guys make it to the bottom floor. The doorway is currently closed for the secret exit of the fortress.
Liam: Vax drops Tiberius' stone ass to the ground and starts feeling to get the mechanism of the door open.
Sam: Are we at the foot of the stairs yet, me and Pike?
Matt: You guys just make it to the foot of the stairs. You guys are now--
Marisha: It's a big stone door?
Matt: Yeah, it's the one you guys, the one you guys-- it opens up, outward.
Marisha: I just cast Stone Shape and make a hole.
Matt: Okay, as you're feeling around for the mechanism, Keyleth steps forward and basically the stone turns into almost a clay, and she just pulls it apart.
Marisha: Sorry, Vax. I didn't mean to, like, overstep there.
Matt: A giant glob of magma pours down and splashes down onto the ground, hitting everyone in the vicinity. Everyone down here takes 12 points of heat damage.
Liam: Ah, it's hot, it's hot, it's hot!
Laura: Hot hot hot hot hot.
Liam: All right, I'm picking up Tiberius' stone butt and continuing--
Matt: Okay, you guys push through the open hole that Keyleth pushed in, sweat dripping down your faces as the heat proximity to you is nigh-intolerable. You make your way out of the gate and now you have that giant magma flow.
Laura: Oh, right! Is the thing not-- wasn't there--
Matt: No no-- as you guys go and step out, the doorway that opened up, previously? Is what parted the magma flow. You pulled it open, so now it's just a wall of magma in front of you.
Laura: She also had created a wall barrier.
Marisha: I did create a wall over top.
Matt: You did. It's not there anymore.
Marisha: It was permanent!
Matt: It was permanent, but a perpetual flow of magma on it for a period of a few hours will eventually eat through a stone wall.
Laura: Can you cast it again?
Marisha: I can. Yeah. Do it again. Bam.
Matt: Okay. It's probably the last of that. You create a stone wall that juts out, once again blocking off the magma flow. You guys all step out of the room just as the main force of magma begins to fill the room behind you. Everyone make one more dexterity check to get out in time, as it's a small space and you're pushing out.
Sam: Natural 20.
Orion: 16.
Matt: You made nothing.
Marisha: "You made nothing." Seven.
Taliesin: Ten.
Ashley: Two.
Laura: Oh no. 29.
Liam: 12.
Matt: Okay. Everyone under 15  you, you, Percy, I believe, and Keyleth. The magma now, as you're helping getting your friends out, you're pushing out, you push Vex out-- Vex darts out, Scanlan manages to get out. As you guys are pulling Tiberius through, the hefty force of magma comes funneling down into the room and splashes across the floor.
Taliesin: Oh, that's a lot of dice.
Matt: That is 18 points of heat damage.
Liam: Vax is unconscious.
Marisha: 18 points?
Matt: As you're pushing through, Vax, you fall unconscious as the magma is currently lapping at the back of your leg. The rest of you begin pushing out as you begin to realize that your half-elf friend is currently melting in a pool of magma.
Ashley: Can I grab him? Can I grab him out?
Matt: Go ahead and make a strength check. This is strength at this point, this is pure adrenaline pushing through.
Ashley: 12!
Matt: 12. You manage to start pulling him up through the hole that Keyleth made.
Taliesin: I'm going to assist, I'm pulling out-- I'm doing another ice shot to try and cool off the magma around him.
Laura: I send Trinket up, to like, pull him.
Matt: Before you get to that point, as you're readying for it, 'cause it's a small space-- as you're pulling it, giant bear claws come over and latch onto the back of Vax's armor. The grizzly bear begins to tense, pulling back. Makes a strength check. That'll do it. Both of you manage to pull you out. You take an additional bit of heat damage. You are now at two failed saving throws. Two failed death saving throws.
Liam: I am a centimeter away from real death.
Matt: As he pulls it out, you can see most of his foot is melted. And his right leg.
Sam: Aw, that's his best leg.
Taliesin: I pull a level two healing potion, just get it in his mouth.
Matt: Okay, you pull it out. At this point, the magma's beginning to fill up the room, by the way.
Marisha: Okay, wait wait wait, can I take my stone wall and like, close it off? We're all out, right?
Matt: You're outside of it. How long does Stone Shape last?
Marisha: Stone Shape?
Matt: What you used on the wall.
Marisha: I'm just-- I'm just taking it away.
Matt: Closing the wall?
Marisha: I'm closing it. I can do it again, I still have two more spell slots.
Matt: Okay, how many spells do you have at that level?
Marisha: Three.
Matt: Three. So you spent--
Marisha: One, so far.
Matt: One going out, coming-- no, wait, it's the same-- you haven't had a chance to do a full night's rest.
Marisha: I know. I was an animal all week-- all last game. I didn't use any last game.
Matt: That's true, so you used the stone form, used Stone Wall.
Marisha: I used one Stone Wall last week and I have two level five spells now.
Matt: That's true, that's true, you do, that's good. All right, I just wanted to make sure. Okay, so as you do that, you send up another Stone Wall. It blocks off the magma just as it begins to pour over and spill out into this vicinity. It'll last a short time, but it'll last enough for what you guys need. You guys drag--
Ashley: Can I heal him?
Matt: You can attempt to, yeah, go for it.
Laura: Anticipation.
Marisha: I know. C'mon, Pike!
Ashley: 24.
Matt: All right. Heals you.
Laura: Oh my god.
Matt: Comes to consciousness. You guys are about ten feet away from the base of the stronghold. Your foot heals up, but it's still burned.
Laura: Ew, get that away from me.
Matt: For the time being, until you can take some serious physical rest, your movement is reduced by five. And your stealth rolls are currently at disadvantage.
Ashley: Can that ever be healed?
Matt: Over time with some rest it can be, but right now-- like, you're healed up, but that foot is scarred. It probably spent a good six seconds completely submerged in molten lava.
Liam: Are you telling me I'll never compete in the roller derby again? (laughter)
Matt: Quite possibly. You all are just on the outskirts of the stronghold. You can see now elements of the windows of the top floor are beginning to glow with internal light, as the entire stronghold is currently filling up entirely with molten rock.
Sam: Oh, I left my keys in there! (laughter)
Matt: You're all resting for a moment, off to the side. Grog is missing. And you all take a moment to realize that somehow you all managed to survive this, mostly.
Marisha: Sort of.
Matt: However, you didn't find the vault, didn't find Kima's stuff, and a number of escaped individuals from this are out and at large. We'll end today's game on that note.
Liam: Percy, I need Bad News to be my other foot now.
Marisha: Yeah, you should have-- you need, like, a sweet pimp swagger now.
Matt: So that went a little long, guys. Thank you for your-- for hanging out, but that was an intense session. Some climactic moments there.
Liam: Are you sure you guys don't want to send in a bulette, right now?
Marisha: Yeah, or maybe, like, you know, a black ooze. You wanna do that?
Sam: Wow, guys.
Zac: That was fucking intense.
Matt: That was crazy!
Zac: Guys. Riveting. And exhausting. Are you guys tired?
All: Yes.
Zac: No dancing tonight, guys, get over it.
Ashley: Sorry it went late.
Laura: That went so long, I'm sorry guys.
Zac: No, they are happy that you went late. They want you to stay forever.
Matt: That was nuts.
Zac: So I wanted to make a couple announcements of people that helped out tonight. Not just donators, oh so-- I'm gonna read off a couple of people who helped out first and then we're gonna start off reading off people who donated to the charity. If you want us to read off who you are and your message to the Critical Role crew, you still have time to donate, 'cause I'll start at the bottom and work my way up. So if the mods could post the link to, you know, the command for Critical Role and you guys'll see there's a link there to donate. Donate to 826LA. Every little bit helps these guys a lot and it would be really helpful to the stream and the show. These guys have been working really hard and Matt puts in a ton of time and to show your support, go donate to the charity and we'll get to your messages. Okay, so first off, I'm gonna thank the_Duganator8--
Marisha: Yes! Was it the Duganator's birthday?
Zac: Yes!
All: Happy birthday, Duganator!
Marisha: (sings) Happy happy birthday, from all of us to you. We wish it was our birthdays, so... we're partying. Yay, woohoo!
Zac: Way to not use the copywritten one.
Marisha: (laughs) Yeah, way to not use the copywritten one, yeah.
Zac: Arislan and Alduin and JakeBoudreaux and Negihama and Duganator8 were all the ones that pitched in to buy dinner for you guys.
Marisha: Thank you guys, we love it, cupcakes! Happy birthday.
Zac: And then as a quick update for what's happening tomorrow, we have three performances tomorrow night. So tomorrow is Gather Your Party and it's kinda like our bring your friends, have a good time with board games and music and everything. So Indiecade's coming by tomorrow night to show off some new board games. And then we have two bands playing, Sonja Midtune and Bearwolf. And then we have the musical improv group that was here during the charity drive is coming back to do a performance, Robot Teammates and The Accidental Party, and that's tomorrow night, it'll be a lot of fun. So I'm just gonna pull up these donations and messages, if you wanted to see and start going through 'em. And we'll probably have more as we get to the top. So starting at Fifthdreamtoday said, "I love Critical role, kudos for giving to a great cause."
Matt: Oh thank you, Fifthdreamertoday.
Zac: Ravendreamer  "Cheers and godspeed to the bold members of Critical Role for supporting reading in children."
Matt: Thank you, Ravendreamer.
Zac: Voractin24  "A combined donation for Critical Role and for myself and my role group." Oh. "from AngelMitsu."
Matt: AngelMitsu and Voractin24, thank you.
Marisha: Thank you, guys.
Zac: It's hard to read some of these messages.
Matt: That's all good.
Zac: MageInATower-- Starbuck86x. Cargoth912. Eridinsk-- Eridinsk. I'll pull that one up. "Thanks for all that you've done with the show, it's amazing, definitely my favorite show, happy to support the charity for you guys."
Matt: Aww. Thank you, Eridinsk, that's awesome.
Zac: Alduin. "A small thank you for what you're doing, it's awesome. Keep it up." RGcanok #CriticalRole.
Matt: RGcanok, thank you, buddy.
Zac: TonyLoneFight, donate for 826LA.
Matt: Thank you, TonyLoneFight!
Zac: CrazyNexy
Matt: CrazyNexy.
Marisha: CrazyNexy.
Marisha: You're crazy.
Zac: FurryHunter85, "hope it helps a little."
Marisha: It does. It helps a lot.
Zac: Almostheaven, "This is becoming a weekly thing, much love, the #CriticalRole crew." Becoming a weekly thing for us too.
Marisha: Almostheaven? More like totally heaven. Always heaven.
Zac: Zanderinvictus  "Worthy cause and worthy people to make my Thursday so enjoyable #lessthan3"
Matt: Aww thank you, Zanderinvictus.
Zac: Nixdeathsticks  "I don't encourage violence." (laughter)
Zac: Warmcustard  "I was totally gripped tonight."
Marisha: Thanks Warmcustard! (laughter)
Zac: Samwheeler  "Incredible stream tonight, thanks so much."
Matt: Thank you, Samwheeler. You guys are awesome!
Zac: Sure enough, there's, oh my gosh.
Marisha: I know I'm getting more now, muzzbuzz.
Zac: Poltergeist123.
Matt: Thank you Poltergeist.
Marisha: That's a good movie!
Zac: Ironwolf  "Great stuff, guys."
Matt: Ironwolf! Strong name!
Zac: Dumoco  "Thank you for a wonderful time, thank you all for a wonderful time."
Matt: Thank you for watching, Dumoco!
Zac: Tone17  "Another donation to a good cause to push karma in the party's favor."
Marisha: We like the karma!
Taliesin: More 20s!
Zac: Frisbee  "Thank you for letting us share your adventures. It means a lot to us too."
Marisha: Thanks Frisbee!
Zac: 13Modem, "Thanks Critical Role team." thisisbonertown: "The least I can do for entertaining all of us."
Matt: Yeah bonertown! (laughter)
Marisha: You are the least we can do to entertain ourselves.
Zac: LightningGemini  "I love Critical Role, you guys are amazing."
Matt: Thank you LightningGemini.
Zac: Wheelyfactoid  "Love you guys, can't wait to finish my knife for Liam and bear for Laura."
Marisha: Wait, what?!
Zac: Sounds like they're making a knife for Liam and bear for Laura.
Taliesin: How do you make a-- nope.
Liam: I encourage violence. (laughter)
Laura: I encourage massages.
Zac: Sickwizard  "Every kid should know how to read, I love Critical Role, Matt, feel free to TPK."
Laura: No!
Matt: I don't try to!
Zac: You know-- oops, sorry, from Zenjurken  "You know it's good when you're worried for the characters on screen, and good luck." Scaviensuretoriot. Popeblasterfighter: "I love you guys so much and you guys make me laugh every time." Danmanmountain: "Thanks Critical Rollers. Great show tonight, happy to give back #23fu."
Matt: Ha! I saw that in the chatroom
Orion: 23fu meet Bonertown.
Zac: Headance. Tiberiusthelad. FicklePickletickler: "#Zacsbonerjams" (laughter)
Marisha: FicklePicketickler, that's great.
Matt: Thanks FicklePicketickler.
Orion: Also lives in bonertown.
Zac: And one more, this will be the last one, SilentKagamusha: "Critical Role is why I am now addicted to and starting my first game of D&D." (cheering)
Zac: "Matthew Mercer is why I will DM so I should help out."
Matt: Good on you, buddy! Storytelling.
Zac: If anyone donates after and we go offline, I'll make sure these guys get the messages and they're aware that you donated. Thank you all for tuning in. You guys are killer. Killer show.
Marisha: Thank you guys so much! You are all amazing, I love you so much.
Zac: We're going to go offline and then come back up with the rebroadcast of Thursday and you'll see this playing throughout the night and tomorrow morning, and will be up on the website tomorrow, so thank you. Thank you guys.
Matt: See you next week.
Sam: Bye!

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello and good evening, everyone. Welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us voice-actors get together and play Dungeons and Dragons-- crazy, fun, nerdy times. So we are unfortunately missing Travis Willingham again this evening, because he's a pussy and had to go see Avengers tonight, so feel free to let him know on Twitter. But anyway, we have a really fun, action-packed adventure-- as if last week's wasn't tension enough. Let's see how the rest of the group manages to recover from their climactic battle at the top of Emberhold. But in the meantime, let's go ahead and give you an intro and some of the character backgrounds before we come back. [dramatic music]
Ashley: Pike grew up on the outskirts of town, near the Bramblewood. Her ancestors were a family of deep gnomes with quite an unfavorable reputation. Thievery, destruction, and trickery left them with the curse of the last name Trickfoot. Sarenrae, the goddess of healing and redemption, had other plans for Pike's great-great-grandfather Wilhand, who left his family at a young age after a dream: a dream that changed the course of the Trickfoot family. Wilhand devoted his life to Sarenrae and pledged from then on that him and his family would live a life of service and devotion. As a child, Pike seemed to have an affinity to heal. Whether it was animals, people, or even flowers, she felt she had a purpose in making things whole that had once been broken. She studied and learned the ways to heal though divine magic. She lived a peaceful life, quiet and simple, until one day, Wilhand was captured and almost killed by a group of goliath barbarians. One of the goliaths took a stand against the murder of the innocent gnome and he himself was beaten, bloodied, and left for dead, abandoned by his herd. Wilhand went to Pike for help. She prayed and healed this barbarian as best she could, bringing him back to life. When he awoke, she discovered his name was Grog Strongjaw. After that, they were best of friends, a rather unlikely pair. Little did she know that in a few years' time, Grog would soon return the favor and bring her back from the clutches of death. (roar, crunch) After being killed in battle, Pike felt angry. She wanted to be stronger so that it would never happen again. She spent four months at sea training with the men and women aboard a ship called the Broken Howl. Gripping her holy symbol in one hand, and her morningstar in the other, this time, Pike is ready.
Travis: Right, Listen up! If you have ale, then you have a friend in Grog Strongjaw. A goliath of towering height and size, this barbarian has an appetite for the two great loves in his life: combat, women, and ale! (chuckle) (record scratch) Wait. Easily the brains of the group, Grog is often consulted for his vast knowledge of shapes, colors, and (chuckle) shiny things! Also ale. In his early years, armed with his two-handed great axe, Grog often enjoyed proving his might amongst the ranks of his family's wandering herd. But after coming upon an unsuspecting elderly gnome in the woods, he objected to the killing of such an innocent life. A creature of impulse, Grog felt only pity for this-- well, this terrified little thing. And his disobedience cost him dearly. Beaten bloody and banished by the herd leader, his uncle Kevdak, Grog was abandoned and left to die, exiled from his herd. It was then that the relative of the very gnome he fought to save, saved him. It was the kindness of a gnome cleric named Pike that healed Grog, bringing him back from death's edge. And they have remained close friends ever since. Most nights, Grog can be found challenging entire taverns to wrestling matches! Ha! Or accompanying Scanlan to the nearest house where you pay for lady favors. Also ale!
Marisha: A first impression of Keyleth would leave you with little information on the half-elven druid. You might even think that her social awkwardness due to her sheltered upbringing is kind of sweet. (chuckle) Of course, it would be unwise to underestimate her based on first impressions. (thunder) Under that unintimidating petite frame is a vicious beast waiting to be unleashed, whose natural powers have made even the fiercest of champions pee their pants, literally! (soft chuckle) Born to the Air Tribe of the Ashari people, Keyleth was raised with a deep love of nature and the elemental magics. It is her people's inherent duty to protect the delicate areas in Tal'Dorei where the four elemental planes begin to bleed with this realm. Since she was a little girl, she had quite a knack for air manipulation and beast shaping abilities. Well, if you consider kittens and flying squirrels to be little beasts. Which, I do. (clears throat) Anyways, it wasn't long before the headmaster of the tribe, her father, Korren, realized her true prodigious abilities and she was inveterated to succeed him as the next headmaster. Just like that, her jovial childhood was stripped and replaced with endless spell memorization, teachings from ancient traditions, and exceedingly high expectations. Every druid leader to be must embark on a journey to seek out the sister tribes in order to introduce and establish respect amongst the fellow headmasters. They call this the Aramente, or Noble Odyssey. When her father felt she was ready, he set her on the path to truly discovering herself, not knowing when, or if, she will ever return. As she hiked down the mountain towards Stillben, she meditated on the task ahead. Part of the Aramente is proving yourself a strong warrior, a valiant protector, and a wise and compassionate leader. With this knowledge, one thought plays on repeat in her mind: Is she even worthy?
Taliesin: Percy was the third of seven children, born to a noble family who lived far to the north in the ancient castle of Whitestone. With so many siblings to share the burdens of lordship, Percy turned his attentions to the sciences, engineering, and naturalism. One day, a mysterious couple named Lord and Lady Briarwood came to court. During a feast held in their honor, the Briarwoods violently took control of the castle, killing or imprisoning everyone who would stand in their way. Percy awoke chained in the dungeon, only to be freed by his younger sister. Together they fled, chased by the Briarwoods' men. As they ran, Percy's sister took several arrows to the chest and fell. Percy kept running, eventually jumping into a freezing river and floating unconscious to freedom. He did not remember waking up on a fishing boat. He barely remembered the next two years, as he slowly made his way as far south as possible. Then one night, Percy had a dream. A roaring cloud of smoke offered him vengeance against those who destroyed his family. When he awoke, Percy began to design his first gun. (gunshot)
Sam: Oh, you haven't heard of Scanlan Shorthalt? Well, gird your loins, ladies, because he has his eye on you. A talented musician, master of disguise, and dashingly handsome in his own mind, Scanlan sings songs almost as much as he sings his own praises. Born a poor gnome, Scanlan used his endless charm and soaring tenor voice to croon for coin and support his single mother. One day he was discovered by a half-orc promoter, and joined Dr. Dranzel's Spectacular Traveling Troupe, where he learned the ways of the world, and honed his skills as a bard extraordinaire. A loner much of his life, Scanlan has never quite come to terms with the violent death of his mother at the hands of a goblin invasion. While his years on the road provided many, shall we say, educational experiences with the opposite sex, deep down, Scanlan yearns for the one thing he's never known: the true love of a fellow gnome. Still, Scanlan considers himself a lover first, performer second, and fighter distant third. On the battlefield, he'll support his allies, but rarely draws blood, unless it's to protect fellow gnome, Pike. Count on Scanlan for a hearty laugh, a rollicking song, and a twinkle in his eye that melts hearts and makes the females swoon.
Orion: Greetings and salutations. I am Tiberius Stormwind. I hail from a town called Ty'rex, located in the heart of Draconia. From a politically respected family, at the age of 15, I succeeded in passing the Sorcerer's Rite, showing prodigy-like control of my magic. The judges and the Draconian high council were amazed at how powerful my spells were for how long I had been training. At 20 years old, I was the youngest appointed member of the magic guild in Draconian history. For the next few years, I almost went mad from the malaise of being a guild member, as it's rather boring. However, one day I happened upon a chamber, unused for quite some time. In the room were stacks of books and maps of the surrounding cities and areas around the known world. For months, I would frequent the chamber, and learned of artifacts from legend. After a long period of research, I made a list of artifacts that caught my eye. I brought these findings to the high council and was told that all of the information in the chamber I had stumbled upon was either believed to be fiction, or unsolvable mysteries, and hence were lost forever. I found those answers to be unacceptable. A year later, I devised a ruse and managed to convince the city council to lend support in me leaving Draconia on a mission of peace and diplomacy for the surrounding kingdoms, going from town to town and making friends and allies, in and for the name of Draconia. Being a red dragonborn, I had quite the task on my hands in that respect, but it was exactly what I needed so I could explore the world and find these artifacts, as I felt the truth was out there. Some may describe me as buffoonish, but I say poppycock to all that. I am much sharper than most give me credit for. I just don't pay attention to things sometimes. I've also been known to be rather cunning, loyal, happy-go-lucky, and well, dangerous. I can't help but show my true scales every now and then. But overall, I think I'm quite friendly for a dragonborn!
Liam: Never entirely welcome in the company of elves or men, Vax'ildan learned at a young age to skip past formality, preferring instead to invite himself in your door. Along with twin sister Vex'ahlia, Vax was born by a chance encounter between elven royalty and human peasantry. Raised by their mother in their early years, the twins were eventually sent off to their father in the elven capital of Syngorn. But their cool reception among the elves there never warmed, and their time in the capital didn't last. The siblings stole away one autumn night and set out on the open road. After a few years of wandering, they eventually decided to return to their mother, and journeyed back to the lands of their youth. But instead of finding their childhood home, they returned to a pile of rubble. Their mother was gone, their home burned to ash. Pressing the townspeople for answers, they learned of the day the dragon came. (roar) With their ties all severed, Vax'ildan and his sister set out to find their fortune together in Tal'Dorei. An outsider since birth, Vax quickly learned to solve life's challenges in his own particular way, often by side-stepping them entirely. And when his knack for circumventing adversity isn't enough, (knife scraping) the way of blades the elves schooled him in more than makes up the difference.
Laura: Like so many half-elves, Vex'ahlia has spent most of her life suffering the cool reception of a people who don't fully accept her. Born of a human mother and an elven father who only later in life took an interest in their existence, Vex'ahlia and her twin brother Vax'ildan quickly realized the only people they could truly rely on in this world were each other. It was at the age of ten when the two were taken from their mother and brought to live in Syngorn, the isolated elven city for which their father was an ambassador. He quietly took them in, but always kept an icy distance, and after too many years of disdainful looks, the pair decided to leave his indifference behind, and set out on their own. Vax took to the cities, stealing small trinkets and learning the ways of the thief, while Vex kept to the woods; she preferred the isolation. Always the keen observer, she learned to hunt and to track, to spy and to shoot. And through a series of fateful events, earned herself a companion in the form of a bear-- her own stolen Trinket-- to fight alongside her and protect her fiercely. Also, he is adorable, and gives expert massages.
Matt: Hey guys, welcome back. While we are missing Travis, it's totally fine, Avengers is a fantastic film. It's a wonderful film and hope he doesn't spoil anything for us in his return, but he is missed. Travis, we miss you. We'll have you back next week, hopefully.
Orion: I'm going to spoil the movie for everybody they win!
Taliesin: But do they?
Laura: But do they?
Matt: I don't know. It's Joss Whedon (laughs)
Orion: I didn't say who 'they' were.
Matt: Oh, that's true. All right, so, welcome everyone. For those of you who's this the first time, (laughs) buckle up for some interesting-- So we're a bunch of voice actors who play Dungeons & Dragons and this is our campaign we've been running for a while. To give you a little heads-up on the story so far, the party was hired to find an individual named Lady Kima, and she is a halfling paladin. The platinum dragon Bahamut is her deity
Sam: And we found her!
Matt: You did. I was going to get to that. (all laugh)
Matt: So they went seeking her in caverns beneath the dwarven city of Kraghammer. After much fighting and surviving, they manage to find their way to a duergar fortress called Emberhold, where they found Lady Kima captive beneath. They released her and then, using her help, assaulted the throne room at the top and managed to slay King Murghol of the duergar. However, in the process, Grog, our intrepid barbarian, was kidnapped by the queen mage before she could be slain, who then also disintegrated a portion of the roof, letting an entire cavalcade of molten rock into the fortress. The party then had to make a heated escape. However, a number of the party members, due to the gaze of the two basilisks that were kept in the throne room as pets, Lady Kima and our Tiberius Stormwind, our dragonborn sorcerer, are currently stone. Dragging them out of the fortress as the magma began to fill the interior, a very deft escape was made, aside from Vax unfortunately getting his foot temporarily submerged in the lava, taking some serious damage to his foot. The party manage to make their way outside of the Emberhold proper, and you've all taken a moment to breathe at this point, realizing that thankfully, for the most part, you've all survived. Aside from the missing party member and a few in a state of flux at the moment. So, picking up there where we left off. You're all breathing heavily. The sincerity of the battle has just come over you. The adrenaline's still pumping through your system.
Laura: Your foot is melted off.
Liam: It's kind of there (groans).
Matt: Mostly. There's some... You can see four of the five toes.
Laura: Oh, that's not bad. It's four out of five.
Matt: About three and a half.
Liam: Did I lose the big or the small?
Matt: (laughs) This would be the small.
Ashley: Oh, you can do without the pinkie.
Marisha: Your balance is probably a little wonky.
Matt: Yeah, a little bit.
Liam: Clears that athlete's foot, though. Gone.
Matt: Sure enough.
Sam: Is anyone following us? Can we do a quick check around and just see?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Sam: Perception check? Starting it off with a 19.
Matt: Glancing around, you start hearing various duergar screams from above as the individuals that were still inside the fortress are in the process of trying to get out, or in the process of slowly melting in the molten rock. What you do also notice is that off towards the bottom base of the stronghold, a number of duergar that reside in the buildings that surround the exterior of Emberhold proper are mounting arms and charging up towards the stronghold to give aid to wherever this seeming, loud shouting and screaming is coming from
Laura: Can they see us?
Marisha: Does anyone seem to be paying attention to us?
Matt: No, they're far enough away where you don't think it's an issue, and you're off to the side, for the moment. But you do see probably close to 30 to 40 duergar are currently swarming out the small city, making their way towards Emberhold.
Marisha: So right now they're focused on the chaos of the temple?
Matt: From what you can see.
Sam: We should get out of here.
Laura: There was a path further down that led further on into the tunnels. I think we should follow that.
Marisha: Well, hang on. Grog can't be far, right?
Sam: He could be in another dimension.
Marisha: No, he can only be a thousand feet away.
Sam: Says who?
Marisha: They used the spell Dimension Door that Tiberius has.
Laura: So we hope he used Dimension Door.
Sam: I have a spell that can go to another dimension (chuckles).
Marisha: Well, I remember the gods on high telling us last week that we recognized the spell that was used.
Sam: By the way, this is the best conversation we've ever had with Tiberius. (all laugh)
Laura: Oh, Tiberius.
Marisha: Aw man, I feel that comes back to bite us in the ass later (nervous laugh) because he is still conscious, right?
Matt: No.
Laura: He has no idea what's happening.
Matt: He's in darkness. He can't hear. He's not conscious.
Sam: If Grog is close, we still need to get out of the way of these 30 people. So let's go hide.
Laura: We still need to hide. And heal.
Taliesin: Let's at least follow the path, find a place where we can hide, and recuperate.
Laura: Around the corner or something. Can we stealth further down?
Matt: You can try to. You currently are carrying two large solid stone statues with you, so it's definitely possible, but you're going to have to come up with a creative way of doing so.
Taliesin: Grog had the rug, didn't he?
Matt: Grog had the entire bag of holding.
Taliesin: Shit!
Marisha: I'm going to go ahead and cast Pass Without a Trace on the party.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Percy, I think you and I are on Tiberius duty.
Taliesin: Yes. (sighs) Okay.
Sam: If we do not move, will this 30 duergar mass hit us at some point?
Matt: You can find out.
Sam: Oh, Jesus (laughs)
Orion: It's like asking the future.
Laura: Can I use my robe of infinite twine, which I have on my person in another game before. Because it's connected to my rope. Can I use that and tie it around Kima and hook it to Trinket so he can drag Kima along?
Matt: You can.
Laura: Okay.
Taliesin: Very clever.
Matt: So I will say for this circumstance as you guys are preparing this: casting the spell, beginning dragging the stone. The group make an initiative check.
Sam: We took too much time!
Laura: We should just run.
Taliesin: Natural 20.
Matt: Yeah, you have some flashing, there we go.
Marisha: That's been a kind die to you.
Matt: So, 20 plus whatever your initiative modifier is.
Taliesin: 27.
Matt: 27.
Marisha: 13.
Orion: Who cares.
Sam: Ten.
Ashley: 12.
Laura: 17.
Liam: 15.
Matt: All right.
Sam: Distract them. Get them away from us.
Matt: You guys begin to drag the stone, or (chuckles) your two stone companions across the jagged obsidian floor in this deep, dark cavern. The heat from the nearby lava fall is still causing you to sweat profusely, and you're sore from the previous battle you just endured. Those of you who are wounded, you can feel the stretch of the muscles and tearing of what sinew has taken damage in the process. As you begin to pull, parallel to this duct of lava that pours off the side of Emberhold, you keep low so that you aren't actually blocking the light source, which would be a very keen visual to anything that's looking in that direction from a distance, but you slowly make your way across. At this point, the duergar have not been able to get there before you guys move off from the side, so they haven't caught up to the position you were previously, but they're beginning to swarm around the sides, and you see them yelling at each other and shouting commands. Some of them are starting to grab large rocks and fill in areas of the stronghold. Some of them you can see are robed individuals begin casting spells. You can see portions of other stone walls beginning to mount up and try and block the flow from the interior and exterior of Emberhold. However, you guys are still within eyesight, technically, of any duergar on that side of the fortress, so I'm going to ask everyone now to make a stealth check. Those that are pulling the statues with disadvantage.
Laura: So that's Trinket.
Orion: Plus ten.
Laura: But we all add plus ten?
Matt: Correct. To the final roll.
Laura: Okay.
Liam: I have a question. If I have advantage for other reasons-- I have a cloak of elvenkind which gives me advantage-- does the advantage and disadvantage cancel out into one?
Matt: They do. Your foot being wounded, though, is a disadvantage right now.
Liam: Right.
Matt: So that then goes back down to disadvantage.
Sam: Can't win with this guy.
Matt: Just for this circumstance, unfortunately. You're dragging a statue with a partially melted foot right now.
Taliesin: Liam, it doesn't matter.
Marisha: You still have plus ten to the roll because Pass Without a Trace.
Matt: So?
Sam: 14.
Matt: Plus the ten?
Sam: That's including the ten.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: 22.
Taliesin: 11.
Ashley: 20. That's my low roll.
Laura: That's 20 for Trinket and 29 for me.
Liam: 25.
Matt: All right, so you keep hunched low, slowly (stone grinding noise) dragging these stone obelisks of individuals across the jagged floor. You seemingly do so without any of the duergars' eyes catching you through the low light of the cavern. Partially due to the fact that you guys are doing a pretty decent job and partially the fact they're more obsessed that the central piece of their fortress right now is essentially about to be completely filled with molten rock. About 20, 25 minutes or so, you manage to pull just past where the lava flow dips down into what looks like a small opening in the flooring, and you are past the immediate heat of the magma river. You are now pressed up against the wall of the cavern as it begins to twist around and head downward, further deeper into this subterranean mountainous space. You're all beaten, you're all sore, and currently, what do you want to do?
Taliesin: Keyleth, can you cover the entrance to where we are to give us a little bit more of a stealthy--
Marisha: No.
Laura: No more spells?
Marisha: I am exhausted. I can't do anything else right now.
Liam: And what's the terrain? Is it just flat out out in the open to see, or is it scoured with ins and outs? Peaks and valleys?
Matt: It's the same type of topography you've encountered when you first entered this giant cavern. So you can see large, crooked black spires of obsidian rock shooting up and curving towards the ceiling. It's all over the place.
Marisha: I can make another Hallucinatory Terrain. I can do that still.
Laura: Okay, maybe you can make it--
Marisha: Can I make it to where it just looks like a wall?
Matt: How long does it last?
Marisha: I think Hallucinatory Terrain lasts an hour, if I think about it. Books, books, where's my book?
Laura: Can I look around and and see if there's anywhere that looks like we could hide, tuck in between rocks or something where we wouldn't be visible?
Taliesin: Please.
Matt: Go ahead and make a perception.
Laura: Oh wait, I get an advantage.
Matt: Because you are in the Underdark, correct.
Laura: 20.
Marisha: It lasts for 24 hours.
Sam: 24 hours!
Taliesin: Put a lava flow in front of us.
Sam: But you have to be concentrating the whole time. And you can't. You can't go to sleep.
Laura: 20.
Matt: As she's glancing at that, you make your way about ten minutes away from the area where the rest of the group is currently gathered, keeping a very very close eye on the topography of the wall of the cavern as it slowly curves around and further in that direction. You do manage to find portions of the wall that jut out and leave these small pockets. They themselves might not be super safe for a long period of time, but they give you a little bit of--
Laura: Cover.
Matt: Little bit of cover, depending on how well you were to dress. You might be able to see few individuals discovering you if you were to stay there.
Laura: Okay. Let's do that.
Marisha: It's not a concentration spell. It just takes a minute to cast and it lasts for 24 hours. So I'm going to go ahead and cast it and make it look like there's just a wall with another lava flow that's come out, and is starting to happen.
Matt: Okay, so as you walk back to notify the party, you watch as a portion of the mountain seemingly out of nowhere, extends, and a lava flow appears, pouring out of the wall.
Marisha: Wait, was someone not inside?
Sam: No, we're all in.
Matt: She was out and about while you did this.
Laura: I was searching for another place to hide.
Liam: It's fine. It's an illusion. Vax pokes his head through the illusionary lava and goes, We're in here.
Laura: Oh! Lovely.
Matt: So your heart rate eventually normalizes. You do have a decent pocket of space here that as long as nothing attempts to walk into the wall, you should be okay to rest here.
Taliesin: So we have some time. Let's regroup.
Laura: I think we should probably--
Taliesin: Sleep in shifts.
Marisha: Wait, here's what I'm afraid of. If we sleep we could lose Grog's trail. He could be nearby right now.
Taliesin: We're not much use to anyone right now.
Sam: Let's just make a decision right now to leave Grog and continue on.
Ashley: No!
Sam: Let's just forget about him. He was a good friend.
Laura: What?!
Sam: We'll have a toast to him.
Laura: Scanlan!
Ashley: Scanlan!
Sam: We'll sing about songs of his memory.
Marisha: You are shitting with us, right?!
Sam: Within a few days we'll forget he ever existed.
Taliesin: Scanlan, no one else wants to go to a whorehouse with you. You'll be going to whorehouses alone.
Sam: All right, fine.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Liam: Here's another option. My foot hurts, but I'm not too bad. How are you?
Laura: (sighs) I'm okay.
Liam: We could go look.
Laura: Or maybe I can use my tracking and see if I can catch a scent. Grog does smell.
Marisha: I can use my beast sense; that is one more thing I can still do. I could theoretically-- We could use Trinket.
Liam: We need to undo the stone that has taken over Tiberius and Kima.
Taliesin: Do I have the necessary tools to synthesize a potion out of the basilisk blood?
Matt: You can certainly try. It's a very ramshackle set-up. You do not have an alchemical set, but you can certainly attempt to, using a small fire, a couple of your general smelting tools you use for your metal work. You could attempt to distill it down, but that would be a combination of a tinkering roll on your point, followed up by somebody else's medicine roll to attempt to properly prepare it.
Laura: Are all of Tiberius's things stone with him?
Matt: Yes.
Ashley: I'm going to walk over to Tiberius and cast Greater Restoration on him.
Matt: Okay. So as you're having this discussion. Tiberius, you briefly go from this moment in the heat of combat where you feel your muscles intensify and tensing up and not answering to your mind's command as you look up angrily at a series of duergar that have just been blown up by a fireball, to cold taking yourself. And as the cold fades, you are now in the center of a gargantuan cavern surrounded by all of your friends. You guys watch as Tiberius's form fades in through the stone.
Marisha: Tiberius!
Ashley: Tiberius!
Laura: Good job Pike!
Sam: I was so worried about you!
Taliesin: Or we could cast a spell. That also works well.
Orion: (Dwarven accent) What the hell is going on?
Ashley: I didn't know if that was going to work.
Marisha: But that the only time you can do that, right?
Laura: Wait, she can't do that again? You can't do it again for Kima.
Ashley: I have another 5th level now, so I could do it again.
Laura: And once we rest, you'll have it again?
Orion: (Dwarven accent) Whoa. What happened to all the other little dwarves?
Sam: You don't have to do the accent anymore.
Laura: You probably should keep your voice down, Tiberius.
Orion: Well, this is just how I sound.
Ashley: No. We already got through. We're on the other side. You don't have to act like a god anymore.
Laura: Grog is missing, actually.
Orion: (Dwarven accent) Oh, great.
Laura: And the queen took him.
Sam: Are you stuck like this?
Orion: No, I could change back anytime I want, but I really like how I look. (all laugh)
Ashley: Are we going to rest?
Sam: Wait, but what about Kima?
Marisha: We have to find Grog!
Laura: We have to find Grog but we have no spells. If we do find him, we can't do anything!
Sam: Can you unstone Kima now or?
Ashley: I can, but then I wouldn't have another 5th level.
Orion: (Dwarven accent) Clarota, what do you think we should do?
Matt: Clarota, who is currently like staring at the statue of Kima, you can see there's a brief bead of thought behind Clarota's eyes and the voice sinks into the rest of your minds simultaneously. "We may be able to leave her here for safekeeping."
Orion: I knew you were going to say that. A different option. Oh, and thank you, Pike.
Ashley: You're welcome, Tiberius. (all laugh)
Matt: "If you insist on bringing her, then we should do it soon. We should not be leaving anything behind. Trace of our passage."
Liam: Where did your kin take our big friend?
Matt: Clarota thinks for a second and says, "It was not my kin that took him but the duergar. If anything, I imagine he might be residing within that infernal city, though if they've taken him elsewhere I do not know the way of the ash-skins."
Orion: But Kima does.
Laura: We should wake her up.
Orion: Pike, you can do it one more time and take a little rest, right?
Ashley: I am going to walk on over to Kima. Touch her. Cast Greater Restoration again.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Where do you touch her? (laughs)
Ashley: I touch her arm.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: Don't cheapen this.
Matt: Classy. As you reach out, the divine energy emanates from Pike's hand that begins to cascade across Kima's form. Kima, who is in mid battle, with her greatsword in the air, as soon as her flesh returns to her, she finishes her swing.
Ashley: I put my shield up!
Matt: However, it does (ping) into the side of your shield and you deflect the blow and you see Kima for a second is like, (panting slowing to normal breathing).
Liam: Easy! Easy!
Ashley: Calm down!
Matt: She throws the blade down on the ground and goes, "I am so sorry."
Ashley: It's okay! You were mid-swing, I get it. We are fine it was just a shield. We're fine.
Matt: She reaches around and she pulls her symbol of Bahamut out from her around her neck and just clutches it for a second and says, "What happened?"
Laura: You were turned to stone, the king got killed, the queen took Grog, we don't know where.
Sam: And Clarota was really helpful to us.
Laura: Actually, Clarota got you out of that castle alive.
Matt: She turns around and glares at Clarota briefly with a look of confusion and mistrust and Clarota just goes-- (all laugh)
Liam: You honestly would not be here if it weren't for the illithid. It's true.
Matt: She glances back at you and gives under her breath, "And there's a good chance none of us may be here if it gets its way down the road. (louder) Nevertheless, I thank you. It is good to know at least we took one of their top champions down. The fact that the queen still exists is worrisome, as at least from what I seemed to gather she had the true reign over most of the duergar down here."
Orion: Do you know where she would be at?
Matt: "Where did she escape? How did she take him?"
Liam: She disappeared with our goliath friend.
Laura: (gasps) Oh my gosh. Wait, did I Hunter's Mark the queen?
Liam: Yes, you did.
Laura: Did I?
Taliesin: You did.
Laura: I can use my Hunter's Mark to track her!
Sam: You can? (all cheer)
Sam: How long does it last and how does it work?
Liam: But that was just 30 minutes ago.
Sam: I know, but we all have to rest.
Laura: It maintains for up to eight hours!
Sam: Eight hours, but we have to rest!
Ashley: Because we need to heal. I am pretty low.
Sam: I'm at two.
Ashley: You're at two?!
Marisha: Okay. Theory? Proposition? Proposal. What if we use your Hunter's Mark, figure out where she is, get there, camp out nearby, tackle it in the morning?
Laura: Can I use my Hunter's Mark to find out where she is and then we rest and go there?
Matt: You can attempt that.
Ashley: What if we took a short rest?
Laura: Wait, wait, wait. Let's just find out where she is first.
Ashley: What if we just took a seven-hour nap? (all laugh)
Ashley: Because that's all really anyone sleeps anyway.
Taliesin: I think six hours is about what it takes.
Matt: Six to eight hours is the general long rest period that I would allow for that.
Laura: Okay.
Ashley: Okay.
Liam: I think we should all rest for a moment. I think Vex'ahlia and I should go out for an hour or two, just to see which direction-- I mean, they are not going to back to Emon.
Laura: I've got Hunter's Mark! Just stay put, Footless! (all laugh)
Orion: Wait a minute. What happened to your toe?
Sam: You're not stealth anymore. You got a busted foot. You're at disadvantage on everything.
Liam: I was pretty awesome 30 minutes ago. Now I'm just slightly less awesome.
Sam: Can we at least heal you up, before you go?
Laura: Yes. Just give us one second. Can I use the freaking Hunter's Mark?
Sam: How does it work?
Laura: I don't know!
Matt: So you take a moment, you step beyond the boundary of the illusion momentarily, close your eyes and concentrate on that small blip of nature based divine energy that you lent and grappled onto Queen Ulara with. You take a moment and concentrate and you recall her face, you recall, strangely, her scent. In a weird way, the bestial nature of your connection with Trinket and nature, scent is a very strong means of tracking and the scent of a duergar is a very terrible mix between salty brine and earth.
Liam: Like Axe for Men?
Matt: Essentially, yeah, yeah. It's Ye Olde Axe. You concentrate on this and you recall the stronghold, you begin to see a trace where all of a sudden her path in the stronghold is fading and is cold. A new path has opened up in the center of the duergar city at the base of the stronghold. It seems to have moved slightly in that direction, but you can't pinpoint where, and is currently at rest somewhere in that vicinity.
Sam: She is still close.
Laura: (whispers) The city, they're close. (louder) So that is right in front of the keep?
Marisha: Wait. Are they in an underground base?
Laura: They are in the city.
Matt: Essentially, where the cavern kind of rises up and meets the wall, Emberhold is at the top of that rising of the ground, and Emberhold lies there, where all the lava pours down and trickles down. You guys are off to the side. This whole portion of the floor that crawls up to Emberhold is covered in duergar buildings. It is a small city that surrounds it. She resides somewhere in the center of that.
Marisha: So we're on the same level as them or are they above us?
Matt: They are a little bit above. You guys are at a lower point, as the actual ground you follow curves around and descends.
Sam: But once we walk out of here we will be at the same level.
Marisha: I have a theory. I've a new skill that I've recently learned and was practicing a lot when I was with the Earth Ashari while we were gone for the past six months. They taught me the ways of the earth elementals.
Orion: Oh, that's fun.
Marisha: So. And as an earth-- but I am still new at it.
Ashley: That's okay, we all start somewhere.
Marisha: Thank you, Pike.
Ashley: You're welcome.
Marisha: Thank you. I mean I am a little self-conscious about it still, but I can travel through the earth.
Laura: And pop up, perhaps, where she is?
Orion: (Dwarven accent) Ooh, like a little gopher.
Laura: All of us? Or just you?
Marisha: It is not a burrowing thing, right?
Matt: You glide through the earth.
Liam: More like a Shadowcat kind of thing?
Matt: Essentially.
Laura: Is it all of us or just you?
Marisha: Just me. But I could get inside.
Laura: Well, but then you will be alone, surrounded by duergar and Grog.
Marisha: Well, I am not talking about right now.
Ashley: Could we put invisibility on her?
Marisha: If we do some sort of flanking thing.
Liam: Well that does sound useful.
Taliesin: It is. It is going to be useful.
Marisha: I am wondering if we can make a tunnel, though. I can theoretically-- okay, theoretically we could rest and I could keep all of my spells and use all of my magical focus to tunnel us out, depending on how far we are going. We can do an underground approach
Liam: But concretely, right now we need nappies.
Marisha: Yeah.
Taliesin: Let's sleep.
Marisha: But what if they leave while we sleep?
Liam: But we are essentially powerless.
Taliesin: And what are we going to do if we find them?
Laura: I'm going to only sleep for a little bit, cause I didn't use all my spells I only need to rest for half the amount of time, maybe.
Matt: It doesn't work that way. (all laugh)
Matt: A solid six hours you'd probably be able to, since you guys are in a hidden area you'll feel more comfortable, depending on how you set your bedding here you could probably do it in six hours.
Laura: I think we'll be fine. Because she needs to rest as well. We hurt her pretty badly.
Liam: I think it is safe to assume she's brought Grog back to her seat of power. Why would she go anywhere else? She's at her strongest where she is.
Taliesin: I think they're staying.
Sam: We're going to rest.
Liam: Sleep.
Marisha: Okay. All right.
Laura: We've got to sleep, Keyleth.
Ashley: I know. You're right. I see what you're saying, but we need to...
Sam: Grog will be fine.
Ashley: He's at a two!
Marisha: I'm so mad at him. Why'd he get stolen?
Matt: Kima comes over, Kima puts her hand out a little bit and says, "It's all right, he's a strong one, he can handle himself. If I could survive what I've been through, he can do far better than that. Rest is good. I think we need to take some time, discuss our plan of attack, our current direction, and decide on how we'll move forward." She glances briefly over at Clarota, who's now further back towards the wall just sitting in this meditative state. "So. Let us rest."
Taliesin: Brilliant idea.
Liam: One last thing before we lay our heads down for the night. Pike, do you have any salve or anything you could help me put on my foot, or could your god help with my little toe?
Marisha: I could help you with some natural mediciney stuff, maybe.
Liam: It stings a bit.
Matt: You have not encountered a person with any sort of physical marring to this degree, necessarily, and those that usually did, it was a permanent thing. So this is something that you would have to experiment with.
Ashley: Could I try healing? A very concentrated energy just on his foot? A healing spell?
Matt: You could certainly try.
Laura: You can do it, Pike.
Marisha: Is there anyway I could assist her?
Matt: Possibly. All right.
Ashley: Let's try it.
Marisha: Possibly?
Liam: I mean a clockwork foot from Percy does sound cool.
Ashley: If we're going to rest, it doesn't hurt to try.
Marisha: That way we can sleep on it.
Ashley: You can sleep on it.
Liam: Literally.
Laura: Maybe this yellow vial of potion could do something for it as well.
Liam: That's Ben-gay.
Ashley: I'll try Cure Wounds at, I'll try 4th level, since we're going to sleep.
Matt: All right so go ahead and roll the corresponding dice for that.
Ashley: So I roll...
Matt: 4d8 + 5 Is what it would be.
Laura: Why do you keep putting your foot up near me? (all laugh)
Laura: Can I keep an ear out for anything approaching?
Matt: Very much so.
Ashley: Wait, plus my spell caster--
Matt: Plus your modifier, which is five.
Marisha: I start building a positive chi. Like a healing chi ball.
Sam: Is she doing a standard healing here? Is my song of rest going to help at all?
Matt: Your song of rest would actually be of aid to this.
Sam: Okay. So I'm going to sing while you heal, if that's all right.
Ashley: Please do.
Matt: All the healers convene, Scanlan begins--
Marisha: I light some sage.
Sam: Okay, ready? (singing) Wherever you go, whatever damage they've done, we will be right here waiting to heal you. No matter what hit points you take or how your foot breaks, we will be right here--
Sam: Waiting for you.
Ashley: Waiting for you.
Liam: All that improv school paid off. (all laugh)
Matt: As you take the healing energy you've gathered from your own nature-based casting, you infuse the healing spell. You do how many points of healing from the spell?
Ashley: 27.
Matt: 27. Go ahead and make a medicine check.
Marisha: Is this what I can maybe assist her with?
Laura: It looks really disgusting by the way. It's so gross.
Ashley: What do I roll? Do I roll the 20?
Matt: Roll a d20, and add your proficiency modifier
Liam: Can I apply my Luck feat to her?
Laura: You don't have any feet left. (all laugh)
Sam: Feet pun!
Ashley: 21.
Matt: 21. As you finish the spell, you can see where the mostly-gone second small toe has grown to mostly a full toe, and there's a small stub where the little one is.
Laura: You've got a toe nubbin.
Ashley: Hey man, we got a little stub. A little bit.
Matt: You're promoting a level of divine regeneration at a very, very slow pace. You've never attempted this before, and there is some progress, but this may be an over time thing you have to do.
Ashley: Over time, I just keep doing it?
Matt: Once a day, you might want to attempt this and eventually he probably will recover. But not immediately.
Sam: Until then, he's a gimp.
Liam: I think I see Pike's deity in my toenail! (all laugh)
Ashley: It's gonna take time. That was just a little manicure that we did real quick.
Marisha: We could just own it and call you--
Taliesin: Little piggy?
Marisha: Well I was going to say Vax the Nine-Toe.
Liam: And put a knife on it?
Taliesin: Could put a very tiny knife on it.
Laura: A teeny tiny little knife.
Taliesin: Could actually give you a nail clipper. You could clip your own nails.
Marisha: We can get you a prosthetic little toe that has a little compartment for poison.
Liam: I would take a brass claw.
Marisha: Or a brass claw toe. That's fun. Maybe we could get you a raptor claw. That's cool.
Taliesin: Let's sleep.
Sam: Before we go to sleep, I go over to Kima and I say to her, Lady Kima, I think we're all going to take a rest and you as well, correct?
Matt: "I think I should."
Sam: We can trust you while we're all asleep not to do anything to any of our companions, correct?
Matt: "If you're worried about the mind flayer, I'll be keeping an eye, but nothing beyond that. Remember: he has to make the side-step, the wrong step, before I take any action. Trust and know that if I were to strike a blow, it's at his own poor choice and actions."
Orion: That first part of what you said rhymed.
Sam: Does she seem to be telling the truth?
Matt: Make an insight check.
Sam: A what? What check?
Matt: Insight.
Sam: Insight. Okay, 18.
Matt: She seems to be true.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: She is legitimately concerned about Clarota. But also understands that at this moment, it has not done anything to necessarily draw her blade.
Liam: Lady Kima, Clarota, may I suggest you take the first watch?
Sam: (laughs) Oh my god, what if they start fucking? (all laugh)
Taliesin: So it's going to be that sort of evening, excellent.
Liam: Rated M, for mature.
Matt: Clarota says, "Should you insist." And Clarota's image shimmers and vanishes.
Orion: Sweet.
Taliesin: I'm falling asleep.
Matt: As you guys are all going to sleep, Kima's still sharpening her sword and she stops for a second and goes, "Everyone, I'm sorry you've lost your friend. If he lives, we shall find him."
Laura: He will live.
Taliesin: And we will find him.
Ashley: No, he will, Scanlan! You just calm down.
Matt: "But if they have indeed taken him prisoner and Emberhold is lost, there is only one place they would bring him: Yug'Voril."
Laura: (gasps) With the dude with the black horn.
Matt: "Considering the mess that you've made since entering their realm of living and work, you'd make for a great gift to their current standing demigod. If we aren't able to find him within the city, I think that may be the next place to look."
Marisha: Once again, are you afraid they're going to take him while we're asleep? Is this a genuine concern? Is this something we should move on now?
Matt: "Not as long as you're keeping concentration, we should be fine."
Laura: I'm concentrating so hard. (all laugh)
Liam: We're busted up.
Taliesin: There's legitimately nothing to be done.
Matt: There's a softness that hits Kima's face and you can see a bit of a quiver to her chin and she goes, "The guilt I feel for unknowingly putting you all in danger for my sake is immense. It's because of me and my actions that you even delved this far and nearly lost life and limb, merely at the behest of Allura and... I want you all to know that I appreciate it. I really, truly do."
Orion: That's great. If you can mention that to Allura, that'd be wonderful.
Matt: "I would really appreciate it to speak to Tiberius."
Orion: (mumbles, makes spell sounds, returns to normal voice) I would really appreciate it if you mentioned that to Allura. I'm trying to get into her good graces and whatnot.
Matt: She chuckles a moment and says, "All right. Allura is a good friend. Well we've known each other for... gods, 15 years now. Since we defeated the Scourged Rider, together. But she has always had more of a political mind than I do, so, when we were both offered a seat on the council of Tal'Dorei and Emon she stayed, and I... I'm a woman of action, and I knew my destiny was out in the world."
Orion: We share something in common, Lady Kima. I, too, have left my home and land because I did not want to sit on the council of Draconia. With blessings from my father and such, I gained ambassadorship on a mission for them, but really, just so I could--
Matt: Her eyes have glazed over and are staring off into the distance. (all laugh)
Orion: To get all the things out, and I saw this wonderful lamb in this field one time--
Matt: "I was speak to Allura of your honor and deeds, Tiberius. We try to have drinks and swap stories every few months. She's a good one."
Orion: Yes, I think so.
Matt: She takes a moment to herself and looks around at the rest of you and says, "The cruel king. Who dealt the final blow?"
Sam: (clears throat) That would be the kingslayer. Me.
Matt: She steps up and walks over to you and puts a hand on your shoulder and gives you a stern look in the eye and shakes your shoulder. She's a halfling, so she's not too much taller than you. (all laugh)
Sam: (laughing) Oh, okay.
Matt: "Good. The cruel king is down, and I thank you for that." She walks back to the little perch on the rock at the side of the wall and says, "He tried to break me. Relish in his false superiority. Dragging hooks across my flesh, underestimating the will of a servant of Bahamut."
Marisha: Are you congratulating us for being murderers? Is that what you're doing right now?
Matt: "Murder and justice are two entirely different things and the deities of all good saw to it that this King's time was limited."
Marisha: Are you suggesting now that we control the wills of the deities?
Matt: "No, but we enact them, as long as we work within your plans to keep us safe."
Marisha: That's mighty bold and presumptuous of you.
Matt: "My life has been given to guidance of the platinum dragon, who has not seen nothing but the positive direction for all of your species, mine and the rest of humanity, that exists in the material plane. You would do well to not disrespect one who looks out for you, even though you may not look up to him for guidance. The reason these lands that you grew up in are safe and free, as much as they are, are because of the sacrifices of my brethren who came before me under his light and guidance. I'm not saying you to worship him-- each one has their own gods of choice. I just say, show some respect."
Marisha: I do show respect, Lady Kima. I show respect when I feel that respect has been earned.
Orion: She's royalty, you have to understand.
Sam: We're all a bit cranky. Maybe we should just turn in.
Matt: "I watched as they executed my companions! The wondrous men and women who came down to these caverns at my sides with my coin in their pockets, with the promise of justice. And they laughed as they cut their throats before me, hoping it would be able to crack me. It was Bahamut's strength that held me there."
Marisha: Lady Kima, I am not saying that what we are doing here is not just. I only wish that you understand-- and I humbly thank you for your appreciation and thanks for coming down here to rescue you. But you are correct. We have lost a friend. Someone who we have been through a lot with, way more than we have been with you. So. Before we start boasting congratulations and you start thanking us, why don't you wait? And we'll see what happens when we all get out of here first.
Liam: She's suffering from PTSD. Why are you poking the badger?
Laura: Maybe we should just calm down and go to sleep.
Matt: Kima takes a step forward towards Keyleth. And as you look up at her face, there's a tension, but you can see now that she's stepped near in to you, towards what little bit of light seems to cascade through this cavern, there are tears streaking down her face.
Laura: How do you feel now? (all laugh)
Matt: "They tried all they could to break me, but I knew my destiny would not end here. I have a destiny that does not end here."
Ashley: I reach out really slowly and give her a handkerchief. (all laugh)
Ashley: And then retreat.
Taliesin: Lady Kima, as I'm sure you know, grief speaks before sense.
Marisha: All I'm saying, Lady Kima, is that after what we have done and what we have been through and the lives and the blood that even I have on my hands, you had better be worth it.
Taliesin: Let us wait for talk of worth and talk of might until we are reunited.
Matt: She puts a hand up towards you. "Child, let me explain to you why we are here. As while you may have stepped into the pretense of keeping me out of harm's way, there is a purpose that I and now all of us serve, here in the Underdark. Now, I've been on this journey for more than a year, traveling wherever the wind took me, finding where my gift would find an end to suffering, justice to the wicked and comfort to the downtrodden. I'd just returned from the frozen tundra northeast of these Cliffkeep mountains, heading to meet with Allura, the same friend who brought you here."
Orion: I pop out of my sleep. Did you say Allura again?
Matt: "Shh."
Orion: I'm sorry.
Laura: Tiberius. Shh.
Matt: "My vision came to me. I'm sure you're familiar with visions. The great platinum dragon bestowed upon my humble self a dream. I saw an ancient vision of the great and terrible god of undeath himself: Orcus. His crimson, leathery skin and endless wings rumbling through the Abyss itself. He had chosen a champion, one that would unite the material world and the heart of the Abyss, bringing a doorway of oblivion to our world. He cut from his own head two of his terrible black horns, placing them upon the brow of this chosen warrior, his avatar to these realms, granting him power no mortal should ever have. I saw heroes, long forgotten, rise up to destroy this shadow champion, losing much in the ensuing battle. Loss, far more than you or I will ever know. The body of the avatar was burned away, but the horns of Orcus remained. Untouched by flame, blade, nor divine judgement. These keepers of the horns had a title that time has taken and the whereabouts of the artifacts that had been, thankfully, lost as well. Until the next dream dispelled my confusion. I felt a cackling entity of immense power, who had discovered one of the holding vaults, never meant to be found. This creature obsessed, spent all their attention to unlock the promised treasure within and over time, they did. One of the two horns had found a new champion, one who now resides deeper within the Underdark here. One we've now known to be called K'varn. This one who has united the illithid and the duergar alike under a banner of madness, expansion, and mockery of life. I've seen these experiments, as have you. This is what I came down here to dispose of, once and for all. Now, I hired some of the finest warriors in Kraghammer for this, all of whom have been slain or worse. That guilt weighs upon my soul. And this very quest, whoever this K'varn monstrosity, it holds the horn of Orcus upon its brow. My visions have told me that we must destroy it and must do so soon. If it had already unlocked the artifact's true potential, Kraghammer would be a ruin before you even arrived. But it's only a matter of time. We must end K'Varn and retrieve this horn and return it to the Tal'Dorei council to discuss how to seal it once more, hopefully for all of eternity. Your friend's loss is a terrible thing, but we will try to find him and should we not, understand that his sacrifice was not in vain. For we're here not to save one, but thousands, hundreds of thousands of lives, if we succeed. So we sleep, we rest, we find your friend and we destroy this, this abomination, this anathema."
Marisha: Lady Kima, I only hope you do not eventually become what you fear so much. Good night.
Sam: Sleep tight.
Matt: She picks up her blade, sits back down and goes back to sharpening (sounds of a sharpening stone hitting blade).
Laura: That was weird, right? Good night.
Taliesin: That went well.
Sam: Pike, I'll cuddle you for warmth, if that would help?
Ashley: It's already so hot in here with all the lava and stuff, I would just prefer to sleep alone. I'm sorry.
Sam: That's fine. That's what I meant.
Marisha: I turn into Minxie form and go off in the corner and curl up in the corner.
Liam: Scanlan, I'm very cold. (all laugh)
Sam: You know what? We better let that foot heal. We better let it heal.
Laura: Trinket, go sleep with Vax.
Liam: That's a good idea. Come here, Trinky. Trink!
Matt: (bear sounds and sniffing)
Liam: Who wants nibbles?
Matt: Trinket comes up and curls next to you. The evening goes by, uneventful. Occasionally, you stumble out of your rest, keep an eye out. The beacon still resides. From what you can imagine, a natural body sleep cycle that you're used to passes. A few begin to wake up before the others, as you have no daylight to ascertain whether it is day or night. Indeed, who knows what it is at this point.
Orion: I relieved myself in the middle of the night.
Laura: Thank you for telling us, Tiberius.
Sam: Did you get up?
Matt: Just wake up in a puddle of his own dragonborn filth?
Orion: I did my dragonborn business and buried it. As we do.
Laura: So have we healed completely?
Matt: Yes, you've all healed completely at this point. You had an evening's rest.
Sam: Do we get all our spells back and stuff?
Matt: You get your spells back.
Marisha: We have to pick them for the day, right?
Sam: I can do things again.
Marisha: Yeah, hang on, got to think about this.
Orion: Put some Greater Restorations in there.
Matt: Your mark? Wait, your mark, your Hunter's Mark, which you can feel, the magic of it is slowly waning as the spell comes to the end of its effective period, is moving.
Laura: (gasps) Where's it moving?
Matt: It's moving out of the city.
Laura: Where, which direction?
Matt: Best you can tell, it's heading towards the opposite side of the cavern towards where it curves down, deeper and below.
Laura: Wait. Where is that in relation to us?
Matt: To where you guys are? If you're looking out from next to the Emberhold, it's to your right, curving down and around.
Laura: We should go that direction.
Marisha: I go and cast Pass Without a Trace on us.
Matt: All right.
Liam: This is suddenly turning into Labyrinth. "Beyond the Goblin city..."
Matt: To take back the child, which you have stolen.
Laura: You have no power over me.
Sam: The way we came in the city was through the side path, right?
Matt: Yes, the side of Emberhold, which you followed the curvature of this giant cavern around and you slept on the side, up against the wall, using the illusion, the illusory terrain.
Sam: So we're already--
Matt: You're already away from Emberhold, you're on the side of the wall, maybe about a quarter to a half a mile further down.
Sam: But if we keep going, we'll get to the--
Matt: You'll head down further into the cavern, seemingly in the direction where her Hunter's Mark is currently leading, which has now faded.
Sam: Okay! Your Hunter's Mark is gone.
Laura: Well, it went that way. We should go.
Sam: So, let's go. Let's just hurry.
Laura: As stealthily as possible so we don't alert the entire freaking camp.
Taliesin: We've got Pass Without a Trace, so we should be all right.
Matt: All right.
Laura: I try to make it look like we weren't around this area as much as possible without our Dust of Tracelessness.
Matt: You're sweeping behind the group as they're all moving along. With your imaginary brush.
Liam: Trinket's doing that thing where he pulls with his front feet and drags with his behind.
Taliesin: He's just rolling like a giant brillo brush.
Marisha: I put Stone Shape in my Ring of Holding last night with my unused spells. I meant to tell you that last night.
Matt: That's all right. All right, you do that.
Ashley: Oh, I forgot you had that ring.
Matt: All right, so.
Orion: I take out my Ioun Stones.
Matt: Okay, so your Ioun Stones are now slowly rotating around your head. Well, you can only have one up at a time.
Orion: Well, I only have one.
Matt: Yeah, okay, good. You said stones, so.
Orion: Sorry. Pathfinder habit.
Matt: I know. So moving around your head slowly. All right, so the rest of you gather, you cast your spell Pass Without a Trace. You continue to crest along the outskirts of the cavern wall at this point. Looking over, you can see, throughout the night, most of the fortress, currently-- the lava fall that once contained it is completely cooled and is dark. It looks like their way of stopping the flow was to stop the entire magma fall. Who knows how much damage has been done, but currently the flow is halted and you can see now, there's a number of parties of duergar that are wandering out, through the cavern, presumably in search for you.
Laura: So technically, Lady Kima, we might be able to get back in eventually and get your weapon.
Matt: As you say that, she grins to herself and says, "I would like that very much. I had some sentimental value to that equipment."
Laura: And there's a vault.
Matt: "And there is a vault."
Sam: Unless it melted.
Liam: This will greatly enhance your ability to move forward with us, won't it?
Matt: "I think right now time is of the essence for your friend more than anything."
Laura: We should go look for Grog.
Matt: "Besides, I highly doubt that that stronghold has been left alone, just because it's filled with rock."
Liam: Maybe on the way out.
Matt: Okay, so as you guys progress on the side, I would like everybody to roll a stealth check, please.
Laura: Oh, I don't know which one to roll.
Matt: You still have disadvantage, but you have advantage with your cloak, so you're neutralized. You're a normal roll right now.
Marisha: (softly) Stealth check.
Ashley: We have advantage?
Marisha: You have plus ten.
Matt: No, you have disadvantage still.
Ashley: I do not. There's no plus anything?
Sam: Plus ten.
Ashley: Ten still?
Orion: 29.
Liam: Plus ten?
Matt: Plus ten.
Orion: 29.
Sam: 19.
Marisha: 33.
Taliesin: 17.
Ashley: 21.
Laura: 24.
Liam: 33.
Laura: Oh, I didn't roll for Trinket. Hold on.
Liam: Oh, Trinket rolled a one.
Laura: Trinket, shush. Oh, I didn't feed him today, he's probably so hungry.
Sam: Have any of us eaten?
Ashley: We've rested.
Matt: Essentially, as opposed to having this minutiae of reminding you all to eat, I just consider when you rest and take short rests, you're snacking and resting. Otherwise, we communally spend ten minutes a game talking about what you ate. If food begins to become scarce, which it may in time, I'll let you know.
Liam: Foot flakes anyone? Foot flakes?
Matt: It's like pork rinds (chuckles). All right. So, as you continue down this cavern, you begin to see the search parties in the distance and you keep low and watch as they pass. Some of them have small, that red glowish stone torches set out to keep their vision about. You can see a few of the parties returning to the city. Eventually, you guys begin to crest down deeper and dropping into a small decline as this giant, almost hatchback cavern where most of the duergar civilization is built in comes to an end. You begin to travel deeper, deeper into the Underdark caverns below. As you're continuing forward, you find a very very familiar scent catches your attention immediately, as you're tracking through, trying to keep your attention on possibly any sign of Grog. It's the smell of blood. It's the smell of fresh blood. Fresh-ish.
Laura: Fresh-ish?
Matt: Fresh-ish blood, if you will. You smell fresh-ish blood. You immediately glance over and you can see on the side of this cavern, which is about 50, 60 feet wide at this point, as it's come to a pinching point leading downward, you can see a spatter of blood across the wall to your immediate left, and what looks like a mangled mass of what once was a duergar, currently just torn asunder across this rock wall.
Laura: Oh no.
Marisha: Does it look to be natural, done by an animal? Or does it look like people with weapons?
Matt: Go ahead and make an investigation check.
Laura: The only time I've seen duergar split across like this was when we saw the camp of that creepy centipede creature.
Liam: With the stalagmite coming up?
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: Ten.
Laura: Do I see any of those kind of tracks around?
Matt: You check and look around on the ground as well, you unfortunately, as you look around, you're not able to pick up the fine details. You, however, just being naturally understanding of the Underdark, as well as having the previous knowledge of inspecting the initial camp: yes, these tracks are very similar. You see what looks like these strange dragging marks on the ground, these elongated ones. No footprints. Occasionally you see what looks like a human-sized footprint as well, and then these drag marks. You also notice that there is just beyond the rock threshold, as you step over towards the wall, you see three other duergar bodies that are torn asunder. Many of them partially eaten and violently torn apart. Some parts are scarred, some sort of acidic burn, and you see tooth marks, you see claw marks and you see portions of limbs that have been pulled off by sheer force.
Marisha: Could I do a nature check to see if I would know of a creature that could do this?
Matt: You certainly can.
Laura: It's going to be that centipede creature thingy.
Marisha: Ooh. 26.
Matt: 26. It's weird. There are elements of the drag marks on the ground that resemble a creature that has pseudopods or some sort of a tentacle-like mass, but you know of no natural creature that also has this power, this type of hunting technique, nor would be this far underground.
Taliesin: I think it's another stitch monster.
Liam: Yes.
Laura: Stitch monster.
Taliesin: Stitch monster.
Laura: I like it.
Taliesin: I do, too.
Laura: It's a good name.
Marisha: Something tentacle-y though. Nothing ever good is tentacle-y.
Laura: Can I tell if Grog definitely came this way?
Matt: Go ahead and make a tracking check, so just go ahead and roll a d20. You have advantage, because you're in the Underdark.
Laura: What do I add that to?
Matt: It should be under your tracking ability under your ranger abilities there. In your spells, under you ranger abilities. I'll see if I find it before you.
Laura: I don't understand.
Matt: It's on the sheet I gave you, with all your character stuff.
Laura: Oh. Okay, cool.
Matt: That one. The one that's easiest.
Laura: Natural explorer, primeval awareness.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: I don't have any idea what I'm looking for. (all laugh)
Laura: I'm just looking at words right now.
Matt: It's a survival check. There you go.
Laura: It's a survival check.
Matt: You have advantage on it.
Laura: Okay. Oh, good. So that's 22.
Matt: 22. All right. Looking around, what you do find is, there is a very familiar scent that a goliath barbarian does have. You, using Trinket's help, as you yourself are not quite as attuned, Trinket does pick up a little bit of Grog's scent in this pathway. So Trinket (moans) gives you a nudge and points deeper down the cavern. And you can see what looks to be a smattering of small duergar-sized feet and two grooves.
Laura: Two grooves?
Matt: About two-inch-wide grooves that continue down the path.
Laura: I wonder if they have him prisoner now. If he came out of his mind funk.
Marisha: Wheel tracks?
Matt: It could very well be wheel tracks.
Orion: Or they're dragging his body.
Matt: They're consistent and their width is consistent.
Marisha: Their width is consistent? And they seem clean?
Sam: They've put him on some sort of stretcher thing.
Marisha: Yeah, sounds like they have him on, yeah, a trailer.
Laura: Lovely. Well, Grog definitely came this way. As did the stitch monster, so you don't have much choice but to follow.
Taliesin: Let's continue.
Orion: Shall we?
Taliesin: All right.
Laura: Be aware. We're all very aware of--
Marisha: Things.
Laura: Any movement at all... happening.
Taliesin: Guys, stuff.
Matt: Keeping your eyes peeled, you travel for another two and a half hours down this cavern path. It grows tighter at points where you can only really fit three or four individuals through, it's about 20, 25 feet wide, then opens up sporadically into other small pockets, where the natural topography of this portion of this Underdark cavern structure seems to weave and bend. The warmth and that sulfurous smell that was intrinsic to the duergar portion of this cavern that you were so used to, begins to slowly fade and temperature begins to drop. Still uncomfortable, but it's growing more humid as opposed to dry heat.
Orion: It's so good.
Matt: After another hour of travel, keeping your eyes out, the temperature drops significantly and is actually quite cold. The heat in the volcanic portion of this cavern structure apparently has passed you now, and you've hit an area of the rock where it is a much more chilled, much more ominous--
Orion: It's humid still?
Matt: Human?
Orion: Humid.
Matt: Humid? The humidity begins to fade as well. The air becomes a dry cold.
Orion: So we're past that.
Matt: You eventually using, which by the way the only light source you have going forward is the light from your staff.
Orion: Oh, Light!
Matt: I assume you've had it up this whole time or you've been walking in the darkness.
Orion: Oh, yes, of course.
Matt: (chuckles) You continue down and the topography, which was once the black, jagged obsidian flooring of the previous portion of the Underdark, begins to give way to a more natural gray sand-type texture. Your feet sink about a quarter inch or so with each step, and you get about ten, 15 feet before the color of the sand and the texture changes dramatically. It looks almost like a peppering of small whitish-yellow stones and rocks, as well as bits of black and grey. It's like a giant, rocky pit out in front of you.
Marisha: What?
Liam: Meaning it's all solid stone that color or loose gravel and rock?
Matt: You find sand and then the sand eventually gives way to like larger pieces of these rocks and stones.
Marisha: So it's like a pebble ball pit in front of us?
Matt: Essentially.
Taliesin: I'm looking for signs of mining.
Matt: Okay, go ahead and make an investigation check.
Orion: I'm going to make an arcana check, also.
Taliesin: 15.
Matt: 15. Checking the walls immediately in your vicinity, you see there are signs of mining, but they're old, they haven't been used in a while. You can see some veins that are dried up. Looks like maybe the duergar had business down here mining.
Marisha: Does it look like there-- Can I do a nature check to see if this is an old lake bed? Like there is a river bed?
Matt: Sure, go and do that. What did you roll?
Orion: 11.
Matt: What are you checking?
Orion: For arcana.
Matt: What are you checking?
Orion: Just general, if I feel a general source of sinister magic anywhere.
Matt: Nothing arcane seems to emanate from the vicinity.
Liam: Vex'ahlia, you know the Underdark. Are there any critters crawling around in that pit?
Laura: Is this still the Underdark?
Matt: You seem to be still in the Underdark, but the Underdark in general you're familiar with; your training and studying on the denizens of it, what things to look for. This is not a natural or overall occurrence you've read about before.
Laura: I can't sense anything or any creatures nearby?
Matt: Not per se.
Marisha: I rolled a 16.
Matt: Rolled a 16? As you're looking around, you go and inspect the stones. What you do notice is, they're not stones. There are pieces of glass, little shards of actual volcanic glass scattered across this entire field mixed with an endless seemingly sea of small bone chunks.
Laura: Ugh!
Marisha: Chunks?
Laura: Great!
Matt: Pieces of bone that have been rounded off, ground, broken.
Orion: Bone petals.
Matt: They're ancient.
Marisha: Okay, so there appears to be-- are there any whole pieces of bones? Big femurs or skulls?
Sam: This was some sort of burial ground.
Matt: It's hard to see. Most of the bones that have been here, have been around long enough to the point where they've eroded, been broken, destroyed over and over again to the point where you can't discern any of the original creatures they may have come from. It's just a sea of bone, obsidian glass, and small bits of stone that have fallen from the actual nearby cavern.
Liam: Can we see any sort of civilized construction here? Or is this all the work of nature or some living thing?
Matt: Go ahead and make a perception check.
Liam: 18.
Matt: 18? You look past the barrier of his light spell, because you can only get a little bit past that due to your elven low-light vision. You do notice there are occasionally some spires of natural rock, some stalagmites that are jutting out in the distance, and you see what looks like some semblance of a ruined wall just beyond the edge of the vision. Like a crumbled, small wall.
Laura: Can I use my primeval awareness and see if I can sense Grog within six miles of us?
Matt: Certainly. All right, so how does your primeval awareness work, miss ranger?
Laura: Oh, I can use an action to focus my awareness on a region around me and then I can sense whether-- oh, well, no. It's only certain types of creatures.
Matt: Right. Which are?
Liam: Like goliath?
Laura: Well, no. It says "aberrations, celestials, dragons, elementals, fey, fiends, and undead".
Liam: That still might be useful, even if it doesn't find Grog.
Matt: What you do gather, you do sense a very strong force of aberration-based, much further, like five miles ahead, way ahead, and you have this weird, "Okay, good to know." You don't sense anything else, but you do sense a general presence about this entire sea of bone.
Ashley: I've been here!
Marisha: What?!
Ashley: I was here in the vision.
Laura: Really?
Ashley: Yes, it was a field of broken glass and bone, and I feel like this is it.
Laura: So what do we do?
Ashley: And then after that, I got to a cavern of blue crystal.
Laura: So we have to go beyond it.
Marisha: So we're on the right road.
Ashley: I think we have to go beyond this.
Taliesin: All right.
Orion: Well, let's keep moving, then.
Laura: Can we keep to the edge and try to not disturb the rock as much as possible.
Matt: As you move to either edge, you can see the wall comes to a straight meeting with this. Aside from the climbing the walls proper, you have no other way of traversing this.
Liam: Could you describe the dimensions of this one more time?
Matt: Yes. The cavern itself is about 120 to 150 feet wide. You don't see the ceiling right now.
Laura: Oh, it's that high?
Liam: So, from our left to our right, 150 feet?
Matt: Correct.
Liam: And is it a big circular shape?
Matt: From what you can tell, it just opens up and then continues and then darkness. You cannot see beyond it.
Laura: Are there any rocks around us? Any big rocks?
Matt: There are a couple of small spires about 60, 70 feet out.
Laura: Anything loose? Anything I can grab near us?
Matt: Around you? Most everything that's grabbable are part of it, yeah.
Ashley: We don't have the magic carpet. So never mind.
Sam: What, do you want to fly?
Liam: I say we take a wall.
Taliesin: Say we just gingerly try and cross against a wall.
Laura: Yeah. Anything to throw as far as I can out and see if it--
Matt: You look around and find a small pebble, and you chuck it (sound of pebble flying through air and landing) It arcs around, bounces a bit, and comes to rest.
Sam: Let's just go.
Marisha: No! No, I'm not touching that. Nope.
Sam: What are we going to do? Turn around? Grog's that way.
Marisha: Okay, here's my idea. We've got that immovable rod.
Orion: Yes, I know where you're going with this, and we'd all have to make a certain--
Matt: Once again, there's something about this whole area, there's a presence about it. It's ominous, and everywhere about this floor.
Marisha: I don't want to touch this. I feel like we should go over it.
Ashley: What if these bones come to life?
Laura: Can you send your light source up? Can anybody send light up and see how high the ceiling goes?
Orion: (mumbles) Shoot an arrow, if you would, Vex, please? Wherever you wish.
Laura: Okay.
Orion: Light!
Matt: Okay, cast out an arrow. As it shoots over, arcs through the air. You get a look of the cavern. You can see it's a large, arched, natural cavern with a number of hanging stalactites at the top. It goes up, arcs past, and then lands probably about a half a mile down the way. Really nice shot.
Laura: Thanks.
Matt: And it lands with a (impact noise). With what little bit you can see through the arc, this path just continues and continues and continues for that full half mile.
Laura: There's no way to avoid it.
Marisha: There's no way to avoid it.
Matt: You do get a nice view of what looks to be more of these little, central pieces of broken wall. Looks like there was either a small series of structures or buildings that were built once within this cavern that have all completely crumbled to ruin with but a few small bastions of foundation that still remain.
Laura: Tiberius, how many times can you cast pillars of... whatever? Pillars.
Orion: Grand Columns is the spell, Vex.
Laura: How many times can you cast Grand Columns?
Orion: Multiple times, I guess.
Laura: Could we potentially walk on columns across this thing? Potentially.
Marisha: I mean, I could wall of-- bend us a stone wall that's and we could just walk along the path. But it goes only so far.
Orion: Hold on a second. I've got something here.
Liam: We're seeing the remains of buildings scattered throughout, maybe we could go from--
Laura: What about a wall from out from the side?
Marisha: The side? And then we walk along that side?
Laura: Yeah!
Marisha: Yeah, we could do that, right?
Matt: How big is the wall you can make?
Laura: What were you going to say?
Liam: Well, there's little islands of structure left, we could just--
Laura: Hop.
Liam: Stand bridge, stand bridge, stand bridge.
Marisha: I can go 120 feet. I can make about 120 feet wall.
Matt: You saw about a quarter to a half mile. This seems to continue.
Laura: So, that might not be enough.
Sam: She'd have to do it 20 times.
Taliesin: I think we may just have to walk gingerly.
Marisha: Maybe we can fashion--
Ashley: Should we find traps? Check for traps?
Marisha: Can we fashion snow boots?
Liam: Vax starts feeling along one side of the wall. Does the ground look firm and more stable on the edges? Or is it all just the same?
Matt: Do you step out a little bit into the area?
Liam: Hand on the wall.
Matt: Hand on the wall? I mean, it's a wall.
Liam: No, but I mean-- yes.
Matt: But you step out with your hand on the wall.
Liam: I'm not stepping out yet. I'm looking at the ground. Is it pebbles and rock all the way to the sides?
Matt: All the way up to the wall.
Marisha: Okay.
Orion: Lady Keyleth, if you will, could you perhaps make a flat, sturdy stone tablet we could all particularly stand on.
Marisha: Sure.
Orion: Make sure it's under a hundred pounds, if you could. Or actually, two hundred pounds, a little bit more to work with.
Marisha: I use Stone Shape and I bend down and make a big circle where I am. Carve out a little cylinder with Stone Shape.
Matt: So, using a very earthbender-y hand motion, you take a portion of the wall right next to you, send it outward and begin to shape it into this large cylinder--
Marisha: Disc.
Matt: Disc-like platform, that's (boof) on the ground, right at the base of the platform.
Orion: Everybody, hop on.
Laura: Trinket, hop on this rock.
Orion: Wait a minute, how much does Trinket weigh?
Laura: A lot.
Liam: Is it 200?
Matt: Trinket weighs more than that.
Liam: Trinket weighs a ton. All of us together.
Marisha: Maybe you could just levitate Trinket behind?
Orion: I don't have that spell anymore. I need to know how much she weighs for this.
Matt: Trinket, I mean, looking at it, you haven't really weighed her yourself, you gather--
Laura: Trinket's a boy!
Matt: Trinket weighs approximately-- (all laugh)
Sam: Trinket's a boy?! With a name like Trinket?
Liam: Haven't you seen his wang flopping around under his tail?
Matt: Trinket's probably close to a thousand.
Orion: So here's the situation. I can get us all across, but I cannot take Trinket as well.
Laura: I'm not leaving Trinket behind. So everybody get on that and we'll see what happens.
Sam: Why don't we go across. He can come back and get Trinket.
Laura: Okay, yeah. How about you guys go and I'll stay with Trinket. You guys go.
Liam: Well, I'm not going to leave her.
Marisha: Can we make him weightless and then tug him along with the rope? We can't do that?
Ashley: I have a question. How many feet across?
Laura: It's like half a mile.
Matt: Quarter to a half mile from what you can tell, like I said, you only have vision enough to where the arrow arced and it was a very long arc, that just trailed off so you gather anywhere between a quarter to a half mile.
Ashley: I want to run across. (all laugh)
Sam: With your heavy armor.
Liam: Sneak right in there.
Laura: Oh, just do it.
Ashley: Wait, are we getting on the rock?
Liam: How far is the closest little island of remaining structure that you referenced?
Matt: Oh it's probably about 60, 70 feet out.
Laura: I don't sense any undead with my primal awareness do I?
Matt: The perpetual presence that you sense across the entirety of this bed of bone and glass, if you had to describe it, it has some sort of undead-ish realm. It's not your specialty, I mean it is, like undead creatures are, and the presence is similar to that.
Ashley: I get my Mace of Disruption ready.
Laura: Oh, and Kima!
Marisha: (gasps) Oh! We're done! We can do this! We polymorph Trinket!
Orion: That's it, yes!
Marisha: We polymorph Trinket!
Orion: Very good.
Ashley: Into a tiny tiny?
Orion: Make him into a chicken.
Matt: You instinctively glance around, you look down, and you notice your holy symbol of Sarenrae has a hairline fracture in it. What was once a perfect and impeccable sphere of design-- you've had this your entire life, you look down and see, you don't know how recently, but a portion of the metal symbol itself is cracked.
Sam: Oh, Pike.
Ashley: Oh no, this is terrible.
Laura: Pike, pray! do something!
Orion: I motion over to Pike and I take her medallion slowly off of her and go-- and bring out my Mending Wheel.
Matt: Your Mending Wheel, which was where? It was in the Bag of Holding.
Orion: No, I held that.
Matt: The Mending Wheel's this big. You haven't been carrying it with you this entire time!
Orion: What? I thought it was like this big.
Matt: (laughs) Tiberius.
Ashley: I'll take my symbol back, put it back on, and say, this is something that I've got to-- this is something I need to deal with. We can't just put it in a Mending Wheel.
Liam: The gods reward deeds, not words.
Ashley: Yes.
Marisha: Maybe it happened in the fight.
Ashley: I think I know why it happened.
Sam: Maybe because you've been killing unarmed people?
Ashley: I think it was when I slit the guy's throat. She got mad. Just a hunch.
Sam: But you know what? We'll do some good deeds when we're done.
Ashley: Yeah. This is something that I need to fix, but thank you for trying.
Orion: I forgot we didn't have it.
Laura: Well, Trinket, what do you want to be? A lizard? A mouse?
Matt: (bear noises)
Laura: A kitten? (gasps) A kitten.
Ashley: A little kitty.
Laura: You want to be a kitten?
Matt: (laughs) Trinket glances over at you with a look in the eye of like--
Marisha: And I go (floop), and I make him a kitten. What kind of kitten?
Laura: Oh, he's a Persian.
Marisha: He's a Persian kitten.
Matt: Trinket's form (shwoop) shifts down into this tiny white puffball with a pushed-in nose.
Laura: You're the cutest, Trinket.
Ashley: I go and I snuggle, and I nuzzle him.
Laura: I tuck him into my shirt.
Matt: You sense immediately, Trinket is not necessarily pleased, but will deal with it.
Marisha: Well, he's so cute.
Laura: He's so cute.
Orion: In Draconia, those are snacks.
Sam: I wouldn't say that.
Laura: Let's go! Come on! Let's get on this thing! Grog's getting ahead of us.
Sam: All right, let's go. On our stone airplane.
Marisha: Let's get on the Wonkavator, everybody.
Ashley: All right hop on. I hop on.
Matt: All right, so you all hop onto this giant stone. It's really cramped, you're all shoulder-to-shoulder pushed onto here, clutched onto your new Persian cat. Kima and Clarota step onto it.
Orion: I cast Telekinesis on the stone slab, lift us up, and push us.
Matt: Okay, how much weight can you push through Telekinesis?
Orion: A thousand.
Matt: Okay.
Orion: I did all the math. (clears throat) Vax weighs 155, Pike weighs 75. Taliesin weighs 190, Vex weighs 120.
Ashley: But Scanlan weighs nothing.
Orion: Sam weighs the same, 75. Keyleth weighs 125.
Matt: Yep. Kima weighs 105. With all of her armor, she'd be 105.
Sam: Clarota can float.
Matt: Clarota can float. Does that still fall under a thousand total?
Orion: Yeah, should. Is that right?
Sam: What about you?
Taliesin: Plus the rock.
Laura: The rock would be less.
Orion: That's why I kept a hundred pounds for that.
Marisha: A hundred pounds for the rock.
Liam: Want to run those numbers again for the calculator?
Matt: Rock's 100 pounds? That's not a lot of stone.
Laura: It's a very thin piece of stone.
Matt: That's a very thin piece of stone. All right.
Orion: Nine. Nope, we're at nine-- we're there. We're at nine-something. You can do all the math, but it's nine-something.
Matt: Okay, all right, so you all stand on the platform. It (straining noises) rises up, and it's one of those all of you have to gather yourself, but nevertheless it is now floating. How long does it last, concentration wise?
Orion: Ten minutes.
Matt: All right.
Laura: Quick! Float us!
Matt: So, as Tiberius begins to concentrate, the stone begins to glide out over this expanse of broken bone and obsidian glass.
Orion: I hover about-- what's bone break?-- around six feet above the air. That's how high I take it.
Matt: Okay, so you're cresting about six feet. You have to move it around occasionally to avoid some of the large stalagmites that are jutting out of the bones.
Laura: Do we see anything? I'm keeping an eye out, see if I see any movement or anything that's maybe sparkles. I don't know.
Taliesin: Keeping an eye behind us, as well.
Matt: Okay. You guys, keeping an eye out, you see more and more of this ruin, and you can see the the further in you go, you start seeing bits of bone that are larger than what's near the edge. You start seeing bits and pieces that are full bones, so they've been more-- still rounded and weathered, but they're less ground down as supposed to the edges where most of the traction seems to be. You get about 300 feet out before you hear a loud, echoing scream across the cavern. (loud yell)
Orion: In front of us?
Matt: In front of you guys.
Laura: What's it sound like?
Matt: It's male, and it's loud.
Laura: Go! Can we go faster?
Orion: We hear this. I push us forward. I mean, we're going in that direction anyways, so I speed us up.
Liam: Keyleth, take the gnomes!
Matt: Correct, okay. As you speed up and continue--
Ashley: I jump on Keyleth.
Liam: Take the gnomes!
Matt: Okay.
Ashley: Grab some feathers.
Sam: I'll grab on as well. Why not.
Matt: All right, so Keyleth, you transform maintaining concentration on Polymorph for Trinket, I believe, right? All right. It's not a spell, it's an effect you do. So you (whooshing noise) you transform into a giant eagle, you grab both the gnomes, you guys are lifted up off the platform as the platform continues to push forward.
Orion: Cool, so I get a little bit more control over it now. (grunts)
Matt: A little bit more. As you're pushing forward you feel the stone itself has this weird wobble to it, but you still manage to keep concentration, pushing forward. Eventually, the little bit of light from your Light spell cascades past one of these joining parts of a wall, and then beyond that you can see what looks like a few other stone pillars that are sticking up. And you see what looks to be a small party of duergar that are in the middle of battle. There is one duergar who is splattered across the bone floor. You see a troll that is currently in the middle of a fistfight with something that's moving extremely fast. This blur of motion. You can barely make out the physical form before the troll turns and runs in your direction, surprised to see the light coming towards you, and in its expression of extreme confusion and fear, you see something (whoosh) past, and its head just (soft falling sound). Rolls off the top of his shoulders.
Laura: That's not Grog! We're going to toward a monster!
Matt: (crashing sound) The troll body hits the ground. As it does you see bits of bone begin to rise up and pull the troll down underneath.
Laura: Oh, it's really good we're not standing on it!
Orion: Avoid! (whooshing sound)
Liam: Daggers out.
Taliesin: Guns out.
Matt: As you guys begin to push forward you can see two of the duergar are now backing up instinctually. One looks down at his feet now that have been grabbed, and he's being pulled under, and he just starts trying to wrestle himself free. This blur of motion jumps off one of the platforms, spins in the air, and lands with a slam that completely splatters across the rock that he's right next to. This duergar, you can see part of his jaw go flying off to the side and silence hits him in the middle of his scream. The last duergar there, you can see who's looking around, sees the stone platform, and goes, "Let me on! Let me on!" He goes running over and is trying to jump up towards the stone platform you guys are on.
Laura: How much does he weigh? (giggles)
Matt: Well, he's going to go ahead and try and grab it with an athletics check-- he makes it! (latching noise) He gets onto the side.
Sam: Kick him off!
Marisha: Fuck that guy!
Laura: I punch him in the face!
Matt: Okay, okay. You go ahead and (punch thud noise). You just beat him in the face. He holds tight. You're not a very strong person, unfortunately.
Liam: I grab him by the cloak. What is it? What is it?
Matt: "I don't know! Get it away! Get it away!"
Marisha: In eagle form, I'm going to do a nice high soaring lap.
Sam: We're on you!
Marisha: I know! It's okay! I'm going to use my-- I'm soaring high. It's an easy breeze. We're on the people mover. Okay. And I'm going to use my keen sight to see if I can get a good... (pew)
Matt: Okay, so, using that you glance down and in this brief moment where it seems like the cacophony of this entire circumstance slows down (slowing sound noise). And your eagle eyes glance down, and you can see in a brief moment the blur stops. You see a humanoid form. Looking at the body and the torso, it looks elven. Its very thin and gaunt legs dangling as four giant, jagged-looking tentacles sprout from both sides of its torso, holding it aloft. Two lifting it off the ground and keeping its body suspended, while two are (fwhoosh) whipping around in the process. As you're glancing, you see its head (cracking noise) glance up toward the wall. These blank, white eyes shooting around in different directions spontaneously, with this maddening look. Whatever this is is clearly insane and is currently driven on some sort of hunger bloodlust. The stitch marks you see across its body are very reminiscent of the earlier abominations that you saw, created by K'varn and sent throughout this cavern structure.
Liam: Keyleth's the only one who sees it, though, at this moment?
Orion: Do I see it?
Matt: You guys haven't yet. At the moment, you're talking to this dwarf or you're shoving him off the platform.
Orion: Can I see it as I'm cruising through? I see him?
Laura: We wanted to throw him as far as we could.
Liam: Yes, the twins pull him up and one--
Liam: Two, three!
Laura: Two, three!
Matt: (laughs) All right. As you chuck the duergar through the air, the creature who briefly had stopped, and you guys now see its motion stop, and you get a full view of its horrible form. (grunting, panting sounds)
Orion: As soon as I do that, I cast True Strike. (ftsssh)
Matt: All right, you cast True Strike on yourself?
Orion: On him!
Matt: On him?
Orion: What it does is, it allows me to see--keep going, I'll tell you. Go ahead.
Matt: All right, so it stops for a second. You guys all get a view of its vision. As it's looking up towards where Keyleth is, suddenly its head (shh) snaps back into focus as the duergar goes swinging through the air. As it does (snarling) it licks its lips and you can see now, where its mouth is, the lips curl back and the jaw splits open slightly with this horrible Predator-like fanged jaw, and the two tentacles that are currently up in the air reach out, grab, and (tshhh) just split it in two. Its torso then divides and sprays it with crimson as it (tongue flicking noise) licks it out of the air. (breathy growling)
Laura: (whispering) Go faster. Go faster!
Orion: I'm still going! We're still going. I'm not standing and watching.
Sam: Have we passed it yet?
Matt: Everyone roll initiative.
Laura: Oh my god, we're going to fight? We're going to fight this thing?
Marisha: I was going to say we should try and avoid him. Poop monster.
Laura: Oh, god.
Sam: No, we're floating above it. We've got advantage.
Marisha: Do we?
Laura: We're all stuck on a single piece of rock.
Orion: Yeah, well, that's the thing.
Sam: We're fine. One of us has guns.
Matt: All right.
Liam: And we saw the duergar get pulled under by skeletal arms?
Sam: By the bones.
Liam: Yeah, the bones pulled down, right? So it's not just this thing.
Matt: I'm using this as the figure for the creature.
Orion: By the way, Matthew.
Matt: Yes.
Orion: True Strike. I extend my hand and point a finger at a target. My magic grants me a brief insight into the target's defenses. On my next turn, I gain advantage on my first attack roll against the creature, using that spell as a guide.
Matt: Gotcha. So! For the purposes of this, the two gnomes are alongside Keyleth's eagle form.
Taliesin: Oh, we're going to use the little thingy?
Marisha: Yeah, are we going to use the levitating thingies?
Matt: What? Yes, we are. Let me pull them out right now over here.
Taliesin: Levitating thingies!
Marisha: Levitating thingies! Makes us look cool.
Taliesin: It's been so long.
Laura: Ooh, I like it.
Matt: There's the rest of you. Although, Trinket is a kitten.
Sam: Trinket is a cat.
Taliesin: Trinket only has the power of "adorability."
Matt: This is the stone slab over here that you guys have created. All right, so. Initiative rolls, everyone. Starting at... 25 to 20?
Laura: 21.
Matt: All right. That puts Vex at the top of the round there. And brings-- there we go. 20 to 15?
Liam: 17.
Orion: 18.
Matt: 18? 15 to ten?
Sam: 12.
Matt: Ten to five?
Marisha: Eight.
Taliesin: Eight.
Matt: (laughs) Okay.
Marisha: Team Eight.
Taliesin: Boom.
Matt: Pike, what did you get?
Ashley: Four.
Laura: Yay!
Matt: Okay, yay, Pike, bringing up the rear!
Marisha: Team Single Digits!
Ashley: Team Single Digits!
Taliesin: We'll get there.
Matt: Top of the round is the monstrosity. It is a very quick-- move the camera. Follow me this way. There we go. (all laugh)
Matt: It uses its quite grand movement of 50 feet to (shh) lumber over to this side, and it gets two attacks with its tentacles, with reach. Actually three attacks.
Marisha: On who?
Matt: This is going to be at you guys.
Liam: I don't need this foot.
Matt: This is going to be one at Kima, one at you and one at Tiberius as you are the three currently within its positioning view. First one is going to be at you.
Liam: Okay.
Matt: Oh, that is going to be a 14 to hit?
Liam: No.
Matt: All right, so you (whoosh) dodge out of the way. The one towards Kima. Oh that's going to be a 15 to hit, which it strikes her armor, but she manages to pull out of the way and it gleans off the side and you can see a little bit of this acid scarring across the edge of her leather armor. The third strike going out towards Tiberius (swoosh). That is (laughs) a critical one. It actually whips out and strikes the bottom of the stone you guys are standing on, which rocks it for a second, and you all essentially get worried but it seems to have no effect. That was a really terrible opening round for the creature.
Marisha: Here's my question. Is this all happening still over top of the bone pit?
Matt: Oh yeah.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: That brings us to Vex.
Laura: Hunter's Mark!
Matt: All right so you mark him
Laura: Right on that guy.
Matt: Do it. He is Hunter's Marked and I'm putting this on here as a reminder of your mark.
Laura: Okay.
Taliesin: It's so fashionable.
Matt: Isn't it though.
Laura: I'm going to lightning arrow him. Oh, I can't do that because I Hunter's Marked him.
Matt: Correct. that was your bonus action.
Laura: I'm going to Hail of Thorns that guy.
Matt: All righty, thorn hail him.
Laura: Okay, at level three.
Matt: Okay!
Laura: Through my Bow of Blazing Bowstring.
Matt: Okay, so as you pull back your arrow, you pull it up, you can see the thorns (thoosh) actually grow rather rapidly out of the wood itself and as you pull back, the bowstring itself ignites setting the bow, the shaft of the arrow on fire as well as you release, rolling?
Laura: 22.
Matt: 22 to hit?
Laura: Yes.
Matt: That hits.
Laura: Yes!
Ashley: Yeah.
Laura: So then I roll my regular damage plus 3d10?
Matt: Correct, plus the fire damage which is 1d10.
Laura: Okay, whoa. So 14 for the first.
Matt: Okay and then roll technically 4d10 because it's the fire.
Laura: 4d10, this is crazy.
Matt: Yeah!
Laura: Four, 11, 19. 21.
Matt: So 21 plus 14?
Laura: Yes.
Matt: 35 points of damage. Nice. So you release (soosh).
Laura: Oh plus Hunter's Mark damage!
Matt: Yep, there you go. That's why you did it.
Laura: Six.
Matt: Nice, 41 points of damage in the first attack from the ranger.
Marisha: (cheers)
Matt: All righty, so you release the arrow as the creature (woosh) shifts into place, it lashes out with all its tentacles and as it pulls back, looks like it's ready to pounce you release the arrow right towards its torso, it hits, and it looks down instinctually and it bursts into a spray of thorns all over its face and its torso and you can see it (monster screech) reels back from the pain, you can see the flames licking up over the front of its body. You can see there's a semblance of clothing on it. Whatever this thing once was, it's still wearing the clothing it had and a portion of it has burned off part of the torso. Whoever this poor soul once was, there is no shred of humanity left in it.
Orion: Before that ends I go, hop off.
Laura: Hop off? No way. I'm not stepping on this bone shit.
Liam: There's undead things in there
Laura: That's my turn.
Matt: And that's your turn, and you're holding a kitten.
Laura: Oh he's tucked into my armor.
Matt: Oh, he's tucked into you? Okay. That brings us to Tiberius, you're up. Tiberius, what are you doing.
Liam: Tibber-hoods.
Matt: What you got?
Orion: Okay, everyone hold on tight.
Sam: You're giving us opposite notes.
Matt: What you got?
Orion: How wide was the stone tablet? Ten feet for all of us to fit on?
Matt: It's about 15 feet round.
Orion: Perfect, I move us right above the butthole and, everybody hold on. And I fucking slam all of us right on him. (boosh)
Matt: Okay. So the platform comes cascading down at a fair speed immediately breaking over this creature, as it is a pretty thin wall to have only been about 100 pounds. It completely shatters over the top of it. Everyone who was on that platform, go ahead and make a dexterity check.
Ashley: Get it, guys. Come on.
Laura: I get two because it's favored terrain, right?
Matt: Correct.
Laura: Yes, okay good.
Matt: All right so.
Liam: 17.
Laura: 23.
Matt: Oh, Pike's not there.
Taliesin: 24.
Ashley: I'm not happening for a while.
Orion: Me too?
Matt: Yes.
Orion: 12.
Matt: 12. All right. So all the rest of you manage to leap off and tumble the best you can to catch yourself-- except for Tiberius.
Orion: Wait, do I make a dexterity check? I mean I'm not-- okay.
Matt: You do. You're still on the platform. It just shattered around you. So you however fall prone on the ground from the impact and land on the ground. That's also going to end your turn.
Marisha: Did it do any damage?
Orion: Can I not do any bonus actions?
Matt: Unfortunately not, due to the failed dexterity save. It practically knocked the wind out of you due to the impact.
Orion: Okay.
Matt: That was the unfortunate part of missing that dexterity check.
Orion: Okay.
Matt: However, it does deal from the crushing damage to the entity that'll be I'll say 3d10 points of damage. I'll see if it makes its save to reduce to half. Which it does. Rolled a 21. What's your DC in your spell?
Orion: 17.
Matt: So it makes its save, so it's half damage. Roll 3d10 and it's half that.
Orion: (counting noises) What is that, 19.
Matt: Okay, so it takes a total of nine points of damage. Crushing damage from the blow of the stone on top of it. Nice. As it (crssh) shrugs off bits of chunks of stone that are around its body, you can see a little bit of blood is being pulled to the seams of its body. It's taken some hits. It's still doing all right but it's definitely-- you can see it's not impervious by any means. That brings us to Vax.
Liam: All right, well, I use my bonus action to click my Boots of Haste together.
Matt: Your Boot of Haste.
Liam: Boot of Haste? But aren't magic items resistant to--
Matt: Oh yeah I was messing around.
Liam: Okay, yeah. Start sneak attack from behind. 32 for the first attack.
Matt: You unfortunately do not get sneak attack on this. It knows where you are. You do not get the round before it-- nobody else is adjacent to it because everyone else had to jump off the platform.
Liam: So no one's right next to it? I'm the closest one?
Matt: Currently no. You are the closest one to it because everyone had to jump off as it fell, and the fact that as soon as you rush towards it, its head (cracking noise) clicked over its back and looked straight at you, almost the neck bending in the process.
Liam: You block me every chance you get with this one. So that was the first attack...
Matt: No, this creature is really quick and very aware of its surroundings.
Liam: So first attack is nine. There's more coming. Here comes the poison dagger, which is 23.
Matt: 23. That does hit.
Liam: That is ten. Because of the Boots of Haste, I get a third attack.
Matt: You do.
Liam: And that misses entirely. In fact, I think I threw my dagger into the bones.
Matt: What did you roll a one?
Liam: A one, yeah.
Matt: Okay, so the first strike hits. The second one, you feel the poison energy pulse through the blade. What's the DC on that again?
Liam: It's 15.
Matt: That hits. You feel the poison (crssh) enter its side, and it looks down-- oh, it is immune to poison. Sorry. Oh, abyssal abominations! So the second blade goes in. The third one, you go ahead and swing towards it, and it (splssh) actually slaps the blade out of your hand and sticks to the ceiling. (whoosh) Thankfully, it returns back to your belt because magical belts are cool. All right, cool. That ends your turn. Kima's turn. Kima, who just managed to land, grabs her sword and reaches over. You can see the divine energy instilled within her blade. She is going to make two attacks against the creature. She rushes towards it on that side there. It's going to be yeah, 17. That'll hit. That's 27 to hit, and then a natural 20. So a hit and a critical. She's going to go ahead and get 15 damage from the first strike. Second one is going to be...
Marisha: We need to get off this floor real bad.
Sam: Well you're not on it.
Marisha: I'm not.
Sam: You can make a dance floor next to them.
Matt: All right, as she strikes it both times with the sword, you can see the first strike hits and the second one, she swings around and she instills with her Divine Smite, which does an additional eight points of divine damage. The second strike, as it slashes across, you can see the torso splits open. As the torso opens up, you can see a part of its guts spill out, and they begin to slowly pull themselves back in.
Marisha: Hell no.
Sam: She's Wolverine!
Matt: (laughs) Scanlan you're up.
Sam: Okay. Do I have a clean line of sight on her? Or are we too far away?
Matt: You guys are up in the air being held by her. Probably actually I'd say...
Marisha: I'm doing the eagle glide.
Matt: You guys are about 30 feet up right now.
Laura: Oh man.
Sam: All right, so I think I'm in range. I'm just going to blind the bitch. So I cast Blindness on her.
Matt: Okay, what's the range on that?
Laura: It's a girl?
Ashley: It's a her?
Sam: Isn't it a girl?
Matt: No it's a male elf.
Sam: Yeah, well I'm so demeaning to it, I call it a girl.
Ashley: Why is that demeaning?
Laura: Why is that demeaning?
Sam: Because it is a chauvinist. I know that.
Matt: What's the range on that, Scanlan?
Sam: I'm looking.
Ashley: Disadvantage on his roll!
Liam: You're in the wrong group to being saying that shit, man. (all laugh)
Sam: I'm drunk!
Marisha: Whatever. (laughs)
Sam: How far am I? I can't even tell. I can't see the board.
Matt: You're about 70 feet.
Sam: I can't do it.
Matt: You can hold your turn if you want to wait for Keyleth to go.
Sam: I can hold my turn? I've never done this before.
Matt: Yeah. Meaning if you're waiting for someone else to take their turn first, you can hold back until they do theirs. So you can wait for her to pull you closer.
Sam: Okay. I will wait for that, then, and I love women.
Ashley: Oh, we know. We know.
Sam: Biblically.
Marisha: Keyleth does a little dip really quick.
Matt: All right, gotcha.
Marisha: Makes Scanlan a little nervous.
Matt: All right. Clarota takes his turn. Clarota is going to... the situation's too dangerous to do anything Lightning Bolt related. Clarota instead is going to use Mind Blast against the creature. No that's no good either, at this positioning-- yeah no, because he'll get a bunch of you guys, too.
Sam: God, Clarota.
Marisha: Clarota!
Matt: Instead Clarota is going to...
Laura: Can he heal us?
Matt: No. Clarota's not really the healing kind. Clarota is going to cast Blur on himself to try and keep it from taking one of these points of wound damage. So he uses his turn to cast Blur. Clarota's form begins to shift and vibrate in and out of place where it's hard to see exactly where Clarota is standing. Clarota is going to take two steps back, unfortunately in the threat range of the creature. It gets (whoosh) a reaction to attack against Clarota. Thanks to the Blur spell, though, it misses entirely. So the strike strikes and it passes through with no effect. Clarota moves behind one of the rocks here, actually this far, for cover. That ends Clarota's turn. Keyleth you're up.
Marisha: Okay. I caw-caw closer
Matt: Like over where?
Marisha: Yeah, there's good. Shit, can't cast any spells unless I land. I'm going to have to drop down. Can I perch on one of these stalactites?
Matt: You can, but you're going to have to let go of the gnomes to do so.
Ashley: Do it.
Marisha: Can I drop off you guys?
Ashley: Yep.
Matt: You hear (bird noises).
Sam: What?
Marisha: And I drop them off really quick.
Ashley: What did she say?
Matt: All right, so both of you guys make acrobatics checks. Disadvantage for you because of your armor.
Ashley: But don't I get a plus ten?
Matt: Not for acrobatics, you don't.
Liam: Right. You're a bullet falling from the sky.
Sam: 16.
Matt: Okay.
Ashley: Eight.
Matt: All right. As both of you guys get released as you go to perch on these rocks.
Marisha: I'm going to turn back into Keyleth holding onto the rock.
Matt: Okay. So we'll put you there. Keyleth, no longer an eagle. This is out of the way. You guys both land here and here.
Marisha: But I'm still on the rock. I still want to be on the rock.
Matt: I'm considering you on the rock, but I don't want to have to try and balance you right there. Scanlan, you land, catch yourself on the bones, and you're fine. Pike, you sink into your waist at the impact.
Ashley: Because my armor's so heavy? (laughs)
Matt: Speed and the way your inability to catch your weight and use it. You just go (schoomp). Just stick directly into the bone up to your waist.
Liam: You're gnomic lawn art.
Ashley: Aw, dang it!
Matt: Percy you're up!
Marisha: Wait, I'm not done!
Matt: Right. Sorry, you turn back. So Keyleth, what are you doing?
Marisha: The laser pointer's dead. Now I'm going to make a wall of stone. Wait, is there someone in the way? Is there somebody behind him? Is that Vax?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: Damn it, Vax!
Sam: He didn't ask to be dropped there.
Laura: That's where we landed.
Marisha: Shitballs. All right. I'm going to do Grasping Vine, then. No, I should make us a dance floor. I'm going to make us a dance floor, then. I'm going to do a wall of stone. How concentrated can I do my wall of stone, actually? Can I do a wall of stone to where it's doughnut-shaped? Where there's a hole in the middle? And now I make a wall going across the top?
Taliesin: A doughnut of stone.
Matt: I would say, based on the description of it here...
Marisha: A horizontal wall?
Matt: Ten foot by ten foot panels.
Sam: Panels. Squares.
Matt: Alternatively, you can create ten foot by 20 foot panels that are only three inches thick. So yes, you can, you can create any shape you desire, so you can make it a doughnut hole type thing if you want to.
Marisha: Dope. So, I'm going to make a doughnut-shaped dance floor, and I'm going to make a hole in the middle to where he's still in the middle in the bone, but we're all on rock. Around this area.
Matt: So, it's just around all of you guys or underneath everybody?
Marisha: Underneath us.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: I'm making a dance floor.
Sam: That was an excellent move by a strong, independent woman who doesn't need a man to tell her what to do. Or to validate her in any way.
Marisha: I want everybody--
Matt: You might not be able to get Pike.
Marisha: I can't get Pike?
Matt: No, because there would be a weird loop there.
Ashley: I can maybe try to Sprinter's Boots my way up.
Marisha: Well, as much as I can do, but I want to make a nice hole to where he's still--
Matt: I would say you can either get Pike or you can get these guys here. That's about where you're going to call it.
Ashley: No worries. Do some damage!
Matt: What are you going to do?
Marisha: I'm going to boost up Pike. She's halfway underground.
Matt: The wall comes out and it stops there. That's as far as you can get it. This whole area now is a wall. It pops you out of the stone as the stone lifts you up. You have to catch yourself for a second, but it's not so abrupt to the point where you get knocked off the side. You're all lifted up about ten feet. So just mark that area as stone wall. Got it.
Marisha: Except for douchebag.
Matt: Except for douchebag.
Sam: Now that I'm within range, may I go?
Matt: After Percy, and then it's your turn. You all get to hold at the same time, so. Percy.
Taliesin: Does he get an attack of opportunity if I run?
Matt: You don't know.
Taliesin: How close am I? I can't see.
Matt: It took one reaction against Clarota.
Liam: You're further than five feet away, because had you been five feet away I could have sneak attacked.
Taliesin: Oh. Well, all right. The first thing I'm going to do is shoot twice in the face of this asshole.
Matt: Okay. Go for it.
Marisha: Shoot twice into the face of the asshole, Percy.
Taliesin: 14?
Matt: 14 does not hit, unfortunately.
Taliesin: But 28 will.
Matt: 28 will. So the first shot, you shoot, the body just goes (sound of air splitting speed) and totally unnatural sense sees where the aim is and is already out of the way before the bullet gets there. Returns, but you catch it up with the second shot from the Pepperbox, and blast in the side of its chest. Go ahead and roll damage.
Taliesin: Oh my god. This is awful. Six.
Matt: Six points of damage. All righty.
Taliesin: That's just embarrassing.
Laura: That's something, that's something, Percy!
Ashley: Hey, you know what? We're getting close!
Laura: That's better than a one.
Marisha: Pike is just an inspirational poster today. Like, it's okay, we can do it!
Taliesin: Thanks, mom. All right. Thanks, mom. I'm going to try to make a run for it to the stalactite by your hand.
Matt: Right here?
Taliesin: If I could even climb up on it, that would be very cool.
Matt: That's going to, with your run speed, you're going to have to do that next turn.
Taliesin: Okay, that's fine.
Matt: You don't have enough action to do that, but you get to it. Scanlan, you're up!
Sam: I'm going to blind him. With Blindness in his eyes.
Taliesin: Try blinding him with science, that usually works.
Matt: Are you using your hand cone?
Sam: I am using my hand cone.
Matt: I assume you do, for the most part. So what's your DC with that?
Sam: 19.
Matt: Good. All right, fails its roll.
Orion: Yes!
Ashley: Yes!
Matt: As you release the arcane essence, you can see this darkness spill up and completely cascade over the white, almost soulless, freaking out eyes of this creature. It's very Silent Hill in the way it moves. Suddenly, its eyes (shhh noise) fill over with darkness, and you can see it beginning to writhe and move around like it's unable to truly grasp the full surroundings. It appears to have taken effect.
Orion: Nice!
Sam: And then I give a little inspiration to Pike. I look over to her, give her a little wink, little smile...
Liam: Spirit her on with anger. Good job.
Matt: Take your 1d8 inspiration.
Ashley: 1d8? Okay.
Sam: That's all it takes.
Marisha: That's all it takes. (laughs)
Matt: All right. That ends your turn, Scanlan?
Sam: I think so.
Matt: You're going to stay right there?
Sam: Where am I?
Matt: You're on top of the wall, right here.
Sam: Yeah, I'm staying on that wall, yeah. I don't want to go anywhere, yeah.
Matt: Okay. Pike, you're up.
Ashley: Okay. So, from where I'm at--
Matt: Yes, on top of this wall here.
Ashley: I'm on top of a wall? I'm going to Guiding Bolt the whatever-it-is. (all laugh)
Sam: The whatever it is.
Ashley: And then-- okay, wait, hold on. Let me cast that at-- So what do I roll for?
Matt: You roll and add your spell attack modifier to it, I believe it is, to hit for Guiding Bolt.
Ashley: So I roll the d20 to see if I hit?
Matt: I'm pretty sure, yeah. It should be in the description.
Ashley: Okay.
Laura: That's good, that's good!
Ashley: 15.
Laura: Plus anything?
Ashley: Oh, plus-- wait, what am I plussing? I'm so sorry!
Matt: Your spell attack.
Laura: It's on your spell page.
Matt: It's on your spell page, top of your spell page.
Ashley: Okay.
Matt: You haven't used it in a while. Yeah.
Ashley: 23.
Matt: 23 does hit!
Ashley: Yes!
Ashley: Okay, so then we do--
Matt: 4d6 points of radiant damage to it.
Sam: It's also blind.
Matt: Yes.
Ashley: 15? And I'm going to add my inspiration from him.
Matt: You can't add that to damage. It's only to hit.
Sam: Save it for later.
Ashley: So, 19.
Matt: 19. So, as you look down, you grab your holy symbol, and even though it is cracked, you still feel the presence of Sarenrae looking down upon you. The divine energy coalesces in your hand, and you throw it forward with a divine wrath as it streaks across the air. It slams into the side of this weird twisting abomination, and as it blasts into it you can see its tentacles reel back and pull back in severe pain and it roars this horrible, screeching (bleeegrh screech) scream into the cavern around you, echoing down the hall. It's looking a little rough.
Ashley: Okay. And then there's nothing I can do from there, right?
Matt: That's your action. You can move if you'd like. Move along the wall, or hop off it, or whatever you want to do.
Sam: Come closer to me!
Ashley: I'll stay! (all laugh)
Matt: All right.
Marisha: Because she's an independent woman.
Sam: That's a proud choice, and I honor and respect it. I love women!
Matt: So currently, because it's--
Marisha: Pike's not the only one cashing karma points.
Matt: So technically, I should have remembered this, but you hit anyway: while it's blinded, attacks against it have advantage.
Laura: Oh, okay.
Matt: And its attacks have disadvantage. So, as a note. Top of the round, now, the monstrosity goes ahead and gets its round. It's going to go ahead and lash outward. Thinks people are around it, seeing the wall go up, it's going to swing out towards you. All right, that is a 16 versus armor class. Nice! So, as it swings out towards you on the wall, you duck out of the way just in time. A second tendril (whoosh, swish) reaches out and is going ahead and head forward... let's see. This one's probably going to make its way either between your foot or Scanlan on the wall. I'm going to roll to see who it goes for. Goes for Tiberius. That is 16 versus armor class again.
Orion: No. 17.
Matt: 17? Nice! Let's see...
Laura: On the ground, you look up like...
Orion: No! My big toe! Bah!
Matt: Third strike is going to whip around and attempt to grab... roll between both... Okay, it's going to go for Lady Kima. And that's a natural 20.
Laura: Oh.
Taliesin: She's a magnet.
Marisha: Even with disadvantage?
Matt: Well, actually, no, technically it would've still been a 15, so it's not a critical, but it still hits.
Marisha: That's good.
Matt: Unfortunately, without her full armor, her AC is not that crazy. So it's not a critical. That's nice. That brings it to a total of 18 points of damage with an additional six acid damage to Lady Kima.
Laura: Oh. Acid. None of us have gotten hit yet.
Matt: And the tentacle (whoosh) wraps around her and grapples her in place, and she's currently held in place by its tentacle. She stays where she is. It is now going to attempt to leap away. It brings all of its tentacles to the ground and (whoosh) leaps up into the air.
Liam: Attacking before it goes.
Matt: You get one attack of opportunity against it.
Liam: 27.
Matt: 27 does hit.
Orion: I swing at it with my cane as I'm on the floor.
Matt: No.
Sam: Do I get an attack?
Liam: 11.
Matt: 11 points of damage? All right. It takes 11, and it leaps away, (whoosh) taking her with it, and here, it's actually going to land about there, and you can see as it leaps away and lands, the wounds you guys have left on it are slowly healing.
Marisha: Son of a bitch!
Matt: Vex, you're up.
Laura: All right. I don't want to hit Lady Kima with any of my attacks, so I'm just going to have to do... I'm going to do the Blazing Bowstring again.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: And I'm going to attack it twice.
Matt: All right. Go for it. Roll for strikes.
Laura: Ooh! That was a 30!
Matt: You have advantage on these strikes, by the way. Well, actually, let me see, because I think it gets a save each turn to try to get rid of your blindness, which it does not make.
Orion: Nice. Is he blind?
Matt: Okay. So still blinded.
Laura: 29.
Matt: Hits. Definitely.
Laura: And 23.
Matt: Both hit. Go ahead and roll damage on both attacks. First one with the extra d10 for Blazing Bowstring. This arrow: once again, you pull out, burst into flame (whoosh). The heat is a bit strong for your face, but you release it forward; it actually impacts into your damage. Streaks across with an arc of fire, and slamming into its side, dealing?
Laura: 14 points of damage on the first one.
Matt: All right. Second one?
Laura: (laughs) What did I do on that? That was weird. 14 on the second one as well.
Matt: Nice! All right.
Ashley: And can I cast War God's Blessing on her and give her a plus ten? For an attack roll?
Matt: She's already attacked, but to other people, you can. And you can do it after they roll. If somebody rolls and you're like, that's a really bad roll, you can be like, plus ten! and it might give them enough to push them over the edge. It's not for damage.
Ashley: It's not for damage. It's for--
Matt: Attacking, to make sure you hit them.
Ashley: I understand. Okay, great.
Laura: But with Hunter's Mark-- she's still Hunter's Marked!
Matt: Correct. Oh, did you not roll that damage?
Laura: Four.
Matt: All right. Extra four damage from the Hunter's Mark. Tiberius.
Orion: Yes.
Matt: So, do you get up? You're currently lying on the top of the wall.
Orion: I look around, and I don't like what I see, and I try to get up.
Matt: Okay. You (grunts) stand back up. You're currently at the top of the wall; it's ten feet up.
Orion: Really? Okay, where's he again? All I see is mountains. Oh, I see, you put the yellow ring around him? And Kima's to the right of him?
Laura: Kima's being held by him.
Orion: Oh, okay. Great. I look at him, see what's going on. I (ping) my Ioun Stone, and I conjure out Telekinesis from it, and I guide it towards the monster's tentacle to unwrap it off Kima, and I attempt to pull it off her.
Matt: Go ahead and make an arcana check.
Liam: That's Telekinesis, Kyle! (all laugh)
Orion: Sweet! 20.
Matt: 20? All right. As you focus your Telekinesis, the tentacle begins to shake and is pulled off her body. Kima wrenches herself free. She is not currently grappled.
Orion: Can I also go like, (bash) Stop hitting yourself! (all laugh)
Matt: The tentacle starts slapping around its body, and it looks confused. It's not enough to do any damage, but it looks unsure as to why it's having a hard time controlling its own limbs.
Orion: I give a nod to Kima.
Matt: (laughs) Well done.
Orion: That's my turn.
Matt: All right, cool. Vax, you're up.
Liam: I'm still hasted, so I'm going to use a bonus action to go stealth.
Matt: All right. It can't see you, by the way.
Liam: What?
Matt: It's blinded.
Liam: Oh, it's blinded? But do I still need that to sneak attack, though? Or does it matter? Never mind. I'm running at it, and since Kima's right there, I'm going to stab the bejesus out of it.
Matt: Go for it!
Liam: I'm going to use Luck on that roll.
Matt: Okay. Well, you have advantage, remember, because it's blinded.
Liam: Okay, great. So that is a 29.
Matt: 29 hits.
Liam: Okay. (incoherent mumbling)
Liam: Which part gets doubled? I always forget.
Matt: It's the dice.
Liam: So 19 goes to 38, and then the damage gets added to that, right?
Matt: Correct.
Liam: With the sneak attack, and the damage gets doubled--
Matt: Correct, and then the bonus at the end gets added on to that.
Liam: The bonus at the end. Okay, all right. So what that is is 47.
Matt: 47 points of damage. Oof. So as you rush past, you (swoosh) slam the blade into the side. You see where part of it seems to start and open, but it's starting to close up again. You reopen that seam and drag across, leaving a giant wound across its side.
Liam: Okay, and then with that knife in, I'm going to stick the other knife in and attempt to attack it and then drag it to the ground. Grapple it to the ground with my body as I attack. Second attack is a 25.
Matt: 25 hits.
Liam: Okay. That's seven.
Matt: Are you doing damage, or you grappling him?
Liam: I'll grapple.
Matt: Okay, so there's no damage on this. Go ahead and make an athletics check.
Liam: Okay. 20. Natural 20. (all cheer)
Matt: Nice! So you grab it, and you pull it. You have it currently held. Its physical body is pulled to the ground, and you can see its arms are trying to pull it up off the ground, and (slurpy noises) flipping around. Complete chaos in the air. You imagine you'll probably have a hard time holding it down, but for now it's currently blinded and grappled.
Liam: With haste, I have a third attack.
Matt: You do.
Liam: I'm going to drag across its throat. That is a 25.
Matt: That hits.
Liam: And that's seven.
Matt: You don't get the bonus-- oh, for the extra attack you do, because it's with your main arm. So, seven damage? All right. Cool. You bring the blade across, and you can see the blood begin to pour out from it, and as it does, you can see the throat opens up, and where you cut on the throat you can see what looks like white gleaming teeth on the inside of its throat. The entire interior of its trachea is coated with teeth.
All: (noises of disgust)
Sam: It has a maw?
Matt: Kima's turn. Kima sees you holding it down. Takes the sword, swings it, and is going to come on down, spending a level-three spell as a Divine Smite against it. That hits with a 22. This advantage is kicking its ass. Second attack.
Laura: Nice Blind, Scanlan.
Matt: Oof. Yeah. Both hit. All right. 36 points of damage, and a divine strike. And 12 points on the second blow. As she comes down and slams it with the big sword twice, the first one arcing down with divine energy, streaking across the barely-lit cavernous area. It hits the ground, and it splatters blood across. You can see one of its tentacles is barely hanging on by just a section of muscle and sinew. However, she looks down real fast, and you can see now these skeletal hands are reaching up and grabbing her legs and starting to pull her down. She's going to attempt to try--
Orion: Kima?
Matt: Kima.
Laura: Kima.
Laura: Oh, I wonder if that's going to happen to all of us.
Matt: She's unable to break from that. She's now being pulled down into the ground beneath her. That brings us to Clarota's turn. Clarota is going to move--
Marisha: Who all is on the dance floor?
Matt: Ugh, can't do this.
Laura: All of us except for Percy, I think.
Matt: Clarota's going to stand here and pull back and begin to coalesce this bluish crackling energy in Clarota's hand. The tentacles of Clarota's face begin to swirl and pull back into this horrible grimace as it releases this bolt of lighting energy that arcs past, just overhead of where Kima is, since Kima's been pulled down below. Lightning Bolt. Two ones in a row, are you fucking kidding me? I'm rolling terribly tonight, guys, by the way.
Liam: It's mostly in our favor.
Matt: Yeah. So that Lightning Bolt would do 15 points of damage. With disadvantage on its save. Still makes it, so (laughs) with a Lightning Bolt that does a grand total of seven points of damage--
Laura: It's better than one, Clarota! It's better than one!
Matt: Clarota looks away dejectedly. "It was the best I could do." All right. Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: All right. Seeing Lady Kima slowly getting taken under, I make eye contact with her.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: What?
Matt: No, continue.
Marisha: Okay. And I make a Grasping Vine from that stalactite over there.
Matt: Here?
Marisha: Yes. And I'm going to take it and wrap it around Lady Kima and try to yank her out.
Matt: Okay. All right. So as the vine pulls out of the side of this rock (whoosh), it reaches out and wraps itself around her body and begins to pull.
Marisha: Around her waist. Not her neck, again.
Matt: Right.
Marisha: Yeah. (all laugh)
Matt: Good distinction. All right.
Marisha: Just wanting that out there.
Matt: Yeah. It's a good thing. So, Grasping Vine... yeah, okay. So it pulls 20 feet; she gets pulled 20 feet. I'll go ahead and say, make a wisdom check.
Marisha: I'm trying not to hurt her.
Matt: Right, I understand. This is more your strength of will versus the strength of whatever--
Marisha: Just adding my wisdom?
Matt: Yep.
Marisha: 20. Total.
Matt: 20. So, as the vine wraps around her and begins to pull, she reaches over and grabs the vine for extra strength, and (fwoomp) it pulls her out of the wall. She goes flying over and lands at the side of the stone with a vine that's still loosely wrapped around her, but it's definitely pulled her free of the floor.
Marisha: Can I leave it to where it's holding her up, to where it's not touching?
Matt: Sure! Yeah. She's currently held aloft by this vine that strapped her. She's looking confused. Thankful, but also wants to be let go.
Marisha: Can I take a bonus action to shout at her? Be like, "Calm down Kima! Jeez!"
Matt: Sure. Is that the end of your turn?
Marisha: Yes!
Matt: Okay! As you finish casting the spell and shouting at her, you look down and notice the ground. (swish, shoosh) Begins pulling you down
Marisha: No, I'm still on the stalactites. I haven't moved off the stalactite! I'm straddling it.
Ashley: A little straddle action!
Marisha: I'm riding that stalactite
Matt: Go ahead.
Marisha: Riding it side-saddle.
Matt: It's really hard to be on top of that and cast spells and talk about this. (chuckling) It's a giant piece. I'm going to say, go ahead and make an athletics check.
Marisha: All right. Ooh! 24.
Matt: Okay! You manage to precariously stay on the top of this stalactite, holding on to it, casting spells and shouting out. All right.
Marisha: Jeez, Kima! Stop! This is hard already!
Matt: Percy!
Taliesin: I'm going to crawl and find myself a seat on top of that stalactite. That's my first thing I'm going to do.
Matt: Okay, well, at the start of your turn, make a dexterity check.
Taliesin: 20!
Matt: All right. You manage to pull out. Now make an athletics check to try and make your way up to the top of this rock.
Taliesin: Athletics or acrobatics?
Matt: This would be athletics, just to pull yourself up on the side.
Marisha: Rock climbing check.
Taliesin: 13.
Matt: 13. Okay! You can decide whether or not you want to attempt to ascend this or make any attacks this turn, because right now it's going to take your full round to get to the top of this. It's a very thin, jagged, almost vertical wall you're trying to climb up and hold onto.
Taliesin: How far away am I from the stones? From the platform?
Matt: From the platform here?
Taliesin: From something I can stand on that's not sand.
Matt: You're probably about 35 feet.
Taliesin: So I could make it in a run?
Matt: You could make it in a run, yeah.
Taliesin: All right. I mean, in a standard movement action?
Matt: No. You'd almost make it.
Orion: What's your movement?
Taliesin: My movement is 30. Just almost make it?
Matt: Yeah. Right now, this wall's blocking you from even seeing the creature. As far as you know, you see a giant wall and you hear fighting on the other side of it.
Taliesin: I'll make it to the top of the stalactite, then.
Matt: Okay, so. (grunts) You get up to the top. I'll put this here as a reminder. But that's where you are right now. Okay, that ends your turn. Scanlan!
Sam: Is there anywhere I can stay on the dance floor and get a line of sight with the creature?
Matt: I'll say you'll be able to get right up next to Tiberius, right here, and be able to get line of sight.
Sam: And can I throw lightning and not hit Tiberius?
Matt: No.
Sam: (nervous laugh) Okay, then. Then I don't do that. Instead, I will-- I've got nothing to do! Let's say I will try to-- is she-- it's a he.
Matt: It's a he.
Taliesin: It's a he! God!
Sam: I have no ranged attacks. Except I can Viciously Mock it, so that's what I'll do. I'll say, you know what? Your tentacles make you look kind of fat, and the elf thing is played out. It's sort of 1990s. Orlando Bloom. And the whole bone thing is just really tacky!
Orion: I look at Scanlan curiously. (laughs)
Matt: Tiberius looks over. You look over your shoulder at at Scanlan with a curious look. Rolled a four. So essentially, being blind, all it can rely on right now is audio sensation around it. And it picks up ringing through the air. What hint and shred of humanity is within its psyche understands the Common you speak in its direction. And for a moment, it seems to sag all its tentacles. Go ahead and roll damage for your Vicious Mockery.
Sam: Three! Yes! It's the only ranged attack I have. (all laugh)
Matt: I was just seeing if there's another effect of Vicious Mockery.
Orion: He's sad for a while. (laughs)
Matt: Is there anything else it does?
Ashley: He's dead!
Marisha: Yeah, he just dies!
Orion: Negative two to self-esteem.
Matt: Vicious Mockery-- has disadvantage on-- okay! So it has disadvantage on disadvantage on its next attack. Got it!
Taliesin: Does that mean it has triple?
Matt: Nah. If it did, that would be awesome. Pike, you're up!
Sam: Oh! And as my bonus action, I'm going to inspire somebody. I don't know. Who? I look over at Liam and I do-- sorry, Vax. And I do one of these. (all laugh)
Matt: All right. You are strangely inspired by that.
Liam: I giggle-snort.
Matt: Okay. That brings us to Pike. You're up.
Ashley: Okay, so where are we at? I'm so sorry. I can't see.
Matt: You're right there, on top of the wall, on the far back end. You can't even see the entity. It's way off to the side and a bunch of people are in a row on top of a wall that Keyleth created.
Ashley: Okay, so I'm going to use my Sprinter's Boots and get over. Everybody's healed; everybody hasn't really taken too many hit points?
Matt: You've guys rolled really well and it has rolled terribly.
Ashley: So I'm going to go around here. Oh, I don't know, can I have--
Matt: It's a very thin wall. Make an acrobatics check to try and move and tumble through the people. With disadvantage because you're in heavy plate armor.
Sam: But you've got inspiration.
Matt: You do.
Liam: You can add that to your roll. So add inspiration.
Matt: Roll twice. You're at disadvantage.
Laura: 13.
Ashley: What, plus eight?
Sam: You can roll a d8.
Liam: It's advantage, so pick the higher.
Matt: No, disadvantage, because she's in heavy armor.
Liam: Oh oh oh.
Ashley: 16.
Matt: 16? You just manage to barely squeeze through people without falling off of the top of the wall, finding yourself right there.
Ashley: Okay. So then, since I'm there, I'm going to cast Guiding Bolt again.
Matt: Okay.
Ashley: And then I'm going to cast it at 4th level again. And then, which is--
Matt: Roll to attack twice. You have to roll to hit it first. Roll twice, because it is blinded and has disadvantage. You have advantage on it, I mean.
Ashley: 18.
Laura: Plus your spell thing?
Matt: 18 plus your spell.
Ashley: Oh, which would be 26.
Matt: That does hits. Go ahead and roll damage. You are at 4th level, that is 7d6 damage.
Orion: Nice! Holy crap.
Sam: Pike, perhaps you should spare it for your god, or offer it in sacrifice to your god?
Ashley: Sorry, guys.
Taliesin: That's a lot of math.
Sam: You know what? Women are good at math.
Orion: They are.
Taliesin: They are.
Sam: Probably better than men.
Orion: I would say probably.
Ashley: And then do I add anything?
Matt: No, that's just the 7d6.
Ashley: 26.
Matt: 26 damage, nice!
Sam: Good adding.
Ashley: Hey, thanks!
Matt: As you pull through the rest of the crowd, you stand next to someone, you grab your holy symbol again. This time, looking up to your hand. This divine energy materializes and shines down in a god ray onto your hand as you gather it with your fingers, it seems to formulate this actual thick rock feeling sensation. You swing it underhand softball pitch with absolute furious anger that slams into the side of the creature, bursting with the divine energy, doing a very sincerely impressive amount of damage for a small Guiding Bolt. It's currently still trying to get back up after Vax has been holding it to the ground. You can see it blast its side. You are almost pulled over on top of it by the sheer force of the impact.
Ashley: Sorry, Vax!
Matt: That brings us to the top of it now.
Sam: It's still alive?
Ashley: It's still alive?!
Liam: It's got that healing factor.
Sam: Can we undo its healing factor?
Matt: After all the impact, all the sounds it's hearing, it moves over to this vicinity.
Liam: Ain't he grappled?
Matt: Oh, you're holding it here.
Liam: I'm holding it.
Matt: It's going to attempt to break from your grapple.
Liam: Good luck.
Matt: So you make an acrobatics check.
Liam: Do I get advantage on this?
Matt: For this check, you do, I believe.
Liam: Okay, good. 27.
Matt: 27? 29. It slips out of your grasp, moves over to this vicinity here. And you can see now, the tendrils open up, even though its eyes can't see. You can see what looks like a bunch of gills across its body, slits in its torso and it almost looks like all of them open up into these tiny little mouths. You can also see teeth rippling through them and expels this cloud of green gas that (fssh) around everyone within ten feet of it. Everyone on the wall, right here. Clarota-- you are just out of range of it-- and Kima are affected. So that would be Pike, Vex, Trinket, technically. Clarota. So I need you guys to make a constitution saving throw.
Marisha: What?
Sam: (garbled) Make a constitution saving throw.
Matt: Pike? Whenever she comes back.
Sam: Who has to do this? Pike, Clarota?
Matt: Pike, Clarota, Trinket, Vex.
Laura: Should I roll for Pike?
Matt: Wait until she gets back. What did you roll?
Laura: 19. Oh, 19 and then for Trinket-- oh no.
Matt: Clarota does not make it. Kima does not make it.
Sam: I can roll for Pike.
Matt: All right, go for it.
Laura: No!
Sam: I've got this, guys. We're connected in a special gnome way that you have no idea how pure this bond is.
Liam: Here comes the one.
Sam: 16, plus whatever.
Laura: Oh, plus her-- wait, I'm looking up her constitution. Plus one. 17.
Matt: All right. Trinket rolled a...?
Laura: Seven.
Sam: (singing) And that's the power of love!
Laura: But I rolled a 19.
Matt: Right, as this cloud of greenish gas bursts out from all these strange slits in its body, you feel this acidic fume fill your lungs and touch your skin. You manage to duck out of the way and resist a lot of the damage, as does Pike, pulling up her cloak in front of the way. You guys take 14 points of acid damage. However, Clarota and Kima and Trinket all take 28 points of acid damage.
Laura: (gasps) 28 points?!
Matt: Yes.
Sam: For Trinket?
Matt: Yep.
Sam: Is Trinket still a cat?
Matt: Trinket's kitten form is taken away as the Polymorph wears off--
Laura: Oh, shit. Boom!
Matt: (boosh) This bear bursts out from your chest.
Sam: Oh, no, your shirt is ripped.
Laura: All of a sudden, my bosom comes flying out.
Matt: So Trinket's at full health again. Hold on, the kitten form, I'm going to say, would have about five hit points, so taking five from 28... Trinket has taken 23 points of damage.
Sam: Pike, you just took 14.
Matt: 14 points of acid poison damage, as this entity vented its torso into this giant fume of acidic gas.
Sam: It would have been much more if Scanlan hadn't been around, that's all I'm saying.
Ashley: Oh, wow. Okay.
Matt: At which Trinket bursts out of Vex's torso, landing into the bones below. (growls)
Laura: No, in the bones?
Matt: Yeah, because on the wall (fwoosh) out in front of you.
Taliesin: Now we know how many hit points it takes to kill a kitten. That will actually be useful. Five. Five hit points.
Laura: Five hit points. That's good.
Taliesin: Five hit points, everyone.
Matt: All right. It's going to finish its turn. That brings us to Vex.
Laura: That's me!
Matt: Yep.
Laura: Is there anything-- what's nearby? Is anything within five feet of it?
Matt: Oh, actually, I should see if it-- it does resist. It is no longer blinded.
Sam: Oh, snap.
Matt: You can see the darkness fades from its eyes and the whiteness bursts from its face. It's intent now, as each eye individually darts around and takes reference of all the points of possible attack that are now before it.
Marisha: Wait, its blindness wore off? Oh, poop.
Laura: Is anything within five feet of it?
Matt: Trinket is.
Laura: Trinket's going to be affected. Oh! I command Trinket to move, then. Can he?
Matt: Okay. Trinket can, yeah, if you want.
Laura: Can he try to climb up and get away from it? Oh, no. He'll take a hit, won't he.
Matt: He will.
Laura: Do it.
Liam: If it hits. It could miss.
Laura: Oh god, but he's so low on health.
Ashley: Where's he at?
Laura: He's right next to it! Get up, Trinket, get up on the wall. And I'm going to cast Hail of Thorns on the thing.
Matt: What's the radius on Hail of Thorns?
Laura: Five feet.
Matt: Five feet. Okay. Trinket is going to attempt to get up the wall. Make an athletics check for Trinket, (laughs) who's going to try and climb a ten-foot solid stone wall, which is--
Taliesin: Bears can climb trees.
Matt: Trees, yes. Solid, smooth stone walls? Little more of... but--
Laura: What is it, is it an acrobatics?
Matt: It's going to be athletics for Trinket.
Laura: Athletics. I don't know what to add, but it's 19 plus whatever. Strength?
Matt: 19 plus strength.
Laura: 23.
Matt: Okay, Trinket scrambles up the side of the wall. As it does, one of the white eyes is looking around like an iguana (tchh) focuses on Trinket, (whoosh) goes to whip toward Trinket. That is going to be a 24 versus his armor class.
Laura: Oh, it hits!
Matt: Trinket takes 17 points of damage.
Laura: Oh no!
Matt: Plus an additional five points of acid damage.
Laura: Trinket's unconscious!
Matt: As Trinket climbs up the wall, (shh, groan) and then streaks and falls back down onto the bone, unconscious.
Sam: Bear down!
Ashley: We'll heal him!
Laura: Oh, no! He's lying in the skeletons.
Matt: So you're now there up top. What are you going to do? You watched Trinket fall and hit the ground.
Ashley: Kill him!
Sam: Not Trinket.
Laura: Do I get to-- can I move if I attack, or is that it?
Matt: You gave Trinket your move on this turn, so you can still attack from where you are.
Ashley: Attack him!
Laura: Will somebody save Trinket?
Marisha: I'll save Trinket.
Laura: Okay, then I still attack him. But wait, will I do damage to Trinket, then, still on the ground, unconscious?
Matt: What are you doing?
Laura: Well, I was going to do Hail of Thorns, but I shouldn't because he's within five feet?
Matt: Within five feet.
Liam: You could do a regular arrow.
Laura: All right, I do a regular flaming arrow.
Matt: You've used your flaming arrow twice.
Laura: No, I only used it once.
Matt: No, you used it at the top of the round, too.
Laura: Shitballs. Okay, then I'm-- I have regular arrows. I'm going to use Bloodseeking Bow, then.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Oh god. I'm freaking out.
Matt: Make your bloodseeking strike, now, with the fury and anger and frustration--
Laura: 26.
Matt: Hits.
Laura: Okay.
Ashley: Roll for damage.
Laura: 11, plus Hunter's Mark. 15. And then the Bloodseeking Bow does ten bleeding damage each round.
Matt: Nice. Okay, when we get back to its turn, it'll have ten bleeding damage on it. You have your second attack, too.
Laura: Okay. 24.
Matt: 24 hits.
Laura: That's 12. 13.
Matt: Okay. So both arrows (zoomf zoomf) sink down. You can see your jaw's tense and you can feel the tear running down your face, but you are intent on taking this son of a bitch down. That brings us to Tiberius. Actually, at the end of your turn, go ahead and make a death saving throw. For Trinket.
Laura: Oh god.
Sam: Death saving throw?!
Liam: Three successes or three fails. That's first fail.
Ashley: Wait, what? No. I can add a plus ten, right?
Matt: To a death saving throw?
Laura: Not so much.
Matt: It has to be attacks for you, unfortunately. So that's one death saving throw on Trinket. Tiberius, what are you doing?
Sam: This is a grizzly situation!
Orion: Okay. I assess the situation, and I don't like it.
Sam: The end.
Orion: No. I cast Watery Sphere on him, and try to capture the guy in my sphere. That is-- oh, plus this! (gasps) Oh my god, I always forget it's that number. It's 27.
Matt: 27? All right.
Orion: 18 plus nine?
Matt: I'm just trying to get familiar with this one real fast, guys.
Marisha: So he uses his spell attack bonus, I'm assuming?
Matt: Watery Sphere, you said?
Orion: Yeah. I was looking that up, too.
Matt: Watery Sphere. Got it here. Okay. Over the edge, and ten feet-- okay, it's not an attack roll for you. It has to make a strength saving throw. Saving throw. That is a 21. What's the DC for your spell?
Orion: 17.
Matt: Okay. So yeah. The sphere appears. The creature is ejected from the side right there. So the sphere is still there, but the creature is un-grabbed by it.
Orion: Does it do damage?
Matt: As far as I know, it just grabs.
Orion: Ugh. All right. That's my bad, I shouldn't have--
Matt: It restrains and grabs things inside when it has them. It works more as control than as a damaging spell, but the sphere is still there.
Orion: Well, fine. I can still move it, yes?
Laura: Can you pick Trinket up and bring him up on the wall?
Orion: She's got this. I'll move it over just to make him all soak-y in it anyway. It's not going to-- I can't move him. It doesn't control him, right?
Matt: No, not if he makes the save. If he fails the save, then yes, you have them trapped in the sphere, but currently basically (sploosh) pushed his way out of it.
Orion: Well, fine. I don't do that. I spend-- I don't do anything, actually. That's my turn.
Matt: Okay. Vax, you're up.
Liam: Okay, so Clarota's right by it, so I'm going to roll along the back of the thing and sneak attack right into its back.
Matt: Right here?
Liam: Right there. Yeah, roll around next to him, one dagger in. That is a 29.
Matt: 29. Yeah, that hits. Damn.
Liam: (counts quietly) Okay, that is 33, plus sneak attack damage, so three, seven. Shit. 18, 20. That's 40 plus four. 44.
Matt: Rogues, man.
Liam: 51. I want to carve his shoulder blade out and away like a piece of turkey--
Matt: It's not a critical.
Liam: No. Critical's the double. Oh, sorry, scale that back to--
Matt: That's a lot for a non-critical. Holy shit. (laughs)
Liam: 20. It was 20 plus two, 22. 29.
Matt: 29 points of damage. Still nice. So as you reach back and you angrily take the dagger and drag it down, you actually find one of those seams of its arm, and you drag it across the front as the arm actually (floop) falls off on the ground and it squirms on its own.
Ashley: What's taking this thing so long?
Matt: You've managed to pull one of its tentacles off.
Liam: Next dagger's out. That was a bad roll, but I'm going to use one of my Lucks to do that again. That hits. That's 27.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: So that is seven points of damage.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Last dagger out. That's 26, for eight points of damage.
Matt: Nice. Eight points of damage, got it. Great!
Ashley: How is this thing not dead?!
Matt: Kima is going to rush around here.
Marisha: Don't be stupid, Kima!
Sam: What is it with you and Kima?
Marisha: She's been stupid, all right?
Laura: What are you talking about? She's a paladin!
Sam: She's fighting with us! Don't dispirit her while we're fighting!
Liam: This is really awkward for the rest of us, just so you know. We really like her.
Matt: Kima's going to attack twice with her greatsword.
Marisha: I don't like her.
Sam: I don't like her either, but I'm not openly hostile to her.
Matt: Kima goes to strike twice, but with each blade strike, the head glimpses over, sees the attack and the body bends out of the way of the first strike. The second one, a tentacle actually slaps the blade out of her hand and she has to reach over and pick it up again off the side of the ground. The blind was very effective these past couple of rounds, but now it's back to its full strength and can see, and you can see now that it can see where everyone is, it's going to be much harder to hit. Unless you're this guy and this girl. That brings us to Clarota. Clarota can't use what Clarota wants to do, unfortunately. Instead, is going to--
Ashley: What does Clarota want to do?
Taliesin: Dance.
Ashley: Dance!
Laura: Dance!
Matt: You've had it used on you before. It's called a Mind Blast that the mind flayers did before in a cone attack that can stun things in front of it. But everyone's been clustered around it, so Clarota can't quite get a place that doesn't affect somebody else. So instead he's going to do a tentacle attack against it. That is-- oh, wow! That's a 26. That hits! Takes 15 points of damage and is grappled by Clarota. Clarota currently has his tentacles wrapped up onto it and is trying to pull it down with a combination of psionic energy and its tentacle grab. Keyleth, you're up!
Marisha: Seeing that Clarota just grappled him, I'm like, "All right, cool. That's good." And I'm going to use a Grasping Vine from the other stalactite and grab Trinket and see if I can--
Laura: Around his waist!
Marisha: Okay. Around his waist.
Matt: All right. You use another 4th-level Grasping Vine?
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. So the Grasping Vine-- from this one here?
Marisha: Nope, that one.
Matt: Okay. The wall is here, so it's going to have to curl around the side, wrap around the body. As it begins to pull, you can see the bones have already begun to reach up and begun to start pulling Trinket's body down. Go ahead and make the check for that again which is...
Marisha: What is it?
Taliesin: Will.
Marisha: Oh, will?
Matt: For this one I think it was to try and-- wait a sec, I'm just making sure. I think it was wisdom for the-- Let me check it real fast, just to make sure. This is starting to get down to the heavy. "Creature must make dexterity saving throw to resist pull." Yeah, so go ahead and make a willpower check. Wisdom check, sorry.
Marisha: 20 again.
Matt: The vine wraps around Trinket and begins to pull. The bones hold tight and the body is not moving from its position.
Laura: No!
Matt: It's a standoff between the vine holding the unconscious body of Trinket, who you can see is still moving and shifting in unconsciousness. The bones are beginning to rise up almost like this slow tide to begin to wrap over the body. All right, that brings us to Percy.
Ashley: Wait, so we don't know?
Matt: It's at a standoff right now.
Marisha: It's a standoff. It's tug-of-war.
Matt: Yeah. Not sinking, but not being pulled out, either. It's this stalemate right now between the two. The vine is taut and holding Trinket level.
Taliesin: Okay, I'm going to spend my movement to get nice and firm, sit myself down, pull out the big gun.
Matt: Okay. Bad News. You see it over this wall now. The top of this stalagmite-- it's about 50 feet to the top. You get to the top, you pull the Bad News out. You have a pretty clear shot down towards the entity.
Taliesin: Taking a sharpshooter shot. Natural 20 on the first shot. (all cheer)
Matt: Go ahead and roll damage for this one.
Taliesin: This is going to be so much fun. (counts out loud) 42 points of damage.
Matt: How do you want to do this? (all cheer)
Taliesin: I take a bead and I want to wait until the eye is looking right at me, and I want to take it right through the eye.
Matt: Okay. So as the entity turns around, its head cocked to the side, its tendrils (sucking noise) flailing around it, one lifting it up. You can see, it begins to reach up to bring a lash down upon the bear that is being clasped on the ground, its eye streaks around and catches yours. You release, pull back on the trigger... (gunshot) The impact blows you off the top of the stalagmite. You fall in the air, but in that split second, you keep your vision on as you're floating back and this whole-- this moment as time slows, not wanting to lose this moment, you see the bullet (ssst) into the head. One of the eyes now goes dark from the crimson impact. The jaw opens slack (groaning), with all the teeth exposing as the back of the head (explosion).
Taliesin: (maniacal laughter)
Matt: Explodes. All across Vax. Who was standing behind it, just (vrushh)
Liam: I love it! (all laugh)
Matt: The giant hole now, which is like you can see portions of its lower jaw are still visible, but the entire top of its head is gone. You can see parts of its flesh trying to reach up and re-form, and then starting falling limp as its form begins to quiver and eventually fall apart. The seams all begin to unravel and its entire body begins to fall apart into chunks. Eventually what's left is this elven torso that slinks to its knees (boof), takes a step,takes another step, and then falls onto its back, completely destroyed. The bones begin to reach up and take its body. Trinket is still currently being held aloft.
Orion: I see what's going on. I cast Telekinesis (fssh) and start pulling it up.
Matt: Okay, make an arcana check. You have advantage on this because the Grasping Vine is also helping.
Orion: Oh my god. Arcana? 12.
Matt: 12? You (strains) you're pulling, you're pulling, you're pulling, but unfortunately whatever cursed force holds this land is keeping the body--
Ashley: Okay, I run up and take the Mace of Disruption, which also has the holy oil on it, which fights against undead! So I take it and I go (ffff) right underneath.
Matt: All right. Pike, you're on top of the wall. You look down and see this happening with the effort of both of them unable to do so. You leap off the top of the wall, swinging the Mace of Disruption down in a giant arc. You slam it into the bones on the side of Trinket's body. As you do, you see the actual stone and bones around it cave in and shatter into dust at the sheer force of your Mace of Disruption, leaving this big old cavernous space where there once was ground. As you bring it up again, you begin swinging it around the outside of Trinket, releasing all of the bone in the vicinity. As you do, you also notice that the bone at your feet that's beginning to grab onto your legs as you landed begins to give away and slowly back away from you.
Marisha: Grab onto the vine!
Liam: It's scared of her.
Ashley: It's scared of me. Yeah, that's right!
Laura: Get Trinket out, and I'll pull Pike up.
Marisha: Okay, I pull the bear out.
Matt: Between the two of you guys, you manage to, now that it's been released from the bone, as Tiberius (strains) lifts up and the vine grasping, you lift Trinket up onto the wall, and Tiberius you (thud) release Trinket on the top of the wall.
Laura: I'm healing! Giving a healing potion.
Marisha: Can I take my Grasping Vine and I want to reach out and grab the elven man real quick.
Matt: You reach out the Grasping Vine and you lift up the remnants of the elven man.
Marisha: Yeah?
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: And I want to throw his remnants back onto our dance floor.
Matt: Okay. Well, the dance floor-- the wall here? So you chuck the corpse up onto the stone wall. All right, so you've all gathered around, you administer a potion. Trinket heals-- which potion are you using?
Laura: The minimum, because someone else can heal him, right?
Ashley: Yeah.
Matt: Yeah, yeah. That'll be 2d4 + 2.
Laura: Seven. He's only got seven little health points!
Matt: All right, so Trinket comes to consciousness. (bear moan)
Laura: Trinket!
Matt: As soon as it opens up and the first thing Trinket sees is your face, Trinket begins to lick the side of your face.
Laura: Oh! (sobs) Buddy! I'm crying and I'm petting him and I say, "It's okay."
Matt: Kima, Clarota, and Vax. You guys are still on the ground. You can feel the stones and bones beginning to pull up against your feet. Clarota immediately begins to lift off the ground using his Levitation ability, and pulls free of the bones, lifts there for a second. Yes?
Ashley: Can I keep propellering my Mace of Disruption as I walk? On the ground?
Matt: You can. As you're walking along, you're just (kssh) hitting bits of bone. As you are, they just disintegrate and turn into dust. It's leaving a track. A little bit of a groove in the ground as you do so.
Ashley: Follow me! Follow the track!
Marisha: I'm going to loot this corpse real quick. See if I see anything with this.
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Marisha: With this corpse. Does anyone want to help me? Who's got better investigation?
Taliesin: Sure.
Sam: Sure.
Laura: I've got it, but I'm busy with Trinket.
Marisha: Ugh, yeah.
Taliesin: Yeah, never mind.
Sam: I've got it. 24.
Matt: 24? All right.
Marisha: Scanlan!
Matt: You start looking at it, and the clothes that are on it are soiled and destroyed and are just ruined by whatever process it went through. as you inspect the shoulders where the tentacles are, you start seeing these strange little fleshy nubs, and as you pull away at where the wounds were taken from pulling off, you can see there are arms inside the torso that were pushed inside to attach this entity.
Ashley: Can we--
Matt: Can you what?
Ashley: Go ahead. Sorry.
Matt: You can see a couple of fingers poking out of each side.
Ashley: Should we take the body?
Sam: Do we see any ligatures? Is there sewing? Or has it been stitched together?
Matt: The tentacles were stitched to it, and you can't see any actual stitches, like it's this weird thing where it's actually bonded to it, but it looks like some sort of strange--
Orion: I'll do an arcana check on that, and I already got 22.
Matt: Okay. There is a magical essence from somewhere in the torso, but you can't quite ascertain--
Marisha: From somewhere in the torso?
Matt: Yes.
Laura: Do we recognize this elf at all?
Matt: (laughs) You don't recognize any of its face because it's gone. Bad News disintegrated its head. Unless you want to piece all the pieces that are currently on Vax together and try to reform the face, but from what you can tell it wasn't anything you could recognize necessarily.
Sam: I'll take out my dagger and dig into his torso.
Matt: As you (squishy flesh sounds) begin to pull out bits, the rest of you guys manage to make your way up to the top of this stone wall now. You're all for the most part safe, for the time being.
Taliesin: Thank you for that.
Matt: Sorry. You cut through the body. You start seeing there are just layers and layers of teeth growing out of all portions in the interior of it. You find the fingers are attached to a hand, which are attached to a wrist. You pull a little bit, and with this horrible sickening (fssht) sound you manage to pull an arm out from inside the torso, covered in its own blood and fluids.
Orion: Prestidigitation! Clean that up.
Matt: You clean it off. The magical essence you were seeing earlier actually is coming from a set of metallic bracers that are on the wrists.
Sam: Take them! I take them.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Don't put them on, though. Don't put them on.
Orion: I'll inspect them.
Liam: They're cursed.
Matt: Okay. Make an arcana check.
Orion: Let's see. 13.
Matt: 13? It takes you a while, but you manage to get an idea of what the essence of the magic is.
Marisha: I think it's for you, Vex.
Laura: Oh, really? Let me see it.
Orion: Translated, it's Bracers of Archery. You should check it out.
Ashley: Can I cast Cure Wounds on Trinket? And I cast him to 20. Second level. I rolled.
Matt: You rolled a 20 total?
Ashley: Yeah. 20 total.
Matt: Okay. So Trinket heals 20 more hit points.
Laura: Oh, yay! Really?
Matt: So keep tabs on that because that will carry over into the next session. All right. So you guys are now standing aloft, on the wall. You can barely see past, about another 120, 150 feet ahead of you, the sea of bone chips and glass seems to eventually fade into more stone.
Marisha: Let's get out of here.
Sam: Hey, will you lead the way, Pike, with your crazy mace path?
Liam: Air guitar us out of here?
Ashley: Can I keep on? (guitar noises)
Orion: Actually, wait a minute. Hold on a sec. My water sphere is still there, isn't it? I'm going to take it and push it along our way as well, in front of her who's swinging it as well.
Matt: Okay.
Orion: Push it up to 30 feet.
Matt: So you're pushing this behind her?
Orion: In front of her. Just a nice little (pssht) like 30 feet from where we are.
Matt: Okay. So the sphere crests ahead as you guys push forward. Pike, you're taking your mace of disruption with your shield up and you're slamming it before you. As it does there's just plumes of dust that are being cast in the air behind you guys. You cough a little bit as it's lifting the small spray of dust. You begin to make your way across this open field of bone and glass to the other side, finding for the first time in a little bit of time solid stone ground. You all take a moment and gather your breath, and as you're taking a moment, you look over and you can see in the darkness ahead of you what looks to be a faint source of light around another large pillar or cluster of stone in the distance.
Ashley: Is it a color?
Laura: Do I see any tracks around?
Matt: It's reddish-orange and appears to have a flicker to it.
Laura: Do I see tracks? Can I sense goliath tracks?
Matt: Go ahead and roll a survival check.
Sam: How far away is it from us?
Matt: It's probably about 70, 80 feet.
Laura: 25.
Matt: 25? You see more duergar feet patterns, and you see those same singular tracks.
Liam: And you said it's flickering, the light?
Matt: Yes.
Liam: Probably a campfire.
Sam: Let's go kick some ass.
Marisha: Want to go see?
Liam: I'll go take a look.
Matt: Roll stealth.
Marisha: Take a short rest there.
Sam: Do we need it? Is anyone hurt?
Marisha: Just a short one.
Liam: 25.
Matt: 25?
Liam: Everyone rest while I go peek, because I'm fine.
Sam: We don't need rest for spells, we just need rest for health, right?
Marisha: Just a short rest, yeah, so I can recharge my animal changes.
Ashley: If we take a short rest, do we get any spells back?
Matt: No spells back, unfortunately. You guys stay back while you go ahead and stealth your way up. Did you roll disadvantage on that one?
Liam: Disadvantage?
Sam: Your foot.
Laura: Because of your foot!
Liam: But the cloak then cancels it out.
Matt: That's right, yes, so you're fine. It's a natural roll.
Liam: So 25.
Matt: 25, okay. So you make your way through the darkness, around the side of the stone platform and as you crest your vision, you can see the flickering is indeed a small campfire. Not used for light, but apparently used for cooking as the scent also hits you. There is some sort of meat currently being cooked on this flame.
Liam: Does it smell good?
Matt: It smells pretty good. You're not quite sure what the source of the meat is. You worry for a second because you see the two duergar that are sitting there, currently holding the meat in the center of this, are staying next to a giant troll who has his hand on the side of a rickety wooden cart. On this cart, which you can see, there are two sets of wheels on each side, there is a large lumbering goliath individual currently held down with bands of iron. Your mind for second thinks, "Oh god, are they eating him?" but you see he appears to be intact, though with a quick glance as you peer around the other side of the stone column, you can see his body is riddled with scratches and small wounds and incisions, and you can see where streaks of dried blood are across his entire body.
Laura: They're going to try to make him into one of the stitch monsters!
Marisha: Yes, they are.
Laura: We're not there.
Matt: You also do see, across the way there are three tents set up around this area. One of the tents opens up and you see a duergar female step out: silver circlet across her forehead, long robes. Queen Ulara walks up and starts talking to the other duergar, pointing to your goliath friend, to Grog, on the front of this. Motions to the other two and steps back into the tent, closing it behind her as the two other duergar grin. One reaches into his pouch and begins to pull out small, looks like metal hooked utensils, possibly to go in for another round of whatever they'd been doing.
Ashley: I'm going to kill that bitch!
Liam: Into my earring, (whispers) Come, now.
Orion: Ooh! Vax just said we should go!
Laura: (whispers) We should go!
Matt: And this is where we're going to end today's session. (all groan)
Sam: Wow. That was exciting, and I feel empowering to a lot of the female-- (all laugh)
Orion: Female viewers, absolutely.
Sam: Pike did a lot of important things.
Orion: Absolutely, I would agree.
Zac: Hola, everybody!
All: Hola!
Zac: (sighs) That was intense again! You guys are giving me anxiety attacks, you guys and Felicia being in the chat room the whole time. So I wanted to shout out some thank yous. Oh, and you guys still have time if you scroll down on the main page to 826LA donate button, click on that and donate for these guys, for the wonderful work that they're doing, and we're getting ready to read out all of your donation messages on the stream.
Matt: Yes, thank you guys so much for donating to 826LA. They're an amazing charity and your support is very much appreciated.
Zac: First off, we wanted to thank a couple people that provided the food for tonight.
All: Yeah!
Zac: ManaGeek Moosiyuk, Moosiuk?
Matt: Moosiuk! ManaGeek! Thank you guys!
Zac: And Timothy Hudson and Amir.
Matt: Thank you, Amir!
Laura: It was so good!
Zac: Donation messages...
Matt: Just a note, guys, good choice tonight on the abyssal abomination.
Laura: Oh, they did that?!
Zac: That was the chat room.
Laura: You did that?!
Marisha: They did, yeah...
Ashley: Chat room!
Laura: That was mean!
Taliesin: You almost killed a bear.
Zac: Okay, guys. We've got a lot of these. You ready? We've got AxisOfAnarchy. "Less than three Matt, Taliesin, Ashley, Marisha, Laura, Liam, Orion, and Sam. #FindGrog."
Orion: We did!
Liam: We found him.
Zac: Vorack1024. "Glad to donate every week for such a good cause. Critical Role is an inspiration to my entire D&D party, and watching helps my DMing greatly. Thank you so much."
Ashley: Oh, man. Yay, thank you!
Matt: That's awesome.
Zac: Meg_TheDreamer. "#CriticalRole, thank you so much for everything with"-- oh gosh, these are so hard to read-- "with amazing stories, adventures, and great senses of humor that brings happiness and makes me laugh and warms my heart. Thank you so much for the love, my art, oh, twitter @TheAnimeDreamer and my birthday wishes to Meghan L."
Taliesin: Oh, Meghan! Yay!
Marisha: Thanks for all your art, Meghan. Your art's great.
Zac: ZandorInvictus. "Made the easy decision to skip the midnight showing of Avengers to catch the show. #LessThanThree."
Matt: Aw!
Taliesin: Easy decision!
Zac: You're a better man than Grog! I also suggest all of you guys hit up Twitter and give Travis some shit.
Matt: Playfully loving shit because the movie's awesome and it's great.
Laura: Yeah, loving shit.
Orion: Follow us on Twitter, and then help us.
Zac: Let him know that Overlord says he's in trouble. BeansyMccoy. "No, but seriously, I need a shirt that says 'how do you want to do this?'"
Ashley: I know.
Sam: We're working on it.
Orion: Yeah, we're working on it.
Zac: OutdatedReference. "About to run my first session of D&D this Sunday. Thanks to you guys for the inspiration, so excited." (all cheer)
Matt: Make it happen!
Orion: Good luck!
Matt: May your dice roll 20s and TPK your party.
Zac: WTSFox, thank you. TonyLoneFight. "You are all so amazing, thank you so much for sharing this, I hope this donation helps."
Marisha: It does. Thank you Tony!
Zac: UselessRogue--
Matt: UselessRogue, yeah! What's up?
Ashley: Hey! You're not useless!
Marisha: (shouting) UselessRogue!
Matt: "Assuaging my guilt over my vote in the straw-poll tonight." I thought you chose well. That was a fun fight.
Zac: Yeah. SilentKagosha. "Critical Role  adding a cave-effect to the audio when you are in the cave adds an interesting atmosphere to the show."
Matt: Awesome! Thank you!
Zac: That's what they did. He kept saying that in the chatroom and I was like, "I wish I could do that for you but I can't do anything about that." Too much work! BrrCold donated. "For Zac Eubank and all that he does." Aw, thanks, Curt! Appreciate that.
Ashley: Thanks Curt!
Zac: G1BigDaddyHef. "Working retail can be draining and I want to thank you so much for inspiring me and brightening my day. Currently working on creating a new campaign to try and get my coworkers involved in. I'm happy to lend some money to help out the 826LA charity."
Matt: Aw, thank you so much!
Marisha: We've been there in retail, and we feel your pain
Zac: Kedofett101. "If I can help such a great cause with a donation, the way..." Gosh, it's a lot, sorry. "If I can help with such a great cause with a donation, the way you wonderful people help me, then I'll give what I can. Thank you so much for bringing a smile to my face with your amazing work and the awesomeness that is Critical Role. Love you guys."
Matt: Thank you so much.
Orion: Thanks bud, I'll take all the credit for that one.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: Yeah.
Zac: Resident Ogre. CritKarma.
Marisha: CritKarma!
Zac: KatyaisaLie. Thank you.
Orion: Thank you, Katya.
Zac: VerCatJoel. "You guys are amazing. Thanks for making this week more fun and wanting to help kids."
Matt: Thank you, VerCatJoel.
Zac: GeoNerd79. "I love you guys. So many emotions."
Matt: I feel you, GeoNerd!
Marisha: (laughs) Thanks, GeoNerd!
Matt: I feel you.
Zac: Poltergeist123. "#Lessthan3."
Matt: Thank you, Poltergeist.
Marisha: Thanks, Poltergeist.
Orion: Thank you.
Zac: And we're reloading to see who all has donated since. Okay, some more. HomeGrownHero. "I just got here. I missed everything. Can I watch tonight's show somewhere?" Yeah! If you're a sub, it'll be up immediately. If you're not a sub, we'll do a rebroadcast, and if you wait (whistles) four hours from now, it'll probably be back in the rotation, and by tomorrow afternoon it'll be up on the website.
Marisha: Geekandsundry.com.
Zac: Correct. WheelyFactoids. "Liam, do you prefer single- or double-edged blade, and Laura, what color is Trinket?"
Laura: Trinket is brown.
Liam: Double-edged.
Zac: Bam! Factoids! Zofer. "Amazing show, and a worthy cause."
Matt: Awesome. Thank you, Zofer.
Zac: Aldowin. "Keep up the awesome work you're doing."
Matt: Thank you Aldowin!
Orion: Thanks Aldowin.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Zac: TheFallenTitan  "Loving CritRole, keep it up." Also, "Oh-ree-awn, are you going to make any more music videos with Alex Lewis?"
Orion: It's Orion, Zac.
Zac: Orion!
Orion: Chatroom, accost him for that, please.
Zac: (whispering) They spelled it wrong and I just read it.
Orion: (laughing) Yeah! Actually, me and Alex Lewis / I8athumbtack are doing more music videos and funny stuff. Thank you for asking.
Marisha: Yes.
Zac: CheeseBug88 "LessThanThree."
Matt: CheeseBug!
Marisha: CheeseBug!
Ashley: CheeseBug!
Zac: ACrazyNexy "LessThanThree to the Critical Role team."
Matt: Aw, thank you, CrazyNexy.
Zac: Thank you guys so much. Just because we didn't get a chance to read, please don't stop donating. All you've got to do is scroll down to donate to 856LA or they'll link it in the chat room. Tune in tomorrow. We have Felicia Day stopping by to play Lady Games, so everyone will be dressed up in suits.
Sam: I'll be watching that! It's my favorite.
Orion: Absolutely. He watches it all the time.
Zac: We're playing Ladies and Gentlemen, and there might be some gender reversal going on in that, and we're also going to be doing a new card game that was just Kickstarted with Indicade, and we have musical guest Echo Sparks coming by, as well as So You Don't Have To with Hector and Becca. We will be doing some things to them that are not very polite, and making them play pony games because we have a lot of pony Steam keys to give away.
Marisha: Interesting.
Ashley: Ponies!
Marisha: Everyone, Matt and I recently did another Hot Pepper Gaming video. Another Hot Pepper Game review, so, go check it out on Youtube at HotPepperGaming. They're super fun.
Laura: They completely keep their composure.
Matt: Oh, totally.
Taliesin: They don't break.
Marisha: Chat room should start pressuring these guys to all do one.
Taliesin: What? No.
Orion: I've already put my request into Hot Pepper--
Laura: I want to do it!
Marisha: He's done one before.
Orion: I've done one before. I think I had the grossest HotPepperGaming.
Laura: Just snot running out of my face. I want to do it!
Liam: I do not.
Zac: They want me to show you while we're live, Ashley, the emote that they made for you.
Laura: I saw it! It's so cute!
Ashley: You guys made me an emote!
Marisha: They made an emote for Ashley?
Zac: Start post. She's watching the chat room guys, so just start...
Marisha: What is it? Wait, I want to see it! Pull up the chat room!
Laura: Is she an astronaut? That's what it looked like.
Liam: Is it a pony suit, is it Spider Gwen? What's she wearing?
Zac: It's an astronaut.
Laura: It's an astronaut, Ashley!
Ashley: Oh! Come on guys! That's awesome!
Marisha: Astronaut Ashley!
Ashley: Oh, what the heck!
Taliesin: There it is. Oh my god! That's so cute.
Marisha: (laughs) Wait, there it is! Oh my god, that's amazing!
Taliesin: They're like little Buzz Lightyears!
Matt: That's fantastic! Well done, guys.
Zac: Thank you guys for tuning in.
Matt: Thank you guys so much. Have a wonderful night. We'll see you next week!
All: Bye!

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Welcome, everybody, to Critical Role! Our Thursday night show where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors play Dungeons and Dragons and roll dice and all that fun stuff in between! So for all you new folks, welcome to our chaos. For all you old folks, thanks and welcome back. We have a number of announcements to get through. I'll try and cruise through them as fast as humanly possible. Pardon my phone as a reminder. Google docs are a delightful thing. Starting off, I wanted to direct all you Critters to our official Twitter, @CriticalRole, for official news and announcements. You're welcome to still tweet at us for individual cast fun but we do have our official source for all official announcements, times, and our appearances. That would be the one to pay attention to. Go to @CriticalRole, follow it and any important stuff that comes in the future will be available via that Twitter. Awesome. Next up this weekend we're all going to be at New York Comic Con, which is going to be awesome. We have a two hour block from noon to 2:00 PM Saturday, October 12th. Where is it at? What's the room?
Liam: It's a weird word, the Winga Stage?
Matt: It's not on the Google Doc. Curse you, Google doc! But Saturday from noon to 2:00 PM, and then on Sunday, for those who can't make the actual convention, we're having an off-site gathering of Critters at the wonderful and illustrious comic book store Forbidden Planet. That will be from 2:30 to 4:30. Our time block shifted a little later in the day. 2:30 to 4:30, Forbidden Planet, we'll be there. We'll be signing autographs, meeting you guys, chatting it up, and we'll be debuting our brand new awesome poster here, exclusively for the New York Comic Con. Our Critical Role poster! We're super excited about it. This was wonderfully designed by one of our fellow Critters Joma Cueto. Joma did the art and Kim Davis did the actual layout and design. Both did an amazing job. We're going to have a bunch of these available. We'll be signing them for you guys, and we'll hope to see you there.
Liam: I love it.
Travis: They are pretty sexy.
Liam: We're going to be on the Wikia stage.
Matt: The Wikia stage on Saturday, near hall 1A, the Wikia stage at noon to 2:00 PM. Come find us on Saturday, we're going to be there. Also, a ton of mail was recently received just after Critmas. If your gifts weren't seen this last Critmas, they're probably in this batch. So next Critmas is probably going to be a long haul. It's going to be a doozy! But we're excited about that. That'll be the first Thursday of November, so look forward to that happening then. Next update. If you haven't been paying attention, we've been having occasional interviews once a week of our cast going up on Geek and Sundry's website. Today we had Travis's go up and if you haven't checked them out you should. It's a little step into our mindset, our crazy history and background of how this whole thing got started. Silly things ensue. So go read them if you have the chance, if you haven't yet. Or wait until after the show. Also, as of today we now have in the Geek and Sundry store Critical Role key chains and necklaces.
Laura: They look so cool.
Matt: Pretty rad. I'm really excited. They're metal and awesome. They're of our logo and if you feel like being as nerdy as we are and want to adorn your key chains with them, they are there available for your purchase.
Laura: They're custom order, so they make them when you order them. It takes a few weeks to get them once you order them, but it's worth it.
Liam: They have to come all the way from Kraghammer.
Matt: Mithril's hard to sculpt properly. Takes a while. Couple of other things, LARP: the Series, one of the live action series here in Geek and Sundry. Season two just premiered today. It's a really cool series that both has moments of drama and comedy that plays into the whole world and lifestyle of the LARPing game systems and the people. It's a really cool series. Check it out if that's your kind of bag. It's good stuff, really funny. Next Monday starts a new show called TPK Monday Nights, where our illustrious Ivan, who hosts many wonderful things here, will be running for the rest of October a group of other individuals through the RPG Outbreak Undead, which is actually a really cool RPG that Ivan actually designed and was in the whole process for, so it's Monday nights, check that out the rest of October! To keep the Halloween theme, we will probably be getting dead repeatedly at the hands of Ivan, so look forward to that. This is the last week you can buy the #NoShaveTil10k shirts. We have people who are keeping it up. I had to shave for Vin Diesel, but the rest of the month is straight on this now, largely for my Halloween costume and for this wonderful event. 20% of all proceeds from those shirts goes to the Extra Life charity we've been supporting, it helps out good people.
Zac: I drew that shirt, by the way. I had to look at his face for 12 hours.
Travis: You're welcome.
Zac: We've already hit 9,100. Protocol95, you are the first winner of the night!
Matt: Protocol95, congratulations. You will be winning the first bundle. Every 100 subscribers there will be another giveaway within the chat room. You have to be active in the chat to be up for it. It includes a cast photo signed by the cast of Critical Role, possibly signed while he's wearing that awesome beard. And a wonderful piece of art from our main artist Kit Buss, also signed by the cast of Critical Role. So every 100 subscribers, that giveaway goes out in the chatroom. Be active and bring your friends on to subscribe so you can win one. Last thing I want to mention, this has been a question that's come up quite a bit, some people are definitely eager to hear the information, so I had the pleasure on Monday this week of designing and running a very quick game of Dungeons and Dragons for Vin Diesel.
Liam: What? (laughs)
Matt: Let's just cross that bucket list item off immediately. That was ridiculous. So it was a lot of fun. He was fantastic, super awesome, genuine, and was really excited--
Laura: He rolled this die. It's sacred.
Taliesin: It was literally bucket list! That was one of the things we discussed when this game started; it could lead to a game with Vin Diesel.
Marisha: I bet if you go back and look at the Q and A session we had, someone asked our dream game crew--
Matt: Vin Diesel was one of our bucket list players. So we've already knocked one off on the show.
Taliesin: It's like a group mass suicide at this point.
Matt: Get matching tennis shoes, and it'll be great.
Liam: You didn't seem that excited, though.
Zac: We can already announce that next Thursday at the midpoint--
Matt: Next Thursday at the midpoint of next week's Critical Role, we are going to show a mostly complete video of that game. The full one will be released shortly thereafter, but next week, on Critical Role during the midpoint, we're going to show you the majority of that game session with him. Don't miss that.
Orion: Can I get a teaser? What did he smell like?
Liam: Iron.
Travis: Quarry.
Laura: Muscle.
Taliesin: Antifreeze and lilac.
Matt: All of those answers at once. A majestic scent. It was delightful. We'll have interviews going up throughout the week, exclusively next week here on Thursday you'll be seeing most of that game here and then more stuff's coming out for the week thereafter. Really excited about that, and I custom-made a witchhunter class for him that I tailored for that level, and there's been such a wide response for everyone asking about the class that I've now spent a lot of my free time that I'm not preparing for this game now customizing a homebrew witchhunter class for all of you to partake in. So that'll be fun and probably coming out sometime next week. It'll probably be broken. You're welcome to homebrew my homebrew, I'm not perfect, but it should be fun and a cool guide for some people to give it a shot as a player class, so look forward to that. Liam, you got a couple things to announce?
Liam: Yeah, just two things. I wanted to thank every Critter who helped out with Joe Madureira's Kickstarter with Airship Syndicate's Kickstarter for Battle Chasers: Nightwar. They crushed it. They got to almost every rung of their ladder. Maybe you guys could help them raise 100k tonight. But Joe told me that they saw a little bit of a bump every Thursday, and that our roleplaying power had some effect, so thank you guys, thank you very much.
Travis: Because we are many.
Matt: We are legion.
Liam: The other thing is tomorrow is Sam Riegel's birthday.
Travis: Nipples, is it really?
Liam: I have a birthday present for him tonight. Something I commissioned the lovely Kit Buss to make for you.
Sam: What? It's Vaxmas?
Liam: It's Vaxmas. Here it is. I'm going to send it across and then I'll tweet it out. You guys can look, but I made this just for you.
Sam: I'm not looking.
Marisha: I made this just for you.
Sam: Oh wow, that's really nice! I thought it was going to be vulgar. Wow. That's so sweet.
Travis: Kit Buss, why are you the best?
Sam: Thank you, Kit Buss. Me and two ladies, what could be better? Right?
Travis: I guess three ladies.
Sam: I don't know how to put this up, but thank you. That's so sweet. Aw. I won't kill you tonight.
Orion: Fun fact  Sam shares a birthday with my mom. That's why I'll never forget your birthday, ever.
Sam: And John Lennon.
Marisha: Happy birthday, Orion's mom.
Laura: Yeah. Happy birthday, Sam.
Matt: Happy unbirthday to Sam's mom, who is also a Critter. You should go follow her on Twitter.
Marisha: Momlan.
Liam: She's not effing around, either.
Matt: Any other announcements? Or shall we dive in?
Laura: I have one. I got nominated for a Golden Joystick award.
Matt: Really?
Laura: Yeah, for Fiona in Tales from the Borderlands.
Matt: That's awesome! (cheering)
Sam: Hey Travis, you didn't know this?
Laura: I didn't tell him. I think there's a week left of voting, so you can go and help out.
Orion: They can vote for you?
Laura: Yes, they can vote for me.
Sam: Can they vote many times?
Laura: I think you have to register your email address, so I don't know how many times you can vote, but you have to vote in all the categories in order to vote for the one category.
Travis: Congratulations, Laura.
Laura: Thanks, baby!
Marisha: As Orion says, release the Critters.
Matt: That's awesome. Go show your support for Fiona, and awesome! Let's go ahead and bring the mood back to our realm of imagination and fantasy and be back here in just a minute with the beginning of this night's Critical Role. [dramatic music]
Matt: So to get you guys caught up on what happened recently, the group, having heard that the Briarwoods, a couple who had taken power in the town of Whitestone far to the northeast, apparently responsible for the destruction of Percy's entire family and his escape into the wilds of Tal'Dorei, were going to be coming to Emon to bridge a political handshake with Sovereign Uriel and all of Tal'Dorei proper to build a bridge across the channel that separates this continent from Wildemount across the sea. Upon hearing this, the party was planning to gather information, and in doing so Vax got himself caught by sneaking into their bedroom and was nearly killed in the process. The group managed to aid him, pull him out from the jaws of death, and the Briarwoods escaped through arcane means, leaving a shattered carriage, a mostly beaten driver of their carriage. Through the scuffle, a number of guards were hurt or killed, and the party, upon meeting an individual named Lilith, a tiefling, leading her back to the Keep, they were attacked, or seemingly attacked, by a series of bounty hunters that were after her. There was some intense violence displayed against a few of them, and this all got back to the Council. The Council called Vox Machina to the central palace and began a trial to see if they were responsible for attacking guests of the Council, ruining what could've been a very lucrative union between the two towns and possibly murdering an old woman. They had their membership revoked, and during this sequence, apparently the charmed Seeker Asum was restored, seemingly to little effect. The group then left, realizing that perhaps the moral ramifications of their actions are having a bigger impact due to their visibility and their heroic status in the kingdom at large. When they returned to the keep, they found two representatives of the northern farmers of Emon that required aid; their livestock had been stolen over the past few weeks and was putting them in dire straits when it came to the necessary amount of meat they had to raise. The group, trying to turn their morality on its head, decided to aid, waited out in the center of the cow pasture at night, masquerading, through illusionary magic, as cows themselves. The giant roc, a gargantuan bird, swooped down and grabbed Cow-leth, Keyleth, here. Swept her away. The rest of the party, Tiberius enabled to fly through arcane means, and thus we had a squadron of evening cows chasing after the roc, which then got turned into a cow, to crash into a mountain. They chased it back to its perch up in the Cliffside Mountains to the northwest of Emon.
Liam: Such an old trope in fantasy.
Matt: Isn't it, though? "Cow-mouflage." And engaged a guardian of this roc, a gnome druid who had been removed from society for quite some time. After some rather roundabout and at some points on-the-edge-of-conflict conversation, they managed to convince him to instead take the bird and flee across the Ozmit Sea, to the northwest, towards Vasselheim, where it would be a much better landscape for the creature to thrive and grow. After that, the party is making their way back. Right around the beginning of daybreak, towards the keep. So that is where we left off. Percy.
Taliesin: Yes? Hello.
Matt: Darkness. Cold, lonely darkness. A flicker of light. It swells, bright, white, blinding, then flashes of your family, screaming. Julius, silenced by a bolt to the throat. Vesper, thrown from a tower wall. Your younger brothers' lifeless bodies tossed in a pile. The smell of death filling your cell. Your father Frederick, a blade jutting from his chest, slick with crimson. Your mother, Johanna, burned with irons, screaming. Cassandra, running towards you, calling your name into the night, begging you to help. One, two, three arrows. She falls. Darkness once more. Darkness and red. Red of blood. Red of burning fire. The sky is fire. The world burns with flame and iron. The smoke rises from the cinders, coalescing into a face, black as soot with eyes as burning coals, and a wicked grin. It speaks with a raspy, rumbling bass, like a slow-moving landslide. "You hold your vengeance, Percival. You made it. You only need to take it for yourself. Make the world right. My gift is yours, and your gift shall bring justice. Our bargain stands eager to close." You suddenly come to consciousness, gasping loudly against the air. You feel the warmth of the forge across the side of the workshop crawling across your face. You are sitting at your workbench, having fallen asleep amidst a pile of contraptions in mid-construction. As you look around, you can see your leather gloves are still on, apron on, blackened soot spread across your face, and a series of things you were in mid-build on broken before you on your workshop table.
Taliesin: (sighs) How long have I been here?
Matt: There's nobody in the room, and you have no idea. You're underground in the workshop. You haven't seen the sun probably for a good day and a half.
Orion: It's a new day. I didn't waste it at all.
Matt: You have no idea quite how long you've been down here, and you've been left alone for quite some time.
Taliesin: I'm going to head upstairs.
Matt: You go and open the metallic door that leads into your workshop and come around the corner, and there's a chair set in the corner, where Jarett would be sitting, one of the head guards at your facility. Jarett, however, is standing, hands up to his throat, going (choking sounds) with no visible assailant.
Taliesin: (shouting) Help!
Sam: Are we there? No, we're not even there.
Matt: I want you to go ahead and roll initiative.
Sam: Oh shit, it's already started!
Laura: Trinket was down there.
Sam: Was?
Laura: Don't say that!
Sam: Just saying that Trinket died already.
Laura: Don't say it.
Taliesin: Natural 20. 28. (cheering)
Matt: And that's how Percy does it.
Travis: What is with that dice and you, man?
Liam: You are the yin to Wil Wheaton's yang.
Taliesin: He was sitting here 20 minutes ago. I rubbed him for luck when he was leaving the building.
Marisha: No, we have him. It's balance.
Matt: All right. So what's your total?
Taliesin: 28.
Matt: 28. (laughs) You are definitely-- Okay. You are up first. What do you want to do? As you come around the corner and you see this visual in front of you. If you want to go ahead and roll for Trinket, too.
Laura: (worried noises) Oh no!
Taliesin: So I just see him up like this?
Laura: 19.
Matt: 19? Nice.
Taliesin: Just for some reference, does it look like he's possessed, or does it look like he's trying to remove something?
Matt: It looks like he's trying to remove something from around his neck, and looking down, you can see his feet are actually off the ground, kicking. It looks like there's a little bit of air wisping around behind him.
Taliesin: How insane would it be to try and make a shot beneath his legs?
Matt: You can certainly go for it and try.
Taliesin: I'm going to drop down. Can I make an aimed shot against something I can't see?
Matt: You can try, it'll be with disadvantage, but you can definitely make it.
Orion: He's in the kitchen?
Laura: No, he's downstairs.
Sam: Can I request that the rest of us do the sounds of the ricocheting bullets in case he misses?
Taliesin: Okay, I want 5.1; start here and make it all the way down.
Laura: But you're not going to miss, so it doesn't matter.
Taliesin: I'm going to take an aimed shot for my first shot, and then start firing blindly.
Matt: This will be disadvantage against an invisible assailant.
Travis: It misses?
Taliesin: It missed. I'm just making sure I didn't misfire. No, I didn't! Thank god.
Matt: So what's the total?
Taliesin: 15.
Matt: Total of 15? Still hits.
Taliesin: Still hits? 15 hits? Oh, that's 16 points of damage, and he has to make a constitution saving throw to not be knocked prone.
Matt: Okay. What's the DC on that?
Taliesin: Where is my DC? DC of eight plus my proficiency mod, plus my dexterity mod, so 19.
Matt: Sure enough. You see all of a sudden the air go (gasp) and Jaret falls to his knees (coughs).
Taliesin: I'm going to take two more shots right above his head.
Matt: Go for it.
Sam: Don't hit Jarett.
Matt: Jarett's on his knees, prone, essentially.
Sam: He could still hit Jarett! He's our best guy.
Matt: You still have disadvantage on these.
Taliesin: I don't?
Matt: No, you still have disadvantage on these. It is still an invisible creature.
Taliesin: 20.
Matt: 20 hits.
Taliesin: That's 13.
Matt: 13 does not hit.
Taliesin: No, 13 points of damage.
Matt: Oh. Yes.
Taliesin: And then 20 again.
Matt: 20 hits.
Taliesin: Nine points of damage.
Matt: Nine points of damage. (gunshots) The gunshots are echoing through the hallway. Whatever this weird entity is, you can see some of the nearby cloth and dust swirl up from its movement, you hear this (gasping sound), this angry sucking sound in the air around you. Do you want to move, or are you staying where you are?
Taliesin: I'm going to stay where I am. And I'm going to keep yelling. Help! I don't think I have an earring.
Matt: You see some sort of shimmer of wind come around the corner towards you. This one turns around and (whooshing sound) over to the bars, and you can see in the distance, it's moving over towards where your captive currently is.
Orion: How far away are we from the keep?
Matt: I'm getting to that. At the end of this combat round, all of you guys are right toward the outskirts of the keep, and you hear the muffled ringing of gunshots from the inside of the keep.
Orion: We do hear that.
Matt: You do hear this as you're just getting to the outer gates.
Orion: As soon as I hear that, I cast Fly on myself and (whoosh).
Laura: Are you wearing an earring, Percy?
Matt: No, he is not. The entity swooshes down the stairs and comes at you. That's going to be a 22.
Taliesin: That hits.
Matt: And a 12.
Taliesin: That does not.
Matt: It swings towards you, and a giant slam of extremely condensed air with a raking claw impact hits you in the torso, doing 15 points of bludgeoning damage. The other one swings out, same direction. This time you actually pull off to the side and knock it out of the way with your Pepperbox. The one back there is going to attempt to grapple. Succeeds. That's its action, and you can see the driver that you had put into prison is currently being (choking) making strangling sounds in the distance. That ends it. Trinket's up.
Laura: Trinket. He can see Percy getting attacked and instinct takes over, and he runs forward and he claws him.
Matt: All right, go ahead and roll for the attack.
Laura: That does not hit. That's a natural 20.
Matt: That will hit! (laughs) It begins.
Laura: Oh, that's the wrong thing. That's a 2d4.
Matt: So roll 2d4 and then multiply those by two.
Laura: 17 damage.
Matt: 17 damage, nice. Trinket runs up, coming out of his somewhat sleepy stupor, goes for a bite attack and grabs nothing with it, and turns around and rakes a claw backwards, manages to get the back of whatever this entity is, and you hear it scream (gasping scream). You do, at least.
Taliesin: I have a technical dispute, really quickly. Could the wraith have gotten that far, since I knocked him prone?
Matt: Yes, it could've, because it uses half its movement speed to get up.
Taliesin: Oh, thank you. Never mind.
Matt: Its movement is actually 50.
Taliesin: Ignore me! 50?!
Matt: Not that you know that. But it moved far for what you think it should've been able to.
Orion: By the way, for the record, Matthew, I have no idea what we're fighting.
Travis: Nobody does.
Orion: I'm just saying, I haven't meta-gamed here.
Matt: Congrats. (laughs) I'm proud of you.
Liam: Fresh start.
Matt: Jarett then gets up, sees this happening, moves over, and pulls out the key to try and open the prison door. Spends the turn doing so. Manages to get the door open. That's the end of Jarett's turn. Okay, now, the rest of you guys roll initiative.
Travis: Okay. Come on, you giant ball-bearing. Damn.
Laura: Does that count, if I hit it into my box and it slammed into the side? Does that count, or should I let it roll naturally?
Matt: Let it roll naturally. That would normally count, but it's fine. Wherever it lands, you take it, going forward. Okay, so 25 to 20?
Sam: Oh, initiative?
Taliesin: Keep up, people! Come on.
Matt: You hear the gunshot. You're entering this intensity.
Sam: I don't think it's anything. I think it's just him tinkering.
Matt: So Scanlan stays behind. 25 to 20? 20 to 15? What are your scores?
Liam: 15.
Orion: 15.
Laura: 17.
Marisha: 16.
Travis: 16.
Taliesin: Thank you all, by the way, for leaving a bear on suicide watch. That was really cool.
Laura: You're welcome.
Matt: Vex, what'd you get again?
Travis: 17.
Laura: I got 17.
Sam: He got 15.
Matt: 15, Tiberius. And what'd you get, Vax?
Liam: 15.
Matt: 15, all right. Three 15s.
Sam: I got three.
Matt: You got three? Okay. All right, so you guys all spend your turn, if you choose to, to rush through the gates. As soon as the gunshots go off, you can see Shayne's up on top, and she sees it, gives a quick turn, and you can see the gates begin to open, and you hear this angry grunting as your half-orc guard is now pulling the doors open as fast as he can. You guys find a moment and slip through, running towards the front of the keep. You guys manage to get, with full dash and full turn, including your flight-- because you fly a little bit faster, but you have a little more of an arc to get over-- you guys get to the front of the keep this turn. So you won't get into this until next round. That brings it back to the top. Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: (sighs) There's no way I can fire at the one who's far away from me right now, is there?
Matt: It's hard to see.
Laura: But Jarett's got him.
Taliesin: I can ignore cover, though.
Matt: You can ignore cover, but you have this entity in front of you. I mean, you'll be at disadvantage regardless, because you're shooting at something invisible, and you have something that's in melee of you and you have a ranged weapon.
Taliesin: I'm going to see if there's a charge left in my glove and try and take the-- there wouldn't be a charge left in my glove, would there?
Matt: You glance down at the glove, and you see the gemstone in the center of the palm is currently dark and lifeless.
Taliesin: Okay. (sighs) Hold on, sorry.
Travis: Fan the hammer, motherfuck.
Taliesin: It gets weird when it's up close. Okay. Let's see what we do. All right. There's no way I can step back right now, is there?
Matt: Currently? I mean, you can if you want to. It'll get a free strike on you.
Taliesin: Okay, I'm going to try and take shots, then.
Matt: The one in front of you? Okay. Go for it. With disadvantage on each shot.
Taliesin: Firing with disadvantage? Screw it, I'm going to take my first one with sharpshooter to see if I can do any damage that way. Nope. Actually, that's a misfire.
Matt: So Pepperbox (explosion sound). You go to shoot, and--
Marisha: (ricochet sound)
Matt: The barrel gets clogged, and the front of it actually catches fire for a second, and you have to shake it out right now. It's completely offset, and it's going to take a moment to even get it to where you can fire again.
Taliesin: Okay. Do I have six seconds?
Matt: You do. And you've used one attack. You have two more attacks.
Taliesin: Well, it misfired.
Matt: Yeah, that weapon you have to use an action to repair.
Taliesin: Okay. I'm going to do something a little weird. I'm going to pull out Bad News. I know I can't shoot this close with it, or god only knows what would happen. I'm going to try and swing it like a pugil stick, and I'm going to try and hit him with the butt of Bad News.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and make a melee attack. This is strength-based. Add your proficiency modifier and your strength modifier.
Taliesin: 15?
Matt: You still have disadvantage on it because you can't see it. And you're not proficient.
Taliesin: 15?
Matt: 15 just barely hits. (cheering)
Matt: All right, so go ahead and roll-- with the size of Bad News, I'd say 1d6, plus your strength modifier.
Taliesin: Four.
Matt: Okay, so four points of damage, as you bludgeon it. You took a turn to get it out. Your third attack is then slamming it in the side. Whatever entity you smacked gets pushed against the wall. Go ahead and roll a d20 for me.
Taliesin: 14.
Matt: Okay. So the impact does not appear to damage Bad News in this instance. It is a fragile construct, and even doing melee attacks with it does subject it to a misfire possibility.
Taliesin: I hit it with the stock, I was careful.
Matt: I know. Okay, so that concludes your turn?
Taliesin: Yeah, I'm kind of-- yeah.
Matt: Okay, you stay there. All right. The one that's in front of you now is going to go ahead and go over this way. Trinket-- well, no, it's still in melee, so it doesn't actually get an attack. It does get two strikes on you. That is a 17.
Taliesin: Nope.
Matt: And that is 18.
Taliesin: Armor class is 18.
Matt: So it does just hit you.
Taliesin: Can I do that crazy thing?
Matt: No, I've eliminated that.
Taliesin: Oh, you've removed that. Okay, never mind. I don't have the new update, sorry. I don't have a dodge anymore, right?
Matt: No, the dodge is not there. It rarely came into play. Okay, so that puts you at another 15 points of bludgeoning damage as it just smacks you right across the head. Your eyes go dizzy for a second, and you take a minute to refocus your vision, and you can now see in the air, the shimmering expression that looks like a humanoid face stretched and ghastly going (gasps) in front of you, but it's still barely even visible, and only because of the proximity to you are you able to actually make out any sort of shape or shimmer in the air in front of you. The other one is attempting to choke out the prisoner. However, the prisoner resists through athletics, so he's currently holding back at bay the strength of the entity. That ends its turn. Trinket's up.
Laura: Trinket's up! He's going to try to jump and land on top of the ghostly thing and bite its face. I don't know how to do that.
Matt: (laughs) To do a real leap, Trinket would have to back up and then run towards it. If Trinket wants to do that. Okay. So Trinket backs up. As it does, it gets one free swipe at Trinket. That is 18 to hit.
Laura: I'm having an issue here. Because I have 18 in parentheses, and then I wrote a 20 and I circled it and I don't know why.
Matt: I don't know why, either.
Laura: 18 is probably--
Matt: Yeah, we'll say 18. So that hits. Trinket takes 15 points of bludgeoning damage as the entity swings out and backhands Trinket. However Trinket now leaps-- go ahead and make an athletics check.
Liam: He has better armor class than I do.
Sam: Does he have armor?
Laura: He does! He's got his bulette armor, man. He's a cannonball. What am I doing? A strength?
Matt: Athletics, yeah.
Laura: 17?
Matt: 17. Yeah. Trinket leaps forward, slamming this entity onto the ground and knocking it prone, and you get to go ahead and make a bite attack.
Laura: Yes! That didn't count because it slipped out of my hand. That was even worse than the other one. So 11. It slipped out of my hand. It shouldn't count if it goes like that! 20.
Matt: So Trinket manages to knock it prone, however, because it gets pushed out of the way, Trinket has a hard time, Trinket just makes a big slash and a bite out in the air where it once was and misses entirely.
Laura: But he's gone prone.
Matt: But he is knocked prone. Jarett's now going to attempt to grapple the entity.
Sam: Wait, Trinket missed? (ricochet sound) (laughter)
Matt: Jarett manages to reach out and grab onto whatever this creature is, hold onto it, just grappling, and is going to attempt to try and pull it back. For this, I will do a contested roll on that. It rolled a one. Jarett pulled it back that far, managing to let go of its quarry, and is currently holding onto some sort of angry, whirling entity at that point. That ends Jarett's turn. The rest of you guys all manage to make your way up into the armory up top. First is Vex. You rush in there, and what do you want to do?
Laura: I want to run down and shoot something.
Matt: Okay. You can get just about there.
Laura: Can I see anything? Can I ricochet an arrow to hit?
Matt: (laughs) I would say this guy has three-quarters cover, so it would be disadvantage on the attack. You already have disadvantage because it's invisible, so it's hard to hit, regardless.
Laura: That was the same one each time. 28.
Matt: 28? 28 hits.
Laura: Oh, I didn't fucking Hunter's Mark him. God damn it. Fuck. 15.
Matt: 15 points of damage. The first arrow sinks into whatever's there, and you can see it jutting out of no physical space.
Laura: Now I'm going to Hunter's Mark him and I'm going to hit him again. Can I do that?
Matt: Technically, it's part of your attack. You can do two attacks first, then you can bonus action, so you're like (arrow sounds) and then you Hunter's Mark it after.
Laura: All right. That one doesn't hit. Doesn't matter. Doesn't hit anyway. I missed it.
Sam: (ricochet sound)
Matt: Second shot shatters against the back wall of the stone. You can Hunter's Mark for your bonus.
Laura: I Hunter's Mark him.
Matt: All right. Entity is now Hunter's Marked. That ends Vex's turn. Keyleth, you now also make your way into the doorway.
Marisha: How far can I get?
Matt: About there. Nothing's in visual sight right now, unfortunately.
Marisha: Nothing's in visual sight?
Matt: No, half of that was getting to that point. You could dash and try and make your way in, but you wouldn't be able to do anything.
Marisha: Can I dash and then make a bonus action?
Matt: You could, yeah. Your call. What do you got? Grog, you're on deck.
Marisha: I'll just wait.
Matt: Okay. Keyleth waits there. Grog, you're up.
Marisha: Let me just scootch over so I can be behind Vex.
Matt: You have a little better movement, so you actually manage to get two more squares in. What's your speed again?
Travis: 50.
Matt: 50? Yeah, you manage to get up to there, and now your turn begins.
Travis: I go into a rage, and I come in, and I turn to the right, and I run up as close as I can to Jared--
Laura: Jarett.
Travis: Yeah, Jarett. And wispy fuck.
Matt: All right, so you charge in. Angry, you see Jarett's currently reaching back and trying to go for his crossbow now that this entity's in his face. He's grappled it with one arm and he's reaching back to try and grab it. You come rushing in. Go for it.
Travis: I take out a holy oil vial out of the Bag of Holding, I crush it in my hand, and I take a swing at whatever he's holding.
Matt: All right. Cool. So as you pull out (glass breaking) the pain from the glass even further angers you in your rage. You can see a mix of holy water and blood trickle down from your fist as you clench it. Go ahead and swing for a punch with disadvantage.
Travis: That's a one.
Matt: So that first strike just whiffs over. Through your anger, you're unable to focus on where this entity may be.
Travis: Not off to a good start with this. Number two. Disadvantage. Fuck.
Matt: What's the total?
Travis: 15.
Matt: 15 just barely hits. Go ahead and roll.
Travis: One of these guys?
Matt: Go ahead and roll that. Half that damage, yes.
Travis: One. Plus rage, which is--
Matt: Plus strength.
Travis: Oh, right. Eight.
Matt: So eight points of damage to it. All righty. (whack) It hits, and you hear this (yelps) sound as it takes the impact, and you can see this strange, angry face appear suddenly out of the shimmering air that just then disperses again, and you don't quite know where it is. You can make a third strike now, if you want.
Laura: Did it do any holy damage?
Matt: Did not appear to have any additional effect on the entity.
Travis: Well, hell, it was worth a shot. Oh, at disadvantage. 19.
Matt: 19 still hits. Go ahead and roll the next attack.
Travis: Eight again.
Matt: Eight damage again. (whack) You backhand it with your third strike, this time finding the edge of its face again, and you see the chair right next to it tumble as it barely manages to catch itself and keep itself aloft. Nevertheless, this strange invisible entity is still there holding its ground.
Travis: Would you say the blood from my hand is splattering Jarett behind him?
Matt: You look over at Jarett. Jarett's currently trying to grab onto the creature and keep it grappled. So yeah, it's spattering on him.
Travis: I'm a painter.
Matt: (laughs) All right, that ends Grog's turn. Vax and Tiberius. You guys both get up to the edge of this room here.
Orion: Your cape is looking really nice, Vax.
Liam: I'm clicking my Boots of Haste, and I get double movement, so I get to go 60 feet. I'm going to slink up right beside Trinket and stab the shit out of this invisible thing.
Orion: Stab him! Hey, what do they look like?
Liam: So because Trinket's right there, this is a sneak attack. That hits. That is 29 to hit.
Matt: That'll hit. (laughter)
Matt: It is prone. It is invisible but it is prone, so that evens out to no advantage or disadvantage.
Liam: (counting) 25 for the first hit.
Matt: 25, all right.
Laura: Don't you double it? You had to double 19.
Liam: No, he didn't-- that's a critical hit.
Laura: Oh, right.
Liam: One shy. So now out comes the Dagger of Life-Stealing. It misses-- well, does 15 hit?
Matt: 15 just barely hits.
Liam: Just barely hits? Oh, that's better than I thought. That is three plus six is nine for damage, and then the Keen Dagger comes back, and that gets a 27, so that also hits for nine of damage.
Matt: All right. So as you rush over, you stab downward. You hear this (gurgle) sound as your blade comes down into whatever entity's there, and your hand moves around as it struggles against the blade. You pull it out, grab your other dagger, and then throw it in the air, catch it, slam it down again for that third strike, and then pull back and stab a third time.
Liam: And Trinket is very comforting, pressed against my shoulder as I do all that. He's supple.
Matt: Supple bear. #SuppleBear. All right, that ends your turn. Tiberius, what are you doing?
Orion: How far can I get?
Matt: That's about as far as you can get with your movement. You currently do not have visual on either of them. You're flying. What's your fly speed?
Orion: 60 feet.
Matt: You said that last time, and we found out it was 40, I believe wasn't it?
Orion: Was it 40? I thought it was 60. It was double the-- shit, hold on. I have a card--
Matt: You have a card and yet I find it faster.
Orion: 60 feet.
Matt: It is 60. You're right. Yeah, so you can go double. You are now just coasting down the stairway.
Orion: I'm going to attempt something I haven't actually tried before.
Matt: All right, go for it.
Orion: Because there's one to my right and one to my left, right?
Matt: Correct. There's one over here that has Grog and Jarett flanking. The other one has Percy, Vax, and Trinket all around it. That one's actually prone on the ground. It's hard to see normally; it's very hard to see now that it's swarmed.
Orion: Do I have visual of both wraiths?
Matt: You have visual of both entities, whatever they are.
Orion: Okay, sorry. I call them wraiths. Okay, so. I'm going to cast at--
Sam: Have we rested, by the way?
Matt: No, you have not rested yet.
Sam: So we're down a bunch of spells.
Matt: Yeah, you're still where you were when you came back.
Marisha: Well, to be fair, we talked. We didn't have a battle.
Sam: Some of us used spells. Fly and stuff.
Orion: I'm going to try to do this about now. I'm going to look to my right and my left and at 6th-level I'm going to try to do Glacial Blast and split the damage and try to hit both of them. Because it does 8d8 damage--
Matt: Are you doing this single-stream?
Orion: I'm trying to split my arc. So instead of doing this, I'm trying to-- (ice sounds)
Matt: Okay. How much damage is it?
Orion: At sixth level, it's 8d8 damage.
Matt: Okay, and what's the saving throw?
Orion: 17.
Matt: 17, okay. Jarett and Vax have to make saving throws, as well. Go ahead and make that. Jarett rolled an 18 and has high dex, so yeah, Jarett makes his save. That's half-damage for Jarett.
Liam: 28 for me.
Matt: All right. So you take no damage, because you're a rogue. Go ahead and roll damage. That's 18 for one. This one fails, this one succeeds.
Orion: Cool. Right hand does-- oh, sweet.
Marisha: No. That's a d10. These are d8s.
Orion: Sorry, my bad.
Matt: It's actually not prone. They're immune to being prone.
Orion: Right hand-- that's 14 to my right, and then 18 to my left.
Matt: So how much is that?
Orion: So 14 to my right, 18 to my left.
Matt: Okay. Got you.
Orion: The one that doesn't save gets (freezing sound).
Matt: It would if it wasn't immune. However, as you arc down, the ice blast comes through. You can see Vax manages to pull down to the ground and get out of the way in time. Jarett ducks out of the way and it blasts over, hitting both these entities. Ice crackles around both their forms, but then the forms shift out of it. That ends your turn right there. Comes back to Scanlan.
Sam: Oh, where am I?
Matt: You are right there. Just entered the room behind everybody else.
Sam: Where does Percy do his tinkering?
Matt: Over here.
Sam: Because I can't see what's going on down there.
Matt: No, you just see, currently, these three down the hallway. You can just see Tiberius blast a bunch of ice, arc in the air.
Sam: Okay, so I know there's shit going on down there, but I can't really see what. So I would probably just Dimension Door into the tinkering room, because that's where I assume Percy is. And then I see what's going on, and nobody's there. Do I have line-of-sight on anybody?
Matt: Currently, you see Percy through this doorway right there.
Sam: Okay. Well, then. I can move also, can't I?
Matt: Yeah, Dimension Door is your action.
Sam: I'll move towards him. Oh, then I see a crazy thing in front of me. Shit. So I probably take a couple steps back. (laughter)
Sam: And then I'll inspire Percy. (sings) All the single Percys, all the single Percys.
All: (sing) All the single Percys, all the single Percys, put your guns up-up-up.
Matt: d10 inspiration dice to you, Percy.
Taliesin: What is that, a d10?
Matt: d10, yeah. That brings it to the top of the combat round. Percy, you're up first.
Taliesin: I'm going to use my action to try and clear my gun.
Matt: Okay. So go ahead and make your check.
Taliesin: What is that again? Did it change since last time?
Matt: That one shouldn't have changed, no.
Taliesin: Okay, so it's 11. I'm adding my bonus die. God damn it. Nine.
Matt: Nine. As you pull over your Pepperbox, you're like, (ping). The actual barrel comes off and hits the ground and rolls off toward the back of the room.
Taliesin: I'm tossing it into my room. I'm using an action surge. Actually, can I even do that? Yes, I'm going to use my action surge, and I'm going to walk over to the wraith on the ground, put the barrel of Bad News up to it, and pull the trigger.
Matt: The wraith is no longer on the ground, by the way.
Taliesin: Is he not?
Matt: The entity actually, upon looking, is immune to being prone. So we won't retcon anything, but as you go to pull the barrel up, you can see now the face is standing up before you.
Taliesin: I'm just going to try and shove it until I hit something and then pull.
Matt: Okay, so go ahead and roll with disadvantage with Bad News.
Taliesin: 22.
Matt: 22 hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
Travis: Oh shit. We're all going to go deaf.
Laura: Oh man, that's going to be loud as fuck.
Taliesin: 19.
Matt: 19. (gunshot) Bad News goes off. The sound is deafening in the room, the echoing of the explosion through the stone walls. I'm going to go ahead and have you roll a constitution saving throw.
Liam: Vax or Liam?
Matt: Vax. Both, maybe.
Liam: Roll a what now?
Matt: Constitution saving throw.
Taliesin: If you fail, I get to scream in your ear.
Liam: That is a 15.
Matt: 15, okay. You don't go deaf, but your ears are ringing very hard. The entity screams and then disperses.
Taliesin: I get a grit point back.
Marisha: You do! Dope.
Matt: Okay, so two more attacks. Or you have to use one to reload.
Taliesin: I have to use one to reload. I have one more attack, but I've already-- I didn't move. I'm going to try and roll around the corner and I'm going to take another shot. 27.
Matt: 27 hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
Taliesin: 19 points of damage.
Matt: Okay. This time (gunshot), the shot goes off right by your head, Tiberius. You're flying in the air and you look down and see him pull Bad News out right beneath you, and before you have a chance to react, (gunshot) the flash of the muzzle just bursting forward, a big plume of black powder smoke fills the air around you.
Orion: So I see a big flash? And what do I roll?
Matt: Make a constitution saving throw.
Taliesin: Sorry.
Orion: Seven.
Matt: Okay, you are considered deaf until the start of his next turn.
Orion: Okay, so as soon as I see the flash, I go, (yelps). That's all I do. (laughter)
Matt: So that ends your turn, Percy? All right. Next, this entity that's Hunter's Marked is going to rush forward, straight out of the grapple from Jarett. Shifts right out of his hands. Is going to run forward and take the double attack against the prisoner. That's a 19 plus six. 25 hits. And 15 hits, as well. Takes 30 points of damage. Is currently unconscious. Punches him twice, and you see the poor driver is knocked up into the ceiling, falls down onto the bed, and is half-laying off. You see blood trickling down the front of his face, his eyes open, and slowly close.
Marisha: We need him alive.
Matt: That brings us to Trinket's turn.
Marisha: Come on, Trinket!
Laura: Trinket roars, rushes forward.
Matt: Actually, we're now going to roll Trinket into your turn.
Laura: Oh, all right. Then he stays there.
Matt: Okay. Trinket stays there until it's your turn. Jarett is going to rush forward and come to this corner. The crossbow is not much aid at this point. Reaches over and pulls out a short sword and lunges forward with the short sword. Yeah, with disadvantage, nine. Oh god. Rolls a 20 and a three. Great. Sorry, Jarett. Swinging through, trying to pierce through the bars at this entity, and can't seem to get any sort of attack to hit.
Laura: So he's actually locked in the thing still?
Matt: Jarett got the door open, he came through to try and grab the creature, and as he tried to pull it back, the creature sifted through his hands again to go ahead and attack the prisoner. That ends Jarett's turn. Vex, it is now your turn.
Laura: Okay. Can I move forward so I can see?
Matt: Yeah, you can see about there; it would give you visual on the entity.
Laura: All right. Yeah, I'll do that. I'll shoot him. He's Hunter's Marked already, okay, good.
Matt: He is, yes. So both attacks at disadvantage.
Laura: 15.
Matt: 15 hits. Just hits.
Laura: 16.
Matt: 16 also hits-- oh, 16 damage. All right. Including the additional Hunter's Mark?
Laura: Yes. And then 14 doesn't hit.
Matt: 14 does not hit. The arrow disappears in the back of the cell, scattering and shattering against part of the stone wall.
Laura: And Trinket, can he get up to him? Oh, but I took all the attacks.
Matt: Correct. So Trinket rushes up, but doesn't attack.
Laura: Trinket stays in the corner, then, because he can't do shit.
Matt: Okay. Trinket just cheers you on. (bear growl) Cool, that ends your turn. Keyleth.
Marisha: Okay, I'm going to-- seeing the direction that everyone's pointing, going to walk up and reach around Vex and I'm going to cast Faerie Fire right-- oh god, wrong direction. Right in the fucking eye. (laughter)
Liam: You turn on yourself.
Marisha: Crit fail. It's a 20-foot cube, so I want to cast it right in the cell.
Matt: Okay. So as you cast that, it's going to attempt to make its save. What's the DC on that?
Marisha: Against my spell's DC? 18.
Matt: And it fails with a 14. All right, so you guys watch as she reaches her hand out. The entire cell, all of a sudden there's a burst of purplish light, and these little dust-stars of purple glowing begin to drift down from the ceiling. As they do, they cling to whatever this form is, and you can now see, very clearly, this invisible entity that is surrounded in these purple sparkles. It looks humanoid from the torso up, but its legs are shimmering and shifting around. You now have a very clear look on it. You've nullified its invisibility.
Marisha: You have advantage now.
Matt: Gives advantage, as well? Yeah. You guys now all have advantage on this entity.
Marisha: And I'm going to take my bonus action to do Healing Word on the-- it's not Jarett that's unconscious, it's the cab driver. On the cab driver.
Matt: Okay, so go ahead and roll for the Healing Word.
Sam: Desmond. Jarett and Desmond.
Matt: How much does he heal?
Marisha: Six plus my spell modifier. So ten? Is that right, is that how it works? Plus my spell level? Is that what it is with Healing Word?
Matt: I think it's plus five, whatever it is. Healing Word, yeah.
Marisha: 1d4 plus my spellcasting ability modifier.
Matt: So it's plus six.
Marisha: Six, so 12.
Matt: 12. Got you. Okay. Desmond's eyes clarify for a second and he begins to breathe heavily. Still looking very wounded, but conscious and prone across the bed, as the entity that's Hunter's Marked is still looming over it, bringing its fists up for another round to try and finish its job. That ends your turn, Keyleth. Grog, you're up.
Travis: There you are. Hold still, Casper! And I run up and I swing. (laughter)
Matt: As you rush up angrily, make your strike.
Travis: That's 28.
Matt: That hits.
Travis: That's a 27.
Matt: Hits.
Liam: Those would hit Tiamat.
Travis: 17.
Matt: 17 also hits, so roll damage three times. As you rush up, the bars open, bringing the axe down on top of this now sparkling purple entity.
Travis: Ten, so 14 on the first one, plus fire damage.
Matt: Cool.
Travis: 17 plus-- 21. No. Is that right? Did I do that right?
Laura: Yeah?
Travis: Yeah. So 21. The second one.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: And 17, 21 again!
Matt: Nice! All righty, so you run up (hammer strikes) hammer down a third time, you can see its body being beaten around by the attack. And you see the whispering of its wind around its lower body is starting to slow, and it's looking like it's getting more sluggish, but it's definitely still intent on its job. That ends your turn, Grog. Vax, you're up.
Liam: All right, in a split second I'm watching Grog take the thing apart. I size up everybody in front of me in the distance and I think I can Assassin Creed my way through the crowd because I can go 60 feet normally, so 30 feet if it's crowded, and I'm going to use Grog's proximity to take this thing apart.
Matt: Okay. I will say you would normally get advantage. Because you're attacking it through the bars, melee, it disables it, so it's just a straight attack. You're having to fight it through prison bars with daggers, which is difficult.
Liam: All right. So the first one is terrible, it's a 14.
Matt: 14 misses, unfortunately.
Liam: And that's where the sneak attack damage is, right?
Matt: Well, it's the first attack you get on it would get it. So even if you miss the first attack, you can still get it with the second and third.
Liam: All right. Third one is a 21.
Matt: That does hit.
Liam: So there's the delivery system, and that is the Keen Dagger. 26, 27, 32. 38.
Matt: All right. With that, the first blade comes through and you try and get it through the bars and it gets nothing. You pull back, take the other dagger and swing through it. Falls too wide and you have to bring your arm back. This time, you can see after Grog has slammed it with the hammer, it falls. The sparkles come towards the edge. Its slamming its back into the bars. It's right there in front of you, and you use that instance to go ahead and reach through the bars, grab it by the throat, and stab it repeatedly, at which point its form disperses into wind around you.
Liam: And I slap Grog on the back and say, you softened the shit of him. That's terrible English. You softened him up for me! Asshole.
Travis: You've been drinking?
Laura: (giggling) You softened the shit of him.
Liam: You shitted him up for me, Grog. Good job.
Matt: You guys look over. You see Desmond is still on the bed, eyes wide (panting).
Orion: I rush over to Desmond, and out of my pouch I bring out a sandwich that I had made earlier. I hand it to him and I go, Desmond, decker. Here, have it. It's a decker sandwich. You should have it.
Matt: Gets up on the bed and takes it. "What happened?"
Laura: I run up and I cast Cure Wounds on him.
Matt: Okay. So go ahead and roll for the Cure Wounds heal on that.
Travis: You casting that all over the place now aren't you, fancy-pants?
Sam: From the tinkering room I yell out, is it safe? Can I come out now?
Orion: It's safe.
Liam: There's four more of them. Stay back.
Sam: Oh! Okay. I'll stay.
Travis: I remember I have the holy oil in my hand, mixed with the blood, and I start blessing him. With bloody fist.
Laura: 17.
Matt: All right, awesome.
Laura: Do I add my wisdom to that?
Matt: You add your wisdom modifier.
Laura: Then it's 20.
Matt: That's good to know. All right, cool. All right.
Orion: How's that sandwich?
Matt: Desmond isn't eating it. He's just holding it and still taking in. "What happened? What was that?! Look, what was that thing?"
Travis: Yeah, what was that thing?
Laura: What was that thing?
Orion: I would say opaque buttholes.
Marisha: Can we do a check?
Matt: Make an arcana check.
Taliesin: I'll make an arcana check, too.
Sam: How did you get two?
Orion: I rolled one by accident.
Matt: If you rolled by accident, you have to roll intentionally to take the score. Because if you were to accidentally roll really bad, you'd be like, "That doesn't count! I didn't actually roll."
Orion: A hard 12.
Matt: Total of 12?
Liam: I rolled a 22 arcana check.
Marisha: 22?
Laura: Oh, he's faced these things before. That's what it is.
Matt: That's the thing, you've seen these. These entities are used by certain high-level arcane practitioners. They can be summoned as certain spells. They're air elemental-based in nature, but they're generally known as invisible stalkers. They're used as assassins that have a very sole, single-minded purpose.
Liam: All I know is they feel like the Briarwoods.
Matt: You get that, based on recent events, there's probably a good probability that was the source of this.
Laura: Do you know from your previous experience if there's any way to protect against them? Other than setting up walls?
Liam: Well, all I know is how to stick my face in the beehives, apparently.
Laura: Does anybody know how to protect against air stalkers?
Orion: Give me a day, I will find out.
Matt: Jarett, at which point has put his hand against the wall, and goes, "Ugh. I would recommend that next time you decide to put me on watch, let me know if we're up against things that are invisible. I apologize. I was not prepared for such a foe to show up."
Laura: We were unprepared to warn you. I'm sorry.
Matt: "It's all right. If I might ask, what exactly are we up against here?"
Travis: Fuck if we know.
Orion: Seems like we're up against either vampires or liches. Prepare the troops. There will be some changes made to the keep over the next couple of days. We shall shore up security, as well.
Matt: "I would like also to consider possibly some changes made to our income, as this suddenly turned from a general guarding job to going up against the denizens of the afterlife. It's already been a very dangerous proposition."
Orion: Of course. We shall discuss that in the-- is it the morning?
Matt: "Very well. I'm going to go ahead and make sure the rest of my team is alive."
Liam: Jarett! Are you up for it?
Matt: "If the pay is good, yes."
Laura: Jarett's up for anything.
Matt: "You understand. Ugh, okay. Talk to you in the morning. I think a bit of rest is necessary." And he makes his way up the stairs to the rest of the keep. Desmond at this point is still in shock, and he starts absentmindedly eating the sandwich that you handed him.
Orion: It's good, right? I had one yesterday.
Laura: Well. Maybe it's best not to leave him down here.
Orion: No. You should stay in the guest room. Come.
Matt: "Is it safer there?"
Orion: Yes, it is.
Matt: "I told you they'd come for me. I told you they would."
Laura: But you know what! You're still alive.
Sam: You've had the worst couple of days.
Matt: Wipes the blood from the side of his face and looks at it.
Orion: Let's take you upstairs and get you all fitted... Who do we talk to that works for us that does the actual construction to the keep?
Laura: That is one of Uriel's staff. In which case, we cannot talk to them right now.
Matt: Yeah, the individual responsible for the construction of the keep was Lord Riskel Daxio, which is an elven gentleman on the Council that helped oversee the whole construction and helped you guys design it, so.
Liam: Is he still on the bed?
Matt: Still on the bed.
Liam: I sit down next to him and say, listen. You are a victim of circumstance, we understand that. We are, to a certain degree, as well. We're not leaving your side, and really there's no other choice. I mean, you're fucked like we are. So we will do our best to protect you, I promise you.
Matt: "Okay."
Travis: I volunteer to sleep down in the room.
Liam: Oh wow.
Orion: He shall stay in my quarters.
Travis: It's better down here, isn't it?
Liam: In a locked cell with Grog? I think is pretty safe.
Laura: I think it's probably better to bring him upstairs, because if it's locked, we can't get to him very quickly.
Orion: Don't worry, we can enchant his room, as well, to have an alert thing go on if anything happens in the room at night, and it would be safer. I shall be sleeping in my laboratory for the next several nights, as well.
Marisha: I mean, I can still go ahead and do the planar bindings to an elemental that maybe I should've done beforehand. It lasts 30 days.
Liam: I like all of these things, but I think Grog as a bunkmate is a good idea.
Matt: At this point, Desmond leans into you and quietly says in your ear, Vax, he goes, "Is where I'm sleeping going to be away from him?" He looks over towards Percy.
Travis: Yeah, totally away from him.
Marisha: It's fine. You'll have him in between you and him.
Matt: You don't hear that; it's whispered to Vax.
Liam: There is a lot of history for Percy wrapped up in this and he has done you wrong, no question. But the answer is yes. You will be separate from Percival. You will be protected. And you have my word.
Matt: Make a persuasion roll.
Laura: And you have my axe!
Liam: I'm going to use some Luck. Using my Luck. Natural 20, with Luck.
Matt: Takes another bite of the sandwich and packs it away in a little piece of cloth he had in a pocket, puts it in there. And you know, you can still see as he brings his hand up, you can see the blood streak against where the fingers were on the lower half of that hand. Strokes the edge of his chin and goes, "Okay. I trust you. Please. Please don't let them kill me."
Liam: We may be fuck-ups--
Orion: Speak for yourself.
Liam: But we're not without ability. You have my word. I promise you.
Matt: "Okay. I'm very tired."
Laura: Desmond, dear. Let's go upstairs. Grog! That bed needs to go back up to the guest room.
Travis: Fucking hell. I start to take the fucking bed up the stairs.
Matt: Takes you roughly another 20 minutes or so to bring it out of there, fitting it through the door.
Orion: Erwen! Where is that old man?
Matt: As you call out, Erwen eventually comes down. "Hi. Yes, Tiberius. You called? It's quite early in the morning." He has his night cap on and he's rubbing at his eyes.
Marisha: What time is it?
Matt: Right now, it's about probably 6 30 in the morning or so. It's just after sunrise; you guys haven't even slept yet.
Orion: Oh. Shit. Never mind, I'll talk to you once we've slept. Go back to sleep. I didn't realize what time it was! I thought it was 10:00 AM, which is totally different than 6:00 AM. I didn't know that.
Matt: "It's all right. All right. In the morning then, Master Tiberius." And he goes off to his bed to sleep.
Travis: We go to sleep?
Laura: Yeah, we need to sleep.
Sam: I gently fall asleep under Percy's workbench, where I've been hiding this whole time.
Matt: Okay, make a stealth check.
Taliesin: Not going to sleep down there.
Sam: Natural 20.
Matt: All right, so. As the rest of you go to sleep--
Taliesin: I'm going to go into my workshop.
Liam: On my way up, I fall in next to Keyleth. Ask, is your hand all right?
Marisha: It's fine.
Liam: Do you need anything?
Marisha: Nope.
Travis: Since he's sleeping in the room with me, I take a few of the caltrops that I have and I put them on the inside of the doorway before I close it.
Matt: Okay. So you guys are doing your setup there. Percy, you're in your workshop. Go ahead and roll a perception check, Percy.
Taliesin: 17.
Matt: 17. Okay. You go about your work.
Taliesin: I'm fixing my gun.
Matt: Okay. The materials that it requires you to do so are expensive, you actually have to pay the cost of the gun, and go ahead and make another check.
Sam: The fuck is that sound?
Matt: So go ahead and make another tinkering check. And the cost of the Pepperbox should be at the bottom of your--
Taliesin: Is it the whole cost or half?
Matt: Should be half the cost. It should say under the repair rules for a misfire.
Taliesin: Half cost. Oh my god, that's awful. Okay, tinkering check. 12.
Matt: 12. Okay.
Taliesin: Technically, that would be a success.
Matt: Yeah. So you take the rest of the morning, unsleeping, the dark bags under your eyes. You manage to get the Pepperbox back in working order.
Taliesin: Oh, I was asleep. I wasn't with them, so I just woke up really early.
Matt: Right, right. But even so, even though you slept, it hasn't been very restful. It's been technically enough to rest, but your evening has been fraught with nightmares. Perpetually. But your Pepperbox is repaired, and does cost you half the cost of the weapon cost to repair.
Taliesin: 75 gold.
Orion: I sleep in my little nook in my laboratory.
Matt: Okay. You guys rest through the rest of the morning, waking up past noon, probably about 2:00 in the afternoon. You all gradually begin to come to consciousness. Make your way downstairs. As you come downstairs, you can already smell breakfast has been prepared. You can see Laina already has the meal set out for you, and as you guys approach, "Oh it's so nice of all of you to come down! It was very interesting. These very nice folks came by this morning and dropped off a whole bunch of food and fresh veggies and stuff. Makes for a great meal. It was very nice of them. Food is served." And shegives out the plates and gives you a smile.
Travis: I love you. (eating noises)
Liam: Is this a frittata?
Matt: "I believe that's what it's called in some circles. I'm trying a few new things!"
Travis: Can I make a beard check?
Orion: I'm going to take some food and feed it to Lockheed and roll for my animal handling for the day.
Travis: 66.
Matt: No effect, unfortunately.
Travis: Just a little tingle?
Matt: There is a slight tingle, but it's mostly a placebo. (laughter)
Matt: As you guys are having your meals and you're trying and you're feeding food, teaching this, everyone roll a perception check.
Liam: At home?
Orion: 16!
Liam: I rolled a one.
Marisha: 17.
Liam: This frittata is lovely.
Sam: Six.
Travis: Eight.
Laura: 16. But my passive is 21.
Matt: Right, understood. Good to know. Percy's down in his workshop. As you guys are in the middle of your meal, you hear, clearing the stillness and quiet of the low munching-up, (clears throat) and sitting at the table adjacent to you guys, completely unnoticed in his entry, is Seeker Asum, arms crossed.
Laura: Motherfucker, you are sneaky! I need to talk to you.
Travis: We are not cool right now.
Matt: "Well, obviously not. That's why I'm here to have a conversation with the rest of you. Please continue to eat. I don't mean to disturb you."
Orion: Oh, very well.
Laura: Help yourself to a frittata.
Matt: "I've already eaten, but I appreciate the offer."
Orion: Try this hakuna frittata. It's really good!
Travis: Hakuna matata?
Laura: Let him talk.
Matt: "What a wonderful meal. Well, things have certainly gotten sticky, haven't they? Well, first and foremost, I would like to thank you, Keyleth, for clearing my head. Lord Briarwood had locked me into some form of mental charm during my attempt to aid Vax--"
Marisha: I told you it worked! Sorry, I'm a little defensive right now. Continue.
Matt: "That's all right. Things are a bit mixed up. It's hard to explain; let's just say I have been clouded in my judgment for the past few days until you cleansed me. I'm sorry to uphold the charade back in the palace."
Liam: Apologies are mine, I think. I believe you had some sort of plan, and I thought I knew better, and for that I'm sorry.
Matt: "I cannot say that is untrue. But I accept your apology."
Laura: Can I roll for insight?
Matt: You may.
Liam: Roll high!
Laura: I know! That was a shit roll. Nine.
Matt: He's a hard person to gauge, anyway. You gathered over time that most of his work deals in a network of spies and the gathering of information across all of Tal'Dorei, so he is very well-trained to hide the essence of his true nature and the intent. Hard to read. But he seems pleasant as he's been, and given the circumstances. "Nevertheless, I accept your apology, and I apologize for having upheld the charade during the council meeting, but I had to keep up appearances so as not to cause any sort of stir at the time. I fear, based on my observations since, that our very own sovereign also fell to the same charm I did and has been clouded since the dinner the night before."
Laura: Shit! That makes sense.
Marisha: We were afraid of that.
Sam: He's fallen for that stuff before.
Matt: "He's been through quite a bit, and while he's a resolute and a very good man, I would say that he is predisposed to outer influence from those that are quite strong-willed."
Sam: And this is why you kept up our accusations against us in front of him?
Matt: "Under those conditions, the room filled with guards that were all intent against keeping you at bay. Should you have made any attempt to try and cleanse him as well during that time, I think you all would have wound up in prison. Or worse."
Marisha: So why didn't you want to show that you were also cleansed? What was the point of holding up the charade?
Matt: "Because when you're under this influence, to speak against the proposed ally of the charm is to draw a line. I wish to stay in his good graces because that would enable us a much better chance of getting you close enough to him to absolve him of this charm. If I was to reveal this instantaneously in the presence of the entire council, I fear that might have put me in the same court of disfavor as you and lost any future chance of expelling this influence."
Laura: Do you it's only Uriel, or do you think it's the rest of the council as well?
Matt: "Best I can gather, most of the council is not as well-- how do I put it? Not used to business with Vox Machina. Allura seems to be of clear mind, as she is very powerfully protected against such influences and did not have any immediate interaction with the Briarwoods during that dinner. I fear the intent was on the sovereign himself."
Sam: Wait, are you saying that the Briarwoods corrupted him?
Matt: "Same way they corrupted me."
Sam: During the dinner? While we were all sitting there?
Matt: "Apparently, it takes naught but a glance."
Laura: Oh shit! They could have gotten any of us.
Orion: Yes. They did. Me. It was rather inconvenient. I hate them. Sorry.
Matt: "I think we have something in common."
Sam: Aren't you deaf?
Liam: No, that was brief.
Orion: I mean, what?
Sam: Is that why you're talking so loud?
Orion: Yes. I was getting it back.
Matt: "There are a few options at our disposal. You could continue to work to clear your name, during his distraction southward, if you have some idea as to how we could get close enough to him to absolve him of this now, that would leave the risk of, should anything go poorly, being poked with many spear holes."
Laura: Is it possible to sneak into his room, and restore him without anybody knowing?
Matt: "If you're confident. That may be more of a mission for the quieter of your bunch, should they be a little more intelligent with their actions, going forward."
Orion: What about drawing him out to a luncheon or whatnot?
Matt: "I will say, based on recent circumstances, he is very careful and defensive."
Liam: I have fair chances of getting in, but no ability to cure him of any such thing.
Laura: What if Keyleth, who can do it, polymorphed into a fly or a very small creature, traveled on you, you snuck in, she popped out, did the thing. Money.
Sam: (laughs) Unless they're caught, in which case, you've got two of our members against the entire palace guard.
Laura: So then you go with them and Dimension Door out.
Sam: I didn't even want to face the little invisible thing downstairs!
Orion: Why don't we hold a special dinner?
Sam: He hates our fucking guts.
Travis: Why don't we let Seeker Asum finish?
Sam: Seeker Asum, in your opinion, is it safer to try and heal him or to try and clear our name through the traditional legal means?
Matt: "Honestly, I have no idea. I think this plan, if successful, is quite inspired. However, failure would probably end in the immediate incarceration and/or death of both individuals involved. Public execution does not befit the country-wide name of Vox Machina, if you were to fail. If you were to succeed, that would be the most direct route between two points."
Marisha: So are we in agreement that we have to clear Uriel's mind first?
Sam: No. No, the other option is to clear our names and not worry about clearing his mind.
Laura: Uriel, if he's got his mind controlled, it doesn't matter if we try to clear our names, he's going to find us guilty.
Sam: But during our trial, we will have a direct line of sight to him, we might be able to get through to him.
Liam: Does he still trust Allura?
Matt: "As far as I know, yes."
Travis: You know, if we kill the Briarwoods, is this even a point?
Sam: That's true. He doesn't trust Allura, she wasn't even allowed in the room to talk to us. There's definitely suspicion there, right?
Liam: He did. He did question her allegiances.
Matt: "If that's the case, then perhaps her current power is not as strong in the council when regarding you. But she is still a member of the council, should she not be immediately affiliated with you for her purposes. This is up to you. Whatever you choose to do, if it requires my aid, I will give it a day before I have to leave. My next intent is to head-- well, I wish to go past the eastern curtain set up by Whitestone into Wildemount. I have spent the better part of the past day since the cleansing seeking all records of the Briarwoods and their doings. There was a period of about eight years in which there is no public record of their goings-on. It appears that most records that deal with their involvement in Wildemount, and whatever homestead gave them their title, Lord and Lady Briarwood, has all been but erased. So I intend to go to the source, Wildemount itself, and research. This will take me some time, of course."
Orion: When do you plan on leaving?
Matt: "Sooner the better. I was thinking tomorrow."
Marisha: Is Percy here? Is Percy in the room?
Matt: Percy is not even here. Percy is down in the workshop.
Marisha: I go get Percy.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: I was going to be at the door.
Marisha: Oh. I come around the corner, and I see Percy.
Matt: As you come around the corner, Percy is currently leaning up against the side of the wall, listening in to the conversation.
Marisha: Hey! I was looking for you. You want to come and actually join the conversation for once, instead of sitting outside the door and just listening to them? Because I really feel like this is going to be your time to input and maybe really help?
Taliesin: I don't feel like doing that. Oh. Lead on.
Marisha: Okay.
Travis: Seeker Asum, we have managed to capture and keep one of the coachmen. Down in our cell. Would he be safer in our hands, or within the castle walls?
Marisha: Percy and I walk in.
Travis: I'm fucking asking.
Matt: "Well, that depends. If you have strong defenses, and the enemy has no means of entering, then he will be safer here. The palace itself is a very well-protected area; however, there currently is an open invitation into the palace, and if the essence of our enemy is as I think it is, then they can enter whenever they like."
Travis: Never mind.
Liam: I think we're really choosing between two paths here. Either we stay in town and tinker and gamble, or we're runaways.
Sam: Runaways? No, we go to the Briarwoods--
Liam: That's what I'm talking about. The minute we leave, we're outlaws. They've told us not to go.
Orion: We can leave, we just cannot flee. We can travel as we see fit. We just need to let them know where we're going.
Liam: Yeah, but we can't tell them 'we're going to check out your associates'.
Travis: Yeah, we lie.
Marisha: Wait, what's the name of the town?
Sam: Whitestone?
Marisha: Not Whitestone. Oh, I thought he was saying he was going to go to their hometown.
Matt: He's going to Wildemount, the kingdom that they're originally from. The continent to the far east.
Marisha: He's not going to Whitestone. He's going to go to Wildemount, which is on another continent. If we go to another continent, it doesn't matter if we're fleeing or not. It's going to look like fleeing.
Travis: Why are you going to Wildemount, again?
Matt: "I'm trying to find as much information to incriminate them in case whatever you're attempting does not work."
Orion: Seeker, would you mind staying for a week or so before your venture? We need time to convince the council to let us leave without conflict and to procure particular items and things that we need. Very briefly. Would just take some time.
Matt: "I have already made arrangements for travel. I could try, but depends on what you need me here for."
Travis: What do we need him here for?
Orion: Ultimately, protection or a good ear.
Marisha: Do you genuinely think they're going to let us go with permission? We're not on their good side.
Laura: No, they're not. They're not going to let us go.
Liam: We're going to be outlaws. We have to clear ourselves by ending the charm on Uriel by finishing off Sylas.
Sam: Or by killing the Briarwoods, thus ending the charm.
Liam: Sylas Briarwood.
Matt: "So that would be a way to clear your name and clear his head."
Travis: Let's do that.
Sam: Percival--
Orion: What of eight days instead of two weeks? Oh, sorry.
Sam: Percival, what do you think we should do? Go seek revenge on your family and get some blood on our hands, Briarwood blood? Or do the sneaky thing and try to--
Laura: Please, we need your input.
Marisha: You know them better than anyone.
Taliesin: I really don't. I think we're here because I wasn't prepared.
Marisha: Can I do an insight check on him? See if he knows more than what he's saying?
Matt: Sure.
Marisha: 19.
Matt: You can go ahead and roll a d20.
Marisha: Is that a nine?
Taliesin: Nine.
Matt: Is there anything you're holding back?
Taliesin: Nope.
Matt: He seems clear as day, telling the honest truth.
Liam: I don't think we're here in this city to become lords and ladies serving Uriel, as good a man he is. I think Percival's our ally, and this is a grievous wrong done to him, and we can kill two birds with one stone.
Taliesin: I think we are in the situation we're in because we now know how much we don't know. How much I don't know. I'm not prepared. If we face them now, I'm going to get you all killed.
Orion: I agree. We need proper preparation. Percy, I'm pretty sure you have a good background on vampires and what-have-you, as do I, as I've researched them in the last couple of days. There's other things that we should research, as well, and probably arm ourselves for that kind of conflict, if it comes to it. Quite frankly, I have a feeling if it's the whole town we're dealing with, we need to find out how many innocents there are to save, and if the number is low enough, we can fly in with an army ourselves, which would take some time. The Draconian Knights. I am an ambassador to Draconia, officially, after all the assistance I've sent, in giving them the Wheel of Mending, and proving my point.
Laura: You gave them the Wheel?
Orion: No, I showed it to them, proving that my quest was true, which they gave me full ambassadorship, which means that, if harm comes to a Stormwind, harm comes to all of Draconia. And a town full of vampires and liches--
Laura: I didn't know we had a whole army at our disposal. That's wonderful to hear.
Orion: If worse comes to worst.
Liam: Started on the bottom, now we're here.
Sam: Diplomatic immunity.
Orion: Even then, our relations must be strong with Emon. We need their allyship, as well. Draconia will not go into things alone. We need a union.
Marisha: I agree. While we're not serving Uriel, that's not our purpose, I also don't want to leave an enemy of the state. That's not good for me, for what I want.
Orion: I go up to Jarett. Eight days. What do you think of eight days?
Marisha: And what, go with Jarett? Not Jarett, Asum.
Sam: He's not even going where we would be going. We would be going to Whitestone, right? That's where the Briarwoods are.
Liam: But Keyleth, Uriel is the law, and the law is now corrupt.
Marisha: Then why don't we save his mind before we go?
Laura: Here's the thing. He's going to find out stuff about the Briarwoods. What's the fucking point of him going if we're just going to go attack the Briarwoods before we know what he knows? We need to let him go, find out his shit, take care of Uriel, wait until he gets back, go take out the Briarwoods--
Orion: As Vex is saying this, Tiberius is getting a half-chub.
Travis: A what?
Laura: A what?
Taliesin: Well, that's just weird.
Orion: You can't see it because it's inside.
Liam: Yes, but you said it out loud.
Matt: Anyway.
Orion: I'm just saying.
Sam: It's a strategy boner?
Liam: It's a strategy chub, all right.
Taliesin: I'm still weirded out.
Marisha: You've got to give context to those things, man.
Liam: It's an odd choice of words, but now 30 seconds later, I see what you mean
Orion: Sorry. Her brain. That's what I'm talking about.
Matt: Asum says, "My getting to Wildemount is not easy, nor is it safe. I cannot linger for long. Maybe a few days."
Taliesin: How soon will you return?
Matt: "That depends on if I even return. Every spy I've sent to seek information on the Briarwoods or to Whitestone has not come back."
Orion: (ripping noises) I'll give him two strips of Scroll of Telescription. If any harm falls upon you, write on this. I explain what it does.
Matt: Okay. How many of those do you have left, by the way?
Orion: I have 30 tickets left, so 28 now.
Liam: I have another idea. Uriel said that-- he was resistant, but he said that he would bring me in to have his people check me out. Check out my story. What if Keyleth and Scanlan rode in my pockets--
Sam: I'm not that small.
Laura: As roaches.
Liam: You're pretty small. Just as mice.
Laura: Or bugs. Roly-polies!
Liam: Magic user's choice. Can you cast magic when you're transformed?
Sam: No.
Laura: So they'd have to pop out. Can you shrink yourself and still do magic teeny-tiny?
Sam: Are you asking me?
Laura: Either of you.
Sam: No, but I can shit on things. Yes?
Orion: Can you give the Seeker an inspiration before he goes on an adventure?
Sam: It could last him 20 minutes, yes. Get him to the docks, maybe.
Laura: Seeker, what do you think? What was your goal of coming here?
Travis: Yeah, do you want us to come with you or what?
Matt: "My journey requires the utmost of silence, speed, stealth, and I mean no offense to your entourage, but I think I can do this alone, and should. However, this journey may take me two weeks, a month, many months-- I do not know. I'm doing this just in case whatever you're choosing to do fails. At least, if Vox Machina falls in this, I can come back with proof enough to try, and once the army has been gathered, perhaps we can rally all of Emon against Whitestone."
Travis: If you die, can you write a letter and sign your name saying that we were right, you were wrong, you were full of shit, the Briarwoods are assholes--
Orion: But a lot more eloquently than that.
Travis: Or not.
Matt: "I can try my best."
Laura: That would be lovely.
Marisha: I go up to his arm, and I Druidcraft a wooden armband. Make it look cool. And put that on him.
Sam: Onto Tiberius?
Marisha: No, onto Asum. Now I can scry through that. That way I can at least check in on you every once in a while. If you're okay with that?
Sam: I could've shat on him and had the same effect.
Matt: Make a persuasion roll.
Laura: What about being invisible? Can you cast spells while you're invisible?
Orion: Only with Greater Invisibility, you can.
Marisha: 21.
Sam: We've always sought out the path of the most glory, and I think that that is the Briarwoods. Going into a giant, vampire-lich-ridden castle and killing two evil bastards amid their army of protectors is the coolest thing we could ever do.
Laura: It's super-duper cool. Here's the thing it's not going to be just two, I don't think. It's going to be an entire town of people that they've controlled.
Sam: You think we can get into Sovereign Uriel without anyone detecting magic on us? He's got clerics all round him--
Laura: Yeah, but Seeker Asum knows all the ins and outs of the palace.
Liam: He's leaving town tomorrow.
Laura: We'd have to do it stat, but he knows how to get in.
Marisha: He did say it was an inspired idea. His words.
Matt: "Regardless, you have to make a choice soon. I cannot dilly-dally. I'll take your band, yes." He takes the wooden band and puts it around his arm and says, "If this will put you at ease, I'll take it."
Marisha: Don't worry. I won't abuse it, I promise. Could you potentially help us with sneaking in the castle?
Matt: "I could get you in the door, but I could not escort you to that room. That would put myself in extreme danger and the entirety of our mission."
Laura: Could you distract people?
Matt: (laughs) "I can do that quite well, yes."
Sam: We can get there, but something tells me we're still going to be fighting a big fight in a palace. I'd rather fight that big fight in the Briarwoods'.
Liam: Scanlan and I are in agreement, and here's the problem. If things go south in Uriel's palace, we are then forced to fight against people who are good and true, or give up and go to jail, which sucks.
Sam: But in the Briarwoods', we can kill every motherfucker in that place.
Orion: There are a number of innocents that we need to figure out, still.
Marisha: What if we talk to Allura?
Sam: You killed an old lady!
Orion: She attacked us! And I will not back down from that decision.
Sam: She did have an old lady smell.
Travis: All right. Can we just vote on something, please? Since Percy's being oh-so-quiet about all this.
Marisha: Percy is being very quiet about this.
Travis: Are you sure you have nothing to say?
Laura: It's fucking your family. It's the people that attacked your family. Do you have no contribution to this?
Taliesin: I still feel I owe everybody an apology. I still feel terrible about dragging you all into this and putting you in danger.
Laura: We're choosing to do it.
Matt: "Vengeance." A voice whispers in your ear, Percy. No one hears this. "Vengeance."
Taliesin: If you're with me, we can be prepared for them this time. We know enough to prepare ourselves, we can have ourselves ready this time.
Orion: How many days do we have? I would like eight days to prepare.
Marisha: Can I see if he looks like shaken or fucked up at all?
Matt: I mean, he looks shaken and fucked up, yeah. He's obviously had a horrible few days.
Taliesin: I think a week to prepare is reasonable.
Laura: And then leave.
Taliesin: And then we leave. We leave quietly.
Marisha: Wait, we're leaving to Whitestone?
Travis: Yes.
Laura: Yes.
Taliesin: I've been avoiding it for too long, and now I know too much.
Liam: The law of this land is compromised. Percival, I agree with you. I think this is the right choice.
Travis: All in favor, say aye.
All - orion: Aye.
Travis: All opposed, say nay. Nice.
Matt: "Then it is settled. I'll be on my way."
Laura: Wait! Before you go, could I talk to you?
Matt: "Certainly."
Laura: Were you going to say anything else? Because I'll talk to you in private.
Matt: "Three days and I'll be off on my side of the mission. Very well."
Laura: I'll follow you out.
Matt: Yes, and he walks out, walks with you.
Taliesin: Hold on, I'm going to hold you before you go. I just wanted to say, I'm so sorry and thank you. And thank you for doing this for me. I fear my temper before this weight is lifted from my heart. I do not wish to lose myself like that again, and I am so sorry for everything I've done.
Orion: Tiberius puts his hand on Percy's shoulder, and go, I'm sorry for the tragedy which is your family, and what these Briarwoods have befallen to them, and I will promise you, I will do my best to have you give that final blow from that barrel to the names assigned to them. But now it is a far dangerous situation, as you very well know.
Taliesin: I will do my best to maintain myself. I apologize.
Matt: And as you all scatter, Percy, as you walk out, the same voice creeps into your ear, "Yes." Now, as you step out with Seeker Asum, who now has a bit of haste to his step, arms crossed, looking around. "So you wish to speak with me?"
Laura: Yes, I do. You're a ranger.
Matt: "I am."
Laura: You're very sneaky.
Matt: "I can be."
Laura: I've only ever seen people like thieves, like my brother, do things like you've done. Can you teach me anything that you know to help me maybe be a little more stealthy, as well?
Matt: (sighs) "We'll go over what you know, and perhaps there are a few tricks that I can teach you in the three days I have. I can't guarantee that it'll be extremely changing, as that's a very short time to train over what I've learned over a lifetime, but I can certainly attempt."
Laura: I appreciate it.
Matt: "I require your concentration for those days, though, before I leave."
Laura: Utmost.
Matt: "All right. Meet me at the morrow, crack of dawn. I'll be at the front of your keep."
Laura: Okay.
Matt: "Very well." And he heads off, outside of the keep. The rest of you, what are you doing?
Orion: I go to my laboratory.
Marisha: What time is it?
Matt: About 3 00, 4 00 in the afternoon now.
Travis: That temple of Sarenrae is in the city.
Matt: It's part of the keep, yeah. Oh, you mean the actual temple you went to? That is inside the city, yes. You can go into the city; you just can't get to the Cloudtop District.
Orion: Use the earring real quick. I'm going to write a quick letter. If anybody goes shopping, let me know.
Matt: Tiberius loves shopping.
Laura: He really, really does.
Matt: All right, we'll go ahead and take a quick break. We'll be back in five minutes. Keep it a stringent break, guys.
Liam: So errands will happen after that break? Because I have some errands that I want to do.
Matt: Yes. We'll try to keep the errands pretty concise so we can keep on schedule, yeah, so it's like, use this break to conjecture exactly what you want to do. All right, guys, we'll see you back here in five minutes. [break]
Matt: Welcome back. So to try and expedite this, over the next period of time you guys want to take to prepare, what are you going to do? Percy.
Taliesin: I'm going to finish up those things that we talked about earlier, spend some time making some ammunition, and I'm going to attempt to build what we were talking about earlier.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and make a tinkering check for your ammunition.
Marisha: What we were talking about? Can I help him with that? Can I assist him?
Matt: I would say the tinkering, the mechanisms involved, would be so far beyond your understanding as a druid. Even just metalwork in general. You can cheer him on, but would not be able to assist him with it.
Marisha: Go Percy, go! That's pretty good.
Taliesin: 24.
Matt: 24? Okay. You manage to produce 25 rounds for your Pepperbox and ten rounds for the Bad News.
Laura: Ooh, that's good.
Marisha: You still have inspiration from Scanlan?
Taliesin: No, I used that.
Matt: Used that to repair his Pepperbox. Roll for the secondary construction. Smoke bombs.
Taliesin: Okay. 11.
Matt: 11. You take a better part of two days attempting to get these to work, and most of your materials are ruined, unfortunately. You manage to come out with it with, and I want you to write this down, "smoke bomb, question mark." It may function. We will see upon use. But you have one at your disposal that is questionable. However, for the cost of the ammunition and the cost of the smoke bomb's construction, already that comes to about, I'd say 75 gold pieces, so mark that off. And you're attempting to make, you're attempting to make, based on what you told me, an Archimedes death ray.
Taliesin: They're not hard. I say that as, like, knowing my actual skill level, I could make one.
Matt: You could. To be functional with the materials that are at your disposal, it's going to be very large and hard to move.
Marisha: We were talking about making it collapsible.
Taliesin: I could make a collapsible one, where it's basically a one-third dodecahedron, like an observatory.
Matt: You spend the remainder of this week of preparation. Go ahead and roll your tinkering check. This is going to cost you in materials.
Orion: Wait, hold on, can I pause real quick? You don't need to do this if you want to make more ammo and other stuff. I can do this without you making this and spending the rest of the time, if you want to make other stuff. Option.
Matt: What do you want to do?
Taliesin: Story-wise it's more amusing.
Matt: Okay, go for it. All right, so. The actual materials for this--
Taliesin: It's copper.
Matt: I know, it's copper, but the actual dodecahedron that's involved, the mirrors, the lenses, the whole thing? In order to be of the scale and quality to even make it even remotely functional, all of it for the extremely high quality and some of it custom-made within the first couple days within this, with a rush order. I'd say the total cost is going to come to about 1,200 gold pieces.
Marisha: I'll pitch in for that. How much do you have?
Taliesin: At this point I have less than 100 gold.
Marisha: You have less than 100 gold? I'll pay for it in full.
Orion: What is the diameter of this?
Matt: The actual focal lens is about this big. The whole construct can be carried by two people.
Taliesin: But it will fold.
Orion: I was just going to say, what's the radius of the actual thing's lens?
Matt: Of the lens itself? This is the radius of the lens. I mean, even when it's collapsed, it can be carried by one person, but it's still a heavy mechanism.
Orion: So it's only one foot? Two feet? Three feet?
Matt: I'd say it's about two and a half feet in diameter.
Orion: Are you sure you want to do that?
Matt: He's already agreed. Go ahead and roll.
Marisha: Why? It's fine. This is what we were talking about.
Taliesin: 22.
Matt: 22. Through the materials and the construct of it, you get partway through the final stages of it, and as you're tightening one of the sections, all of a sudden there's a (cracking) sound. Your whole body freezes as you glance over. the lens itself has a giant crack through it.
Taliesin: There shouldn't be a glass piece-- aw, man.
Matt: For the construct for this one, there was a focusing lens that is part of what the initial blast, otherwise there wouldn't be a point of actually projecting a ray from.
Orion: I thought they were all mirrors.
Matt: There's all different sorts of construction based on. This one's the one we're going on here, or if you can say the center of it is a gem, but regardless, the tinkering roll was not high enough to construct the device. Sorry.
Marisha: The whole thing's wasted? Can we try and repair the crack?
Matt: It's not something you can repair. The entire piece is constructed from a solid piece.
Taliesin: What, could we put it on the Mending Wheel?
Matt: You could attempt to.
Orion: (grunting) Let's see. Okay. (clicking noise)
Travis: I want to go to the store. I would like to get a shovel and a pickaxe.
Orion: You going to Gilmore's? We're going to Gilmore's, too. We could go together if you're doing that.
Travis: I don't give a fuck where we go. Just a shovel and a pickaxe.
Matt: Pickaxe... comes to four gold pieces for the two of those. You got them. Make a secondary tinkering check.
Taliesin: 22.
Matt: 22. This time you go back and as you're tightening it, the actual metal housing of the device ends up bending in a way that both cracks the gem and causes the frame itself to be dented to the point where the beam will be imperfect. This is a very hard thing that you've come up with in your mind that has not been constructed before, and the level of difficulty to create this is very difficult. It does not cost you additional money, thanks to the Mending Wheel, but right now the entire device looks like to continue, it's going to take more time and money to construct it.
Taliesin: (sighs) I can always use this for spare parts for other things.
Laura: You're already 1,200 in? How much more would you have to put in?
Matt: I'd say about half the cost. An additional 600.
Marisha: And how many more days?
Matt: Two more days.
Marisha: How many more days do we have?
Matt: You agreed upon eight, so we'd be pushing about seven, then.
Taliesin: I've already built a smoke bomb and some rounds of bullets. All right, I'll put a little more time in this. Can I get some inspiration for this, too, if that would be possible?
Liam: Music, you mean?
Marisha: There's nothing I can do to help him?
Matt: Unfortunately-- what's your intellect?
Marisha: My intellect? I've got plus three.
Sam: (singing) Here comes the sun--
All: (singing) It's all right. (vocalizing)
Liam: (singing) Kill the vampire.
Marisha: Come on, come on.
Taliesin: Come on, come on.
Marisha: Percy roll. Come on.
Taliesin: 23?
Matt: Working on the device a third time, you get it right to the point where you think it could work and you go to set it up, and as you do, you find that the light focuses in a way that actually slowly melts the copper on the outside of the housing of the device, and it begins to melt onto itself, and you have to pull it out of the light. This design is beyond your grasp right now. You're inventing something that takes quite a lot of time to eventually perfect.
Taliesin: Okay. I'm going to put these away for a later time, and if I have one more day, I would like to work on--
Marisha: Maybe a version of it that is not collapsible that we can at least mount?
Taliesin: We've got it taken care of.
Matt: That's been your guys' week.
Taliesin: That's my week, okay.
Matt: Okay. You bought your pickaxe and your shovel. Cool. Vex, what are you doing?
Laura: I'm training.
Matt: You're training, okay.
Liam: All right. I want to be brief. I have four things I want to do, but I'll be very brief. I promise. Okay, so first thing I want to do is I think at some point, I heard Tiberius talking about wooden stakes and vampires. So I want to go buy about ten wooden stakes.
Orion: I give him extra. Get me 20.
Liam: I'm going shopping.
Laura: Yes, get me some holy arrows.
Liam: Can I get a loaner on that? I've got about 230 gold.
Travis: I thought you said you were going to be brief. (laughs)
Liam: On my own.
Marisha: I thought we got a bit of an allowance.
Liam: It's a week, so I get some gold from these people and I go and I don't even know what they said. I'm getting ten wooden stakes for myself.
Matt: 20, technically, because Tiberius requested ten. Those will cost you a total of two gold.
Liam: That's what I thought. And what did you want?
Laura: I wanted some holy arrows.
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Laura: Or holy water. Try to get some holy water. Holy oil.
Liam: I'll get to that. Investigation, you say? That is a 13.
Matt: 13. Asking around the town  holy arrows, that is an enchantment. They're pricey and they don't appear to be anywhere in the major shops, even shops like Gilmore's, that they specialize in. It's usually a special order-type thing. Holy water flasks can be purchased at 20 gold apiece.
Liam: I'll get to that. All right, so we got wood. That was two gold, you said. All right, minus two. The next thing I want to do is go to the temple of Sarenrae and get my sister's holy oil for her. How much is that?
Matt: Holy oil? As opposed to the holy water?
Liam: I'll take both, if you've got it.
Matt: Well, holy oil is a more expensive version. Holy water is a one-use. Holy oil can be applied to a weapon.
Liam: Holy oil.
Orion: How much do the stakes weigh? Like each stake?
Matt: A cluster of ten, if that's what you wanted, would weigh about five pounds. But they're relatively light.
Orion: Tell him that he bought me 20 more.
Sam: Tell him that he bought you?
Liam: 40 stakes, four gold. Totally happened. Then I went to the temple of Sarenrae and I got two vials of holy oil. One for my sister, one for me.
Matt: Those are 100 gold apiece.
Liam: Okay. Got it. I can't. Oh, you gave me gold. I'll get four vials of that.
Laura: Yeah, I gave him gold to do it.
Liam: We'll work that out, I promise. I ask if the cleric who helped bring Pike back to life is here.
Matt: Yeah, Tristan is here.
Liam: Jesus, how do you do that?
Matt: Because I have to.
Liam: When I find him I say, you remember my friend Pike? You remember me?
Matt: "Yes, I inspected you. Is that healing well, by the way?" He inspects the wounds on the side of your neck.
Liam: It is. I'm grateful. I need a keepsake of your deity. [no audio]
Matt: And he steps away, goes back, disappears for a minute, comes back and he's holding in a chain around his neck-- It's seen some years of use, but still clean and very well kept, an identical holy symbol of Sarenrae as the one that Pike keeps around her neck. He hands it over and puts it over your head. "May she keep you safe and bring your soul to redemption."
Liam: It reminds me of my friend.
Matt: "As it should." Pats you on the cheek. "As it should."
Liam: All right, so chore number two down. I would like to go to Uriel's temple and ask the guards if anyone has seen my belt, Simon.
Matt: You are stopped at the edge of the Cloudtop District. The guards see you as you approach and block the doorway and say, "We're sorry, but Vox Machina has been given no passage into the Cloudtop District at this time."
Liam: I understand. I don't mean to go in. I understand that we caused a lot of trouble, and I am very sorry, and I don't mean to be any further trouble. There is a belt that I left inside.
Matt: "That's certainly unfortunate, isn't it?"
Liam: Have you seen a snake called Simon? Or any snake?
Matt: Both the guards look at each other and laugh for a second. "Piss off."
Liam: Okay. Chore number four. (laughter)
Liam: I go back. I give everybody their things. I would like to spend the rest of the week, because I am ready, hanging out across the road from the butcher's house that Kynan ran from, and if there are any youths his age who go there to shop, I would like to ask as they leave if they have any idea where he's gone.
Matt: Okay. Make a perception check.
Liam: Perception check. Oh, that's a seven. Thought it was a one. (laughs) That is a 17.
Matt: 17. Okay. Keeping an eye out, you do eventually come across a boy that looks about his age. Late teens, maybe early twenties. Comes by and gathers a little bit of meat and rushes off and you stop him.
Liam: Excuse me, I'm sorry to take you away from your day. I'm sorry, what is your name?
Matt: "Jameson."
Liam: Jameson.
Matt: "Yeah, can I help you? I've really got to get home with this."
Liam: I understand, I'll just take a second of your time. I owe a boy who lives here named Kynan, I owe him a few silver and I want to see that he gets it. Is he in town?
Matt: Make a deception check.
Liam: I'll use the meteorite. That's a 15.
Matt: 15, gives you a look over and goes, "I'm certain you've given him silver, but Kynan's been gone for the better part of a week."
Liam: Where would he have gone?
Matt: "I don't know. He just told us all he was off to find his destiny or some sort of bullshit like that. He's always had his head in the clouds, that one."
Liam: I agree. He ever talked about where he was going, how he meant to go about doing it?
Matt: "No, kept to himself mostly. Sorry, I wish I could be more of a service. If I see him, where should I send him?" (clattering)
Liam: I don't know who that guy is. If you see him, tell him that V. is looking for him at Greyskull Keep.
Matt: "Well, I'll pass that along."
Liam: Thank you.
Matt: "Good day," and he hurries off to continue with his errand.
Liam: Are you all right, old man?
Travis: (old-man voice) I'm fine. It's my knee. (laughter)
Matt: Is that your last errand?
Liam: That's it.
Matt: Scanlan.
Sam: I go to Gilmore's. Are we near Gilmore's?
Matt: Yeah, Gilmore's in the city. He's not in the Cloudtop, so you have access to him still.
Sam: I want to know if such a thing exists, and if so, how much. A potion or a scroll that could invoke either Hallow or Spirit Guardians.
Taliesin: Say what?
Sam: Spirit Guardians is four. Hallow is five.
Matt: Here we go. Okay. Asking around, there are no potions for it, but there is a Scroll of Hallow available, and I will say that comes to roughly 6,000 gold pieces for the Scroll of Hallow.
Marisha: It's how much?
Matt: 6,000 for the Hallow Scroll. And for the Spirit Guardian, you said it was? 4th-level?
Sam: 4th-level.
Matt: That one is 2,000 gold.
Laura: What does that do?
Sam: Spirit Guardians would make some beings around us.
Matt: Spirit Guardians is level three, actually, not level four. That makes it a lot cheaper. That is 600 gold.
Sam: It scares evil things away. It's like a Pike-y thing.
Laura: Do it.
Sam: Can I cast that if I have a scroll?
Matt: If you have a scroll you can, yeah. It has a chance of failing.
Marisha: Yeah, you have to have magic.
Sam: How much did you say?
Matt: 600 gold pieces.
Sam: I'll buy one of those.
Matt: There's only one available. So you mark that down.
Sam: Okay. Yes, I will. I would also like to find a smithy of some sort and make me a little metal choker of chainmail.
Matt: Okay, remembering that you have spoken to Karin before, which is the renowned custom blacksmith in Emon, you speak with her. A chainmail half coif around the neck there is relatively inexpensive. It's a partial piece of armor. She looks at some scrap chainmail on the side and is like: "I'd be more than happy to use that for it. It shouldn't me take more than an hour, two maybe at most."
Laura: Get one for everyone.
Travis: I think they can bite besides the neck, right?
Laura: Yeah, technically, but still!
Sam: (laughs) Sure, I'll get eight of them, or seven of them.
Matt: Okay. (laughs) All right.
Sam: How much are they?
Matt: Seven of those. I'd say for the whole seven it'd put you at 100 gold, because it's custom orders. Seven of those.
Liam: What are they?
Sam: Chainmail chokers
Marisha: Chainmail dickies.
Travis: Oh wait, do you have one more?
Sam: And a small one for my dick. (laughter)
Matt: All righty.
Sam: A tiny one.
Matt: She awkwardly judges and turns that request down. She's uncomfortable with that.
Sam: Then I bow and leave.
Matt: Okay. So you got that. Yes. Just a second there, Tiberius.
Liam: I go to Gilmore's Glorious Goods and ask at the front door if Gilmore is there.
Matt: Gilmore, unfortunately, is in Westruun currently. Still overseeing the construction of his expansion there.
Liam: Understood. Who's the most knowledgeable person next to Gilmore in this store right now?
Matt: That would be... I can't find my updated NPC sheet. Do you remember what her name was?
Marisha: Sherri.
Matt: Sherri, thank you. I was like, Shelby? No. Sherri. Sherri is there greeting you. "That would probably be me."
Liam: Oh, hi. You remember me. I have a very important question. I won't take up much of your time. I pull out a small metal skull cap. Dented in a few places, rusted a bit, from the Underdark. What can you tell me about this?
Matt: She takes it. "If you're requesting identification of a magical item, that is a service we charge."
Liam: Sis, can I borrow some money?
Laura: How much do you need?
Liam: How much would that require?
Matt: "125 gold pieces per enchantment identified."
Liam: Done.
Matt: "All right."
Laura: Talk her down.
Matt: She takes it. She steps inside, sets it on the counter. She starts going through her books and starts looking at it and holding it for a second and doing a full inspection of it. "Based on the enchantment on this device, it's very crude in construction and the enchantment is in an arcane offshoot of language I'm not very familiar with, but it appears it is a guard from some sort of a mental influence. If worn, it would give you a stronger resistance against things that would attempt to peer into your mind."
Liam: Are we talking magic?
Matt: "Yes." So essentially what it would do is it would give you advantage on wisdom saving throws against magic spells.
Liam: Against?
Matt: It would give you advantage on wisdom saving throws against magical effects.
Liam: That's fucking brilliant. I hand her the gold and say, Scanlan sends his regards.
Matt: She noticeably blushes and goes, "Well, send mine back if you wouldn't mind. I've got work to do." And she rushes off.
Liam: Thank you.
Matt: All right. Now, Tiberius.
Sam: 16 errands.
Orion: I only have eight. Just kidding, no. The real quick one is going to the Temple of Sarenrae to pick up a canteen.
Matt: Okay. Did you pay for it already? You paid up front. Okay. So you get the canteen, the explanation is: the enchantment of the actual water creation itself is separate than the holy enchantment that has been attached to it. The holy enchantment is not very powerful because it is an enchanted item. How it functions is the first burst per day that you use of the water does an additional 1d6 radiant damage. That's it. But any additional after that is just water. Basically, whatever water is immediately contained within it at the start of the day is considered blessed. Once that's expelled, all the rest that it creates-- because it's pulling it out of the elemental plane of water; that's how it's continuously projecting it. The rest of it runs straight through, so it doesn't have a chance to even absorb the blessing.
Orion: Gotcha. Okay, cool. Second thing. I drop off my Swallow, or I'll call it the surge blade, and to have that enchanted on both ends.
Matt: With?
Orion: One side fire, the other side water. So however many mages I have to hire for that to happen in ten days, I think we talked about it being eight days or something like that? Or was that only one side?
Matt: (laughs) So what enchantment do you want? Do you want to just do an additional-- What do you want it to be?
Orion: I just want it to be a magical weapon.
Matt: Just a magical weapon? Okay, just a general plus-one magical weapon. Okay. That would take about-- let me double-check the rarity here.
Sam: In the meantime, check out those Critical Role keychains available on Geek and Sundry. (laughter)
Matt: That would run you approximately 700 gold to create it as a plus-one magical item. Would take one mage a week to do it.
Orion: Okay. So I'll do that.
Matt: Okay, so for the week it takes, you pay 700 gold pieces. Your quarterstaff with a couple of daggers tied to the end is now considered a plus-one magical weapon. (laughter)
Orion: I stop at Gilmore's and I drop off my Ring of Protection. And pay whatever that is to add a plus-one to make it instead of a minor, an actual Ring of Protection.
Matt: Unfortunately, the thing is, an enchantment cannot be progressively enhanced. You would have to disenchant and then re-enchant the entire thing.
Orion: I thought Gilmore said they could do that there, before. That's why I was going to cough up the green for the Gil, as it were.
Matt: No. They can enchant the item with it, but it would be the cost of basically re-enchanting the item.
Orion: How much would that be?
Matt: That would cost approximately 25,000 gold pieces.
Sam: Oh jeez.
Matt: And it would take the better part of a year. A plus-two Ring of Protection is a very powerful item.
Sam: It's worth it. It's a good investment.
Matt: That you even acquired one earlier was great luck.
Orion: How about buffing the ring of source spelling--
Matt: The Ring of Spell Storing?
Sam: The thing that I had that I still want. That one.
Matt: The Ring of Spell Storing? That's its enchantment. There is no more powerful version of the Ring of Spell Storing. If you wanted to attempt to do that yourself on your own time, you could. That will cost you upward 60,000 gold pieces and about a year.
Orion: No, not right now.
Laura: How about we stick to the level we're at?
Orion: I didn't know all that stuff was going to be that way. That's why I asked.
Liam: How do you learn if you don't ask?
Matt: It's good to ask these things.
Orion: (laughs) So okay. While the days are going, I want to roll for animal handling to teach Lockheed stuff, which is every morning, whatever.
Matt: I'll say throughout the week, 'cause you've taught Lockheed a lot of things back to back. You can't cram everything in there in the three to four days and like: "You learn everything!" Because you've already taught Lockheed one thing this week. Roll for a second thing you want to teach Lockheed.
Orion: Like, with advantage? I'm just having fun.
Matt: Sure, I'll give you advantage on that.
Orion: That's fine, that's fine. I'll take that. That's 17.
Matt: Roll advantage. Go for it.
Orion: 17.
Travis: For the sake of brevity, can I roll one beard check?
Matt: Yeah. You can roll several beard checks.
Travis: 43.
Matt: 43. It starts filling in.
Travis: 81.
Matt: Nope.
Travis: 86.
Liam: Aw, come on Grog.
Travis: 16.
Matt: 16.
Travis: 68, 19. 58.
Matt: Okay. So by the time the week comes to an end, the other side of your beard has finally filled in and you are back to a full beard, Grog.
Laura: Good job, Grog.
Matt: So yeah, that succeeds. It takes you a few days to get it though, but what do you want to teach Lockheed?
Orion: I want to teach him to be quiet.
Matt: A very important thing to teach a creature. So Lockheed has learned to be quiet. Good. Anything else?
Orion: Yes. I got that, that. Throughout the days, I'm going to go all the shops and see how many glass mirrors-- I'm looking for mirrors, just all kinds of mirrors, every size.
Matt: There are plenty of mirrors out there. There are general stores that sell them all over.
Orion: I'm looking for five-by-five to ten-by-ten size mirrors.
Sam: Feet?!
Orion: Yeah. No, inches.
Matt: Okay. I misunderstood. Yeah. You could've had them custom made if they weren't out there, but they have mirrors of that size available.
Orion: I need about 1,500 of them. Can I get 1,500? How many can I get?
Matt: There aren't that many mirrors in the city.
Orion: Okay. All of them.
Sam: You know, if you hold two next to each other there looks like there's a million of them.
Orion: You know what, that's true.
Matt: They're five gold apiece, and of what is currently available for purchase, you may be able to acquire about 35 mirrors, and you'll clean out most of the places that will stop selling them to you.
Liam: That's cutting-edge technology in this day and age.
Orion: How many, if I laid them out on a flat surface, how many-- (laughs) How many feet would that cover?
Liam: Well, two per foot, Tibs. They're five inches apiece, right? You can fit two in a foot. So you just bought 35, so that's about--
Laura: 17 feet! 17 whole feet of mirrors!
Sam: If you're doing a square, it's three feet by three feet.
Matt: Yeah, four by four. So there you go. Four by four.
Orion: I'll take all that. How much is that?
Matt: Okay. 35 times five. So we're looking at 175 gold.
Orion: Done. And then, for timeline stuff, I'm going to do as much as I can to start enchanting my bolts, and I'm going to go work with Keyleth on stuff.
Matt: Keyleth's been working with Percy this whole time.
Marisha: The whole time?
Matt: It's taken the entire week for him, you said you were assisting him.
Marisha: No, you said I couldn't assist him. I had no intelligence to assist him.
Matt: I thought you said you were still going to help cheer him on. Okay, then no worries. Then yeah, you're available.
Orion: I'm going to try to make as many sleep bolts as I can. But the other thing with Keyleth is I would like to enchant a bolt that is a smoke screen, but it consists of holy water. So I use a pour of the day from the canteen and use that as a mist instead of a smoke.
Matt: The enchantment of an arrow to do that is the use of a Fog spell. There is no way to infuse a Fog spell with holy water.
Marisha: That's what I was saying. I don't know if you can do holy water. I can do a Fog spell.
Orion: Can we infuse a Fog spell with a Sleep spell?
Matt: No.
Orion: Can we try super hard?
Matt: Sure. Make a roll.
Orion: God damn it. Okay.
Marisha: Like, the best I could possibly do is maybe take one of these holy water things.
Orion: What am I rolling?
Matt: Plus arcana.
Travis: Do you think it matters? No.
Orion: 24.
Matt: 24. Okay. After spending approximately 500 gold in materials, the enchantment fails, both spells fizzled. You lost 500 gold. But now you know. Probably can't combine two spells into a single enchantment.
Liam: And knowing is half the battle.
Orion: Don't worry, it came out of my pocket.
Sam: I've got fog.
Orion: Okay.
Travis: How about you get nothing else, and we move on?
Orion: Last thing.
Travis: No last thing.
Orion: I stop at Allura's.
Matt: You go towards the Cloudtop District, and the guards stop you again.
Orion: I remember that as I walk up, and I go back to Greyskull Keep.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: Oh wait, I don't do that.
Orion: Oh wait, I don't do that.
Marisha: #OrionAcaba.
Orion: I realize what I'm doing, and I stop.
Liam: Also. This will just take ten seconds, at some point in the week, when Keyleth is taking a walk, I go into her garden, and I clip one flower, and I take it.
Matt: How many sleep bolts?
Liam: Go sleep in your money.
Orion: You said I could do that.
Taliesin: You're busy this week.
Sam: Can he get back to the keep and we've all left four days ago? (laughter)
Orion: Carrying groceries in, look, guys  hoagie stuff!
Sam: Dear Tiberius. We left.
Laura: We got really bored and we left.
Matt: Okay, I will say for each arrow, it will cost you 600 gold and will take you six days to do, per arrow.
Laura: Six days per arrow?
Matt: Yes. It's one day per 100 gold of an enchantment. Which is even me making it higher than the book says. It should take you four times that.
Orion: Cool. Can it cost more if I hire a mage?
Laura: (screams)
Matt: You want to hire a mage?
Marisha: I need to do shit, too. I can't be everyone's bitch.
Matt: So three and a half days and it cost you 1,200 gold for a single sleep bolt.
Orion: Sweet. And I do two of those. And I'm broke.
Liam: He's spent people, he's spent.
Matt: Okay, so you've done all of your shopping in one day and spent the rest of the week doing those. All right, so there we go. You're broke and you have two sleep bolts on your person. Keyleth.
Marisha: I got to Gilmore's and I buy an alchemy set.
Matt: Okay. That comes to--
Sam: 95,000 gold
Orion: It's going to be a lot more than you think, apparently.
Matt: Alchemist supplies? 50 gold.
Orion: Oh, come on!
Matt: Not enchanted, yo. "It's magic, give me all the magic!"
Taliesin: This is made of things.
Marisha: This is made of things. And then I go home and I make a few Cure Wounds potions. Try it out, since I've learned and I've been studying and I've been doing my research. So maybe a few level two, level three Cure Wounds potions?
Matt: A level two healing potion, a greater healing potion. The materials involved in creating that will come to, I'd say about 400 apiece, and you'd have time to create two. It's about four days per potion.
Sam: (whispered) How much do they cost?
Matt: To purchase? They cost about 500 to 600. She's getting a discount because she's making it herself.
Marisha: Wait, they cost 500 to 600 and they cost 400 for me to make them?
Matt: Yes. It's your first time doing it. They'll probably get cheaper over time as you get better at it.
Marisha: Oh, okay. Cheaper over time as I get better at it? That's funsies. Well, let me make-- What is that? A greater healing potion?
Matt: It's a greater healing. So for each one you make, roll a d20 and add five.
Marisha: Let me make one for right now.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: That's an 18. That's pretty good.
Matt: Then yeah, you successfully create the potion. No issue.
Marisha: Awesome. I had a Percy-roll! And he hates me for it. How long will it take me to make a Daylight scroll?
Matt: A Daylight scroll? What level spell is that?
Marisha: Third.
Matt: Third? That'll cost you about, I'd say, 600 gold pieces. It'll take you six days. You don't have time. You could pay more to have somebody else help you make one if you wanted to.
Marisha: Then I make two greater healing potions. Actually, no, I want to experiment. I want to take one of those holy water bottles. And I want to see if I can enchant it with my Fog spell. To make it a holy water fog grenade. When you throw it, it'll go (shatters) with my fog spell.
Matt: You know that upon throwing the holy water, it would shatter. It would create a fog, but the holy water itself would just affect the creature you threw it at. You'd be able to blend the two enchantments; they don't necessarily mix. The fog itself is not created from the water, it's created from the glass that you're enchanting.
Laura: Plus, we didn't get any holy water, we only got holy oil to put on our weapons.
Matt: You have a couple of flasks of holy water.
Marisha: What if I enchant it with Daylight? Oh wait, it still won't--
Matt: It's a whole different thing. Daylight, that's more of a scroll thing.
Marisha: I'm going to do it, anyway. I'm going to do the fog thing, because I said it. I'm going to commit.
Matt: Okay. That will cost you-- I'll put it at 500 gold pieces. And that'll take you five days.
Orion: For a fog scroll?
Marisha: No, for the fog holy water thing. It's a holy smoke grenade.
Liam: Someday, we will get out of the character creation menu, but not this day.
Taliesin: I don't like the nose yet. It's too low.
Marisha: Sure. That'll be my two things I do.
Matt: Okay, roll another d20. Plus five.
Marisha: Natural 20.
Matt: All right. You feel the fog enchantment take shape in the glass vial. It seems relatively unstable. You gather that this glass was not meant to contain an enchantment from the get-go. You somehow manage to make it function, but you have to be very careful with that vial.
Orion: Here, put it in here.
Matt: Who knows what'll happen if it actually is thrown?
Laura: Don't put it in a Bag of Holding.
Liam: Give it to Scanlan.
Marisha: Who would like a very unstable item?
Laura: Percy's used to unstable things.
Marisha: I give it to Scanlan.
Taliesin: Was that a jab at my-- No, never mind.
Matt: It's a fog-enchanted vial of holy water. You can write it down that way if you'd like.
Sam: I'll just put it on my back. I'll just hang it.
Marisha: Please be careful. Wait, I tell him. Scanlan, this is very delicate. Please be very gentle with this.
Sam: I will put it where I put all gentle things.
Marisha: That I trust. I trust that more. Fine. Good.
Orion: You do not make the wisest decisions here your Majesty, I must say.
Matt: What was once holy-- (laughter)
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: Oh god.
Sam: I give everyone the chainmail.
Matt: Okay. You give all the chainmail.
Laura: Oh. Look at this, so fancy.
Sam: I take that fancy box I bought a couple times ago, and I take the blue crystal that we found in our very first adventure and I put it in and I seal it tight. Shit. I had one more thing I wanted to do. Oh yes, I drink my Shit-Scrying Potion, shit in a jar and leave it in the kitchen. And tell the help, don't touch it.
Matt: Okay. (laughs) It takes much convincing, but nevertheless they acquiesce to your request, being the boss. All right. Anything else?
Taliesin: Yeah. Just going to let the guards know to watch our guest while we're away. Keep him under protection.
Travis: Are we leaving him here?
Taliesin: I think so.
Laura: Oh god.
Matt: The what?
Orion: The guy who built stuff, regardless, did I do that or is that just in my head?
Matt: Lord Daxio, you mean? What about him?
Orion: So I didn't do that yet.
Travis: Yeah, you going to do something on his room, Keyleth?
Laura: I go find Jarett, and I give him 200 gold. And I say, do not let-- Desmond? Leave your side. Watch him, watch for invisible anything. Protect him with everything you can.
Matt: "I will do this with my life. Do not worry."
Sam: Have we given them a raise?
Laura: I just gave him 200 fucking gold.
Travis: Double the guard on him.
Laura: And yeah, everybody-- fuck. I give a hundred--
Sam: Five of them make 100 a month, two of them make 50 a month.
Laura: I give another 200 to him and tell him to pass it out to the rest of the guard. We'll be back soon!
Matt: "Very generous, and I think they'll be very happy to find this. Thank you very much."
Laura: And add another guard to the watch.
Travis: Two to Desmond. At all times.
Matt: "Very well. I will do this. Thank you."
Laura: Thank you.
Orion: I going to tell Erwen to go and ask for court for the lord that can construct and tell him that we would like to make some changes and have the cells converted into barracks for our soldiers.
Sam: That won't do anything.
Orion: That's what I do. That's what Tiberius does.
Matt: Okay. Erwen goes, "All right, sir." And he wanders off.
Orion: Getting a good reputation does not mean holding prison cells.
Matt: About an hour later Erwen returns and says, "I'm sorry. They would not allow me into the central district. I do not have the proper papers to pass within. I mentioned that I worked for you, and they told me I was not to enter."
Orion: Oh, maybe you should have said a different name.
Sam: They would have known when they got to our keep.
Orion: That's true. (laughs)
Laura: Shall we head out?
Taliesin: Yes.
Laura: Did I learn anything from Seeker Asum?
Matt: Go ahead and roll a d20, adding your wisdom modifier.
Laura: Ah jeez, really?
Liam: Come on, Laura.
Laura: What if I roll like shit?
Liam: Then it'll be hilarious. Roll that die. Come on. Roll high and it will be amazing.
Matt: Make it with advantage, because Asum is a very good teacher.
Laura: He is. He's so good.
Sam: He's awesome.
Laura: (fake crying) No, that was terrible.
Marisha: Advantage!
Liam: You are playing DND right now! All right.
Laura: Plus my wisdom. 17.
Matt: 17, okay.
Liam: Is she an emperor now?
Matt: (laughs) Is that how this works? All right, so talking with Asum. He works with you for a bit and teaches you the ranger ability Skirmisher's Stealth.
Sam: Skirmisher's Stealth?
Matt: So if you start one of your turns hidden from a creature, you can then, as a bonus action at the end of your turn, make another stealth check to remain hidden from them. You essentially can dive between areas and still be hidden.
Laura: While I'm attacking?
Liam: That's all ranger stuff?
Laura: Cool.
Liam: (air horn noises)
Sam: (air horn noises)
Matt: So yeah. We'll go over the details of it after the game. Essentially, you learn a new ranger ability from Seeker Asum.
Marisha: Dope.
Liam: Wow. I bought some sticks.
Matt: All right.
Orion: At the end of the first day, before all of that stuff happens. Sorry, guys, this is necessary.
Travis: Is it?
Liam: Everybody shut up and let Grog go on a one man, solo kill spree.
Travis: It's bound to happen. He's going to secede.
Matt: Tiberius, what do you want to do?
Orion: I'm in my lab the first night and I write a Scroll of Telescription to my father. And I go, dear father, and I tell him about the circumstances with the vampires.
Laura: Dear diary. Sorry.
Orion: At the end of it I go  I invoke the ambassador's right of war time as of now, and moreover as your son when I provide concrete evidence, you will know. But in the meantime, I would have you gather 50 ground troops of the Draconian knights and 50 winged soldiers of the wyvern fleet. Have them at the ready for my signal. I know it will take you a few days of travel to get here, but this is a town of vampires and possibly liches, which you know need to be destroyed no matter what. Your son, with love, Tiberius.
Matt: All right.
Laura: Everyone is aware that Tiberius is the giant eagles in Lord of the Rings. Tiberius can invoke ultimate destruction at the call of whatever he wants.
Orion: I don't know what's going on over there.
Matt: All right. As the week comes to a close, eventually a note appears before you, Tiberius, within your magical room. (fluttering) It reads: "Tiberius, child. I understand your request. However, you are fresh to these political matters and as the young one prone to jump at the sight of a shadow, I would need some very heavy proof to invoke wartime. Which, if I might add, is not your jurisdiction, but my own. Should you wish to bring this to my attention, you are welcome to, but you have but one chance before I set aside this intrusion to my work time as mere poppycock." (laughter)
Matt: "Tiberius, I trust that in time you will prove yourself to this family and to this country, but for the time being, business matters of this larger scale are best left to those with experience. With love, Kruvanis Stormwind."
Liam: (whispers) Send him three more letters.
Orion: Damn it. Have to provide proof to my fucking father. Fine. He didn't say no, which is what he always says. Which is a lot better than what he always says.
Sam: I walk into Tiberius' room while he's having this conversation with himself. And I say, what are you doing in here?
Orion: I'm talking to myself, Scanlan.
Sam: Oh, okay. All right. I'm going to go get some garlic from the kitchen, and then let's go!
Laura: I write a note. Address it to Uriel, hand it to our main butler. Who I know his name.
Matt: Erwen.
Laura: Erwen. It basically says  Uriel, FYI, we didn't totally flee. We's looking for evidence. No, we didn't flee. We'll be back, how about that? We'll be back.
Matt: All right. The note is left with Erwen.
Laura: And I tell him, only give this to anybody if they come looking for us and they're angry.
Matt: "Yes, of course. Of course."
Marisha: Grog? Do you think I should do the whole elemental guardian thing?
Travis: Why not?
Marisha: All right.
Orion: How are you doing, Grog?
Travis: I'm fucking bored. (laughter)
Travis: I've been sitting here for 30 fucking minutes. I'm bored! Cast an elemental and make it smash everything around the keep.
Marisha: Give me that ruby. (ting) I catch it. Water elemental seems appropriate based on our knowledge, yeah? Water elemental. And Planar Binding. And I talk to him in my elemental speech, which I can do.
Taliesin: And you say? (gargles water during Marisha's speech)
Marisha: And I say, look, we're going to be gone for 30 days. We have a visitor here. Make sure nothing or no one brings him any harm. (laughter)
Matt: I don't have a drink.
Orion: That make you thirsty?
Taliesin: You know, you can speak English, you don't have to--
Matt: Yeah. The elemental gives you an acknowledgment and speaks back in its own tongue the equivalent of, for my time here, I serve.
Marisha: Wait, what? I'm sorry.
Matt: "For my time here, I serve" is essentially the essence of what you get from him
Marisha: For my time here, I serve?
Matt: For my time here, I serve. All right.
Sam: Onward.
Liam: I love doing this show. (laughter)
Sam: Do we know where we're going?
Taliesin: Yeah, I know where we're going.
Liam: Percival de Rolo knows where we're going to go.
Taliesin: We head to Turst Fields.
Marisha: Are we riding there by horseback? Is that what we're doing?
Sam: Do we know where we're going?
Matt: Well, Percy said the Turst Fields. The Turst Fields you do know. Some of you may have passed by them. They are to the east, northeast area of Westruun, on the eastern side of the continent. It's about four and a half days' travel horseback.
Travis: What if we purchased a carriage?
Orion: What if we went on airship instead? We have one at our disposal, do we not?
Marisha: Well, we had one at our disposal when we were friends of the city.
Laura: I think it's in the Cloudtop District, actually.
Liam: I think we need to go on the down-low.
Marisha: Yeah, let's not tell anybody that we're leaving.
Sam: Carriage. Let's go. How much do they cost?
Marisha: Do we need a carriage? We have a stable full of horses.
Liam: Rein it in. We're going to fight vampires.
Matt: You have four horses, and you technically have the teleportation sigil for Westruun.
Laura: Oh yeah!
Orion: Is Briarwood keep over there?
Matt: Westruun's most of the way across the continent. It's about a day's ride out from Westruun.
Marisha: So that would shave time?
Matt: It would shave about three days off your journey.
Liam: Matt, I'm pretty sure it's "si-google."
Taliesin: Turst Fields is just northeast of Westruun.
Laura: Let's do it!
Liam: What's in those fields?
Matt: The Turst Fields are a farming community that takes care of a lot of the eastern side. They're not really an extension of Westruun, but it's one of the closest cities. And they do a lot of food trade up into Whitestone, or did previously.
Taliesin: It's where we would make our camp.
Marisha: Let's head there and make camp. And maybe talk about a plan.
Liam: Yes. I think, Percival, you're leading the way. Use my sister as an advisor, but you're leading the way right now.
Taliesin: I'm going to draw out a crude map while we make our way so I can let you all know where we're going.
Orion: Well, then join me in my laboratory, everyone.
Sam: All right, yes. We go to Tiberius's laboratory.
Matt: Okay. Tiberius, you go ahead and cast Teleportation Circle.
Orion: Not yet. I go, hey, look at the laboratory, guys. What do you think? Scanlan, it looks like you're impressed.
Sam: (dryly) Oh, I'm very impressed.
Matt: Now you cast Circle of Teleportation.
Orion: I use my sigil there. I got it set up there.
Matt: Yep, and the circle appears. You guys rush through it. You do not have your horses with you because they would not be able to travel through the teleportation circle with you. However, you could probably procure some while you're in Westruun. In doing that, you guys, for the case of brevity on this-- we've been missing that for a lot of this session.
Liam: Let's do this in real time.
Matt: We'll say the total gold to purchase horses for the whole party--
Laura: After I haggled. Because let's be honest, I would've.
Matt: You would've. Go ahead and make a persuasion roll.
Travis: You would've.
Orion: Even in real time.
Marisha: Do it.
Laura: 21.
Matt: 21? Okay, yeah, would put you at about, we'll say because you are renowned in this area and you've helped Westruun. Helped them during the Winter's Crest Festival the year before, using that discount. You manage to procure everyone's horses, including your warhorse, for 210 gold, which is a pretty decent discount.
Laura: Yes it is. All right.
Taliesin: Can I share my map?
Matt: You can, yeah.
Laura: (gasps) You made a map?
Sam: You drew that just now?
Taliesin: You know I've forged all of our documents? You are aware of that, right? Any time we've needed papers.
Laura: Wait, where is Westruun? Oh, there's Westruun, that's where we are right now. So we have to go-- I just spit on your map, Percy. Up through the woods, into the mountains. Whitestone is mountains.
Liam: You can handle that.
Laura: Yeah, I can handle both.
Travis: We're here, and we've got to go here.
Laura: Right.
Sam: Let's set out.
Matt: You have two paths. You have the path into the center of the Parchwood Woods that leads up into the valley of the Alabaster Sierras that surround it. That is the direct route to Whitestone that leads through the main pathway. The forest to the front of the city. There's also the Alabaster Sierras themselves, which surround that peninsula that extends into the northern part of the continent. They are very tall, fjord-like, craggy mountain ranges up against the sea along the edge. They're a little more treacherous, but a little more out of the way; a backdoor route. So you guys choose which route you want to take.
Taliesin: I would prefer not the direct route.
Orion: Always go in the backdoor.
Taliesin: Can you say that anything that is not laced with sexual innuendo?
Laura: Mountain ranges are part of my favored terrain. We don't get disadvantage traveling through.
Taliesin: I would prefer taking that direction. I don't want to head straight towards them.
Laura: There probably will be mountain giants, though, remember, that throw boulders and they will be terrible.
Taliesin: The Parchwood Forests are dangerous as they are. There's really no safe way.
Sam: I trust Percy; whatever you say.
Matt: Percy, you are aware that here have been problems in the past with various mountain-faring giants that lived north of Whitestone that occasionally would wander too far south. They mostly kept to themselves, but occasionally they had some crossover, there were some scuffles here and there. So you guys are deciding to take the Alabaster Sierras?
Laura: Yes. I want to cast Pass Without a Trace on everyone.
Matt: You guys head out from Westruun; it takes about a day's worth of travel. You stop in the Turst Fields. It's a small farming community. You ask around for a bit, most of the folks there say that they haven't had much trade or communication with Whitestone like they used to. They do still provide crops and such, but they don't allow anyone past into the actual forest. They trade at the boundary created by the forest. Still pay gold, but it seems to be more enclosed scenario, but very few folks there seem to question it. Business as usual is still left within Turst Fields. Make your way northward to the bottom of the Alabaster Sierras, and as you begin heading up the outskirts of this mountain range, you do notice that the mountains are extremely high in altitude. There's a perpetual climb at nearly a 40-degree angle as you continue upward further and further and further. The drop-off at the edge of the cliff is 1,000 to 2,000 feet at times, straight down into the ocean or rocks below. There are paths worn up here; it has been used as travel before. Although you're uncertain as to how recently it may have been traversed. Occasionally, the wind picks up and you have to steel yourself, push yourself against the side. The path, thankfully, is maybe 15, 20, sometimes 30 feet in width. It's not too much where you're being forced against the edge, but it's enough to be aware of the danger of the circumstance. You guys are heading up, I'd say, about half a day's travel, it's about 2:00 in the afternoon. Also, you can tell there are slight outcroppings a few hundred feet down to the bottom, a few bits of stone that jut out from the side. You can see small nests or bushes that have taken root on those side areas. The rock itself of this mountain range is unusually, unnaturally white. The actual rock that forms this entire region is almost a glowing quartz-like texture. There are parts that are almost translucent, there are parts that are very milky white. Number one, you can now understand as to partially why the area is called Whitestone, the town nearby, and you've heard mention from Percy in the past of the large quarries here that mine the stone for various uses and export it throughout all of Tal'Dorei. That's where a large portion of the town was built around that trade at the beginning of its construction. Eventually, you come to a point where there is a falloff on the path, where the erosion or some sort of large impact of the side caused the path to fall into a scooped crevasse that is a smooth fall down the side. There is no way across other than a large sea salt air-rotted rope bridge that goes across about a hundred feet. You see it rocking (creaking) with the wind.
Travis: I don't think this looks very stable.
Laura: Man, you know what I would give for a flying fucking carpet right now?
Sam: So the bridge is out?
Matt: No, the bridge can be crossed. It looks a little rickety. It's not terrible or frightening, but it's been there for a while, and you can tell from the color of the rope--
Sam: How far is it across?
Matt: A hundred feet.
Orion: Should I go first, everyone?
Taliesin: I want to inspect it from an engineering perspective, if that's possible.
Matt: Go ahead and make an investigation check.
Taliesin: Ten.
Matt: Okay. Looking at it, I mean, the anchors are pretty solid in the stonework. There's no looseness to their element. The rope itself is taut and seems to have serviced long enough. There are no signs of extreme wear other than just time and weather.
Liam: I'm going to walk forward.
Laura: I'm going to tie the fucking rope around your waist before you do that.
Taliesin: That's quite a good idea!
Liam: Sarenrae, jeepers. I'm going to use perception, I'm going to look at it before going out. That is a 23.
Matt: All right. Are you taking your horse with you?
Liam: I leave my horse with my sister. I'm on foot; I'm on all fours, really. Spidering out.
Matt: Making your way across, you get halfway across the bridge. There's a creaking sound and slight movement as the wind picks up at times and you (creaking).
Liam: So I'm lasting. What would I make, is it an insight check to decide if I thought Grog could make it across this thing?
Matt: Make an intelligence check. Roll and add your intelligence modifier.
Taliesin: It's a ten.
Liam: Take that zero off it, and you've got it.
Matt: Best you can tell, Grog looks like a big guy.
Liam: This is fun. You swing back and forth. Grog, I think you might like this!
Marisha: How far across is the bridge? A hundred feet?
Taliesin: Once you're across, let's secure the rope that's attached to you, and we'll make ourselves a guideline that we can hang onto.
Laura: I like it.
Liam: All right, he sounds like a Debbie Downer, Grog, but I'll go across, and you can follow.
Matt: Okay, you make the rest of your way across. No issue. The rope bridge carries your weight all the way.
Laura: Tie a rope. I tie the other side.
Liam: Is there anything on the other side I could tie it to?
Matt: There's a couple of small cliffside trees that grow off in strange twisting bonsai tree-like branches that stick off. They're pretty sturdy.
Liam: I use a sailor knot.
Laura: I use a special ranger knot that's really extra strong.
Matt: Secret ranger knot. Well played. (laughter)
Matt: Who's up next?
Liam: I double-knot mine.
Sam: We've got to get the horses across.
Travis: No, they ain't coming.
Sam: They're not coming? Oh. Well, I just Dimension Door across, then.
Liam: Jeepers! Will you warn a half-elf when you're going to do that?
Matt: Spooks you for a second. You hold on and you make your way across. You guys are now on the other side. You're holding onto everyone's horses left behind.
Laura: Trinket.
Travis: I tie up all the horses to a very large tree.
Marisha: Are we going by foot now?
Laura: Looks like it. Tiberius, are you still on our side? Are you with me, still? Will you cast Fly on Trinket? I love you.
Orion: Sure. To make it across?
Laura: I can climb on him and you cast Fly and you only have to use one little spell.
Orion: If I cast it on him, I would probably jump on myself, because I'm a little bit heavier than you are, darling.
Laura: Then do it!
Liam: She's haggling you right now.
Orion: You can have him afterwards.
Laura: Yeah, you can go, and I'll just use the little rope.
Orion: Fine. Proceed.
Matt: You cast Fly on Trinket--
Orion: No, I don't. I don't do shit yet. I wait for you guys to get across, so if something happens, then I can cast it.
Laura: Okay, just protect him.
Matt: So you get on Trinket's back?
Laura: No, he hasn't cast it on him yet.
Matt: So who's going across now?
Laura: I am!
Matt: Okay, you make it across. No problem. You're light enough and able to guide the movement of the bridge.
Laura: Good thing I only had one frittata the other day!
Marisha: Here's my question. What looks shaky, the connection of the bridge or the actual, physical condition of the bridge itself?
Matt: The physical condition of the bridge. There is no actual visible point that is--
Marisha: For bonus added safety in case this bridge gives way, I'm going to cast Grasping Vine and have it loop and wrap around the edge of the bridge. Further enforce it.
Matt: The vines reach around and wrap around the edges of the wood slats and the rope handholds, and it seems to be pretty well-held on that side.
Taliesin: Clever!
Marisha: At least that side will be fine. And then I'll go across.
Matt: Cool, you make it across without a problem.
Travis: Who else needs to go across?
Laura: Just you and Tiberius and Trinket.
Travis: You want me to go first?
Orion: It's fine! I hop on Trinket and I pet Lockheed. And then I hop on Trinket and I cast Fly on him and say, Remember how to go across. And then as we start flying across, I cast Telekinesis on Grog and take him with me. Kind of like Green Lantern.
Marisha: Concentration spells.
Orion: Yeah. That should be 12 seconds to get across a bridge, right?
Matt: Yeah, that would be 12 seconds, which will be enough time. So as you're coasting over with Trinket, floating (bear sounds) you turn around and cast Telekinesis. Grog, all of a sudden, you're lifted up and held aloft. You look down over yourself, waving your hands instinctually. Looking down, you can see a 600, 700 foot drop before the rock comes to a point which would probably splinter or crush anyone who fell into it, and then is pushed out to the ocean. So it's a little scary, but you start flailing about as you're being pulled across by Tiberius. Eventually, Trinket comes, lands on the other side safely. You guide Grog over, down onto his feet. Safe and sound.
Marisha: Who's left?
Sam: No one. The horses.
Laura: Oh yeah, what do you want to do with the horses?
Travis: We tied them up.
Orion: I'm going to dispel the Fly. But I'm going to hold the Telekinesis for the ten minutes I can on Grog. I'm not going to do anything, I'm just going to keep that spell going.
Matt: Okay. Cool. All righty.
Sam: I say a prayer of thanks to the horses, who will surely die of starvation.
Laura: They were tied up in a super grassy area with a shit-ton of water around.
Liam: They'll be eaten by something long before that. It's fine.
Marisha: So what's our plan? What are we doing?
Sam: The plan is walk until we get there.
Matt: The path pinches a little bit tighter as you go across, about a ten foot width and you guys begin pulling across. There's a sudden large gust of sea air blows in as you guys go ahead and buckle down to hold on. I'd like you all to roll an athletics check.
Laura: Are we in mountains yet? So I have advantage?
Matt: You have advantage on it.
Travis: Me too, because mountains are my favorite--
Matt: That's true, yeah!
Laura: What is this, acrobatics?
Sam: Athletics.
Laura: Athletics.
Sam: Nine. ORION. 18.
Marisha: 19.
Taliesin: Ten.
Laura: 11.
Travis: 23.
Matt: All right, as you guys are holding tight, both Scanlan and Vax are trying to grab something, holding onto rocks, but before they can get enough, they're both so small, it pushes them out.
Orion: How much time has passed?
Matt: It's three seconds. Oh! Passed since the bridge? About five, six minutes.
Orion: Can I try to catch them because I still have the Telekinesis going?
Matt: You can catch one of them.
Orion: (yelling) Why, Matthew?!
Matt: Because the spell has to be directed!
Marisha: Are they flying off a cliff?
Matt: They're both being dragged by the wind off the side of the cliff. You can see them grabbing the ground. Vax is being pulled off the side as Scanlan is actually lifted off his feet.
Orion: I know Vax can't. I grab Vax!
Liam: Tell my sister I love her!
Travis: I jump and try and grab Vex.
Laura: Vax. You want to hold me?
Liam: I'm Vox.
Orion: Wait, you're grabbing him?
Laura: I'm Vex.
Travis: That's what I said!
Matt: You grab Vax and hold him in place as you reach out and grab Vax by the arms and pull him back onto--
Liam: Wait, who?
Orion: You!
Liam: Oh, he grabs me!
Travis: I grab her.
Laura: Grog grabbed me.
Matt: You were fine.
Laura: I know. But he still said he'd grabbed me.
Matt: Okay. Then you're being held aloft by Tiberius' Telekinesis concentrating. Scanlan has fallen out of view.
Marisha: I Grasping Vine him before he goes out of view.
Matt: Okay. It's all right.
Marisha: Off the side of the cliff.
Matt: Go ahead and make an attack roll with your Grasping Vine.
Orion: I can manipulate a thousand pounds.
Liam: You've got me.
Marisha: What?!
Matt: This is to aim the vine as he falls.
Marisha: 19.
Matt: 19? Not a problem! The vine grabs Scanlan and pulls him back and holds him as the wind slowly dies down.
Orion: I guide Vax back to the cliff.
Matt: The wind dies down. You guys now begin pushing yourselves close to the edge of this pathway up the side of this seaside cliff. It doesn't seem to deviate much beyond that 15-foot width now, which puts you all at general unease. As the sun's getting closer and closer to setting, you're making your way around the crest. You've been traveling this mountain range for a good number of hours now. You're at a decent height, you're on foot, a good distance inside the Alabaster Sierra mountain range. Perception check, everyone.
Taliesin: Yeah!
Travis: Five.
Sam: Four.
Matt: Three, two, one.
Marisha: 25.
Taliesin: 26.
Liam: 29.
Laura: 25.
Orion: I rolled a natural one, with negative two.
Matt: Okay! Those of you with a higher perception than 20 on this roll. As you pull along, you hear this echoing sound, this (bird-like sounds) in the distance, the wind's carrying it as it's blowing past you.
Marisha: Does it sounds like anything nature-based? Something I could possibly have talked to in the past?
Taliesin: Is it something I would know?
Matt: Go ahead and make an intelligence check. You go ahead and make a nature check.
Taliesin: 21.
Marisha: 25.
Matt: It is birdish in nature, but it sounds too guttural and too articulate to be a bird. There is enough of-- you notice there's a language of the chittering that is bird-like, but there is actual voice. You recall that there are various creatures that make the cliffsides home. One of the ones that are more obnoxious that some of the earlier traders of Whitestone had problems with making this path for mining were clusters of harpies.
Marisha: Oh, fucking harpies.
Taliesin: Harpies.
Orion: Harpies.
Orion: They're the opposite of the Harpers, which are good.
Travis: What's a harpy?
Orion: A harpy's a jerk, a stupid butthole who's super loud.
Matt: You glance over as you guys are having this conversation. Behind you, you can see in the distance from where you were, a couple of these dark shapes swooping down. You see a cluster of about four or five of these harpies diving.
Taliesin: Can we find a place to maybe settle down?
Laura: Can we stealth? I cast Pass Without a Trace on us!
Sam: Don't worry! I can make us all look like cows again!
Marisha: (shushes) Everyone be quiet! MATT How long is the concentration on Pass Without a Trace? How long can you hold that concentration?
Laura: Up to one hour.
Matt: Okay. It has faded since then.
Marisha: Where are we against the mountain? Are we still on the mountain edge?
Matt: Yeah, you're still on the path, and you look back from where you came from.
Marisha: So we have a mountain behind our backs?
Matt: Yeah, a sheer cliff.
Marisha: I turn around and I cast Move Earth, my 6th-level fucker. And I (boof) and I clear out a cave.
Matt: Okay. As you're concentrating on this, eventually, Keyleth begins to focus, and over the next minute or so, she begins to push a cavern.
Laura: I cast Pass Without a Trace on us now.
Matt: Okay. As this is happening, you can see the harpies have definitely found some sort of prey. They're distracted as they're slowly tearing apart what you gather are the horses you left behind.
Laura: Oh no! Terrible!
Matt: Yeah. Good news is, they're distracted.
Marisha: Horses saved our lives, guys.
Matt: Bad news is they're probably not going to be there when you come back.
Taliesin: It's getting dark. I think we should camp.
Liam: So you're saying there's a chance.
Matt: Over the next few minutes or so, Keyleth, you've pushed a good ten by 15-foot cavern into the side of this wall that didn't previously exist. You guys are able to step out of the light as the sun's starting to disappear over the mountain range, the Cliffkeep, which you can see in the distance across this channel now. There's a channel of water between the two.
Marisha: I go ahead and Druidcraft a little campfire. Tiberius, you want to light a fire for us?
Laura: I'm going to use Hide in Plain Sight. I'm going to see if I can do this. That sort of ability to camouflage the opening of the cave to where they wouldn't be able to see it.
Matt: Sure! Go ahead and make a stealth check.
Laura: 28.
Matt: Okay! You take the next 15 minutes or so, finding what nearby pieces of brush you can and rocks that have been loosely around the area and you start setting up this pattern of them that closes off some of the entrance from the smooth opening that Keyleth had created. It takes a little ingenuity because it's just a rock opening, and there isn't a whole lot of brush and things around. But you feel you've managed to mask it to the point that to a distant eye it would be hard to see that there is an actual cavern there. At this point, the sun has set, night has come in, and you guys are sitting within this cavern hearing the distant sound of the ocean waves crashing against the bottom of these cliffside, coastal fjords.
Marisha: Me and Tiberius made a fire.
Matt: All right, a fire is made.
Orion: I lit it with my spitting.
Matt: Okay. Tiberius forms a relatively useful and effective campfire within this cave.
Laura: Oh! I want to use my holy oil and dip a couple arrows in the holy oil because I know I can make three based on what we've done before.
Matt: You can, yes. Do be aware, the holy oil will only last about a day.
Laura: Oh, really? Oh, so I'll do that right before.
Matt: It's one of those things where if you dip it now and leave it, over time it'll just either evaporate or drip off of the arrow.
Laura: Good to know.
Liam: While my sister's looking at her shit, I bogart Trinket and climb up onto him, use him like a sleeping bag and cuddle into his softest warm parts and fall asleep.
Matt: (bear groaning) Trinket, at first, just haplessly pushes you away, but recognizes your scent and lets you.
Laura: You ganked my sleeping bag.
Liam: Sorry, not sorry.
Orion: I find a little patch of dust and do a little dust bath real quick and then I'm going to use one of my books of stuffs and start researching liches just because I want to.
Matt: Okay. I mean, what book would you be researching this in?
Orion: Tobin's Spirit Guide?
Matt: The researcher ability is that you can go to places of research and find books. You don't really keep a tome of all knowledge with you. The next time you find a town or you're in town, then you can use that ability to research in advance.
Laura: I ask Grog how he's doing.
Travis: I'm bored as shit.
Laura: You want to arm wrestle?
Travis: No.
Laura: All right.
Sam: Come on, do it, Grog! Come on, you can't beat a girl?
Matt: Do you guys all rest for the evening?
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: Yeah.
Laura: But we should take watch.
Taliesin: I'm still awake. I'm going to fall asleep last.
Marisha: I also stay up with Percy.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: I'll take first watch.
Laura: Wake me up when you're tired.
Orion: I'm gonna feed Lockheed some treats.
Matt: Okay. You guys continue your business for the evening.
Marisha: I talk to Percy for a second. Percy, while we're alone for a moment, there's something that's been bothering me, and I can't get it out of my head. I thought I'd talk to you about it because I feel-- we're friends, right? We're friends? Are we friends?
Taliesin: Sure! I'd like to think so, yes.
Marisha: Been through a lot, been together a while.
Taliesin: It's been a while, yes.
Marisha: Two years now?
Taliesin: I suppose.
Sam: I go invisible to see if I can hear their conversation.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and make a perception check.
Sam: Perception or stealth? 20.
Matt: Okay. You are keeping relatively low and are able to overhear their conversation.
Marisha: You know, you're a very brilliant person.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Marisha: I can't help but feel like I'm being watched right now. Never mind, forget I said anything. I can't help but feel like there's something else, there's something more to this that you're not telling us. And I didn't really think of anything until we were having that fight where Tiberius brutally murdered that old woman.
Taliesin: Been trying not to think about it.
Marisha: Yeah, me too. But the one thing that I can't get out of my head was something that you said during that fight. And for a long time I was like, damn, Percy's got really cool one-liners and he's so smart, and I wish I could have cool one-liners. You and Grog have really cool one-liners. And then you said "your soul is now forfeit" to the person you shot that night. And I thought, wow! That was an interesting one-liner.
Taliesin: I did say that, didn't I?
Marisha: Yeah! Yeah, you did. For some reason, I was the only one who noticed it, and I don't know if that's because I'm just reading into things, if that was just a really awesome, but scary and brutal thing to say in the moment, or if there's something deeper that you might be serving.
Taliesin: Honestly, I'll say, I've had a number of years thinking about what I would do and what I would say and how I would go about this. This kind of obsession is not healthy, and I know that, and it's no way to live. And I'm sure that was something on the list of things I thought I would say, some attempt to be scary when I met them, as opposed to being scared, I think I was-- (sighs) again, I don't really remember much because I was so angry. I've never been so angry. And I think I was just trying to sound threatening. And I'd had these dreams before, you know I've-- you don't build anything like this without the knowledge that you're-- I'm aware that inventing this thing has been a mistake.
Marisha: What thing?
Taliesin: I pull out my gun.
Marisha: Wait, what are you saying? You had knowledge? You didn't build that without inspiration? What do you mean?
Taliesin: I've had thoughts about it, but I didn't really think about what I was doing or what I was going to build until I decided to take my revenge, and I'd never thought about building it because I realized what a dangerous idea it was. (sighs) And I fear for the day that that comes back to haunt me. I don't know what I'll do, but I don't know, I think I was just trying to say something to be intimidating. I honestly didn't even think I was going to kill him, it just happened.
Marisha: Can I see if he's lying to me?
Matt: Go ahead and make an insight check.
Marisha: 17.
Matt: 17. Roll a d20.
Taliesin: Is your insight really that good?
Marisha: Yeah, I'm wise as fuck!
Matt: And add your charisma modifier.
Taliesin: Add my charisma modifier? 18.
Matt: Best you can tell, he's seeming honest, and sharing open-hearted to you. You feel like you've really gotten to the core truth of what Percy's about.
Marisha: What? What did you say?
Matt: You feel like you've gotten to the core and truth of what Percy's about, and perhaps your questioning this has upset him, and you feel like maybe you've pushed this a little too far.
Taliesin: I do regret what happened and I know he was a bad man, but I still hope to never lose my temper like that again.
Liam: Got to roleplay that shit. He convinced you.
Marisha: I still really feel like we're being watched. Do you feel that? I don't know.
Taliesin: Honestly, I think we both need sleep.
Marisha: It's really distracting. Yeah. Well, I love you.
Taliesin: I love you, too.
Marisha: We're in this with you until this end.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Marisha: Let's sleep.
Matt: Okay. You guys, through your turns, the evening goes by uneventful. Morning comes to you. You can hear the distant caws of seagulls waking you up as the heat from the morning sun begins to eventually hit this side of the cave. Since you're on this side of the mountain, by the time you wake up, you realize the hour's probably a little bit past noon.
Laura: Oh shit.
Marisha: We overslept!
Orion: It's so dark in here, because of the cave thing.
Marisha: Okay, so wait. Percy, how much further out are we from Whitestone?
Matt: You gather you probably have about a day's worth of travel, and you'll be able to make your way down into the ravine from here. You've come up quite a bit of the mountain range.
Taliesin: Probably another day before we can camp close enough to attack.
Sam: Let's get going.
Laura: Should we stealth through the mountains, just in case they have any kind of lookouts?
Orion: Oh, they will have lookouts.
Laura: I cast Pass Without a Trace on us again.
Liam: Let's go slower.
Laura: Should we all stealth? Try at least?
Liam: Yes.
Taliesin: Let's keep stealthy.
Matt: Okay. You guys gather outside of the cavern and head up, continuing along this path. Eventually, you do notice that the path becomes broken and too steep to continue. It actually falls and tumbles down into this long, sliding ravine. There is a slight rockslide trail that you could climb up and over and it looks like there is a separate ravine, or a separation where the two mountains join, that could possibly be traversed. But continuing on the seaside path is not going to work. It does bring you inward towards-- maybe a little further south than you would have wanted to for optimal backdoor entrance into Whitestone, but it's about your only path.
Taliesin: Have I walked this path before? I never walked this path at all.
Matt: You would have had no reason to walk this path. You've heard about it, you know of this side of the mountain range, but based on your history, there's no reason you would have come here.
Orion: Whatever it takes to get to that back door.
Matt: Everyone make a stealth check, by the way. Just so we're aware of what your stealth rolls are with the Pass Without a Trace.
Laura: Add ten to it.
Liam: You get ten? Oh. Well, I got a 40, then.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: 27
Matt: 27.
Orion: Nine.
Matt: With the ten?
Orion: Oh, 19.
Marisha: 32.
Taliesin: 32.
Travis: 27.
Laura: 37.
Matt: That's a pretty good spread. So you guys, you've hit the edge of the path. Are you heading up the rockslide trail?
Laura: Yes.
Matt: Okay. You all, one by one, begin to climb over the trail and some rocks tumble loose beneath your feet, grasp. And you help each other get to the very top.
Orion: I use my Mage Hand to help.
Matt: (laughs) That's adorable. (laughter)
Laura: As he looks at the clock! "That's adorable."
Matt: So you all eventually manage to make it over the top of the rockslide trail and eventually it leads you to where these two large mountains come together, and there is a small path that leads between. It winds and travels downward. You can see bits of the rock have fallen and crumbled, and there are small boulders and such that just, over time and through erosion, have tumbled down this ravine to start filling it with occasional chunks of stone. You begin walking through this ravine for another good 45 minutes to an hour, keeping a keen eye out.
Orion: Is this the same ravine that we're travelling across?
Matt: Basically, you guys have been traveling up the side of the coast. You've now turned inward over the mountain range to head down into the valley of Whitestone. You are currently just now heading up through the mountain range, inwards towards the mountain.
Taliesin: Is this the river?
Matt: There's no river here. It's just stone that comes together for a pathway in between. This is where two large peaks of the mountains basically come to join at the bottom.
Taliesin: Okay, so we're not at the river.
Matt: No, the river is actually inside the valley and to the south of Whitestone. So pressing down I would like you all to roll a perception check.
Laura: Jesus.
Marisha: Ah, that's all right.
Sam: One!
Laura: Natural 20!
Liam: Natural 20!
Liam: Yeah!
Matt: One, one, 20, 20.
Orion: 16.
Marisha: 14.
Taliesin: 16.
Matt: Okay. As all of you guys are charging forward, both Vex and Vax, you hear this slight noise of a couple rocks (clattering) in the ravine behind you. You both turn and look and for a split second you swear you see between some of the rocks and paths of jagged stone that mark the walls of this ravine, you see a quick blur of blue that vanishes behind a higher platform above you.
Liam: Smurfs!
Laura: A blur of blue?
Matt: A large blur of blue just disappears behind one of the outcroppings that's blocking your view of higher up the ravine.
Laura: (shushes) Down. Hide.
Orion: I cast Stoneskin.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Stealth.
Orion: I fasten my Cloak of Displacement.
Laura: And I prepare--
Matt: You guys prepare for a second, and as you're all paying attention, you guys also see another shift of blue (whoosh) go across the way. And this time you see it's something large and blue that moves across the stone and goes into a small cavern that looks about 25 feet up the way that's just past your visual range from this low in the ravine.
Laura: Do we have any visual on what it could be?
Matt: It moved very quickly, and for a split second, you could see it appeared to be-- the way it moved was almost serpentine, like (whoosh) and vanished inside. You swear you saw limbs, though. It wasn't a giant snake. There was something attached to it.
Laura: (whispering) Wyvern? I look at Keyleth. Keyleth. (louder) And I whisper, but for sake of microphones, do you know of a creature that's blue, and fast, and is kind of snakey but has arms and legs?
Marisha: Let me think about it for a second. Do I know a creature that's blue and snakey?
Liam: It sounds like basilisks, but they're too slow.
Matt: What did you roll?
Marisha: I don't know. Ooh, that's 24.
Matt: 24. You've heard of various lizard-like creatures that grow to large sizes. Usually those fall into the realm of dragons and such. The color blue, though, is uncommon, unless it were a blue dragon. However, the motion of this creature does not seem to necessarily be the territory of a blue dragon. It's hard to point exactly what this is, but you do know it's probably something in the serpentine-type magical realm.
Taliesin: I heard them, I heard them describe it. Would I know it from the description? Just from my local knowledge?
Matt: Go ahead and make a history check.
Marisha: The blue thing's weird. The blue thing is what's throwing me.
Taliesin: Nine.
Matt: Nine. Unfortunately, nothing of this type has come across you. If it has, it's been too long, and you've forgotten it. There are a number of dangerous things that exist in these mountains.
Laura: I've got a really good idea. Wait. No! Grog, pick up something really heavy, and throw it as far as you can.
Travis: I go over and I grab Scanlan--
Sam: No!
Laura: A boulder or something.
Travis: I put Scanlan down. Find a large rock that's tumbled down, maybe.
Matt: Yeah, they're easy to find. There's like some that are this big, some that are larger. They're really heavy.
Travis: And I discus the thing and (whoosh).
Matt: Make an athletics check.
Travis: Well, that was great. 24.
Matt: (whoosh) You release the rock. (impact) It skids to a halt. As it does, you can see suddenly over the course (whoosh) something very quickly move, and it's a head. It's a snout. You see it's probably a good six, seven-foot wide. A giant, lizard-like, toothy jaw. Blue scales against it with large kind of horned ridges across the back of its head. And its claws (clacking) on the edge. Looks down. Looks down at the rest of you. Rears back.
Laura: It saw us?
Liam: Didn't see me.
Orion: Well, of course it saw us.
Laura: With 37 stealth, yo. It saw us?
Marisha: But it didn't seem to give a shit?
Matt: It just withdrew over the edge.
Sam: Should we run?
Laura: Maybe just move really fast away from him
Marisha: I can, I can cast Anti-Life Shell on us. Then we can haul ass really fast.
Sam: Will it move with us, your shell?
Marisha: Yeah, as long as you stay close to me. It moves with me.
Liam: Yeah, fuck this thing. Let's get out of here.
Marisha: Okay! I cast Anti-Life Shell. Stay close!
Matt: Okay. As you begin casting and finish the spell. As the sphere appears-- at which point you now see a large blue blur (whoosh) dart off of the cliffside into the air (impact noise) and skidding right in front of you guys, blocking off the side of the ravine you guys were running towards. You can now see it: a huge, elongated, serpentine body covered in blue scales and horns. You can see what looks to be six to eight arms and a series of legs all across its long, snakelike torso. As it looks it snarls at you all (snarls). And you see sparks of energy, electricity (sparking noises) in its jaw. (growls, roars)
Liam: Salamander?
Matt: And that's where we're going it end tonight! (yelling)
Laura: Oh, jeez Louise!
Sam: You can't do that!
Matt: I can, because it's 10 30.
Liam: No, it's not. It's like 8 45.
Matt: We can keep going if you guys want to stay long. It's Thursday night.
Zac: I'm coming to you with my laptop before you continue.
Liam: Who's that guy?
Matt: But to give you a little perspective, that is what essentially you'd be facing. (loud reactions)
Laura: What the fuck? It's got so many arms.
Liam: That's a kobold.
Matt: Yeah, totally. Kobold. [end of transcript]

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello everyone, and welcome to Critical Role, the show where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors get together, roll dice, and play Dungeons and Dragons. My name is Matthew Mercer, I'm the Dungeon Master of the game. Welcome, new folks who haven't seen this before, hope you're not too lost, and returning Team Hooman and Critter fans, welcome back, we love having you and let's get this evening on the road. We have some announcements and things to talk about before the game actually kicks in, so we'll first pass it over here to our fantastic overlord to get that kicked off.
Zac: That's right, you get to see my ugly face for a couple minutes while I get through a couple quick announcements, guys. A lot of you have been asking me on Twitter and in the chat room when you will get to see Critical Troll? That will be up on the website tomorrow night at 8PM Pacific Standard Time. So go over to the website at 8PM, you'll be able to see that and I'm sure you guys will secretly pass around the youtube link and stuff.
Matt: Watch me go crazy.
Zac: Currently you can find Laura's article on GeekandSundry.com.
Laura: What?!
Zac: That came out today, so make sure to head over to the website and read that. And I know a lot of you are probably wondering about D&Diesel. Which is apparently the name, D&Diesel.
Laura: Yeah, it is.
Zac: Got a ring to it.
Taliesin: Hashtag D&Diesel.
Zac: Hashtag D&Diesel. That will be showing tonight during the midpoint of the show. Now, there's a couple special things with this showing, you need to watch it live. If you think that you're going to come back later, watch it on the rebroadcast, and you're gonna go dip out for a pee break or pizza break, whatever, don't! Stick around because after it shows tonight live, you will be unable to see it again until Monday on the website. So it will be cut from the rebroadcasts.
Laura: Whoa.
Zac: And I'm very sorry to our European audience. I'm really sorry about that, but that's just unfortunately how PR deals work sometimes and that's just the way it is. But, it'll only be--
Matt: It's only a few days!
Zac: Yeah, it'll only be a few days and you'll get to see a lot more on Monday. A longer cut and that's why it's a website exclusive. It's longer, it'll have some tightening and all sorts of other stuff. But, you guys get a special treat tonight with a preview showing, and it's still a long preview, it's like 20-25 minutes or something like that.
Laura: Whoa, it is?
Matt: Yeah.
Zac: It's pretty cool.
Matt: That'll be exciting.
Zac: So there's that. Tomorrow we have a very special event happening for all of those that joined us for the Extra Life campaign, thank you so much, and a lot of you guys were here as well.
Matt: Yes indeed.
Zac: And thank you for donating, getting us well past our goal, and as some of you may remember during Critical Troll, Felicia mentioned that if we reached a certain goal, she would come on, on a scheduled date and play Rock Band 4. So that's happening, tomorrow.
Matt: Yup!
Zac: We are having a battle of the bands from 5 to 7PM Pacific Standard Time, and Mr. Mercer here is going to be playing the drums.
Matt: Yeah, I'm drumming for them, which, first off, I haven't played since probably 2011, and I'm a little rusty.
Zac: Have you seen your competition?
Matt: No, but I assume they're gonna destroy me.
Zac: They're really good.
Matt: That's okay. I will narrate my failure.
Zac: There we go!
Matt: In a way that will still be as engrossing. (laughs)
Zac: And there's been a Twitter battle happening between the two teams.
Matt: Oh really?
Zac: You're kinda walking into the fire, my friend.
Matt: That's okay.
Zac: Felicia's put a lot on the line for you guy's team.
Matt: That's cool. I got fire resistance. That's fine.
Zac: Okay cool, cool. That'll be happening tomorrow 5PM to 7PM Pacific Standard Time, you guys should tune in for that. We are still going to be donating to Extra Life, but we're not really going to be pushing it, it's more of a reward for you guys for helping us get past that $75k goal.
Matt: Yes.
Zac: Our next giveaway is going to be at 9,500, we're getting pretty close. The other real quick little announcement I have as far as subs go, is last week you guys were able to get our sub train up to 420 subs, now that counts resubs and new subs. So we have the sub train going right now, I believe it's well over a hundred--
Matt: Woof.
Zac: If we break last week's record of 420 which I think they purposely stopped at 420--
Matt: (laughs) Of course they did.
Zac: Hey guys, don't go. We will do a giant giveaway of board games, D&D stuff signed by the cast, signed by the rest of the Twitch crew. We'll throw in a couple video games, t-shirts, all sorts of stuff. Plus Ivan has said if we reach that goal for TPK, which those that watched last Monday, thank you so much.
Matt: Yeah!
Zac: It's a new show on Monday nights where our Twitch cast plays as themself in Outbreak Undead. Last week, some of you saw the Twitch cast leave me for dead outside of the studio. And a lot of people thought that I might come back if given the opportunity. Well, if we break that sub goal, Ivan has said that I will come back and probably wreak havoc in some way for our Twitch host that thought they could get away with leaving me for dead in the middle of the street.
Matt: (laughs) That's awesome.
Zac: So let's break 420. The last announcement, guys, is just a real quick community announcement. We like to pride ourselves at Geek & Sundry for being a very open and loving and warm community, and that's absolutely the most important thing to us and to Felicia and to a lot of our viewers, and I know last week things got a little heated in the chat room, and we just want to remind everyone that we don't get the opportunity to talk to you much during the show, but we want to make sure you guys stay as positive as possible or I will have to throw the hammer down on you.
Matt: Shit. All right. There you--
Zac: That's pretty much it.
Matt: You know, just goes to say that this community is built on so many great, positive people and such a wonderful sense of community, and a big huge thanks and please share appreciation for our fantastic mods who work consistently and constantly throughout the day.
Zac: (sings) For free.
Matt: For free.
Zac: (laughs) You guys are crazy.
Matt: Through our chatroom, which if you've watched, as you're now seeing and have seen previous episodes, is I can only assume readable by super mastermind computers at this point. So, you guys do an amazing job, it's really appreciated and to all of you guys out there in the community, keep that positivity, keep that understanding, and enjoy our game for its ups, for its downs, for our good character choices, bad character choices. It's all an experience in a story that we're all having together at the same time. So, kick along, hold on, and keep smiling.
Zac: Well said, Matt.
Matt: Yeah, thank you.
Zac: We love you guys, kind of. (all laugh)
Matt: I do. I love you. We do.
Zac: I'm on the fence.
Matt: He's a-- you know.
Laura: We love you so much!
Matt: It's a thing. So yeah, so, couple other announcements for you guys. What's our sub count right now? When's our next one hundred?
Crew: 9.5k, 9,500.
Matt: At 9,500 we will be giving away our signed photo and signed art piece by Kit Buss to a random person who's active in the chat. So next time we hit that goal, we'll have that giveaway, which is awesome. Once again, Extra Life has been our big charity push right now. Everyone who's given, thank you so much. So, so much, and if ever you want to be a part of helping that out we have the information there available for you, it goes to a really great cause. Let's see, Sam will be here shortly. Unfortunately, we're down a Tiberius tonight. However, yesterday was Orion's birthday, so feel free to go ahead and wish him a happy birthday on Twitter.
Laura: Aw.
Liam: Happy birthday, Orion.
Travis: Happy birthday, buddy.
Matt: Happy birthday, Orion. But yeah, Sam should be here shortly. And, let's see, do we have any project announcements?
Liam: Just a project announcement?
Matt: Or any other announcements you've got.
Liam: Hey, yesterday I started directing for the World of Warcraft. So that's pretty good.
Laura: You did? (all cheer)
Matt: Congratulations, buddy.
Laura: That's so great!
Liam: I think it's gonna be ongoing and it was really nice.
Travis: Big deal.
Marisha: I'm so excited for you!
Laura: That's super exciting.
Matt: That's awesome.
Liam: Then anything right now?
Marisha: I'm so fangirly.
Matt: Anything you want.
Liam: All right, I also want to thank Pupgames from Twitter for sending me this.
Laura: Oh yeah.
Liam: Look at this. It came in the mail separate and I have a hood and now I can just, you know, I can go like that and no one will see me so thank you, Pupgames.
Matt: That's awesome!
Liam: Let me set it here. I haven't figured out how to wear it exactly, but I will.
Laura: (laugh)
Matt: (laugh)
Travis: Take all your clothes off and then figure it out.
Matt: It's warm on the chesticles.
Liam: And then, I just want to take a minute, I said thank you on Twitter, but I just want to thank everybody who for the last week has sent me well-wishes and today who has sent me well-wishes, and a lot of the Critter community got together and made a video just to, you know, just support, support me in-- I am having a hard moment in my personal life, not gonna get into it, but you guys kind of took my breath away today for real. So, thank you very much.
Travis: Yeah.
Marisha: We have the best fans.
Matt: This whole community is brilliant, so you guys.
Taliesin: So many of them in New York and in San Francisco this week, where we've been all over the place.
Marisha: Yes. Shout out to our New York and San Fran.
Matt: Yeah, we hit both coasts.
Marisha: San Francisco. Both coasts.
Matt: Yeah, in the same week. It's crazy. Yeah, we all went to New York Comic Con. We had a panel that went really well. We had a bunch of great critters come out and Team Hooman folks come and sit in the audience, ask questions. We had some fun banter back and forth. We gave out 'Critical Rolls,' these cookies that were our little meal deal.
Taliesin: That were neither critical nor rolls, really to be fair.
Matt: Right.
Taliesin: But they were good.
Marisha: But we're into it.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: Imaginary rolls.
Marisha: Imaginary rolls.
Matt: Much like our realm is imaginary.
Taliesin: I may have hit a couple people in the face, for which I greatly apologize.
Laura: I definitely hit somebody in the face with one of those rolls.
Taliesin: Yeah, I like split someone's lip.
Matt: Completely unintentional, I'm sure.
Laura: I'm so sorry.
Liam: Her aim is excellent. She never misses.
Laura: Yes, I am an archer.
Travis: She Hunter's Marks that shit.
Laura: I Hunter's Marked your face.
Taliesin: And we played golf. It was quite nice.
Matt: Also, thank you guys for coming out to that event. Also, for those who came to see us at Forbidden Planet in New York, we had a great turnout, and that comic shop wasn't quite expecting what they were in for.
Travis: We weren't expecting that.
Matt: We weren't expecting, but they especially were like halfway through like, "Who are you guys?! What is happening?!"
Marisha: (laughs) Yeah.
Travis: We are legion.
Marisha: We freaked out our Uber driver.
Matt: Yeah we did.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: We pulled up and got out of the car and all of a sudden it was like hundreds of people cheering and we all went "What?!" and the Uber driver went "What?!?"
Taliesin: I think his exact words is, "Is this for us?" (all laugh)
Matt: And even we were like "I don't know."
Laura: I don't know!
Matt: You guys were amazing. Thank you for that.
Marisha: I feel like we need to find and screen cap in the thread where we were like, 20, 30 people, guys. Let's not get our hopes up.
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: Well, that's who got back to me, was like, I don't know, 40ish.
Laura: Yeah, we thought it was gonna be like 40 people.
Matt: Yeah, that was a good turnout.
Laura: That-- pretty great. Was great. Pretty great.
Liam: It was pretty metal.
Taliesin: The internet went, nope.
Matt: Yeah. Other announcements  Coming up in I think the next couple weeks or so, the release of the Minecraft Story Mode.
Marisha: (whispers) Yeah.
Travis: (sings) Yeah.
Matt: Comes out on Xbox. Completely a fun show. We went to the Archlight Let's Play of it they did, which was really a lot of fun. I play the characters Aiden and Otis in it.
Marisha: Hundreds of screaming children. Screaming, yeah.
Matt: Yes, lots of screaming children. Yeah, so I play Aiden and Otis and a smattering of other characters throughout. I think Sam also worked on it. Anyone else?
All: Ashley.
Matt: That's right, Ashley Johnson, our very own Pike!
Liam: She's one of the mains.
Matt: Yeah, she's one of the main characters in that show. So if you're a Minecraft fan and you like Telltale and you have an Xbox, check it out.
Laura: Speaking of Telltale, the final episode of Tales from the Borderlands comes out next week.
Travis: Oh snap!
Laura: Episode five, what!
Taliesin: Yeah!
Matt: Awesome!
Laura: Exciting.
Matt: (sings) Yeah.
Taliesin: Also in that role, if any Critters are in the Galveston area for Halloween, I will be at OniCon over Halloween weekend. So, you can come say hi in beautiful Galveston by the sea. Galveston, Texas.
Matt: There you go.
Taliesin: I'll be wearing a costume. It'll be great.
Matt: Perfect.
Liam: We have a gnome.
Laura: We have a gnome.
Taliesin: We have gnome? Oh god!
Marisha: You're in Minecraft, right? Story mode.
Sam: Yes I am.
Marisha: Yeah.
Sam: In fact you and I--
Matt: I think we have a couple scenes together.
Sam: We do something together, I don't know what. Or you're playing a version of me or something, I don't remember.
Matt: I can only assume that it's tawdry.
Sam: (laughs) The director told me something about you and I just assume we're probably having sex in the game.
Matt: Probably.
Sam: Yeah, okay.
Matt: It's just like an extended, fully interactive too. Talk about choices you make that affect the storyline. (laughs)
Taliesin: I blank out in the booth any time they mention his name.
Matt: But yeah, cool, guys. Any announcements anyone want to talk about, or shall we get things started?
Laura: Let's do it!
Matt: All right, let's do it.
Marisha: Do it!
Liam: Wait, where did Grog go?
Taliesin: Wait, wait, wait.
Sam: He'll be here.
Matt: Grog, he'll be here in a minute but in the meantime, let's go ahead and dial in for the next episode of Critical Role.
Taliesin: Dun dun dun dun. [opening credits]
Matt: Welcome back. So. Sh. (laughs) So, to go over the current adventure in its current sequence, we have-- the party recently had an encounter with the Briarwoods. Two individuals that were responsible for a lot of strife--
Liam: Dicks!
Matt: -- in the background of Percival's history. Seemingly responsible for the destruction of his entire family, and have for the past five years been essentially ruling his home city and castle. They were out for a political banquet with Sovereign Uriel in Emon and the party members of Vox Machina, they were all invited to be part of this. Didn't quite go as planned. There was a scuffle and the Briarwoods absconded back to Whitestone. They sent a couple assassins out to attempt to take out their driver, who was spilling information and essentially was going to be Vox Machina's way of being free of any sort of political issues based on their actions that evening, and after much discussion and preparation and purchasing a lot of mirrors, the party took their transit over to the east-northeast towards Whitestone, where they began to traverse the Alabaster Sierras to the north, using the mountain range as opposed to going directly through the forest. There they managed to avoid encountering a bunch of harpies that were distracted by eating the horses they left behind.
Travis: Damn.
Matt: They camped for the evening and began to make their way through some sort of a mountainous valley that led in towards the forest surrounding Whitestone. While they were traveling down this pass, there was a rumbling, and some sort of really fast, rapid-moving large blue creature that leaped down in front, catching them off-guard. And that is where we begin today.
Travis: Probably should have fucking researched that creature.
Taliesin: Did the creature look like that?
Matt: That blue creature.
Laura: Yeah, right? That would have been smart.
Taliesin: Okay, just checking.
Travis: I never do that.
Laura: I know. So dumb.
Sam: What's dumb?
Travis: I have a question.
Laura: That we didn't research that creature.
Travis: What did you roll on your beard check?
Matt: What'd I roll on my beard check?
Laura: I know, it's growing!
Marisha: It's metagaming, you can't. We're not allowed.
Matt: Well, obviously. (all laugh)
Matt: Well, No Shave 'Til 10k.
Travis: That's true!
Matt: And my Halloween costume requires a decent amount of facial hair.
Taliesin: Oh, that's right.
Travis: A sexy amount of facial hair, you beast! Be glad there's a table between you and I. (all laugh)
Liam: I was a little worried about some performance capture coming up, but it got moved back--
Laura: So you can shave--
Liam: Off to the races.
Matt: Yeah!
Laura: How far are we from 10K?
Travis: I gotta shave tonight.
Crew: 509.
Matt: 509 away.
Laura: All right.
Sam: So, like, tomorrow.
Marisha: Yeah, no.
Matt: We'll see.
Marisha: Tonight.
Matt: All right, so, everyone. As this huge, blue-scaled reptilian-like creature with multiple arms and legs comes skittering down the side of the cliffs, blocking off the entirety of this passage, snarling at you with sharp teeth and this sparking-blue electrical energy jutting out of the corners of its mouth. I want you all to roll initiative.
Marisha: So soon! Which one?
Sam: I add 20 to this, right, that's how it works?
Marisha: Not good.
Laura: Oh no!
Sam: See you guys in--
Marisha: Always cocked!
Travis: I didn't level up! What a dick.
Marisha: Still not great.
Liam: Wait, you did but you didn't, is what you're saying?
Travis: I did, but I didn't.
Liam: Add some hit points!
Laura: Yeah, add your points right now.
Liam: Add some hit points!
Travis: How many do I add?
Marisha: It's like--
Matt: 1d12 plus your constitution modifier!
Laura: 1d12!
Marisha: Barbarian, man!
Liam: Hey, we play D&D!
Laura: Hey, that's good! Plus--
Liam: Plus--
Laura: Whoa! 16 extra health points!
Matt: Whoa, what'd you roll?!
Laura: He rolled an 11 plus five!
Liam: Dang!
Marisha: That's hot.
Matt: That's pretty hot. So many hit points for the barbarian.
Liam: And, if you want, you can just boost to, are you at 12 now?
Travis: What?
Liam: Level 12? Are you at level 12?
Laura: Don't complicate things.
Liam: Just smash, smash, Hulk smash.
Sam: How many spells does he get?
Matt: All of them. All right, so initiatives we have-- 25 to 20, anyone?
Taliesin: 21.
Matt: All right. 20 to 15?
Laura: 19.
Travis: Me too. 16.
Matt: 16? 15 to ten?
Marisha: Ten.
Matt: Ten, Keyleth. Ten to five?
Liam: Eight! I consistently botch this roll.
Sam: See you guys in like an hour. I got a four.
Matt: Scanlan, you have consistently the best initiative rolls.
Sam: Oh, yeah. I save it for when it counts.
Matt: As you should, as you should. So, first up Percy. Instinctively, with your drive towards Whitestone and this creature in your way, you are already ready for this encounter. What are you going to do?
Taliesin: It's bigger than sin, isn't it?
Matt: It is considered a huge creature.
Taliesin: Okay, so, I'm going to alert everybody, get down! And I'm going to take three shots--
Sam: You're just going to start shooting.
Taliesin: Hmm?
Sam: You're just going to start shooting.
Taliesin: I'm just going to-- look at that thing!!
Marisha: Hey, Percy gonna do what Percy gonna do.
Sam: What if you could reason with him?
Laura: He is definitely--
Taliesin: Why doesn't it reason with me, is what I'm asking! It could reason with me!
Liam: There's a lot of heads in the way. Just aim true.
Taliesin: I'm aiming, I'm going to use the Sharpshooter for extra damage.
Matt: All righty.
Taliesin: Three pepperbox shots.
Liam: I will be less handsome with one ear, I'm just saying.
Matt: With the minus five.
Taliesin: Yeah, so that's 17.
Matt: 17 hits. Just go ahead and roll the attacks in succession.
Taliesin: Hmm?
Matt: Go ahead and roll the attacks in succession so we know how many hit.
Taliesin: Okay.
Matt: Second shot.
Taliesin: Second one, it hits, 18 plus seven.
Matt: It hits. Third one?
Taliesin: For the third one, I'm going to go for a head shot instead of a Sharpshooter.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: And that's 21.
Matt: Okay, all three hit. Go ahead and roll damage.
Travis: The dark cloud aids his rolls.
Laura: (whispers) Vengeance!
Taliesin: 17.
Matt: 17 damage.
Laura: (whispers) Vengeance!
Taliesin: Better!
Travis: Vengeance!
Taliesin: 25.
Matt: All righty!
Taliesin: That went really well. The last one-- do I do any damage when I hit the head? Normal damage. So, last one is seven points of damage plus he's got--
Matt: Disadvantage on his attacks this round.
Taliesin: Yeah, disadvantage on attacks.
Matt: Gotcha. Do you want to stay where you are, or are you going to move?
Taliesin: Am I touching a wall?
Matt: You're right close to one. You can--
Laura: Stop touching me. Stop touching me.
Taliesin: All right, I'm going to brace against a wall.
Matt: Okay. Brace against that wall, there. Gotcha.
Taliesin: And I'm going to mark all this off.
Matt: All righty. Okay. Next up is the creature.
Laura: Argh.
Matt: (Laughs) Because it rolled really high on its initiative. It's going to go ahead. Let's see, at a movement of 50 feet.
Liam: Oh god.
Laura: (gasps)
Travis: (whispers) Are we in a valley? Or are we--
Laura: We're in a freaking--
Marisha: We're in a death trap.
Liam: It crawled down the wall.
Sam: No, it's going to be fine, guys. We're like a--
Taliesin: We're outdoors.
Sam: The valley is like a taco shell.
Laura: Is it a valley, or is it like those are cliff sides and we could fall?
Matt: It's a valley. The cliff sides go up.
Sam: Yeah, it's like a taco shell and we're the meat.
Travis: Okay.
Laura: Okay.
Marisha: And we're-- Yeah. Yeah. (all laugh)
Matt: You could climb around it without a problem. But it's pretty sheer. You'd have to make climb checks if you want to--
Marisha: Yep, accurate.
Liam: We're in a tight spot.
Laura: Okay. Got it.
Liam: We're in a tight spot.
Marisha: Unless you're in Japan.
Matt: So it scurries forward--
Taliesin: Taco.
Matt: Lowers its jaw and rears its head back. As it does, you see its eyes flare with electrical energy and inside its mouth begins to glow with a brightish blue, white power.
Liam: Get down.
Matt: A bolt of electrical energy comes forward, hitting Grog, Vax, Scanlan, and Percy.
Travis: It's electrifying!
Laura: Electrified.
Matt: Well, let's see. Actually, no, it would move out to-- Hmm, that's only 20 feet, so to get maximum-- This, let's see.
Sam: Maybe it doesn't do math well.
Laura: Don't think about it, just go.
Sam: Maybe it doesn't know math well. Maybe it doesn't move right.
Laura: Don't calculate it, Matt. It's fine.
Matt: No, actually for optimal--
Laura: Fuck.
Matt: --optimal impact here, instead, it's going to go there.
Travis: I have to put my head in its mouth?
Matt: (laughs) Practically.
Liam: (laughs) Eh.
Matt: It will then do it on-- It would be Grog, Vex, and Trinket.
Sam: I approve of that.
Matt: I realized that its bolt is only 20 feet long. So, utilizing its optimal Lightning Bolt length, you guys were clustered together.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: All right, so I need you guys, you three, to roll a dexterity saving throw.
Taliesin: With advantage?
Laura: With advantage because I'm in the mountains?
Matt: You do it with advantage. It only affects attacks, not for saving throws.
Taliesin: Oh, that's right. This is a magic save.
Travis: 19.
Matt: Good to know.
Taliesin: I probably should spend Grit.
Laura: 21.
Matt: All right. And Trinket?
Laura: Argh.
Liam: (Chewbacca sounds)
Laura: (growls) Eight. Yay.
Matt: He got an eight?
Laura: He got a eight.
Matt: Oof, okay. 33 points of lightning damage to both of you.
Laura: (gasps)
Sam: Wait, that means--
Matt: Trinket takes 66.
Sam: 66?
Laura: Trinket's fucking dead, yo.
Sam: What?!
Matt: Unconscious.
Laura: That fast?!
Travis: Which one  dead or unconscious?
Laura: He's unconscious.
Taliesin: Unconscious.
Travis: Don't throw around the "D" word, unless it's the "D" word time.
Matt: So, as there was a crackling of energy forward, you two brace yourself, managing to get mostly out of the way. Unfortunately, both of you dodging out of the way leaves an open shot for bear, that just takes the brunt of it, throwing Trinket up against the side of the actual mountainous cavern. And slumps to the ground, smoking off the fur.
Laura: Does Trinket have to make saving throws?
Matt: Yes.
Liam: Death saving throws? Yes.
Marisha: No one has any resistance, spell resistance?
Matt: Not yet. Until we get to his turn. That will end--
Laura: Ooh, ooh, wait.
Marisha: Forgetting-- Your armor? I've got a spell you're--
Laura: He's only got 42 hit points.
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: Whoa.
Matt: Technically, he should have more from leveling up. But, even more wouldn't be that much higher, so-- Okay, so that's rough. That ends its turn. Vex, you're up first. (all laugh)
Travis: She would like to rage.
Marisha: (as Matt) So that sucks, but--
Laura: Vengeance! Vengeance.
Taliesin: Say your soul is forfeit.
Laura: I'm going to Hunter's Mark him.
Matt: All righty.
Laura: And then I'm going to-- Why is he closer now? Sorry, Grog. I'm going to Hail of Thorns him.
Matt: All righty.
Sam: Grog is always in the way.
Laura: Yeah, well--
Travis: I do need a good back tickle.
Liam: (as Grog) Got an itch back there.
Travis: Yeah. (laughs)
Laura: 30.
Matt: 30 hits.
Laura: No, wait, that's wrong. No, 30.
Matt: 30 hits.
Laura: (sighs) I'm so angry right now! Thorn's d--
Travis: It's not at me for once.
Laura: Ten. (sighs) 3d10.
Taliesin: For once, you're not the one doing damage to the bear.
Travis: That's good.
Laura: 18 plus two is 20.
Marisha: It's a bonus action, so we can do other shit if Scanlan and I both do it.
Laura: What is that?
Travis: 22.
Laura: 22.
Matt: 22 also hits.
Laura: No, that's the attack.
Matt: That's the damage. Okay, gotcha. And Grog, also--
Laura: Oh, yeah.
Matt: Because you're right next to it.
Travis: (posh accent) Would that be considered piercing, bludgeoning, or slashing damage?
Matt: (posh accent) It doesn't matter, you have not taken your turn to rage yet.
Travis: (posh accent) Oh fucking shit. (all laugh)
Matt: That would be full damage upon you, Grog.
Travis: Ow! (laughs)
Laura: Oh shit, I'm sorry. The other one was 27.
Matt: To hit? Okay.
Laura: Awoo. Ten plus--
Sam: Angry d10.
Laura: Plus 15.
Matt: 15. That's including the Hunter's Mark, right?
Laura: Yes.
Matt: All right, good.
Laura: Oh wait, no, I wasn't adding the seven. Wait no, that's a lie. That's a 15, 16, 17, plus five. 21.
Matt: 21, got it. So, as you look over and you see Trinket on the ground, smoldering spire of smoke pouring off of his body--
Laura: Can I pull him? Can I pull him out of the way?
Marisha: Smells like burnt fur.
Sam: Burnt fur.
Laura: Just pull him into the little crevice, for my move.
Matt: This way, do you mean?
Laura: For my move. Is that a move action, or would it be an action-action?
Matt: That would be more of an action-action, unfortunately.
Laura: Ugh. Oh no.
Matt: But you angrily turn around, release your arrow, firing a completely furious Hail of Thorns into the creature. As it hits, it shatters across its hide, some of it scattering onto Grog. You don't even care. You just focus the anger, pull out a second arrow, unleash this one. Actually jamming underneath one of the scales. You can see a little trickle of dark, deep purple blood beginning to pour from the wound.
Laura: I get out of the line.
Matt: Okay, where do you want to go?
Laura: Towards the little crevice.
Matt: Right there?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Did we lose--
Laura: But I still want to be near Trinket.
Matt: Okay. That ends your turn. Grog, you're up.
Travis: Getting ass-lit up with the Hail of Thorns, I go into a rage.
Laura: I'm so sorry.
Matt: (laughs) Okay.
Travis: I go into a Frenzied Rage!
Matt: All righty.
Travis: And I would like to attack three times with my flaming warhammer.
Matt: Certainly.
Liam: No more shopping today.
Travis: That is 24.
Matt: That hits.
Travis: 21?
Matt: That hits.
Travis: Eee! 26.
Matt: That also hits.
Travis: Nice. Those were really good rolls. Okay. First one is 11.
Laura: I think I missed a box.
Travis: 13? First one.
Matt: 13 damage. Good to know.
Taliesin: Brought another sign.
Travis: 14 for the second one.
Marisha: (laughs) Yeah.
Matt: Mm-hm.
Travis: Yes. 17 and 18, 19, 20, 21 plus the fire damage.
Matt: Good to know.
Travis: Including fire damage.
Matt: All right, so, going into the rage, you just see that same fury. You can smell the burnt hair in the air and you use that to fuel that moment of pain. You just (impact sounds) and just start bludgeoning the creature right up in its face. You can see it's thrashing and snarling at you and snapping with each blow. You guys are locked in this titan-versus-human battle right now. Cool, and are you going to stay where you are?
Travis: I'm going to move. Can I move towards you a little bit?
Matt: This way, there?
Travis: Yes, staying next to him, but just out of the way of other projectiles that might be coming up my butthole.
Matt: Fair enough. (laughs) Okay, Grog. Ends your turn. Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: Okay. I'm right next to Trinket, right?
Matt: Mm-hm.
Marisha: Okay, right? Where is Trinket?
Matt: Trinket's right there. You're over here.
Liam: Follow the smell.
Marisha: I'm going to go ahead and go to Trinket.
Laura: (laughs)
Matt: Oh, that's right. Make a death saving throw, by the way.
Sam: Oh, snap.
Matt: Almost forgot.
Laura: (whimpers) Oh no.
Matt: Roll a d20.
Liam: (sings) Roll high.
Marisha: He'll be fine. He'll be fine.
Taliesin: Roll like your bear depends on it.
Travis: You should pick a blood-colored one.
Laura: Why would you do that? He rolled a 19.
Sam: Ooh.
Matt: Okay, so not creeping closer to death yet.
Laura: Don't say that.
Marisha: Okay, I'm going to go ahead and do a Cure Wounds spell on him.
Matt: All right.
Laura: Thank you, Keyleth.
Marisha: I'll just do first level.
Sam: Oh. Trinket's not worth second level?
Marisha: No no no no no. I'll give him a-- shut up, Scanlan. (all laugh)
Liam: Wake him up, wake him up, wake him up.
Marisha: I instantly felt guilty, dick.
Taliesin: You guilted her up to another level.
Marisha: Yeah, you did. Okay.
Travis: (laughs) That was the best.
Sam: I would've done a cantrip.
Marisha: (laughs) That's 2d8 plus ten.
Travis: Dick.
Laura: 2d8 plus ten? That's great. (all laugh)
Travis: Guilted it for an imaginary bear.
Marisha: All right, that's pretty good.
Taliesin: That's not bad.
Marisha: That's an eight and a seven plus ten. So--
Matt: 25.
Sam: 25.
Marisha: 25.
Laura: 25!
Matt: So Trinket's at 25 hit points, conscious.
Laura: That's great!
Matt: Prone, but conscious.
Laura: He licks her.
Matt: You hear the-- okay. (laughs)
Marisha: And then, as a bonus action--
Taliesin: Ack.
Matt: Mm-hm?
Marisha: Can I, looking at whatever the shit this is, pull out my spark stone--
Laura: (gasps)
Marisha: --that I got from my Fire Ashari.
Sam: That's a thing? Oooh.
Matt: Uh-huh.
Marisha: And (shattering sound).
Sam: (gasps)
Taliesin: Oh, wow! We're going there.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Is that, like, "Break glass in case of emergency"?
Marisha: Yeah, I don't know what it does.
Sam: (laughs) Oh, great!
Travis: We'll find out.
Sam: Hope I'm right next to you.
Matt: After you finish healing Trinket--
Laura: Oh my god.
Matt: -- you pull up, reach out, and pull this. And you're going to hold it in your hands, you could feel it's warm to the touch. Almost too hot to hold. And there's this slight pulsing, almost like a heartbeat pulse to it. You hold it in your hands and just crush it, concentrating all your energy on it. As you do, what seemed to be hard and sturdy all of a sudden turns brittle in your fingers, and it cracks and breaks, almost like it was made of a very, very brittle earth. As it breaks and your hands come together, the "too hot to touch" becomes too hot to touch, and for a moment, your hands burst into flames--
Sam: Ah.
Matt: And you instinctively pull back like you want to go ahead and put out the fire--
Marisha: Ow!
Matt: -- but then it falls to a normal temperature again, but the flames remain.
Laura: (gasps)
Matt: And you can now see your hands are now emitting flame from all the fingers.
Sam: Woo.
Laura: Is that permanent?
Sam: What does it do?
Marisha: We'll find out. And I go Minxie.
Matt: All right.
Travis: Yeah, Minxie! (all cheer)
Marisha: And I brought the hood. (all laugh)
Sam: Too hot to handle, too cold to hold.
Liam: That tiger's on fire!
Travis: They in control.
Matt: Keyleth transforms into Minxie! And as Minxie--
Travis: Bobby Brown.
Matt: -- appears, her form transitioning into this large, albino sabre-toothed tiger--
Sam: (sing) Well, I guess we're gonna have to take control.
Taliesin: (sing) Well, I guess we're gonna have to take control.
Matt: You can see both of the tiger's claws embedded into the ground of this rocky terrain are having licks of fire and flame curling off of the actual claws.
Marisha: Hell, yeah. I look like an Ed Hardy tattoo. (all laugh)
Matt: (laughs) I regret everything! (all laugh)
Matt: All right. That's your turn. Are you going to move, are you going to stay there?
Marisha: Well, I moved to Trinket.
Matt: Right, but you can break your movement up.
Marisha: Oh, yeah.
Matt: You've moved 20 feet, so you still have ten more feet to move if you want to.
Marisha: I'll start heading to try and flank him. To flank the blue beastie.
Matt: That should be there. Okay. All right, that ends Keyleth. Now would be Tiberius. Tiberius, who now takes the turn to cast Stoneskin on himself. Then backs up behind this side, there, preparing for the next round. Vax, you're up.
Liam: Okay, Vax drops low. I click the boots of haste together, and for everyone who keeps asking, if I click my boots of haste together, I then get to attack three times. I get that question about three times a week. So that's how I do it. So, I click the boots of haste together, and then I'm going to crouch low and scoot. No, the other side of Minxie, and I should be able to go 60 feet without a problem all the way past the fucker.
Matt: Mm-hm?
Liam: Yeah, keep going, as far as I can. That's as far as I can go?
Matt: Yep.
Liam: All right. And I guess I will just dagger him in the ass, then.
Matt: All right.
Liam: So-- First is a--
Taliesin: I love that die.
Liam: Two, three, 24?
Matt: 24 hits.
Liam: Yes. And this would be Sneak Attack--
Matt: This is with Sneak Attack, yep.
Liam: Because he's with Grog.
Matt: Yep.
Laura: Yeah!
Liam: So, here's the damage for the attack. Ooh. Two, seven, is nine, plus-- Ooh.
Laura: Ooh, oh no.
Liam: This is 13, 17, 19, 20, 26, 31 for the first.
Travis: Jesus.
Liam: Second attack go. Oh, that's not the right die at all. Second attack goes. Same. Eee, 23?
Matt: All right, that hits.
Liam: Okay. And this is--
Matt: Regular damage now.
Liam: Yeah yeah yeah. That's seven?
Matt: Seven, all righty.
Liam: And then the last dagger, the keen dagger, stabs him in the butt again, and that is--
Laura: Ow.
Liam: Ow, 16.
Matt: 16. That does not hit.
Liam: Whiff!
Matt: You actually go with a third one. The first one stabs through, and you can see you've actually hit some sort of an internal organ as you pull back and starts gouting blood. You see that, you stab a second blade in the same area and tend to open the wound another inch, inch and a half. The third one, you pull back, but it slinks around over its shoulder, its long sinewy neck curling over and staring at you. And your blade catches the hide instead and streaks off of the scales.
Liam: Oh, hi.
Matt: That'll end your turn. Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: Do I have to heal Trinket anymore?
Laura: No, he's okay.
Sam: Okay. Then I will-- (laughs) Let's see here. Do we want to get him away from us, or do we want to hurt him? Let's do--
Laura: We want to hurt him!
Sam: Well, I don't hurt things very well. (laughs)
Travis: Do what you're going to do.
Laura: Do what you do.
Taliesin: You hurt feelings.
Marisha: You do you, Scanlan.
Sam: Okay. I'll do some Bigby Hand.
Matt: All righty.
Sam: I summon Bigby's Hand. (sings) Bigby's Hand! (all laugh)
Matt: This giant spectral hand, sparkling arcane energy appears roughly in front of your space.
Sam: It's in front of me. I can't make it go in front of him?
Matt: You can.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: Like, I'm just saying, from a flavor standpoint.
Sam: Okay. Well then, I do one of these, the Sugar Ray Leonard. I do this-- (all laugh)
Sam: And then I throw my other hand forward. (all laugh)
Sam: And I'll just punch him in the face.
Matt: Go for it. (all laugh)
Matt: I like that.
Sam: Right? Because I can do the-- It says huge or smaller creature, at least with Grasping Hand. Is that only-- does that count?
Matt: Right. Oh. You can just punch something with it, no matter its size, to do damage.
Sam: So the Clenched Fisht, Clenched Fist.
Matt: Correct. Correct.
Laura: Clenched Fisht.
Matt: Clenched Fisht.
Sam: Clenched Fisht attack, Money Penny.
Matt: Thish ish the one you're talking about. Yes. All right, so-- For the Clenched Fist, make a melee spell attack. So roll a d20 and add your spell attack modifier.
Sam: (laughs) Nope. (all laugh)
Laura: Oh no.
Sam: 13.
Matt: 13. As the fist swings out, it ducks out of the way. Its serpentine body ducking as the fist arcs off into the middle of the air.
Marisha: Oh.
Matt: Spinning around, preparing itself for a secondary round, hopefully.
Laura: Good try, Scanlan.
Sam: Oh boy. (laughs)
Matt: That's good.
Liam: Vax sees it fly over his head, and watches it pass. (all laugh)
Sam: I'll take a step to my left, so I'm not in the same line of fire as Percy.
Matt: All right.
Sam: And I'll also inspire Grog. (sings) He's Grog, he's Grog, he's big, he's strong, like wood. He's better than bad, he's good. (all laugh)
Laura: That's awesome.
Matt: (sings) Everyone wants a Grog.
Travis: That's amazing. Is that a ten? That's a ten?
Matt: d10, yeah.
Travis: Amazing.
Matt: d10 Inspiration die from the bard.
Travis: Thank you, Scanlan.
Matt: Top of the round again. Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: I'm going to scoot a little bit forward, just into that little crevice. I'm going to take three more shots, just to see what I can do.
Matt: Okay. You have the Sharpshooter feat, right?
Taliesin: With the Sharpshooter feat.
Matt: Okay, so yeah. Because it would have partial cover right now, but you ignore that with the--
Taliesin: I have Sharpshooter, so I can ignore cover.
Matt: Good to know.
Taliesin: Yeah, so. But I'm going to be taking a negative for these hits. Still three attacks per--
Matt: Yeah.
Taliesin: Okay. Just making sure I'm doing this right.
Matt: But you have to reload after this turn.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: Oh no.
Travis: Misfire?
Taliesin: Misfire. (all groan)
Matt: First shot. As you pull up to the side, you pull your pepperbox out and go to fire. As you do, you pull the trigger and the actual barrel sticks out the side. Spins off, and (ping-ping-ping) on the ground.
Travis: Fuck.
Matt: So that's your attack.
Marisha: Balls.
Matt: That's your turn because it'll take you the rest of the turn to collect the Bad News.
Sam: Just say, "Your soul is forfeit," just for coolness. (all laugh)
Taliesin: This normally doesn't happen to me. I don't quite know what-- (all laugh)
Travis: It happens to all guys sometimes. (all laugh)
Taliesin: So can I, at least, use my bonus to pick up the pieces and--
Matt: Yeah.
Taliesin: Okay. I'm going to pick up the pieces and--
Matt: You collect Pepperbox and you pull your back up to it and mutter curses.
Laura: Oh no.
Liam: Make sure you grab your dignity as well.
Taliesin: I'm just going to leave that as an open target for a little while.
Matt: Fair enough. Okay. Now, on its turn--
Sam: Oh shit.
Laura: Oh no.
Matt: First off, let's see here.
Liam: Damn it, attack attack!
Sam: We did great. (laughs)
Matt: But that does not recharge its Lightning Breath. It's going to move here. It's going to go ahead and make two attacks. It's going to turn around and its head that's looking at you, now, after you stabbed it in the back.
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Reaches down, its giant jaws open. You can see, like, this thick saliva that's coating its fangs, and it, with serpentine speed, bites at you.
Liam: Hey, rogue's Evasion.
Matt: That's going to be a 23 to hit.
Liam: So, Uncanny Dodge, I can dodge for half damage, so it was a what to hit?
Matt: 23.
Liam: 23 hits, but I take half damage.
Matt: All right.
Laura: (as Vax) Half damage.
Matt: So, let's see. That would be--
Liam: Yesh.
Marisha: Does a bite attack--
Liam: Half. Not whole.
Laura: (as Vax) Half damage.
Liam: 152 hit points.
Travis: Stop rolling, Jesus.
Matt: (laughs) It would be 26 damage, so you take 13.
Liam: Ah, nothing.
Laura: Okay, okay.
Taliesin: Ain't nothing.
Laura: Don't say that's nothing.
Matt: Points of piercing damage.
Laura: Don't say that's nothing.
Matt: And then, as it bites, it turns around and its tail begins to snake around your body, Grog.
Laura: (gasps)
Matt: And its whole body begins to try to reach around to constrict and crush you.
Travis: Oh shit.
Laura: What?
Matt: That is a 21 to hit.
Travis: That hits.
Matt: All righty, so. You take 21 points in bludgeoning damage.
Travis: Halved.
Matt: So that'd be 11 points of bludgeoning damage plus 21 points of slashing damage.
Sam: Whoa.
Travis: Halved.
Matt: As well. So a total of 22 damage.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: And you are considered grappled and restrained, currently, as the entire creature begins to wrap around you. And you're currently (sound of struggle). You're trying to hold onto your axe but your whole body's being crushed by this large serpentine creature. (all laugh)
Travis: You piece of shit.
Matt: You feel every pulse of its muscles tensing. As the pain and ache, you can feel muscles and ligaments tearing and popping as it pulls in on you.
Travis: Not cool.
Matt: And it's going to, as part of its grapple, move you with it to there. And it'll end its turn. Vex, you're up.
Laura: Okay. How does the Hide thing work? Do I hide at the beginning of the turn or at the end of the turn?
Matt: At the end of the turn.
Laura: Okay. I'm going to move out.
Matt: Okay, it has a reach of ten. So you are technically within its melee range. So you can run but you'll take attack of opportunity from it if you do. Just so you're aware.
Laura: Can I still arrow it from where I am?
Matt: You can, but you have disadvantage on all your ranged attacks because you are in melee range.
Laura: Does it cancel out because I'm in the mountains?
Matt: Doesn't affect your attacks.
Laura: Damn it.
Matt: Sorry. It's up to you, you can stay where you are and take disadvantage on all your attacks, or you could run past and it gets a free swipe on you. Your call.
Laura: I'm going to try to back up.
Matt: Okay. Over to here? Like, how far?
Laura: Oh no. Wait, I can't see. I forgot my glasses.
Matt: Okay, you're right here.
Laura: Uh-huh.
Matt: You can try and back up this way if you wanted to get away.
Laura: Yeah, I'll try to back up towards, who is that?
Matt: That's Scanlan there. Oh, here?
Laura: Percy? I'll try to back towards Percy.
Matt: Right there?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: Over here?
Laura: Sure, yeah. Why not?
Matt: Okay, all right.
Sam: What's Trinket doing?
Laura: Well, Trinket's healed, and he's going to come with me.
Matt: Okay. So Trinket gets up and used half its 40 movement. It can move--
Laura: Although he's angry about it, because he wants to fight, but I just won't let him right now.
Matt: Okay, so as you rush away, the creature takes-- Ooh, that's a 26 to hit.
Laura: Aw, Jesus. Really?
Sam: Oh shit, does it hit Trinket, too?
Laura: No, just me.
Marisha: 26.
Laura: Trinket was too far away.
Matt: So you take 18 points of piercing damage. Oh, it's 3d10, sorry.
Laura: Oh. (laughs)
Matt: 19. I rolled a one for damage.
Laura: Oh, yay!
Matt: 19 points of piercing damage as its mouth lashes out, takes a chunk of your shoulder for a second, and you wrench yourself away and keep running.
Laura: Ugh.
Matt: Take the rest of your turn.
Laura: Ugh, okay. I'm going to shoot him.
Matt: Yes, you are.
Laura: Okay. That is 22.
Matt: That hits.
Laura: Okay. 14 for the first hit.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Second one is through the blazing bow, at 22.
Matt: Second one hits, first one misses, or did it hit?
Laura: Oh no, 14 was the damage to it.
Matt: For damage? All right, second one, blazing bow?
Laura: And then, (noises).
Sam: (noises)
Laura: (noises) Ugh. 16.
Matt: 16 damage, all right. Okay.
Laura: Oh, and I hide.
Matt: You currently are completely in its visual range. You have to be behind something to reasonably become hidden.
Laura: I'm hiding behind--
Taliesin: But you are behind me.
Laura: Percy.
Matt: No, behind a person doesn't work. It has to be, like, behind a pillar.
Marisha: Human shield.
Matt: Or in deep shadow.
Laura: (groans) Oh.
Matt: Something that would break your line of sight to it--
Travis: Like me.
Matt: For a moment, to the point where it no longer knows quite where you are.
Marisha: It works.
Taliesin: It totally works.
Laura: I hid in the wrong place.
Sam: Who said that? Who said that?
Laura: I went to the wrong place.
Matt: But now you know.
Laura: It's okay. Next time I know.
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: Putting glass for the dog--
Matt: That's your turn. Grog, you're up.
Travis: I would like to try and break the grapple.
Matt: All right.
Travis: 20.
Matt: 20, yes.
Marisha: I can picture that. Why did you do that?
Matt: Because you are restrained--
Taliesin: Kicking myself.
Matt: Need to check what effect the condition-- Here. Just to be safe. Okay, yeah. Go ahead and you're making an athletics check.
Travis: Natural 20. (all cheer)
Travis: Oh, that was good.
Matt: All right, so--
Travis: I bite its tail.
Marisha: Yeah. (all laugh)
Laura: You can.
Travis: Son of a bitch! Ahhh!
Matt: As your teeth sink into one of its scales and you yank it out with the sheer force of your muscly neck.
Laura: Throw it over my way. I'll catch it.
Matt: It unfurls for a second, you manage to pull yourself out of its grasp.
Travis: I'm so pissed that I broke free, that I would like to use Intimidating Presence on this creature.
Matt: Okay. All right. That is an action to do that, though, isn't it?
Travis: Is it?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: Yeah.
Travis: I reserve Intimidating Presence--
Matt: For a later time.
Travis: (laughs) -- for a later time.
Matt: But you have a bonus action, still.
Travis: I hit the shit out of it. (all laugh)
Matt: You gain another attack, go for it.
Travis: Okay, 21.
Matt: 21 does hit.
Travis: All right, that's 22. 22! Sorry, 22 hits?
Matt: Also hits. One more.
Travis: Oh, I get one more.
Laura: Ha ha! Also 22.
Travis: Also 22.
Matt: "Hit" meaning--
Sam: You hit once.
Matt: It was one better than your previous--
Travis: Oh, got you.
Matt: You hit once, yeah.
Laura: Oh.
Travis: Just one hit.
Matt: Just one hit.
Sam: Just keep rolling 22s.
Laura: Just keep rolling.
Travis: Nine, ten, 11, 12. 15.
Matt: 15 points.
Travis: With fire damage!
Matt: All right, so, as you pull away, you reach back with your hammer and slam it into its side, causing this giant burst of fire--
Travis: Bitch.
Matt: To emanate from the impact. It shrinks back for a second and (growls).
Travis: You grabbed me. You ask first.
Taliesin: This is a repair die.
Matt: (laughs) All right, Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: I'm going to do my Bite and Claw attacks.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: Yeah, I'm going to move in that crux a little bit more, one more, if I can?
Matt: There? All righty.
Marisha: Beautiful. I'm going to do my claw attacks first.
Matt: Go for it.
Marisha: To see what they-- what it does.
Matt: What was it?
Marisha: It was cocked.
Sam: It was halfway between two.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: So that's 12, plus, it's always different. Okay, 20.
Matt: 20 hits.
Travis: Yeah.
Marisha: I haven't been Minxie in battle for a while, 1d10 plus five.
Laura: Plus your flaming claws.
Travis: (laughs) I love Minxie.
Laura: Don't forget your flaming claws.
Liam: She's got the plan.
Marisha: Yeah, six, so 11 damage for the claws.
Matt: An additional 1d6 fire damage.
Marisha: Plus 1d6, oh wait that's actually-- What did I just say? I said ten, 11? And then an extra 1d6?
Matt: Yes.
Marisha: Ooh, another four, so what did I say?
Sam: 15.
Matt: So, any of your claw attacks or any claw attacks you do in any of your forms now get an additional 1d6 fire damage.
Sam: Nice!
Travis: Hell yeah!
Sam: Nice!
Marisha: Then I'm going to do my bite attack.
Matt: All right, go for it. Your bite does not get the effect.
Laura: I know, it was really loud!
Travis: It was a good one.
Marisha: 16, so plus-- 20, plus my six, plus seven, so 24.
Matt: That hits. Go ahead and roll damage for the bite.
Marisha: Which is 2d6. Eight plus five, so 12.
Matt: Eight plus five is 13.
Marisha: 13, 14! Plus, I get an extra damage for my collar, so 14.
Matt: Right. Cool. So, your flaming claw strikes across its outer body, its legs pull away from the pain as you reach up and bite into the edge of its tail. As its tail tries to whip away, you catch it and it pulls you forward a few feet as you clench down on it. Eventually, it yanks its way out, taking a couple of scales with it, you can see a streak where teeth marks are on the back of its tail.
Marisha: (growls)
Matt: Awesome. Does that end your turn?
Marisha: Yeah.
Travis: Nice, Minxie!
Marisha: (growls)
Matt: Tiberius is going to go around the corner again and is going to cast Telekinesis and send his glaive up spinning.
Laura: Glaive?
Sam: He has a glaive?
Laura: The thing that he killed the old lady with.
Sam: Oh!
Liam: It's the granny grinder!
Marisha: Granny grinder?!
Matt: Granny grinder?!
Travis: So bad.
Matt: Rolls a two, unfortunately, though. Just streaks off and spins back around and then, while it misses the creature and stops, hovering above his head with a slow spin. Sits there curling his fingers, grinning at the creature. And is going to the use of the rest of this movement to go back behind the rock because mama didn't raise no fool. Vax, you're up.
Liam: It's preoccupied, so I just leisurely walk backwards about 30 feet, looking at the same wound that I started before.
Matt: This way?
Liam: No, back up the chasm here. Even further away. Yeah! And I'm just going to throw three daggers into the wound I already hit, so I'm going to do that again. I know that hits because it hit the last time. That's a 23.
Matt: That hits!
Liam: And that's Sneak Attack because he's occupied. That's 11 plus--
Laura: Ooh, those are good!
Liam: 11 plus 17, 21, 26, 29, 34, 39 for the first dagger.
Sam: What, that's just the first dagger?!
Laura: Yeah!
Marisha: Whoa!
Matt: Sneak Attack, man.
Liam: Next one doesn't hit, probably, that's a 17.
Matt: 17 just barely hits.
Liam: Just barely hits, yeah! That is an eight of damage. And just wait a second and go-- and throw it. And because I was such a cock it misses, that's a 16.
Matt: So, oh, perfect! Second dagger wedges in with the second dagger, opening the wound even more. You're like, perfect opening! You go for the third one, and it's grown wise to it, and turns around and rakes its claw out and deflects the dagger midair.
Liam: Vex, look at me! Oh, shit.
Laura: Nice one! Nice!
Matt: That brings us to Scanlan.
Sam: Oh! This is unusual.
Marisha: A turn.
Sam: I still have my Bigby's Hand up, so I do one of these where I say, oh, a wise guy, see? (taunting noises) and I just poke him in the eyes.
Matt: All right, as you say "Wise guy, eh?" as this giant hand's floating in the air, and its head snarls at it and tries to bite at the hand. Go ahead and roll your spell attack.
Sam: 19.
Matt: So, you get to go ahead and--
Sam: 4d8.
Matt: Yeah, 4d8 points of force damage.
Marisha: It's the eyes!
Laura: Into the eyeballs!
Sam: 19.
Matt: 19 points of force damage as you jam both its fingers into the sides of its head. Both of its eyes recoil on it, it reaches out and starts thrashing at the air around as the hand dodges around for a minute.
Sam: I hide behind Trinket, the smell of smoldering fur in my nose. As a bonus action, I will-- who's up next, who's coming soon? Is Percy next?
Taliesin: I'm up next.
Sam: I'll inspire Percy. Just doing this move--
Marisha: Sexy dance.
Sam: Going, pour some Scanlan on you! When you need a hand! That's all I've got.
Taliesin: Ugh!
Sam: And I get closer. Pour some Scanlan on you!
Matt: You begrudgingly take 1d10 inspiration dice from Scanlan.
Travis: Is the creature blinded from the pokey-poke?
Matt: It is not. It is a resilient creature, and the impact was mainly absorbed by the ocular sockets, as opposed to the eyes themselves.
Travis: Hey, I didn't ask for science. Jesus. (all laugh)
Matt: There's bone around-- never mind. All right. It ends Scanlan's turn. Percy, you're up.
Travis: (laughs) Just a little pokey.
Taliesin: All right. I'm going to try and fix this broken piece of gosa.
Sam: Do I lose another spell for that, or is that just the same--?
Matt: No, you can maintain concentration.
Sam: Okay.
Taliesin: I hit a 12, which is just barely enough to fix it.
Matt: Okay. So you take your action to go ahead and repair the gun.
Taliesin: And I'm going to burn an Action Surge, so I'm just-- I finally get it, and it just starts going. And I'm just going to empty out the chamber.
Matt: All right, three shots.
Marisha: (laughs) It just starts going.
Taliesin: Ho, nelly.
Matt: Using your bonus action to reload.
Travis: I got my finger on the trigger, I got my finger on the trigger, gun!
Taliesin: I don't have to reload, yet, I've got six shots, so we're still three in the chamber.
Matt: That's right. We-- yeah, yeah.
Taliesin: Unless you, actually--
Matt: As part of the misfire, you would lose one, so you have two in the chamber right now.
Taliesin: I have two in the chamber?
Matt: Yes.
Taliesin: Okay, so I'll do two, and then use the third one to reload.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Pew, pew.
Laura: (high-pitched) Pew, pew.
Taliesin: All right, so-- Ooh, this'll be fun.
Sam: Don't shoot me.
Taliesin: Sharpshooter shot. That's 22.
Matt: 22 hits.
Travis: Nice.
Taliesin: I'll just take the second shot right now. That's-- really? Really? Really, are we going there?
Laura: Oh, no.
Sam: Did he misfire again?
Marisha: No, you didn't misfire, did you?
Matt: What'd you roll?
Taliesin: Misfired again. I rolled a two.
Laura: No.
Taliesin: I got one shot off.
Matt: You got one shot off. Go ahead and roll damage. Sharpshooter damage, so it gets the plus ten damage.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Marisha: That's fun.
Laura: Could you have added inspiration dice to that?
Taliesin: To a misfire? No.
Matt: No, misfire still hits. There is a lot of strengths to the gunslinger. This is the one penalty, is if you roll bad.
Taliesin: So that's, okay, at least this is a badass, as I at least did some damage. 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 24 damage, plus four points of fire damage.
Matt: Nice. Okay. So, as you go, and you fix it-- It takes the first shot, with a burst of flame that shoots out the front of the barrel. The second shot, this time, the actual metal in the front arcs upward, and it looks like this is going to take a moment, to really seriously repair it. Pepperbox is coming through pretty rough in this fight.
Laura: Oh, no. Oh no.
Matt: So that's your turn.
Travis: But not as rough as Stitch over there, huh?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: We're in a group.
Matt: Yeah. (laughs) The creature does regain use of its Lightning Breath.
Liam: Right.
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: Oh, I was about to say, and--
Matt: So you wanna move anywhere?
Taliesin: Yeah, I wanna get a little further back. I wanna roll to the other side of the cave again, if possible.
Matt: Which way? You mean over here?
Taliesin: Yeah. Like, see that little outcropping of rock?
Matt: Right here?
Taliesin: Further back. Like that over there.
Marisha: That little chunky thing?
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Smart move, Percy.
Matt: All righty.
Taliesin: That thing scares me.
Laura: Why are you abandoning me?
Matt: Okay. That ends Percy's turn.
Taliesin: The beast.
Marisha: I don't like the dice that I have.
Travis: Don't think too hard.
Taliesin: That's not good.
Sam: No.
Laura: It just burps out lightning.
Travis: Jesus, I don't think we've ever seen anything this hard.
Laura: I know.
Liam: Guys, guys.
Sam: What is he doing?
Liam: Guys.
Marisha: Have you seen anything like it?
Sam: What is he doing?
Liam: Guys.
Laura: He's thinking.
Liam: Guys.
Sam: We broke the DM.
Laura: I know.
Travis: You know the silence before the storm?
Matt: Considering optimal--
Laura: This is bad.
Liam: He erupts.
Travis: He hasn't said anything.
Matt: All right. So. (all groan)
Marisha: You stared at that for a really long time.
Sam: Here comes the other three.
Travis: Here comes the boom?
Matt: So, this behir is going to shift back here. You get an attack of opportunity on it, Keyleth. So go ahead and take a swing.
Liam: Burn it.
Sam: Fire slap!
Marisha: So. 16.
Matt: 16 just misses. It gets right out of your grasp. The flames just lick across the outside of its scales. As it pulls back, rears down right in your face, Godzilla-style, just unleashes a burst of electrical energy.
Laura: Oh, God. Dodge it. Dodge it.
Matt: It hits you and Keyleth. I need you guys to both make dexterity saving throws.
Sam: With inspiration.
Marisha: Who, me and Grog? Okay.
Sam: With inspiration.
Travis: I don't need it.
Sam: Okay.
Marisha: Dexterity saves? That's not good.
Travis: 19.
Marisha: Four.
Matt: 33 points of lightning damage to you, Grog. 66 to you.
Travis: Can I use my Stone's Endurance?
Matt: You can.
Travis: Okay.
Taliesin: What?!
Matt: What's the maximum health of Minxie's form?
Marisha: Looking-- I'm out.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: I'm now in Keyleth form.
Matt: And how much damage goes over?
Marisha: Not that many, thank God. 12.
Matt: 12. Okay, so you-- As Minxie all of a sudden gets blasted, you can see the form shrink down to Keyleth's crumpled form on the ground, hands still flaming, little bit of singe to the back of her hair, and stands back up.
Taliesin: I'll take that. I'll take that. (all laugh)
Laura: Oh no!
Matt: That'll end its turn. Vex, you're up.
Marisha: That felt like Shockwave.
Laura: Oh, God. Can I, as a bonus action, give Trinket a healing potion?
Matt: You can-- that would be more of an action to feed it to something else.
Laura: Okay, never mind. I am going to attack it.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Okay. He's, oh, I missed. That's a 14.
Matt: A 14 does not hit, unfortunately. The first arrow just ricochets and shatters across the part of its body.
Laura: Great. Good times, good times. 16. Both miss. Fucking A. What a waste.
Matt: Both arrows just explode across its hide. It's too thick.
Laura: This dice is out for the rest of the game. I'm gonna run. Is there an outcropping where we are? I can't see.
Matt: Right here, a little bit. If you pull fully in on this side from where it--
Laura: I'm going to pull fully in on that side.
Matt: Okay. Don't forget your laser pointers, by the way, guys. It's good for letting me know exactly where you want to go.
Laura: I can't see.
Matt: I know. Just so you know. And Trinket's going to stay there?
Laura: He's gonna rest. And he's going to keep protecting Scanlan, because--
Matt: All right. Trinket's gonna stay right there, guarding the giant gnome.
Sam: Oh, thank you. Giant gnome?
Matt: Giant hand, small gnome. Grog, you're up.
Travis: (yells) I try and match the Godzilla roar, it's not really as good, and I swing three times with my fire hammer.
Matt: Go for it.
Travis: That's a 18.
Matt: 18. That hits.
Travis: 21.
Matt: 21 hits.
Travis: And 19.
Matt: 19 hits. Roll damage.
Laura: Yeah, yeah.
Travis: That anus! That's 13.
Laura: Eee, good.
Travis: 23, and 22.
Matt: All righty. How do you want to do this? (all yell)
Taliesin: But you never said he looked a little rough! I kept waiting for you to say it's looking a little rough.
Matt: It's hard to tell with this entity.
Taliesin: Damn it!
Matt: It's moving so fast.
Travis: I'd like to reach up with my firebrand warhammer.
Sam: Yes!
Travis: And I would like to smash it on top of its skull, and when it hits the ground, I'd just like to keep turning it into jelly and paste and sweet jams that I can bottle it up and sell later!
Matt: You guys watch this continuous barrage, this horrible bludgeoning. Every impact almost quakes the inside of this valley. Rocks are beginning to tumble and fall around it. And you can see, as each horrible, sickening smack, its head just collapses more and more. The mush begins to spill out from under it, this giant pool of, like, dark violet liquid and gelatinous mush that was once the inside of its head, begin to just grow around it as Grog just keeps hitting and hitting and hitting and hitting and hitting and hitting--
Marisha: Grog? Grog?
Matt: And hitting and hitting--
Laura: Grog?
Sam: I use Bigby's Hand to stop the hammer.
Laura: Maybe you unrage. Lullaby, Hulk. Lullaby.
Sam: It's over. It's over.
Marisha: Lullaby?!
Travis: Lullaby?!
Sam: Think of the beard.
Travis: What happened?
Taliesin: Well.
Laura: You killed it real good!
Travis: Oh, look, we made jelly.
Marisha: Speaking of jelly, I would like to go ahead and do a nature check to see if I can salvage some goods from whatever.
Laura: I run, I walk up to it and kick it, and say, that's for Trinket. Dick.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Can I roll a hit dice to recover some--
Matt: If you guys want to take a short rest, you can.
Travis: Oh.
Laura: That'd be great.
Taliesin: Yes! I would like to fix my gun. Just a giant pile of tools.
Laura: Do we need to hide? Do we need to climb up to its little cave that it was in, maybe? And hide.
Sam: Did it have a cave?
Travis: Was it in a cave?
Laura: It had a cave. Didn't it come out of a cave, when we saw it?
Matt: You saw it was up on a higher platform, you didn't see a cavern, or anything.
Laura: Oh, I thought it was a cave.
Marisha: I rolled a 21 to collect goods.
Matt: Okay, looking through the book that you have. You eventually take a while to look while you guys are having your short rest. You can use your hit dice to heal yourself. It is known as a behir.
Sam: A behir?
Matt: B-E-H-I-R.
Marisha: B-E-H-I-R.
Taliesin: Behir.
Travis: Be here.
Laura: Be here right now. Be present.
Matt: Behir. There are two things. Anything in the face and teeth are gone. They are just mush. The entire head is destroyed.
Marisha: Sure.
Matt: The the two things in the book that are worthwhile, like, really worth money, are some of its hide can be repurposed for, you know, like, lightning resist-based armor, but currently it's unknown who has the speciality to actually work with that material. These creatures are difficult to harvest and a lot of their locations are unknown. A lot of them were hunted down for that long ago and almost thought to have gone extinct. (all groan)
Matt: However, yes, you don't know anybody, possibly Karin in Emon. The hide can be harvested. There is also a gland in its throat that it uses to charge its Lightning Breath.
Taliesin: I'd like that.
Marisha: I'd like that.
Matt: Go ahead and roll for the hide first, if you guys want to go for that.
Laura: Can I stealth and climb up and see if I can see a cavern?
Matt: Sure.
Laura: A little cave.
Marisha: Natural 20!
Travis: Oh snap!
Laura: Yeah!
Travis: I'll take it.
Sam: She gets advantage because mountains are her favorite terrain.
Laura: What do I add to that?
Matt: This would be, add your--
Laura: Acrobatics?
Matt: For climb, this would be athletics.
Laura: Athletics. Oh, really? That's not what it was; I moved it.
Liam: It was 14, I saw it.
Laura: Oh no, 12.
Matt: It takes you a little bit to get up there. It's steep, you slide down a few times. But eventually, because there's no immediate threat, you're given time to get up onto this upper platform. You can see that there are these various parts of the rock that jut outward, that have some short term passageways that this creature uses.
Laura: I'm so weak, but I'm holding to see if I see a cave.
Matt: (laughs) Roll a perception check.
Laura: (groans)
Matt: Once you're up there. You take time and with help from some other folks, you manage to harvest, I'd say about ten pounds worth of scales at most. It's not a whole lot. A lot of it has been torn and destroyed from the impact and damage you guys did. Parts of it are not really armory functional, but you manage to get enough to maybe make one set if somebody manages to work really well with it.
Marisha: Here, Grog, bag of holding.
Laura: 23.
Matt: 23? Currently, you have no eye shot on any particular--
Sam: Don't eat it, Grog.
Matt: -- tunnels. Nothing that resembles an abode or a cavern from this position.
Taliesin: Lick it.
Laura: (groans)
Liam: I see my sister's struggling.
Laura: Oh god it hurts.
Liam: I climb up next to her.
Laura: You're almost as weak as I am, dude.
Liam: Yeah.
Laura: Here we go.
Liam: Acrobatics? What is it?
Matt: Athletics.
Laura: Athletics.
Travis: Athletics.
Liam: Athletics? Oh, shit. Acrobatics would have been much better.
Travis: Oh yeah, c'mon.
Laura: I know, I don't think so.
Liam: Can I flip up there?
Matt: Eh, it doesn't work like that.
Liam: No, no-- (all laugh)
Travis: No, I can't.
Liam: Wait, I'll use Luck. I'll do it again to get--
Matt: Go for it.
Travis: You're going to use one of your Lucks?
Liam: -- to get past that one.
Laura: No, we were about to rest. Wow.
Liam: Oh, no, I didn't.
Laura: Oh, really, you rolled worse than me.
Liam: Oh no, my fingernail, that really stings. Damn it.
Matt: The twins give a--
Marisha: Just terrible.
Matt: -- terrible display of rock climbing in the middle of this.
Travis: I laugh heartily.
Taliesin: Parkour! Parkour!
Matt: Go ahead and roll for the glands.
Marisha: The glands?
Liam: Stupid video game moment of like jump, jump, jump, jump.
Laura: Like Skyrim trying to get--
Marisha: Glands? 18 is not bad. I'll take that 18 for a 28. Hey, Vax, can I see your dagger?
Liam: Yeah, here you go.
Sam: He's up a hill.
Laura: Nice. We didn't even get up a little bit.
Matt: It takes most of your short rest. You will not be able to use your hit dice for healing on this, because you spend your time harvesting instead. But you manage to-- thankfully, the damage that Grog had inflicted upon its head destroyed most of its matter, right up to the throat gland which is mostly untouched. It's salvageable. You don't know how much it's worth. Probably a decent amount, as the book says that they're rare. Especially to find intact.
Travis: That Grog, what a dick.
Taliesin: We have jars. I'm going to put that into the jar and put it away.
Travis: There's not even like a tooth. Like one broken tooth? A piece?
Matt: You did a number on that one's face.
Travis: When Grog goes to work. LIAM Boom. Kill the behir, take its glands, money.
Taliesin: I may have something I can do with this actually.
Travis: With what, the gland?
Taliesin: Yes.
Marisha: Maybe, yes. (electricity noises)
Taliesin: You're very clever, yes. We'll work on that.
Travis: Hello? I don't speak your language.
Matt: You place it within a preservation jar.
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: Back in the bag of holding?
Taliesin: Back in the bag of holding.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: I'm going to try and fix this mess, for a minute.
Matt: Go ahead and make your check.
Taliesin: 18.
Matt: 18. It does cost you half the--
Taliesin: It wasn't a dual fail.
Matt: Oh right, just a single fail. It was a dual fail, but it was separate.
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: You take some time with it during the short rest to tinker with it. You manage to bend the metal back in place. Test it for a bit. Make sure the aspects that move move smoothly as they should. Eventually, you get pretty confident that it is back to a functional piece of weaponry. All right, so, as you guys finish this rest--
Travis: I'm rolling one more hit dice.
Matt: Go for it. The sky is starting to get a little bit into the orangish color. Though you can not see the sun from its current location, you gather you have about an hour and a half or so before full sundown.
Sam: Let's get out of this little taco in case that was the daughter of something else.
Matt: Wait, you guys stayed the night-- never mind, in the cavern. So actually, no, I take that back.
Sam: Oh?
Matt: I just realized you guys stayed the night last time over on the seaside cavern and walked here--
Travis: That's right.
Matt: -- and it only took you a few hours to get here. So, no, it'd be about mid-day noon.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: So, I take that back. Never mind.
Liam: Ah.
Sam: We should still go.
Matt: Can see the sun, it is straight above.
Taliesin: We should still get out of the taco.
Matt: There is some cloud cover coming in.
Travis: Definitely should still leave.
Matt: From the north side, it doesn't look like anything too dense.
Marisha: Percy?
Taliesin: Yes?
Marisha: Do you know how much longer we need to continue on this path?
Taliesin: Honestly, I've never taken this road before. This is further east than I've ever come.
Marisha: Can we see how far ahead-- does it look like it goes on for a while, this chasm?
Matt: It moves around, so it's hard to get to much of a visual of the--
Taliesin: The geology starting to look familiar?
Laura: Does my tracking tell me anything?
Matt: You can go ahead and make a nature check.
Liam: For all of this, I'd like to--
Matt: With advantage.
Liam: -- walk about 40 feet in front of everyone and creep along.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: 17.
Liam: Cloak up.
Matt: Make a stealth check.
Sam: He's a weird loner, that guy.
Travis: He is.
Liam: It's my job.
Matt: Make a stealth check. The mountains here got its name for the white stone mountains. The rock--
Taliesin: It's starting to look like home, though?
Matt: Yeah. The mountain range here is a large part of the material that is mined, well, was mined beneath the-- It's very rare white quartz-like rock that is used for many purposes. And it's generally only found in this mountain range. It's what a lot of the Whitestone's original economy was based on.
Liam: 22.
Matt: 22, good to know. All right, so.
Laura: 17 on nature.
Matt: Okay. I mean, you gather the same thing. The rock formations here match the same as the coastal mountains. The mountain here is all made of the same material, few deposits here and there of just normal bits of granite and other forms of simple stone.
Laura: Granite.
Sam: Oh.
Laura: Simple stone. (all laugh)
Travis: That was so much better than shopping. (all laugh)
Matt: As you guys are pressing forward, at this point, you guys are taking your time waiting and Tiberius is getting impatient, and is crossing his arms. "I feel like I should have gotten more materials. I don't think I'm quite prepared enough for this."
Laura: What? Tiberius, you prepared a lot.
Liam: Tibs.
Matt: "Not enough. Never enough".
Liam: You brought along a sack of mirrors, I think you've got enough. What do you need?
Matt: "I have an idea. I'll be back in a few days."
All: What, no?
Sam: Don't leave.
Matt: He sits down and starts making his teleportation circle.
Laura: No, no, we need that!
Liam: Tiberius.
Laura: We need that.
Liam: Tiberius.
Laura: We need that. Tiberius.
Liam: You are a heavy hitter, we don't know where we're going, what we're doing. He's strong. You're strong, in a way, maybe hang out a little bit longer.
Laura: He's actually got a lot of hit points, really.
Travis: Yeah, he's got a lot.
Matt: (laughs)
Liam: More than I do. You're stronger in frame than I am. Sure you want to go?
Matt: Tiberius leans in and whispers to you in a strange tongue and it sparks in your ear somewhere. (whispers) "The player's not here and the DM's trying to not make it too complicated for him to keep track of an additional character for this session." (all laugh)
Laura: I understand that.
Liam: (whispers) I know, but I'm just trying to give you a hard time. (all laugh)
Matt: I'll remember that.
Laura: Oh, no.
Taliesin: I grab Lockheed and we hold him hostage. (all laugh)
Marisha: You can't leave! (all laugh)
Laura: We need you.
Matt: "Don't worry, I'll be back soon and now I know how to find you."
Liam: (whispers) Send an iPad with Pike on it. (all laugh)
Matt: He finishes his teleportation circle and with a whoosh, with a flash, vanishes.
Laura: Shit. Really, Tiberius, really?
Marisha: He does that a lot.
Sam: It's very much in his character.
Laura: (groans)
Travis: Where'd Tiberius go?
Liam: He went to get an army, I think.
Laura: (groans)
Travis: That's fine.
Taliesin: Or more mirrors.
Marisha: It might be more mirrors.
Taliesin: Or an army with mirrors.
Marisha: An army with mirrors.
Liam: I can do magic. I do this great coin trick thing where I flip it on my thumb and then it lands in my hand.
Laura: And then, you pull it--
Liam: That's the end of it.
Laura: -- out of someone's ear.
Liam: It's right here.
Laura: Whoa!
Travis: We start walking.
Marisha: That's fun.
Taliesin: Yeah, no, I'm walking.
Matt: Progressing forward--
Marisha: It's a start.
Matt: -- you begin to--
Travis: Jauntily stealth ahead.
Liam: 40 feet out, yeah.
Travis: Like a beagle.
Laura: I keep a perception out to see anything.
Taliesin: I'm keeping an eye open for anything familiar.
Sam: Can I just bump into Vex and ask her to maybe scan ahead for dragons?
Laura: What do you think I'm doing?
Sam: Dragons, though. Six miles.
Laura: I'm scanning.
Sam: Don't you have six miles of dragons or something? Thank you.
Taliesin: Do you have to do the hands?
Travis: Is that your scanning face?
Matt: It's good to help out in the--
Laura: I'm thinking.
Sam: Six miles of dragons.
Laura: I'm wanting to see if I see any dragons. Do I see any dragons?
Travis: I thought you did a different technique last time.
Matt: You take a moment and anticipate the circumstance, and there is, within-- what's the distance on it?
All: Six miles.
Matt: Six miles?
Liam: Yeah, man.
Matt: You ascertain that there are quite a few sources of life in this vicinity, of some sort of dragon kin or dragon-like entity.
Laura: Was the behir a dragony sort of thing?
Matt: No. Technically not, from what you can gather, but you do gather there are a few blips that are three miles off north, at the center of the mountain range. You don't know how big or how dangerous, but you sense there are some dragon or dragon kin sources.
Laura: There's a dragony something.
Sam: Could be dragon eggs.
Marisha: Dragonborn?
Laura: I don't know, Scanlan.
Marisha: You're not picking up Tiberius six miles away?
Laura: There's dragony things, though.
Sam: Listen. When I poo somewhere, I can see everything.
Laura: I didn't poo. I'm sensing with my mind.
Travis: Listen, if we do run across a dragon, remember we have the dragon slayer longsword, which is a plus one to attack and damage rolls, and if you hit a dragon or a dragon creature, it gets an extra 3d6 of damage.
Laura: What are you reading? How did you even know that?
Taliesin: That's the most complicated sentence I think I've ever heard you speak.
Travis: Sorry, I blacked out for a little bit. (all laugh)
Taliesin: Nothing.
Laura: Nothing. You're good, Grog.
Travis: What do you have to do to attunement?
Matt: Attunement, you take a short rest with the weapon, learning its properties.
Travis: Caressing it?
Matt: Essentially. Stroking it, making sure it feels comfortable.
Taliesin: Buying it dinner.
Matt: Nice spread so it feels welcome.
Travis: That's more than I usually do.
Laura: Maybe a steak, some salad. Shrimp cocktail.
Travis: Just in case you need a sword.
Liam: As we progress, I say into my earring, Scanlan, I've seen some of the logs she's left behind. They're not small.
Laura: (gasps) You are seriously. What?
Taliesin: Wow.
Laura: That's disgusting.
Travis: I missed it. It must be good, though.
Sam: She usually buries them quite well.
Laura: Really gross, both of you. Enough.
Liam: They don't sense anything.
Sam: All right.
Taliesin: Well, we're not heading north.
Sam: We're not?
Matt: You guys are heading eastish.
Taliesin: Westish. We're heading westish.
Laura: Nothing that I can sense.
Travis: Can we keep walking?
Matt: You guys came up on the eastern side-- sorry, the western side of the mountains. You're now heading eastward.
Taliesin: Oh, we came up on the western side of the mountains?
Laura: There's nothing that we're going to run across.
Liam: Just flip that.
Marisha: Western side of the mountains?
Taliesin: Western side of the mountains? So Whitestone's to the east?
Matt: Whitestone would be to the east of you guys.
Taliesin: Oh, okay. I thought we went up the eastern side of the mountains. I'm so confused. You wouldn't think I'd lived here before.
Matt: That would have brought you through the forest, and you were trying to avoid that. That's what I thought you said last time.
Taliesin: No, that's very true. Oh, god.
Travis: West side's on the shore side, right? Ocean's there?
Matt: There's a giant peninsula to the north. Either side would have been coast.
Laura: So we're not going to run into any dragons?
Sam: At least we're not going north.
Matt: You're aware that they're not anywhere close to you to currently be an issue, no.
Laura: Okay, we're fine.
Taliesin: In two or three miles, we'll take another check.
Laura: Yeah.
Travis: (laughs) He winked at me!
Matt: All right, so.
Travis: It's like being blessed.
Sam: We're going to just keep going towards the town.
Matt: You guys press on, following this winding path that narrows at certain points and then widens for a bit. You come across, partway through, the twins at the front notice, around the edges as it begins to descend down into the beginning of the valley descent, you see an edge of the mountain that looks more angular than the usual natural formations of it. It almost looks like it comes to a point, like a very sharp edge, and a smooth side.
Liam: I'm not sure I understand. We see a drop-off?
Matt: It begins to descend towards the valley, and on the side of one of the giant--
Travis: Chasms?
Matt: Chasm you guys are at the bottom of. You see an outcropping ahead that's angular and pointed.
Sam: Like, designed by man?
Matt: Like it was sculpted, constructed.
Travis: That might have sentries.
Liam: Some sort of outlook or something. Something that was not formed by nature here.
Taliesin: Do I know what this is?
Matt: You--
Taliesin: History check?
Matt: I'd say, make an intelligence check. Roll and add your intelligence modifier.
Travis: I could do it with you, if you want.
Matt: You can make a history check. You know many things that exist here in the mountains, but at this distance, you don't see enough of it to actually--
Laura: (shocked noise)
Travis: He's not going to let me do it.
Laura: He rolled a natural 20.
Matt: For?
Travis: An intelligence check, because I'm an idiot.
Sam: He doesn't know the--
Taliesin: I kind of want Grog to speak truth right here.
Laura: He's an expert on mountains.
Matt: Actually, this works out interestingly. As you guys are walking forward and you're seeing this, and you're keeping back, Grog, you instinctively look over and go, oh. That's a stone giant fortress.
All: Oh!
Marisha: Shut up!
Travis: (laughs) I did something smart! (all laugh)
Matt: With your bloodline and knowing where you come from, and you've had a few close encounters in the Cliffkeep Mountains with a few of this kind, you've seen a few fortresses, and from the details of it, the way of the roof, and the scope of its design, and the way the mountain range lends itself to that type of topography, yeah. This is obviously a stone giant fortress.
Travis: Oh, and I drank some of that nasty dank in the fight with the Hammer, round two.
Sam: Wait, should we-- those are bad guys, right?
Travis: Yeah, that's bad.
Sam: We should not go that way.
Laura: We should definitely stay away from that.
Travis: Maybe go up on the other side of the chasm opposite of it?
Matt: Or you can move around the side, you're welcome to.
Laura: Maybe hide and make sure we're hidey-hidey?
Sam: We could stealth through it, we could invisible through it.
Marisha: Pass Without a Trace.
Travis: Pass Without a Trace.
Laura: I have Pass Without a Trace.
Travis: And climb along the opposite side.
Laura: And do we have invisibil--oh, no.
Taliesin: No, we don't, no.
Laura: You have--
Sam: I have some invisibility. Not great, though.
Travis: I have dust of tracelessness.
Laura: Maybe we'll stealth it.
Liam: Can I hide Scanlan under my cloak? Can he use his invisibility on someone else?
Matt: If he was to cast Invisibility on you--
Liam: No, on somebody else, so I'd just hide him.
Travis: What about one of those things that always works on me--
Matt: You could--
Travis: -- a diversion?
Matt: You would move very slow and you would have disadvantage on your stealth checks because you guys don't have a way to move quietly.
Liam: All right, all right.
Laura: No, I don't want to bring any attention.
Marisha: I could create a diversion.
Sam: What kind?
Laura: Like what?
Marisha: I mean, I could-- What's nearby? Is anything nearby? Any animals? Have we seen any wildlife?
Matt: There have been birds that fly through, an occasional harpy, in the distance you hear screeching and you guys keep quiet until it vanishes and disappears. (screech in the background music)
Taliesin: Wow.
Travis: That was perfect timing!
Laura: How'd that happen? How did that frickin' happen?
Travis: His ways are mysterious, my love.
Laura: You are magic.
Matt: I am lucky.
Taliesin: Holy cow.
Matt: What were some seafaring like seagulls and various coastal birds have slowly been disappearing and turning into more eagles and hawks, things that eat small rodents, more of a lush side of the hill. You see as you get closer to the valley itself that the actual forest that surrounds Whitestone is more and more of these birds of prey are beginning to show up. Other than that, you see very few small things other than occasional lizards about that big in your hand that live on hot rocks.
Taliesin: Should we observe this encampment for a bit, just to see what's happening as we slowly make our way around it?
Laura: Can we see any kind of movement? It's really far away, or--?
Travis: Couldn't hurt.
Matt: It's still a ways away right now, you're just catching the edge of it.
Sam: Are we a mile away? A thousand feet away?
Matt: I'd say you're about a good 600, 700 feet from it.
Liam: That's not that far.
Travis: You know, we could try to work our way up the opposite side of the chasm.
Taliesin: That would also allow us a good view of it as well.
Marisha: I happen to have Hallucinatory Terrain right now.
Sam: What does that even mean?
Marisha: It means exactly what it sounds like.
Sam: I don't speak your language.
Marisha: I can make terrain that's not real.
Liam: Do you remember when we psyched out the duergar--
Sam: It would block their view of us maybe? Perhaps?
Laura: Is it movable?
Travis: Yeah, it can't move with us.
Marisha: It could block their view of us.
Liam: Can you make some shrubs to come along with us?
Matt: You guys actually used it previously to camp for a night along a cliffside.
Laura: Right.
Matt: And made the cliff extend further than it was.
Liam: Yeah, we lured a bunch of duergar into a chasm that the ground extended over.
Laura: Let's try to climb up the other side and then see what we can see.
Marisha: I mean, I can do a lot of things, I can make a thunderstorm, I can make a sleet storm.
Sam: That would keep them in their fortress.
Travis: Could you make it fire?
Marisha: I could.
Taliesin: Or very cold if they came out.
Laura: They like cold.
Taliesin: Oh, yes.
Marisha: I could, I could make a big storm.
Travis: We're also on a chasm, so if it gets wet and slippery and muddy we might all go down.
Taliesin: That's true.
Laura: Maybe get up at the top of it and then do this.
Taliesin: I like the plan of going up the other side of the chasm.
Laura: Can we try to climb the other side?
Matt: Certainly.
Liam: Giants like to throw fucking boulders.
Laura: Yeah, I don't wanna be down on the bottom.
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: As you guys make your way up the other side, you're helping each other, I want everyone to go ahead and make an athletics check.
Sam: I put on my climbing gear, which I definitely own.
Marisha: An athletics check?
Matt: Okay, giving you advantage on your athletics check.
Laura: I actually own climbing gear too, does that help?
Matt: That would help you, yes.
Laura: Okay.
Travis: I have mine too, so I'll put that on as well.
Marisha: I don't know if I have climbing--
Taliesin: I don't know if I have climbing gear.
Travis: Attached to a rope and a grappling hook that's in my hand.
Sam: And it was the same. (laughs)
Matt: All right. So.
Sam: What am I doing? Adding what?
Travis: Fuck yeah! Nipple tits.
Matt: You have advantage, you add your strength modifier. Or your athletics is what it would be.
Sam: Athletics.
Laura: Do we add anything because of the climbing gear or is it?
Matt: You get advantage because of the climbing gear.
Laura: Ah, that's important.
Travis: 26.
Matt: 26.
Liam: We were all using climbing gear or just--
Matt: No, those who have it.
Laura: I give you my climbing gear because I already get advantage. How about that? Does that count? No.
Matt: Because it is mountain? All right, I'll let you do that.
Laura: All right.
Liam: All right, well, I got 19.
Matt: 19.
Laura: Oh, so you don't need that.
Liam: Yes I do, I need it.
Sam: 11.
Travis: 26.
Matt: 26. Vex, what did you get?
Laura: I got 15.
Marisha: 11.
Taliesin: 19.
Matt: Okay. A couple of missteps and almost sliding, Keyleth, at one point, you grasp her by the hand and Grog pulls her back up onto the platform.
Travis: No, no, up here.
Marisha: Thanks, Grog.
Matt: Over time, you guys make your way along this very rocky and precarious, anywhere from five to three to two feet in width, sometimes even lesser than that and you guys are having to shimmy across. You make your way around and you can see this large fortress that is built out of extremely large and in-place stones and stonework. It looks ancient. For size-wise, it's two stories for a giant, which means it's probably close to six or seven stories of height.
Laura: Whoa.
Matt: Built into the side of a mountain, and it goes down almost like two giant steps. It's built on essentially where the giant bowl, the caldera if you will, of where this valley of this mountain range would be. It's built on the inside of it, so it's actually constructed, as you continue to descend into the valley. Looking at it, you can see openings, windows, there are areas up top where you see giant piles of rocks and boulders that are used for anti-siege, for throwing off the top, stockpiles of that. You do see boulders around the ground that may have been thrown and not picked up. Everyone make a perception check.
Laura: I feel-- (whispers) Should I say?
Liam: (whispers) I'm not gonna tell you.
Taliesin: That's an intimidation check.
Laura: How did Trinket get up the cavern?
Matt: Hm?
Laura: Can Trinket climb?
Matt: Trinket--
Taliesin: Bears climb!
Marisha: Bears are good climbers.
Laura: They're good climbers?
Taliesin: They can get up a tree.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: Roll an athletics check with disadvantage.
Sam: Disadvantage.
Laura: I'm sorry! But it felt wrong to lie.
Matt: Rangers.
Sam: Of course. It's an honor system.
Liam: Could I have given the climbing gear to Trinket?
Laura: No.
Travis: No. (all laugh)
Taliesin: You could've, it just would've been adorable.
Laura: But we could tie the rope around Trinket's waist.
Matt: Roll your dice.
Laura: With an athletics check?
Matt: Yes.
Laura: Does he get an advantage because of mountains?
Marisha: I love that he says 'roll your dice' like it matters.
Matt: Nope. He gets disadvantage because he's a big bear.
Travis: I told her not to say it, why'd you say it?
Laura: I'm just trying to be honest!
Matt: Which is appreciated.
Laura: Strength modifier? He got a 15, too.
Matt: Okay. It's been difficult, and it slowed your guys' progression, but you've managed to keep Trinket along with you; this large bear is now like pushing against the side. He's managed to keep up, but it's been a harrowing experience.
Liam: I've been behind him the whole time, pushing on his buttocks.
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: You got this buddy, you got this.
Matt: So, once again, perception rolls.
Laura: Sorry. Yes.
Taliesin: 20.
Marisha: 19.
Sam: 17.
Liam: Can I use passive perception?
Matt: This is active actually looking for something; the passive is more--
Liam: Well then, I get-- 26.
Travis: 15.
Laura: 19.
Matt: All right. You got 26, you said?
Liam: Yep.
Matt: Looking from this distance, and keeping the best visual you can see, there is no movement, at all, from the interior of the fortress. The two front doors, you see these two large stone doors that are the entrance to it. One of the doors is actually broken in half and left partially ajar and open.
Travis: We gotta go in now.
Laura: No, no, no.
Sam: They could be dead in there.
Laura: If something could've taken out giant giants. What could it be that could've done that?
Travis: Vampire giants.
Taliesin: It could've been the Briarwoods. We should see everything that's up here.
Sam: (sings) There are giants in the sky.
Travis: How awesome would that be?
Laura: (sings) There are big, tall, terrible giants in the sky.
Travis: Can we please go see? Can someone please--
Sam: You want me to go in?
Travis: Vax!?
Marisha: I can bird it. I can bird it and go in.
Taliesin: I can't believe I'm about to say this.
Marisha: Bird in and do a recon mission real quick?
Sam: You're going to bird in? They're going to see you fly in.
Laura: No, but she's a bird.
Marisha: I'm a bird.
Sam: It doesn't matter, they're still gonna see you.
Laura: Recon it.
Marisha: I'll go bat!
Laura: Yeah!
Taliesin: Now you're not going to be able to see anything because they have terrible eyesight.
Marisha: Not in a small--
Taliesin: I'm kidding, they really don't. That's a myth! That's actually a myth!
Marisha: They have echo vision!
Taliesin: They have actually very reasonable eyesight. That's a myth. You can look it up on Wikipedia, it's true.
Marisha: (laughs) Very reasonable eyesight.
Liam: You could also be a sparrow.
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: So, at about the two in the afternoon day sun, 'cause that's what it is. But you're fine. You become a bat--
Marisha: Bats come out during the day!
Matt: I know. She makes her way, down through; you swoop up to one of the windows and you glance inside and look around. You can see most of the furniture inside is in tatters. There are large, giant-sized tables and chairs that have been broken in half and strewn across the room. Make a perception check.
Laura: Ooh, come on, Keyleth!
Sam: Come on, oh yeah.
Taliesin: Oh yeah!
Marisha: Oh yeah! 28.
Matt: 28. Glancing inside you also see there are--
Marisha: (squawks) That's my echovision.
Matt: -- splatters and puddles of blood. Large bits of blood across the ground that is dried, but from your current vision from this, there is no sign of any living or individuals or bodies. There was a battle that took place here, but there is nothing present to signify who or what.
Marisha: How big is this room?
Matt: This room is about 25 feet tall
Marisha: Does it look like it goes deeper?
Matt: It does look like it goes deeper, there is a slight-- this is the upper floor, there is a grade, almost like a slow-- the word escapes me for a second.
Marisha: Like a downgrade.
Matt: Yes.
Taliesin: Like a ramp.
Matt: A ramp!
Sam: A slope.
Matt: Thank you.
Matt: A ramp that disappears below and into the lower floor.
Sam: A siggle.
Marisha: I'm gonna go into that-- (all laugh)
Travis: Careful. Oh no no no no! Don't roll! Don't roll! (all shout)
Taliesin: We turn on him.
Marisha: Fear of god.
Liam: Grog sacrifices the gnome. (all laugh)
Matt: So yeah, you do see the ramp, that's downward.
Marisha: I'm going to go into the room that I see is for sure empty, and go toward the threshold of the ramp.
Matt: Okay. Make your way down to the threshold of the ramp, looking down. Downstairs as well, it looks like there are some fur rugs set aside that have been kicked aside and bunched up on the edge of the room.
Marisha: Like it's been ransacked, or just a really nasty fight?
Matt: Like some sort of a major fight went down. No sign of any bodies or body parts. No sign of leftover weapons or armor from whatever giants lived in here. You just see large amounts of dried blood across the stone floors.
Marisha: Like something came in and slaughtered and completely stripped the place.
Matt: Or the giants slaughtered something horribly here and are currently out and about, you don't know. But--
Marisha: Can I tell if the blood looks-- how dusty is this shit?
Matt: Did you want to land and make an investigation check?
Sam: Call us in.
Travis: Do it.
Liam: Do it, Batwoman.
Taliesin: You are the night.
Marisha: How much dust goes pff?
Travis: (laughs) You are the night.
Matt: Quite a bit; a little puff.
Laura: Oh.
Matt: Not a huge amount, but enough where it's not fresh, and a closer look, the blood's been dry for a while. Make an investigation check.
Taliesin: What is the sound of a bat coughing?
Marisha: (squawking and coughing noise)
Taliesin: Thank you. It's the simple things.
Travis: What did you get?
Marisha: Investigation. What about a 12?
Matt: 12. You can't really make it out, unfortunately. You know it's dried, it's been a little bit, but you can't quite gauge how long it's been.
Marisha: All right, I'm gonna go ahead and-- are there any other rooms, or is this it?
Matt: There's the upper floor, the lower floor. They're two large rooms on their own. It looks like-- You haven't actually gone down the grade yet, so.
Marisha: You said seven stories, so it's like room, downgrade, room, downgrade, room?
Matt: Seven stories for your size, it's two stories for a giant size. It's a large top room, and a large bottom room.
Laura: Ooh.
Marisha: Is there another room going off the bottom room?
Matt: There are just two rooms  top floor, bottom floor. You're currently on the top floor, looking down.
Sam: Split level condo.
Marisha: I'm gonna go out to the front door.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Nice flat, upper east side. Land, and I'm gonna bamf out of my bat form, and say, all right, it looks like the coast is clear if you guys want to check this place out.
Sam: Yeah, let's go check in.
Taliesin: Let's check it out.
Matt: All right, the rest of you make you way back down towards the front of the fortress and enter the inside. As you go through the front door, you see that the impact that destroyed it was from the inside out.
Sam: Oh!
Laura: Ooh.
Travis: Really?
Matt: So it's not like it was beaten in, it was beaten from the inside out.
Laura: Oh.
Matt: And there is a streak of dried blood against that portion of the door. Looking inside too, you see there are a large cluster of matted hides and furs, like it made for bedding for close to four or five giants put in the corner, and there is a musty smell of whatever they were using to make it comfortable and ripe for their own personal needs.
Liam: Stealth!
Laura: Yeah, yeah, let's stealth.
Travis: Can giants become vampires?
Laura: I don't know, I hope not. You should use the dust of tracelessness, Grog, just so our footsteps aren't seen.
Liam: 17.
Matt: 17, okay. So what do you guys want to do in here?
Laura: Stealth.
Sam: I'm going to go downstairs.
Marisha: How dark is it?
Matt: You are downstairs at the entrance
Sam: Oh. Down the grade, I mean.
Travis: I want to look for any weapons that are lying about.
Matt: All right, make a perception check.
Liam: I want to ransack the joint.
Matt: Actually, it'd be more of an investigation check.
Travis: Me, investigate? That's funny. Eight.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Investigate or perception for me?
Travis: I find dirt.
Matt: You find a giant's fortress.
Liam: Investigate or perception?
Matt: For this? Perception is just seeing things at first glance. Investigation is going through and rummaging through to find things.
Liam: I'll investigate.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Shall I for downstairs?
Matt: Yeah, go for it.
Liam: 17.
Sam: 23.
Matt: Okay. As you guys are going through, looking at the blood and the way the splashes are, the blood that was spilled here was very thick, and large amounts of it, and it's probably been anywhere from two to three months since this entire fortress was ransacked.
Travis: Wow. MATT You do notice that some of the blood is dragged through, like something was dragged out of the puddle. But not for a long distance. Whatever was there was cleaned off at some point, or lifted up and carried out from whatever was originally pulled through those puddles of blood. You also do notice that in the pile of furs and refuse and there are bones of things that were left there to rot in the corner. You find roughly 120 gold pieces.
Sam: I give it to Vex.
Matt: Over time you find a number of shattered glass vials that look like they once contained various elixirs, there is one that is unshattered.
Sam: I take it.
Matt: All right. And underneath all, covered in quite a bit of filth, but a little bit of metallic sheen streaks through, you see what looks to be a very, very well-crafted longbow.
Laura: (gasps) What is that?! What is it? What did you find?
Sam: Nothing, nothing.
Laura: What is it? What is that?
Liam: Here you go
Laura: Ah, what is this?
Liam: What are you going to do with it?
Laura: What is this?
Sam: I'll use it as a hammock.
Liam: Shoot yourself?
Marisha: Does it look like it's magic-y?
Laura: Can I tell what it is?
Matt: Taking it, it appears to have some sort of magical radiance to it. It looks like it's very well crafted. You recognize the construction is elvish in nature.
Laura: Hey, look at this.
Matt: And there are bits of mithril scrolling all throughout the bow itself, with platinum caps on the edge of the longbow.
Travis: Is it evil?
Laura: I don't know. Keyleth, do you know anything about magic-y stuff? Tiberius bamfed out.
Marisha: I can try, I'm not as good as he is, but I'll try.
Laura: What about you, Scanlan? Do you know anything about arcana?
Marisha: Ooh, 20!
Matt: Natural 20?
Marisha: No, 18; 20 total.
Matt: Yes, this is definitively a magical item, it is enchanted.
Marisha: It's definitely magical.
Matt: If you want to take a short time to work with it and attune yourself to it, you could get a better idea of what its effect is.
Laura: Okay. Thank you. Can we do that?
Taliesin: I'm going to look around a bit more, anyway.
Laura: I'm going to think about it real hard.
Liam: Probably shoot a couple dummy arrows out of it
Travis: Can I walk out the front door?
Laura: I'm going to buy it a steak and I'm going to--
Travis: Can I walk out the front door and keep post on the porch?
Liam: I'm following Grog and I'm doing the same.
Matt: All right.
Travis: And I want to look in the direction we want to be walking.
Taliesin: I'm looking around, I'm trying to find out what happened to the bodies.
Matt: Investigation check for that. Here are the potion and the bow you guys managed to--
Laura: What is it, what is it?
Sam: I took the potion, I took the potion!
Matt: (laughs) Give that to Scanlan.
Taliesin: I know, apparently, from this roll that I'm in the mountains.
Laura: What is it?
Taliesin: I got a six.
Matt: A six. It's hard to tell. It's a very strange scene, and you have no inclination as to what may have transpired here. Who is the winner, who is the loser, and what has been done with the bodies.
Liam: Sorry.
Marisha: What did you find, what did you find?
Taliesin: Vex is making happy noises.
Liam: She's taking the bow for a spin.
Travis: She's attuning.
Liam: Seeing what it can do.
Travis: Do we see anything outside on the porch?
Matt: Over time the only thing you catch is occasionally you see flocks of birds moving through and swooping through the area. You watch one flock come up and begin circling a little bit.
Laura: Should we get out? Should we leave?
Matt: And then make its way down toward the valley.
Travis: Stealth.
Laura: Just leave. Let's leave. Stealth it out? Stealthy out-ie?
Matt: This is for Grog who is outside, roll a stealth check.
Liam: I'm out there too, and I rolled a natural 20.
Matt: Yes you did.
Travis: I might use your inspiration on this.
Sam: It's probably not in effect anymore.
Laura: (groans) No, you're in the mountains!
Travis: I am in the mountains.
Matt: Which means you have knowledge of mountains.
Laura: You don't get advantage?
Travis: I don't have advantage on--
Matt: Let me double-check on this, actually, what the specifics of the goliath's-- You don't take issues with cold climates, because you're at high elevation. You don't actually get advantage on anything mountain-wise; that is a ranger ability.
Travis: So can I add an inspiration on this?
Sam: I inspired him quite a while ago. How long does that--
Matt: It's been a while, how long does that last?
Sam: 20 minutes?
Matt: Yeah, that would've faded by now.
Travis: That's a one.
Matt: Oh, well, if it's a natural one it wouldn't have mattered.
Liam: Yeah, it doesn't matter, you can't add shit to one.
Matt: So while you sneak off to the side, you see these birds. There's a lot of birds there! You start yelling out to everyone, there's a lot of birds out here! Shouting it loudly back into the fortress.
Laura: Aw, shit.
Marisha: Grog, Grog, those might be centurion birds!
Travis: (loudly) That's what I said, birds!
Marisha: They might be spies! They might be spies.
Travis: (loudly) Yeah, I spy birds, they're flying everywhere. (yells) Go away!
Laura: Grog, Grog, inside.
Marisha: Inside!
Matt: The birds immediately start circling the fortress very close. You can hear the screeching. You can see the birds now, they're crows. A very, very thick murder of crows, probably close to a hundred of them, cawing.
Laura: I cast Pass Without a Trace.
Marisha: Wait, wait, wait.
Sam: I'm still down there, investigating.
Matt: Mm-hm.
Sam: I pull a David Caruso and say, It looks like these giants had... big trouble. (all laugh)
Matt: You hear an echoing sound, yeahhhh! Formless, sourceless. You all stand there confused for a moment, then continue to try and stealth.
Travis: I run back inside.
Matt: Back inside. Eventually the crows take back to their original path.
Marisha: Oh, oh, but before the crows leave, before the crows leave--
Liam: Yeah?
Laura: Yeah?
Marisha: Can I do something?
Matt: Yep. What are you doing?
Laura: Do it!
Travis: Do it!
Sam: Kill them all.
Marisha: I'm gonna go like Storm and I'm gonna Sleet Storm them. I'm gonna start conjuring a Sleet Storm over the top of this mountain, right where the crows are.
Taliesin: It's been so long since you've killed something innocent! Let's bring it!
Laura: Do it, do it, Keyleth!
Matt: As Keyleth concentrates for a second, you see her eyes, the actual color of her irises, begin to fade to this cloudy white and then the entire eye itself becomes this icy blue. A slight cold mist beginning to drift off the corners of her face.
Laura: Badass.
Matt: You start hearing this pounding sound on the top of the fortress as sleet and hail begins to rain down. Go ahead and roll damage for the spell.
Marisha: Oh, jeez.
Matt: Sleet Storm? Oh, it's just a dexterity saving throw. It says heavily obscured, but doesn't actually do any damage.
Laura: But it knocks them all down.
Marisha: I know, they're like frozen though, right? Don't they get frozen with Sleet Storm?
Matt: Sleet Storm knocks things prone, makes the area hard to see.
Marisha: Knocks them prone
Matt: Douses flames.
Marisha: They're in the sky, I wanna hear birds hit the floor.
Matt: And a few do. There are a few birds that get pelted and knocked to the ground, encased in sleet, but most of it immediately takes note to get away from the storm and vanish and disappear back to--
Travis: Do they fall to the porch?
Matt: I'll say one does.
Travis: I run out there and I grab it.
Laura: No, no, no!
Travis: I rip its head off with my teeth. (all laugh)
Matt: Grog, you run out there and grab the one on the ground, it's struggling, and (squawks), there's ice gathered everywhere.
Travis: Yeah, shut up!
Matt: You grab it and you pick it up, you hear Vex go "Grog!" and you go (chomp) as she's staring at you. Silencing the crow. You hear the cawing of the crows dissipate in the distance and silence eventually takes the fortress once again, and you're left amongst the smell of death.
Laura: We should get the eff out of here.
Marisha: I think so.
Taliesin: We should probably leave.
Laura: Now. Stealth and out.
Laura: Dust of tracelessness. Hide ourselves.
Travis: Dust of tracelessness.
Matt: You make your way out of the fortress and begin to follow the path down into the outside of the forest and just as you make towards the base of the mountains where the forest canopy begins to take your vision, you can see just over the edge, a couple of small castle towers and what looks to be a single central spire of the castle of Whitestone.
Laura: They know we're here now. They know we're here.
Liam: Yeah.
Taliesin: I think they might.
Laura: That was a sentry.
Travis: Why? They were just birds.
Marisha: Yeah, but we don't know--
Sam: Don't worry, we still have the element of surprise. Oh wait, no, we don't.
Matt: And with that, we're going to go ahead and take a break. All right, guys, we'll be back here in about 20-25 minutes.
Laura: Oh yeah!
Matt: Let us begin where we left off.
Laura: Oh, we're looking at the city.
Sam: There's the city! Shall we storm it?
Taliesin: It's a chalkboard.
Laura: I was pointing at you!
Taliesin: Well yes, so I can now recognize where we are.
Matt: Yes, you know this area very well. This entire forested area, the Parchwood Forest that encompases the entirety of this valley, toward the center of it, center north, is where Whitestone sits and for your reference as well, since you've been here before, you would know the city relatively well.
Sam: Maps!
Taliesin: This is the most exciting map I've ever been handed. Whoa!
Laura: What the what?!
Matt: Hold that over by your seat there for people to take a look at.
Sam: Don't. Just don't.
Taliesin: It won't fit in my folder.
Matt: That is a basic rundown of the size, design and shape of Whitestone, with Castle Whitestone toward the top, built on top of a leveled off mountain that marks the southernmost point.
Sam: This is the castle, this is the town?
Travis: And we're at the southern part of that?
Matt: You guys are actually coming in from what would be the northwestern side of the city
Marisha: So over here?
Matt: A little bit further down. About that angle there. That's the direction you're coming in from.
Travis: That's a detailed map, man.
Matt: I don't have any free time anymore. (all laugh)
Travis: They sell those stock, right?
Matt: Oh yeah, totally.
Taliesin: What's this little outcropping?
Matt: The little outcropping to the east of it was the graveyard to Whitestone. It's where most of the regular denizens were interred. It's been expanded over the years as the city itself has been around for quite a few generations.
Marisha: Does this graveyard have catacombs? Tombs? Underground passages?
Matt: Do you ask this of Percy?
Marisha: Yes.
Taliesin: Does it?
Matt: That graveyard does not--
Taliesin: That graveyard does not--
Matt: -- it is a surface graveyard.
Taliesin: -- it is a surface graveyard.
Matt: There is a mausoleum--
Taliesin: There is a mausoleum--
Matt: -- but that--
Taliesin: -- but that--
Matt: -- is actually contained beneath the castle.
Taliesin: -- is actually contained beneath the castle. (all laugh)
Travis: Riveting.
Sam: So knowledgeable, Percy.
Laura: So Percy, do you know of any secret passages to get actually into the castle?
Taliesin: I was wondering that myself.
Matt: There is one, one that you took to escape.
Taliesin: Yes, there is one!
Marisha: (laughs) Stop.
Matt: He has an aneurysm. Yeah, it is to the very western edge of the mountain precipice the castle was built on. It was built to be specifically an escape in case the place was under siege. Unfortunately, the circumstances that the evening happened so rapidly, and with creatures that seemingly were unnatural, the family didn't have time to make it out. And even you weren't fully aware of it. Cassandra, however, had overheard discussions about the passage and took that as your escape route. It's a hidden tunnel at the very base of the mountain.
Taliesin: I say we scope out the hidden entrance, see if it's guarded, see if they've discovered it.
Sam: To the town, or to the castle?
Taliesin: The hidden entrance to the castle. Instead of using it, I think we should possibly spend the night and get a view of the town, see if there's anything unusual.
Laura: I agree, can we camp out and hide?
Sam: Watch from afar? What's that going to tell us?
Travis: We could send one in.
Taliesin: We could send a bird in. Or an invisible gnome.
Sam: Or both.
Taliesin: Or both. An invisible bird-gnome.
Travis: Just to see if the town is normal or not.
Sam: It could be all vampires. Or it could be a totally normal town.
Taliesin: If it's all vampires, it'll be empty right now.
Sam: Because it's daytime.
Laura: Because it's daytime.
Marisha: We should do a fly-by.
Laura: We should definitely attack during the day.
Taliesin: Yes.
Travis: We should send one by air and one by land.
Laura: What?
Marisha: Do you want to do that?
Sam: How far away are we?
Matt: You guys have been travelling through the forest, and it is a very dense forest, but it is mostly cold-weather trees, pines. And there is, you can see once you get inside the forest, the ground itself is very thick and there are elements of melting snow on the top of the trees, there was recently a snowfall in this area but it seems like it's been a while and most of it has turned to slush and water. You have about two hours of travel into the forest, and you all immediately catch the sound of distant howling.
Sam: Is it nighttime?
Matt: No.
Sam: Oh. That's scary.
Marisha: Distant howling? Does it sound like wolves? Can I make a nature check?
Matt: Yeah, make a nature check.
Laura: Stealth?
Matt: If you want to make a stealth check
Marisha: 26.
Matt: 26. Those are wolves. It sounds like a pack of wolves, probably close to anywhere from five or six.
Marisha: Would I think it's weird that they're howling during the daytime?
Matt: You gather that it is strange that they're out. Though it is getting later in the day, you are pushing four or five in the afternoon, the sun is starting to get closer to the horizon. It is strange that they're out this early, you're not sure what the reasoning would be for that.
Marisha: Odd.
Taliesin: I say we hide in the trees.
Laura: Up high.
Travis: Like up in the trees?
Laura: I like it.
Travis: We're gonna climb some trees.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: We're gonna Hobbit this shit.
Sam: We're just hiding in the trees, we're not going in to investigate?
Taliesin: Well, it's about to be nighttime, so we'll send a scout.
Sam: How long would it take to get into the town from where we are?
Matt: About two more hours of travel.
Sam: Ew. We'll get there at night. That's all right though, it's early evening.
Marisha: How long would it take me to fly over if I was a bird?
Matt: About an hour.
Sam: Vax.
Liam: Yes?
Sam: Can I ride you into town?
Liam: You want me to jog into town?
Marisha: You could ride me into town.
Sam: Well hello lady.
Marisha: Man, every time, Scanlan, every time.
Taliesin: Now that just got weird.
Laura: Could you turn yourself and fly?
Sam: Yeah, I guess I could fly.
Marisha: You wanna go invisible and jump on my back and I can eagle up?
Sam: Whatever you're into, baby. (laughs) I've become Austin Powers.
Laura: Ridiculous.
Marisha: Let's do it.
Liam: If the coach driver was any indication, there are going to be people--
Laura: Normal people.
Liam: -- in town.
Sam: What about this  I'll make us both invisible and you fly us in.
Laura: I like it.
Travis: Yeah, get on the ground, not just above.
Matt: All right. Now, Invisibility  how long does it last at full duration?
Sam: Looking. Up to an hour. Ooh, and it takes two hours just to get there?
Matt: Well, flying takes an hour. So, it's one of those things you could do once you approach it. It'll last you awhile, as opposed to doing it now.
Sam: How long can you be Polymorphed for? Forever? Concentration?
Marisha: For half of my druid level, we discovered.
Matt: So somewhere around six hours, five hours.
Sam: Okay, so you fly us in, and I'll Invisibility us right as we get to the gates.
Travis: And as they're going out, we get in the trees.
Taliesin: Make sure you bring an earpiece.
Marisha: He's got an earpiece.
Travis: Do we, the four of us, all go up in the trees?
Liam: Everyone get your own tree.
Laura: Everyone get your own tree?
Matt: Everyone who's in a tree, please roll a stealth check.
Sam: Except for Trinket, who can't climb up.
Laura: Trinket can climb trees! Bears climb trees!
Matt: Roll an athletics check.
Laura: I'm casting Pass Without a Trace. How long does it last?
Sam: You have to roll for Trinket.
Laura: Okay, fine! I guess I'll cast it tonight, never mind.
Travis: Plus ten to stealth?
Laura: Why are you being a dick, Scanlan?
Matt: Well, she did not cast it.
Laura: I'm not casting it yet.
Travis: 14.
Laura: What are we rolling?
Travis: Stealth.
Liam: I already did. Those are good rolls!
Laura: 21 for me, and what do I-- just nothing. 19 for Trinket.
Matt: Okay. We'll say you guys all manage to slowly get yourself up into the tree the best you can, as you guys take off. While you guys are away, making your way towards Whitestone, the rest of you look down, and just from a passive perception standpoint, you pick up the most detail: you can see there is indeed a pack of about five wolves and/or dogs a little ways away, but they're being followed by one humanoid. They're being guided, there is a pack out here for some reason, whether it be a hunting party or whatever other reasons there may be. It isn't a wild pack.
Laura: And they're close to us now?
Travis: I've been doing the dust of tracelessness.
Laura: So, I'll cast it on us now that they're closer.
Marisha: I wonder if that's the ground search party.
Laura: Maybe.
Travis: We'll see.
Laura: So, should we add ten to all of our stealth rolls that had been, or do we have to roll again?
Matt: You'd have to roll again.
Laura: Shit balls.
Liam: So we're stealthing again in the tree?
Matt: Because she's casting Pass, or you won't get the benefit.
Liam: I'm already at a 32, man!
Travis: I'll take it.
Laura: You don't have to.
Liam: Let's do it, let's roll again.
Taliesin: Let's roll again.
Liam: What do we add?
Laura: Ten to whatever we roll.
Matt: Go ahead and just add ten to the previous roll. (all cheer)
Liam: Good.
Marisha: We want to keep our good rolls.
Matt: So, about five breathless moments pass as the dogs, wolves all get relatively close. One of them comes up and returns back to the pack. You don't get a good view of the individual that is currently guiding the pack, and you see them disappear between the thick trees in the distance. Make an active perception check for you, Vex, if you don't mind.
Laura: Not advantage. Mountains?
Matt: Is forest? No, you're in forest, now.
Laura: Oh wait! That's another!
Matt: You're sure that's a favored terrain? Then go ahead and roll again.
Laura: That was worse than the first one, that's great.
Matt: So your total is?
Liam: I rolled 20.
Laura: Okay, well, you didn't say you were doing it. 18.
Matt: 18, okay. It's hard to make out the details at this distance. You check out, it does appear to be a female form.
Laura: Oh, it's a chick!
Matt: Best you can tell, you can't tell specific race or details. Then, another minute passes before the barking and the howls fade and the hunting party seems to have been eluded.
Taliesin: There was no way to get a good look at who it was.
Matt: No. Do you want to make an active perception check?
Taliesin: Actually, I would love to.
Matt: Normally, if they'd passed by now--
Taliesin: Natural 20.
Travis: What?! Really?
Matt: A natural 20?!
Marisha: I'm looking at it!
Taliesin: This is an 'I love you' for those awful rolls earlier.
Travis: The golden snitch wins again.
Taliesin: That may be its name now.
Matt: You see the female form, it's not someone you particularly recognize. But the woman does appear to be older, probably in her late 40s, early 50s. She has some hunting gear over her shoulder. She has a short bow that's strapped over her, she has a quiver of arrows. She looks like she's hunting for food.
Sam: If she was a little older, Tiberius would kill her. (all laugh)
Sam: Give her ten years.
Matt: Give her ten years.
Taliesin: I don't recognize her, though?
Matt: No, you don't have an immediate lead of visual recognition. In the meantime, you guys make your way. Swooping down, you can see that cluster, that murder of crows circling out. It's making a large pass over this entire valley. You take this cue as you get to within visual range of the city to cast Invisibility on both of you. Is that a 3rd-level spell?
Sam: Yes.
Matt: Okay. Both of you vanish from view, which is a strange feeling for you because you cannot see Keyleth, you're grasping onto something you can't see.
Sam: Oh, shit.
Matt: And you just look like you're gliding through the air.
Sam: Can I do one of these?
Matt: Yeah, you grab on very tightly.
Marisha: (choking noises)
Matt: -- without choking. The eagle does not have--
Sam: Damn it!
Matt: -- human physiology. You get two fistfuls of feathers. And you really don't want an eagle to buck you angrily at this height. I don't think you have Featherfall so that wouldn't go well. Looking over Whitestone, you can see outside of the city there are some areas where the trees are carved out, and there is farmland set up specifically to grow food and to till to maintain sustenance for the people that live there. You can see that there's a small area that's also being cut for timber. Not a perpetual thing, but the wood here is, you've heard previously, one of the major exports here is very high-quality timber from this type of tree that is used for very exquisite woodcraft and furniture. So that's one of the major exports of Whitestone as well as the quartz from the mines itself. There are people in the city, but sparse. Make a perception check.
Marisha: Can I also make a perception check?
Matt: You may.
Marisha: With my eagle vision?
Matt: (singsong) You may.
Marisha: 14, so that's 24. And I have Keen Sight, which means I have advantage on all perception checks.
Matt: Yes, you do.
Marisha: I'll take that 14.
Taliesin: She'll take that 14.
Marisha: As opposed to that one.
Matt: Total of 14?
Marisha: 24.
Matt: 24. Okay. As you get close enough to start scanning over details, you can see that a lot of the buildings appear to be closed or empty. There are people working in the fields. As you make your way to the center of the town, there is a town square. There is a tree there, a very large, old tree that is twisted, with all these various gnarled branches that reach out. You recall Desmond mentioning something called the Sun Tree that is the centerpiece of this area. And you get a view enough of the tree to see that there are eight humanoid bodies of varying ages swinging from it.
Sam: Ooh.
Laura: Oh no.
Matt: You also notice that, patrolling through the city at very slow paces, there are a few larger than normal humanoids.
Laura: (gasps)
Matt: You see what appear to be approximately six giants patrolling through the town, but you can see some of them are like wrecked and broken. One of them is missing an arm and is dragging a foot behind it.
Laura: They're zombie giants?!
Matt: Apparently, whenever one of them is moving through, most of the denizens of the town keep a very wide berth, and generally avoid them entirely and go about their business, at a distance.
Laura: Oh my god.
Liam: I miss Pike.
Travis: Six?
Sam: No problem.
Matt: Like over all of the entire city. They're pretty well scattered about. After you do a full pass over the city, those are most of the details you can make out at this height. Anything further, any specifics, you want to go for before heading back?
Sam: You want to set me down so I can go talk to people?
Marisha: You want to talk to people?
Sam: Well, or at least eavesdrop. We don't know if they're all vampires or not.
Marisha: Does it look like there's a central part where there's a lot of people gathered?
Matt: Farmlands look likely to be the largest cluster of people. You can see, since it's getting to the end of the day, there are folks finishing up gathering the crops that were available to them or sort of planting as they go through. And you can see there's about five or six people that are all in one group. Most everyone else seems to be relatively solitary and trying to go about their business as fast as possible.
Marisha: The town square's emptying out?
Matt: The town square? Nobody is in the town square. People are avoiding it like the plague. There's eight bodies hanging from the tree, and nobody wants to be there.
Marisha: All right. I'm going to swoop down and find a tree, where the five or six farmers are, and perch, see if Scanlan can get a good--
Matt: There actually are no trees by the farm, all the trees have been cleared out to make the farmland. So there's actually a bit of the forest that's been cleared for that purpose.
Marisha: It's just open and empty.
Matt: Yeah. You can go to a tree that's nearby, but that's like 300 feet away.
Marisha: A rooftop? A wall? Anything I can perch on?
Matt: There is a wall. There is a wall on the outskirts of Whitestone.
Marisha: I perch on the wall.
Matt: Okay. You swoop down and you perch on the edge of the wall there. It's about 25 feet up.
Sam: I'm just going to walk down there. I won't be able to see you, so I'm going to leave a little--
Marisha: I'll keep an-- Oh, wait, I can't see you.
Matt: And you can't talk right now, you're an eagle.
Sam: I leave a little, like a canteen or something, right where she's perched, just so I know where to find her.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Smart.
Taliesin: Leave the mug.
Sam: Yeah, my stein. And then I'm going to walk down and see if I can stealthily eavesdrop on some conversations.
Matt: Okay. You make your way down the 25-foot wall she's perched on.
Sam: Oh, shit. Am I going to fall?
Matt: Go ahead and make an athletics check to climb.
Taliesin: You say that out loud?
Sam: Athletics?
Matt: Yes.
Sam: 17.
Matt: 17. The stonework here is old and you manage to not lose your footing entirely as you bring your way down. Thankfully, you're light enough, and the stones are not too large, so you can get some good handholds. You do, over the next 12 minutes or so, make your way to the base of the wall.
Sam: It took me 12 minutes to climb 25 feet?
Matt: Yep.
Sam: Nice. I suck.
Marisha: Maybe whistle for me when you come back.
Matt: A lot of moments of (gasps) 'whoa, okay'. But, you catch yourself. I mean, you can just jump if you wanted to make it less. But, the duration of your invisibility-- you have about 20 more minutes before it dissipates.
Sam: Oh shit, I have to do this quick.
Matt: You look over the edge, and you can see that they have carts up and that they have what vegetables they have, and a lot of vegetables, even at a close look, a lot of them look withered. It looks like there is a general sense of frustration that the land itself is not producing quality crops. And even the people look unhealthy and gaunt by nature. Whether it be the cold winter recently or just their general spirit is broken, but there is a feeling about these people that life here is not what it used to be. There isn't a whole lot of conversation, there's mutterings here and there. "We have to make sure we get these back in time. Fill the cart, we have two carts we have to get in." And the other one's, "I know, I know, I'm trying," And they're putting it over there and there's a little bit of frustration among them.
Sam: He's doing walla. (all laugh)
Matt: One of them ends up counting the last bit of crop. "That's it, that's all we have. That is the entire pull for the day." And the older gentleman, who is overseeing it, grinds his hands and goes, "Sir Kerrion is going to have my hide."
Sam: Wait, wasn't that one of the people--
Matt: "At the very least, let's gather it together and hopefully Pelor will protect us." And the people take the carts and begin making their way towards the outer gate on the southeast side of Whitestone, where you guys are currently at.
Sam: Okay. I'm going to hustle back to the roof.
Matt: All right. Make an athletics check.
Sam: Jesus.
Marisha: I can come get you.
Taliesin: You'll hear a thump.
Sam: Eight. (all laugh)
Liam: Hopefully he lands on his lute.
Sam: No, it's nine.
Matt: Okay. 15 minutes. After five minutes of eavesdropping you realize that you are not going to make it up that wall, and you feel the magic of your Invisibility illusion about to fade. At this point, by the way, the sun has just hit the edge of the mountains, the sky itself is a vibrant, reddish orange slowly turning to purple and sunset is upon you.
Sam: I want to spend the night here. No.
Marisha: Can I see him?
Matt: He's invisible, no.
Sam: I will sneak around the corner a little bit, wait for an opening, and I lose Invisibility, which will drop it on her as well, and I will Dimension Door back up to the roof.
Matt: Okay. As you pass to the side, the illusion fades, you step into a small opening of dark, purplish energy and then reemerge on the top of the wall--
Matt: Grab the canteen.
Sam: Grab the canteen.
Matt: --and hop back on the back of her.
Sam: Oh, shit. Invisibility again.
Matt: Okay. Okay. You guys vanish, and Keyleth, you take off back in the direction you guys traveled from. In the meantime, guys, what do you want to have been doing? Are you just waiting, are you traveling further in, are you staying where you are?
Travis: (snores)
Taliesin: We have to wait.
Laura: Yeah, keeping an ear out for the wolves and just chilling in a tree.
Travis: (yells) I fall out of the tree.
Laura: And also, I'm restringing my new, awesome bow.
Matt: With the--?
Laura: With the blazing bowstring.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Which, by the way, is a longbow of sky sentinel.
Sam: Sky sentinel, what does that mean?
Laura: Once per long rest, I can use a Storm Arrow, which means that the next arrow I fire splits into three arrows. Roll an attack for each of them, they all get 1d6 extra for each one that hits. It's amazing!
Sam: Every time you use it, or is at a one-time--
Laura: It's one time per long rest.
Marisha: That's awesome!
Matt: Once per day, she fires an arrow and the arrow splits into three, and each one bursts into thunder damage, bursts of them.
Laura: Say what?! So, is it lightning damage or is it--
Matt: Thunder damage. It should say on there.
Laura: It says lightning damage.
Matt: Oh, then it would be lightning damage.
Marisha: It's a taser arrow.
Taliesin: It's basically a taser.
Matt: So yeah, it's pretty fun.
Sam: Thunder!
Laura: Thunder!
Matt: What's that from?
Sam: I don't know.
Matt: So, the night falls and the crickets begin to emerge, the slow mist begins to form.
Laura: Wait, our friends aren't back yet. It's already night and they're not back?
Liam: I just want to say that I pulled my hood down, and put on my calamari hat, and pulled the hood back over it.
Matt: Okay. So you take the partially rusted over, but functional, metallic skull cap that Clarota was wearing when you guys met in the Underdark, that Clarota no longer needs.
Travis: Because he's dead.
Matt: You place it on your head and it's a little loose. As you place it on, it rattles for a moment, and then it form-fits to your skull. Your hair being pinched beneath it and just emerging from underneath, almost Loki-helmet-style.
Laura: Looking snazzy, Vax.
Travis: Nice bonnet.
Sam: (imitating Clarota) I'm on your head.
Matt: There's a weird buzzing vibrational feel as its magic attunes to you over the next hour or so as you're waiting, but you get the sensation that it will offer some decent protection from impeding charm effects.
Liam: It tingles.
Laura: It looks like you have a mullet.
Liam: Yeah, dude.
Matt: A Loki mullet. You start to get really nervous about the arrival of your friends, until eventually you hear the flapping of wings. You look up and you can see, since it has taken an hour to get there, the illusion just fades, both a giant eagle and Scanlan appear in the moonlight, right above the canopy of the forest you guys are close to, and return to the place you were.
Laura: Keyleth, question. Can you make it look like we're not here with your foliage shit?
Marisha: I drop my Beast Shape, holding onto a branch.
Laura: You know, the illusions.
Marisha: Yeah.
Taliesin: Good, good.
Laura: Can we camp up in the tree? So nobody can come towards us.
Marisha: Yeah.
Sam: What if we fall out?
Marisha: I Druidcraft some spiderweb hammocks.
Laura: Ooh.
Taliesin: Sticky.
Marisha: And, as usual, light some sage.
Matt: Takes about an hour or so, but you manage to pull from the surroundings these really nice, thick spider silk hammocks, that should be able to support your respective weights. Grog is the only one that might be questionable with the sheer amount of weight that is his form.
Travis: I like it.
Marisha: Maybe take a rope and tie it.
Travis: Nope, this is a trust exercise.
Laura: I'm using Hide in Plain Sight to make me and Trinket extra, extra hidey.
Liam: I have a question. The only reason I have this question is because I posted that video from a couple of years ago. Do I still have the unending rope?
Laura: I have the unending rope, motherfucker.
Liam: Why don't we reinforce with the rope?
Laura: Sure, why not.
Travis: You don't like the trust exercise?
Laura: That's where all the rope comes from that we ever use.
Liam: I'm sorry I brought it up. I'd love you to fall on your head.
Laura: Let's reinforce the spiderwebs.
Travis: No, I'm good, thank you.
Marisha: Whoa, Vax. Nice helmet. Don Quixote called.
Liam: Aerodynamic, isn't it?
Marisha: He wants his bowl back.
Sam: Before we slumber, we did a little intel, a little recon.
Laura: Oh, yeah. What's up?
Sam: Turns out the town is full of humans, except for these six vampire giants-- zombie giants.
Marisha: They all appear to be fairly miserable people.
Sam: However, this could be useful. Everyone in the town, the farmers anyway, seem to be gathering produce to deliver to the Briarwoods. We could pose as some sort of farmer troupe with a basket of goodies, and maybe get through the front gate.
Laura: Don't you think they would know all the farmers around at this point? They've been there for a long time.
Marisha: They did reference Sir Kerrion by name. Oh, they referenced Sir Kerrion, Percy.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Sam: We could make ourselves look like some of them. One of us has a hat of disguise.
Marisha: Also, there was something other really important.
Sam: What?
Marisha: The town was pretty much empty.
Sam: Oh, yes, this.
Marisha: And that Sun Tree, that what's-his-name-- Who said that? Jarett?
Matt: Desmond.
Marisha: Desmond. Looks like there were some executions that took place. There were about eight bodies hanging from that tree.
Laura: Why is it called the Sun Tree?
Sam: It's really lovely. I don't know, maybe it gets sun.
Marisha: I don't know. Why do they call it the Sun Tree?
Taliesin: Can I go with this? Unless you have a particular reason to--
Matt: I mean, you can go with-- There are maybe many reasons it's called the Sun Tree.
Laura: There's reasons. Maybe we need to battle them at the Sun Tree.
Taliesin: Legends say that before the castle was built, that the journey into the valley was treacherous and stormy, and the original builders of Whitecastle feared they would die. And this one, great tree stood in the valley, and it was underneath it that they took shelter. And as they began to take shelter, the storm broke. And the storm did not return until the castle was completed.
Sam: That's a lovely story.
Taliesin: We hold our festivals there every year.
Sam: And now it's being used as a--
Taliesin: As a gallow, yes.
Laura: Does it get a lot of sun?
Matt: You do know, and this ties into your story as well, because the guidance in forging the city of Whitestone, that tree was representative to them as a guardian of Pelor, the god of the sun. The protector of light, holiness--
Sam: Who that?
Taliesin: A very serious god.
Travis: That could help.
Laura: That could help us, because vampires hate the sun.
Sam: Why would they make camp in the place where the god of the sun--
Laura: Maybe that's why they're hanging bodies from it, to taint it.
Liam: Maybe that's why it's protected. Maybe--
Sam: Are any of us religious with that god, or--?
Marisha: Can we call Pike through your magic poo?
Laura: Would she be able to hear us?
Taliesin: Tablet of Apple?
Sam: I can at least see what she is up to.
Liam: Keyleth, would you be able to revive the tree?
Laura: (gasps) Bring it back.
Sam: What would that do?
Marisha: Yeah, I can, actually.
Laura: I don't know. Bring up the god of the sun again, I don't know.
Sam: We're not religious people. We can't summon the gods willy-nilly.
Liam: We can please Pelor.
Laura: Don't tell us what we can and can't do, Scanlan.
Sam: I'm sorry. We can do all of those things. Yes, let's go in the middle of the vampire-infested town and do some arbory to try to heal the tree, and then we'll just say, oh, sun god, please rain down sun here.
Laura: I like it. Let's do it.
Sam: That's a great plan.
Travis: Can we at least try cutting down the bodies and running, and seeing what happens?
Sam: We could.
Taliesin: I say, in the morning we take a look at the passage, see how well-guarded it is. And if it looks dangerous, sneak our way into the town. If people are not enthralled, if they are being forced to work, then maybe we can find some allies.
Marisha: Find allies in the town?
Taliesin: I don't think they're happy.
Laura: I think they're terrified. And I don't want to let them know we're here, for fear they'll turn us in, in hopes of saving their own necks.
Marisha: That's what I'm thinking. Yes, they're terrified, but this whole town's being ruled by fear.
Liam: I have a feeling we can revive that tree somehow. It may weaken the Briarwoods' hold on the psyche of the villagers here.
Laura: This is true! It could help out. Let them know the god of the sun is on their side.
Travis: I heard you're supposed to pee on a lemon tree, so.
Laura: Probably you and Scanlan are on that, I have a feeling.
Travis: Can I make a nature check to see if that's true?
Taliesin: I really wanted to ask. What does peeing on a lemon tree have to do with anything?
Matt: Sure.
Travis: 19! That's 17.
Matt: In your experience with the roving band of barbarians, you guys enjoyed very much peeing on very colorful trees, of all sorts of plant life. All of them, generally, didn't seem to, over time, react well to the process, whether it be the fact that you all drank a lot of the time, so the content of your urine was probably not very hospitable.
Liam: It's known as a lemon party. (all laugh)
Matt: That's a whole different kind of festival.
Marisha: You killed Percy.
Laura: You killed Percy.
Taliesin: Thank you for bringing the text chat all the way back around.
Travis: Operation tree rescue.
Matt: The lemon party is held on the far, far southern continent of Tubgirl, the region of Goatse.
Travis: I have an idea. Should we wait until the sun comes up, create a distraction, so all the undead giants come looking, and then we have someone go cut the bodies off the tree, and--
Laura: And bring it back to life!
Travis: -- let Keyleth give it a little love.
Marisha: And then what happens after that?
Travis: I don't know. It's an experiment, all right?
Laura: Then we get the fuck out.
Sam: Won't they know we're here? Won't the people see us doing things?
Marisha: I know. I feel that's the equivalent of putting dish soap in the fountain on prom night.
Laura: No! Didn't you say that all around the Sun Tree nobody's there?
Marisha: Yeah, we did that. What?
Laura: Didn't you say nobody's around the Sun Tree?
Sam: That's true. But we still have to get in.
Laura: We'll fly up and over. You just did the same thing.
Sam: I know, I know.
Laura: Fly up and over, land, bring the tree back to life, get out.
Sam: Are you sure you don't want me to be a carriage driver, and you'll hide in the hay of my carriage and I'll go straight up to the Briarwoods.
Laura: I feel like they know all the townspeople.
Sam: I will put on my hat of disguise, I will be someone completely different.
Travis: They can see through that.
Liam: I'm telling you, they looked right through me.
Laura: When he was invisible!
Liam: Invisible. They saw me.
Laura: They probably saw you!
Sam: So while he was transparent, they saw through him?
Liam: No, but I was heavily stealthed.
Laura: No, you were invisible.
Marisha: Oh, wow!
Matt: No, the invisibility faded when he attacked the guard.
Liam: When I beaned the guard. They should not have been able to see me.
Sam: I'm not talking about getting past the Briarwoods. I'm talking about getting past the guards that guard their castle.
Marisha: Here's another issue. It's going to take me a minute to do the tree.
Laura: How long?
Marisha: It might take a bit.
Laura: How long's a bit?
Marisha: Well, I mean, it's one of those things where the longer I do it the better it'll be. I can do it for up to eight hours.
Travis: Oh, shit.
Marisha: If I do it for up to eight hours, I enrich the land over half a mile radius, centered on a single point, and the land becomes enriched for a solid year.
Laura: I don't want to enrich all of the--
Liam: Question. What time was it when they were doing their little scouting thing they've just told us about? The sun was going down?
Matt: Yeah, they probably would've gotten to Whitestone around seven o'clock, and leaving right as the sun had fully set.
Laura: If we go right when the sun goes up--
Liam: Yes, we get there at sunrise, take those fucking beasts out, and you start at eight AM.
Sam: But then what?
Laura: We just sneak in. Here's the thing. I don't know if you want to get all the crops all fancy, because it'll just feed the Briarwoods. Maybe just do the tree area, which will be like two hours, maybe.
Marisha: Yeah? I think if I have a solid hour or two hours with it.
Sam: Once the tree is healed, we have no one of religious power to summon any god. We don't know anything about this god, none of us do!
Taliesin: I do, in theory, if I'm from--
Matt: Go ahead and roll a religion check.
Taliesin: A which?
Matt: A religion check.
Laura: A witch?
Matt: A witch.
Taliesin: 16.
Matt: 16? Okay. Pelor is the god of the sun and agriculture. It's a good deity and is generally worshipped by farmers and simple folk and people that live off the land, and generally it's the most nature-based deity of the main spectrum, outside of Melora, which is the deity of nature.
Marisha: Oh. Well, dope! Would I know stuff like that too, then?
Matt: You know of Pelor, yeah. There are elements of Pelor's following that bleeds into your druidic nature, though you don't necessarily follow a deity.
Marisha: Right. We're free.
Matt: You believe that the essence of nature in itself is your patron.
Marisha: Totally.
Matt: You are not a religious man by nature, and you know that there is a strong following of Pelor in the town. The entire graveyard that you talked about earlier, that one is largely built around the imagery of Pelor. And of all the gods that are worshipped here, Pelor's probably 75% of the population of Whitestone where, in some shape or form, if not devout worshippers, at least were like, yeah, Pelor's cool.
Marisha: Here's my question. I feel Pike's energy tonight. Maybe, while I'm meditating, I can somehow reach out to her, and maybe ask her to get in touch with Sarenrae, and maybe Sarenrae can call up her homeboy Pelor.
Laura: Do you think that works?
Marisha: I don't know.
Travis: This is like phone a friend?
Marisha: We're not organized religion people, we Ashari.
Liam: The tree is called the Sun Tree. It's Pelor's tree. I'm not a cleric of Sarenrae, but these shitbags could not have set up camp in a temple of Sarenrae because there is too much goodness there, as there was around this tree in this town, and it's why it is dead. It's why it's being surrounded by a bunch of giant undead things, as you described. You need faith, Scanlan Shorthalt.
Sam: Me? I am the antithesis of faith.
Liam: Then you need to shut up and let us fix that tree.
Sam: And then what?
Travis: Who knows?
Sam: We're going to fight off a million monsters to heal a tree, and then we're going to say, "Okay. Bring out the sun," or something.
Marisha: Hang on! What did you just say?
Taliesin: What?
Marisha: That thing you just said that no one heard because we were all shouting and arguing? Rally the townsfolk?
Taliesin: Rally the townsfolk. This is something I think-- I don't think that sneaking in is necessarily the answer. I'm not saying go in, guns blazing, but I say we let them know--
Marisha: You want to build a militia?
Taliesin: I want to build a rebellion.
Laura: I like it. They would recognize you, wouldn't they, Percy?
Taliesin: I have a plan.
Travis: You have a plan?
Sam: Does it involve healing the tree?
Taliesin: It does.
Liam: I don't think there is any sneaking in, thanks to those birds, so we make a stand out here.
Travis: Tell us your plan.
Taliesin: My plan is, we do our best to sneak in, we find cover. Obviously, you said there's abandoned buildings. We find cover. We heal the tree. I have some other ideas. We take those zombie giants out one by one, quietly.
Sam: We're going to be insurgents?
Travis: Shh! Let him finish the plan!
Sam: I kind of love this.
Taliesin: Okay.
Marisha: It's like Attack on Titan. That's cool!
Taliesin: Let's start finding our friends, and we start making friends. We let them know we're back.
Laura: I like it.
Marisha: I like having the people. It feels less like we're the United States.
Travis: Okay, where do we start?
Taliesin: I have some parchment. I have the thing I want to build, while I'm in the tree. It's very simple, and I want to show you what it is.
Matt: What is it?
Taliesin: I want to take some gunpowder and basically--
Sam: Make a pipe bomb.
Taliesin: Basically attach it to a piece of parchment. I want to wet it into a piece of parchment and let it dry so that when I set fire to that piece of parchment, I get a burn scar. I'd like to create a burn scar.
Laura: (gasps)
Matt: Yeah, that's totally doable.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Matt: Go ahead and roll a tinkering check, just for the sake of a possible epic failure.
Marisha: A burn on yourself?
Taliesin: No, it'll scar anything. It just creates a very high heat.
Sam: Like a mark?
Marisha: Like a brand.
Sam: Like our mark.
Taliesin: Like a mark.
Sam: Like our mark.
Taliesin: Not our mark.
Sam: The resistance.
Taliesin: The resistance.
Sam: I need a beret. (all laugh)
Taliesin: I rolled a 23.
Matt: While the rest of you end up taking your evening's rest, Grog, you immediately snap your hammock and fall 15 feet to the ground.
Travis: (pained groan)
Matt: But you manage to make your way up there and just bear hug the tree trunk for rest. You're used to sleeping in uncomfortable situations.
Liam: I throw five or six pine cones at his head.
Matt: Over time, or at once?
Liam: At once.
Travis: Fucking gravity.
Matt: You manage to complete three pieces of parchment, roughly page-sized, with your black powder treatment, successfully. The mist rolls in and gets thicker and thicker, to the point where you cannot see the floor of the forest. The little bit of moonlight that manages to make its way through the boughs of the trees trickles through and then vanishes into these slowly-shifting bits of fog. Your breath, every time you exhale, is visible, as the cold night air begins to take. You find yourselves instinctively shivering, as you cannot grow close to each other for heat, nor build a fire. The night, while uncomfortable, you do manage to get an evening's bit of mostly uncomfortable rest, but rest nonetheless. Eventually coming to as the morning sun comes up and heats it up, the fog begins to fade away and burn away. You're at about an hour past sunrise as you all unrestfully come to consciousness as the temperature shift hits. You manage to relieve yourselves of your spider silk-based hammocks and/or tree grasping. Both you and Trinket have found this way of clutching onto the tree. Trinket's used to the wild.
Travis: This is, like, sunup, right?
Matt: It's about seven, 7 30 in the morning.
Sam: Can I do a quick scry back to the poo jar that I left back in our kitchen?
Matt: Certainly.
Sam: Just to make sure that our home base is okay.
Matt: You take a moment and concentrate on the kitchen. At this point in time, you can see early morning. Laina is currently in there, yawning, and is cleaning about and starting to make a small breakfast for all the guards. You can hear in the distance, some conversation in the distant room. It appears to be a couple of your various employed mercenaries having a conversation as she's making breakfast.
Sam: So they're fine.
Matt: They seem fine.
Sam: So I knock that one off, and I'll try for Pike.
Matt: Okay. Concentrating on Pike-- about two minutes of hard concentration. There's no connection.
Sam: They wiped my poo away.
Matt: You gather, due to the relatively fresh and unstable nature of this potion you had concocted, you can only have one source connection up at a time, so when you left it in your keep, it seems that the one you had at the temple of Sarenrae was alleviated of its magical presence. What was once a magical scry poo is literally just Scan-scat at the temple.
Sam: Which some could argue is magical in its own right.
Matt: Sure enough. With a high enough persuasion roll.
Laura: Teacher. Teacher.
Taliesin: Does it change color when it loses its power?
Matt: You don't know.
Taliesin: Damn it! I want to know.
Sam: Only one way to find out.
Taliesin: God damn it.
Matt: Ask Pike when you see her again. (laughs)
Taliesin: Your poo power may come in very handy. This is good to know.
Travis: Let's go find an abandoned building and set up.
Liam: Could we throw in a Scanlan grenade and be able to see through it?
Sam: Sure.
Taliesin: A scat grenade.
Liam: A scat grenade.
Sam: Sure.
Liam: Scatlan.
Marisha: Scatlan!
Taliesin: Scatlan!
Sam: I could get in, shit in their bedroom, and leave.
Liam: You shit in your hand, and you toss it.
Sam: Oh, yeah. That, too! Pull the pin. (all laugh)
Laura: Yeah. Remember that. That's awesome.
Travis: This is what happens.
Laura: You could fly overhead with Keyleth.
Sam: Yes?
Laura: Drop it like a bomb!
Sam: And then we'd have eyes in there.
Laura: I like it.
Sam: I like this a lot. Give me something to eat.
Marisha: What?
Sam: I need some fuel.
Travis: Holy crap.
Laura: I have a sweet potato right here, Scanlan.
Sam: Sweet potato? That's good, yes. Some prunes?
Marisha: Yeah, something hearty.
Liam: All right. We're off the rails.
Travis: Step one of this.
Matt: So, you make your way down into the forest. About another hour and a half of travel before you start getting to where the trees begin to clear up a little bit, and you can see the base of the cleared-off mountain that Whitestone Castle is built upon, and the pathway that descends into the outer wall of the city of Whitestone.
Laura: How far of a travel is it down into the city?
Matt: It's maybe a quarter mile.
Laura: So we can do that a little amount of time.
Matt: Space-relation-wise, you guys are just getting to this side of the forest right there. Right there, and this is the mountain.
Laura: So if we're going to try stealth this shit in--
Travis: Do we take the stealthy one or the invisible one?
Sam: Wait.
Marisha: Wait. Wait. Which plan are we doing first?
Travis: First part is getting an abandoned building.
Laura: So that we can be near the tree to protect you.
Sam: So that we can be townspeople.
Marisha: Okay.
Sam: Right?
Taliesin: So you can get a beret.
Travis: Abandoned building, part one.
Sam: We're setting up shop.
Laura: Get into the town.
Travis: So who goes and finds the abandoned building?
Sam: Percy is known here.
Taliesin: Which is why I'm going to be wearing-- I haven't been seen in years, and when I was seen, I was much younger, and honestly--
Marisha: Yes, but the Briarwoods knew who you were.
Taliesin: I had different hair. Yes, they do.
Marisha: The Briarwoods recognized you instantly.
Taliesin: They did, which was disorienting.
Sam: But they're not on sentry duty.
Travis: We need a forward operating base, so who wants to be stealthy or invisible and find an empty building?
Liam: Question  for the Assassin path of rogue, at 9th level, if I have seven days, which is way too much time, I can impersonate anyone I want. In half a day, could I just be a dirty nobody?
Matt: Yeah. You'd be able to disguise yourself.
Sam: We also have the hat.
Matt: The disguise kit?
Sam: His hat of disguise. Percy knows this town. Perhaps Percy should wear the hat.
Travis: Does it require attunement?
Sam: Just a few minutes, I think.
Taliesin: I already have the hat.
Sam: Yes, you had it from the dinner party.
Taliesin: I've been trying to think of what sorts of buildings would be the most defensible and the least likely to arouse suspicion. Things with basements?
Matt: A lot of the houses have basements. There are varying degrees of it. There are larger homesteads that were reserved for the actual nobles that ran the day-to-day life of Whitestone when your family was in power. As you heard from Desmond, probably the places where the new nobles live. Those are the ones that have the gates surrounding them: the larger homesteads scattered throughout the town.
Taliesin: That's too obvious.
Matt: It's far too obvious. There are many small abodes and even some farm-based hovels. The poor end of town is the farming side, which is the southwest, which is the closest area to where you guys made your stop earlier.
Taliesin: I would almost say a shopping district. If there's an abandoned storefront.
Matt: The shopping district is the center of town around the town square.
Laura: Around the Sun Tree?
Matt: Yeah. Right there.
Taliesin: Might be too close.
Sam: Before we go marching in there, finding an abode to live in is not going to be too difficult. We'll need food.
Laura: Are we living in there?!
Sam: Yes.
Taliesin: We're not going to be there for long.
Travis: We have dried food rations.
Taliesin: We have food rations. We have options.
Laura: We've got food for days.
Sam: We might be there for days and days.
Laura: We've got food for days.
Travis: We've got dried food rations.
Sam: We also have to go around town and, forgive me if I'm going too far with your plan here, but aren't we trying to win allies among the people?
Taliesin: I have a plan.
Sam: But we'll need to communicate with them. How?
Laura: He has a plan.
Travis: He has a plan.
Sam: (sighs) All right.
Travis: Come on. Drop your pants and get with the plan.
Marisha: What time is it? Have we gone to sleep, or are we waking up?
Matt: You guys are awake. After this discussion, I'd say it's about 8:00 in the morning. 8:30.
Taliesin: Let's make our way in.
Liam: This is the time.
Laura: We should stealth in.
Marisha: Are we doing the tree thing right now?
Matt: Actually, your travel to the city and you're on the outskirts of it now. It would be closer to 9:30.
Marisha: Okay.
Laura: Yeah. We try to get in.
Taliesin: We find a place to at least set up our operation.
Marisha: Well, that's what I was going to say. Do we want to find operations, try and recoup--
Liam: We don't really know what we're going to find this morning. Those big guys could still be there; we don't know.
Taliesin: We don't.
Liam: We don't know if there are people in the pocket of the Briarwoods here.
Travis: It's like 12% of a plan.
Marisha: If we take a day to get in and get settled, I can do a Heroes' Feast and then I start crack of dawn in the morning?
Liam: I think that's a good idea.
Taliesin: Let's get in and set up.
Liam: Hole up. Let's find a place.
Marisha: All right.
Sam: Wait, we're just going to walk into the city?
Taliesin: No, we're going to stealth into the city.
Sam: Okay.
Laura: We're going to cast Pass Without a Trace on everybody.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Beard check?
Travis: That was an eight.
Matt: Stealth?
Travis: Beard check.
Matt: Oh. (laughs) Your beard is pretty much at the fullest it'll ever be. You gather you can probably get a little more thickness to it, but your beard is at maximum, Grog. The fact that you even have a goliath with a beard is a feat of magic in its own right.
Travis: Amazing.
Liam: You would be a freak.
Travis: Is it like that Vidal Sassoon commercial? Whip it.
Marisha: That's dope.
Taliesin: Isn't that dope?
Sam: Grog, I've heard that no one in this town wears a beard.
Laura: Oh, natural 20 on stealth!
Travis: You can forget it. I won't go in.
Matt: So you guys are traveling as a group. I need stealth checks from everybody.
Taliesin: Do we have Pass Without a Trace?
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: Can we each take a little bit of time to look more like commoners?
Taliesin: I'm wearing my hat, too.
Travis: Look like commoners?
Sam: I rub dirt all over my face.
Travis: Shit, I'm a goliath.
Laura: Plus, we have a bear.
Sam: You should try to look less handsome.
Marisha: Yeah, we do look like quite the motley crew.
Liam: I'm wearing a natural 20.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: Did you roll a natural 20, as well?
Liam: I did.
Matt: Both of you guys rolled natural 20s in stealth?
Liam: Had a little help with Luck, but I got it.
Matt: There you go.
Taliesin: That's really good, because I rolled a one.
Laura: Oh no.
Sam: We've got Pass Without a Trace, so 28.
Taliesin: 11.
Marisha: Still a failure.
Travis: Are we all going together? Are we not sending one person in to go find an empty building?
Sam: We're all going together.
Matt: You guys are all going together. You dirty yourselves up a bit. You're still a large goliath. You're still a few half-elves, a gnome.
Laura: There's still a bear.
Matt: Outside of illusion magic, you're still going to stick out like a sore thumb.
Laura: Could we cast illusion magic? Do we have it?
Sam: What's illusion magic?
Liam: I'm walking 50 feet in front of everybody else.
Laura: Seeming! To make Grog and Trinket look like commoners.
Liam: I'm 50 feet in front of everyone else.
Laura: Yeah, do that!
Marisha: Oh, yeah! Seeming us?
Sam: Sure. All right. I will cast Seeming on us.
Matt: This is a legit use of Seeming, too. Okay.
Sam: We'll all look like dirty--
Marisha: As opposed to the cows? Come on.
Sam: -- dirty, ragged peasants.
Matt: Trinket, as well?
Laura: Yes.
Taliesin: Trinket looks like a donkey.
Laura: No, he'll just be a really drunk peasant.
Marisha: A donkey. A mule.
Sam: Can I just say this? Can we just leave Trinket behind--
Laura: No!
Sam: I don't want to walk in there with a bear!
Laura: He'll look like a fucking donkey, or he'll look like another commoner.
Sam: I think I can only make us all look the same.
Laura: Then he'll look like a fucking commoner.
Matt: Of similar size. I believe, as far as Seeming is concerned-- If not, then I'll allow it for the purposes of this.
Laura: He'll look like a commoner--
Marisha: A Clydesdale!
Laura: -- a weird commoner.
Travis: Leave the bear.
Taliesin: A milk cow!
Laura: I'm not leaving a fucking bear on the outside of town where there's hounds around, and there's fucking vampires and birds flying around, fuck you!
Sam: Oh, wait, no! You can give each target a new appearance.
Matt: Yep!
Sam: So I can make everyone look a little different.
Matt: Each creature can seem a foot shorter or taller, or appear thin, fat, or in between.
Marisha: Make him look like a milk cow.
Matt: You can't change their body type. So, Trinket will still be a four-legged creature, but you can make him look like a different four-legged creature.
Laura: There you go!
Sam: Okay. He's a milk cow.
Liam: Real talk, real talk, Scanlan. My sister will cut you.
Travis: Or do you want him to be a donkey, something we can move. Milk cows are slow.
Liam: Bring the bear.
Taliesin: Donkeys can move more quickly. This is true.
Sam: All right. Donkey.
Laura: All right.
Sam: He's an ass.
Matt: All right, so Trinket takes on the form of a donkey.
Laura: (laughs) So are you darling, so are you.
Travis: Just like her owner.
Matt: The rest of you are a smattering of various humanoids, you--
Laura: (fake coughing)
Sam: I make myself look like a weird hunchback, sort of, not all there.
Matt: Okay, so you guys look like pretty rough peasants, dirty faces. You know, hair a little razzled. It looks like you've been living the harsh life on the outskirts of the slums of Whitestone for quite some time--
Travis: I wanted to be a model.
Matt: -- with a donkey.
Taliesin: (goat bleat)
Matt: So. You guys, utilizing your stealth checks and the Seeming, you make your way up to the-- which side of Whitestone are you coming in from?
Taliesin: Thank you for the double 20.
Matt: Percy?
Laura: Where are we coming up?
Taliesin: Coming in from the west.
Matt: Okay, so you come into this entrance here. You make your way into the center of town, blending in best you can. There are a few folks who see you enter, just give you a strange look. You all are unfamiliar to the denizens of Whitestone--
Travis: Oh shit.
Matt: -- but you don't look like a threat, per se. So you are noticed, and some people seem to just stop and watch you pass, but no one seems to make any active mention, note, or change in behavior towards it.
Travis: Are we checking buildings while we're walking through?
Laura: I have passive perception of 21; I'm always looking.
Liam: I walk over to just one random person on the street and say, anyone hiring hands? On farms?
Laura: Our farm burned down!
Matt: (laughs) Make a deception roll. I'll give you advantage on it because the Seeming does give you the visual perspective of being close to their type.
Liam: That is a four-- No, hold on--
Laura: No, no, no.
Liam: I'm gonna use Luck, that's the Luck.
Travis: Was the first number gonna be a 40?
Liam: No, it's not 40. So it's 14.
Matt: Okay. That's two Luck rolls, by the way, that you've spent.
Liam: Yeah, I know.
Matt: The woman you approach who's probably in her early 30s, pale blonde hair, looks like she actually might be losing it in some places, gives you a look and goes, "You poor people shouldn't be here."
Liam: We just need some work.
Matt: "You'll find it, but you're not going anywhere else. Welcome to Whitestone." She turns around and walks back, joining arms with apparently a man that she's paired with, and the two of them just walk away, a bit dumbfounded that people walked into Whitestone. As this happens, you glance over your shoulder and you see coming from the northern edge from this side wall-- (sounds of booming footsteps)
Laura: Oh, we should avoid that shit!
Matt: A very tall, noticeably undead giant with its jaw broken off and hanging from the hinge, dried, caked blood across its chest, it's just dragging this large club behind it.
Liam: Where are we? What are our surroundings right now?
Matt: You right now, you're in a T. To the right and left are roads that go along the inside of the wall that surrounds Whitestone, to the front of you is the path that leads further into the city.
Laura: Let's go into the city!
Travis: We casually begin--
Taliesin: I wanna head through the city, possibly in the direction of the cemetery.
Matt: Cemetery's over here.
Taliesin: Yeah, I wanna head in that direction.
Matt: All right. So you guys make your way through--
Laura: Keeping an eye out for, you know, buildings that look clustered and abandoned that we can hide in.
Taliesin: What's changed?
Matt: What you've noticed has changed is, one largely, the population is far more sparse than you recall. What was once a bustling city, you're now seeing about half as many people as you would would see this time of day. Going through, everyone seems to be in relatively poor health. There are a few buildings that look long-term abandoned, immediately in this area here, in the outskirts, catches your guys' eye. You do notice that the corner lamps that you had set up at the different corners of the streets appear to be shattered.
Travis: Interesting.
Matt: There would be like, you know, glass oil lanterns that at night someone would go around and light them after the sunset. The posts that hold them now are all either broken, or the glass itself has been shattered.
Marisha: They want it to be really dark.
Taliesin: They want it to be really dark. I'm also thinking about that cemetery.
Sam: We're not gonna live in a cemetery, that's super creepy.
Marisha: As opposed to all of the other things we've done?
Taliesin: Everything here is super creepy.
Laura: Is there any other abandoned buildings around?
Marisha: As opposed to sleeping in the Underdark?
Matt: There are plenty of buildings that look dark and mostly untouched in this section here, as you begin to move closer and closer inward.
Taliesin: Let's get east of the center square and set up camp.
Laura: Okay. Where's the castle? Is it on the top of the--
Travis: It's north.
Laura: Oh, it's that thingy? Okay.
Sam: We're trying to shoot for here?
Matt: Okay. You guys move this way, as you push towards the center of this here. You--
Sam: You speak Giant, Grog?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: You move past the center here and to the left of you, you can see the town square and there it is, the Sun Tree. Very, very large, you imagine beautiful tree at one time, full height was probably about 40 feet tall. The branches twist out, and almost look like they're hanging loosely, the ends, everything looks droopy and desolate; there's not a leaf on it.
Marisha: Can I do some sort of a check from a distance to see if I can recognize what kind of tree it is?
Matt: Make a nature check.
Marisha: 18.
Matt: Okay. It's hard to tell from this distance, there are a number of types of trees it could be. It's not indigenous to this land. The fact that it grew here means that either it was transplanted, or it was some sort of--
Marisha: Magical grower.
Laura: (sings) Divine Intervention!
Matt: -- magical creation for its presence.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: And you do see the silhouette of the eight figures slowly swaying from beneath the branches.
Travis: We continue on. Don't pay too much attention to it. Find a place to post up.
Marisha: Right. Don't get emotional.
Laura: If you, if you do your nature-y spell from inside a building, does it still do the same thing or do you have to be next to the tree while you're doing it?
Travis: That's a large radius, right?
Marisha: So the way the spell works, I can do it one of two ways. I can do it instantaneously, essentially grow up a whole bunch of plants and brush and shrubbery around me, or I can wait and I can concentrate for a while and instill a plant with vibrant--
Laura: Okay.
Marisha: -- life energy and heal the farmlands and it would stretch out for a really far radius.
Laura: Let's keep moving.
Marisha: I'm gonna probably wanna do more the second one.
Laura: Okay.
Travis: Do it from inside a house.
Matt: Did you guys want keep moving down this path, to go through the square, closer to the tree, do you want to go southward?
Marisha: I don't know, it's a central point.
Laura: We avoid the tree a little bit and just keep going straight.
Matt: Okay, so you're going this way.
Laura: Yeah?
Liam: There's a larger building, isn't there? I can't see--
Taliesin: Actually, I would say let's get a good look at the tree, let's walk by it.
Sam: Oh, we're gonna walk by the tree?
Marisha: Look like it's no big deal.
Travis: I know.
Matt: You guys turn left, and you make your way towards the town square. And as you enter the square, looking around, you can see there are what would have been carts and small booths set up for selling of meats and other goods, what was a small, you know, barter-and-sale based hub of this town-- nowhere near on the scale of Emon's bazaar, but you know, enough to support this town-- desolate. All look to be closed down and untouched for quite some time. As you get a closer look to the-- actually I'm gonna have you guys all roll perception checks. You're not getting too close to the tree.
Travis: Five.
Sam: Nine.
Liam: 26.
Laura: 19. No, that's a-- yeah, 19.
Marisha: 14.
Taliesin: 23.
Matt: As you guys are keeping on the outskirts of the square, it's hard to make out the details, and the weathering has muddled the figures that are hanging there. Percy and Vax, you guys notice the figure on the far left--
Liam: The body.
Matt: The body on the far left has red paint smattered across its face and its arms. It's wearing a dirtied, green, vest-like robe that dangles below it as it hangs there, loosely. Immediately to the left of it you see what looks to be the body of a child. The child is dressed up in a purplish, billowing shirt, very fine silk shirt and pantaloons, and is dangling there next to it. To the left of that you see what appears to be a female, adorned in greens and browns, looks like red paint has been driven through the hair, and dangles to the left of that figure. Next to that, you see what appears to be--
Taliesin: I am walking the fuck away.
Matt: -- you see what appears to be another woman, dressed in dark blacks and browns, leathers, some furs across the top, dark hair, dangling. To the left of that you see another man dressed similarly, dark greys and blacks, long dark hair, dangling. To the left of that you see a rather large man, older, rotund, probably in his forties, clothing padded but mostly open chest, hair completely shaven bald, it looks like there are dark scars placed across the face, hanging. To the left of that you see, this figure is actually not humanoid, you see what appears to have been--
Marisha: Oh my god.
Matt: -- a recently hunted bear, who is dangling.
Marisha: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
Sam: Wait, what? Is that us?
Marisha: It looks like us.
Travis: What?
Marisha: It's us!
Sam: They killed people they thought were us, or they killed--
Liam: Or it's a message.
Sam: Or it's a message to us.
Marisha: Do they look like us or were they just dressed like us? Are they made to look like us?
Matt: Do you want to get closer and look?
Marisha: Yeah.
Taliesin: I'm a little curious--
Travis: Do you want to get closer and look? Are you sure--
Taliesin: Is there anything around the tree other than us?
Travis: They're probably watching the tree.
Taliesin: Is there something at the base of the tree, is there anything?
Matt: From what you can see now, nothing but just rocks and stones and piles of loose cloth rotting below it. Approaching, it looks like each one of these bodies has been dressed up. It looks like the color in the redhead's hair has been smeared through with paint. It looks like the person who has been painted red has been slapdash. You gather with a moment of looking at it that these were not individuals that were caught this way. This was set up as a message.
Laura: (whispers) My god.
Sam: Oh shit.
Laura: Keep walking, keep your head down and keep walking.
Marisha: Oh, my god.
Travis: I don't think they're here.
Marisha: Oh, my god.
Travis: I don't think they're here.
Sam: You mean in town? Of course they are!
Travis: No, remember they have to, like, be where the soil they came from is?
Laura: No, they have, like hideouts, they don't have to be where the soil they came from is.
Travis: I don't think they're here.
Sam: Holy shit.
Liam: They're in their keep, buried deep.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: You guys continue past, down this pathway. There's other buildings you see in the vicinity that, you know, look abandoned or for the most part unoccupied. I'd say about one in every three buildings looks like it's in disuse.
Liam: Did we see this big building right here as we walked by? Yeah, that big one.
Matt: You guys came-- made this path-- you can see a little bit, you can see is a--
Taliesin: I should know what it is, anyway.
Matt: -- iron fence, it used to belong to one of the noble families of Whitestone. Each one of these large buildings here, these three, and you remember this, were the three families that ran the town.
Taliesin: We can't go anywhere near those buildings. We have to stay as far away as humanly possible.
Marisha: Question. You said there were eight bodies?
Matt: Eight bodies.
Marisha: Is there one that looks like a gnome cleric and one that looks like a dragonborn sorcerer?
Laura: That was the first one.
Matt: The one's painted all red--
Travis: The one's painted all red--
Laura: There wasn't a gnome cleric one there.
Matt: No. There was a bear.
Liam: There was no cleric when we faced them before. All of us who stood against them in Emon.
Travis: We're all there.
Sam: Body of my guy. Is he sort of handsome?
Marisha: But, it does mean that it was because of when they saw us in Emon--
Matt: Think of an eight-year-old child.
Laura: It was a kid, yo.
Sam: Oh, it was a child? Oh, god.
Marisha: -- because Tiberius wasn't here with the crows.
Travis: No, it was because of Emon.
Marisha: It was because of Emon.
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: So, can we get like a vague idea of how long these people look like they might have been here?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Marisha: (whispers) Fuck, I'm not good at this shit.
Taliesin: Can I help?
Matt: Sure. It would be advantage on that check for you.
Marisha: Oh, that, you know, that wasn't bad. Woo!
Taliesin: Oh! Never mind.
Marisha: I'll take that 19, 21?
Matt: 21? You gather these bodies have probably been here for the better part of a week, week and a half? There is some mild decomposition starting to settle in, there is a bit of bloating to some of them. Couldn't have been much longer than that.
Sam: A week? That's before we set out.
Marisha: Why would they put a warning for us here in the city?
Sam: They assumed we would come, but they don't know that we're here.
Taliesin: They invited us.
Liam: Those birds might have told them we were here.
Sam: This was a week ago, this was before we were even close.
Travis: Let's stick with the plan.
Taliesin: Sticking with the plan.
Sam: Let's go find a building.
Taliesin: Going to go find something that's a decent distance away from the three noble households, that has a reasonable view of the tree.
Travis: Yeah, 150 feet from the tree.
Matt: That would probably be somewhere in this vicinity here, as the three main houses are right there.
Taliesin: Something with a second-floor view, but with some distance.
Travis: Preferably three bedroom, three bath.
Matt: (laughs) I'd say make an investigation check.
Taliesin: Meh. Six.
Laura: Can I look out too, I've been on the lookout for a building the whole time!
Matt: Yeah. I'll say, I'll say it takes the better part of the next hour or so, and you do a little bit of meandering to find it, you guys are being stealthy best you can through alleys and such, but even so you are out in the open, midday, but you are also, you know, under Seeming.
Marisha: Does it look like there's a covering nearby, roughly, 30 feet or so from the tree?
Laura: 30 feet?!
Sam: 30 feet?
Matt: No.
Sam: What about 150?
Matt: No, the tree is out in the center, and essentially the nearest building is probably anywhere from 100, 200 feet away from it. It's the tree out in the middle of the square, and the square, which used to have probably more things towards the center, more temporary establishments, have all been put to the sides and put to disuse.
Sam: Maybe underground stuff.
Matt: You do manage to see what appear to be what was once a tavern or an inn of some kind that is silent, closed, the doors locked and chained. The windows look dusty.
Laura: Can we sneak in the windows, so it keeps chained?
Matt: Okay. You go around the side of it, to the alley.
Taliesin: Dust of tracelessness.
Laura: Yeah, Dust of tracelessness.
Sam: Are you guys going in?
Liam: Yeah.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Laura: Yeah.
Taliesin: This is where we're going to hole up.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: I kind of want to talk to the tree.
Laura: Then go talk to the tree, Keyleth.
Matt: The window is locked.
Sam: Wait, not now. Not now.
Travis: No, no, no, no, no, not yet.
Sam: Let's find a place first.
Travis: Let's post up first.
Liam: What am I, stealthing right now, or checking for--
Matt: Continuing your guys' stealth as your going, this would be your attempting to unlock the window.
Liam: Oh, unlock, okay. So that's a 22.
Matt: 22, okay. It takes a bit to jostle it in a way, because the lock is on the inside, but there are ways that you could shimmy the glass and get something underneath to push it aside. You manage to get the window open, and as you pull it up the dust billows up around you, you set it aside. You step in and the place smells stale, musty. Dark. There are, you can see, candlesticks set around that have not been lit for a while, and the oil lanterns that normally light the interior of the main tavern social area have been long in disuse.
Laura: Is there a cellar here?
Matt: If you guys want to look around. Are you all going in?
Taliesin: Yeah, we're all going in.
Travis: Yeah, we're all going in.
Matt: You as well? Or are you talking to the tree?
Sam: Yes.
Travis: Come inside.
Marisha: Does anyone want to come talk to a tree with me?
Taliesin: Not yet.
Laura: Not yet, not just yet.
Travis: Don't bring that-- don't mess with that thing.
Liam: Yeah, come with us. Keyleth, come with us.
Marisha: All right, all right.
Travis: Once we do it, it's like ringing a dinner bell.
Marisha: All right, all right, all right, I'm coming, I'm coming.
Sam: I'm gonna look for a brothel! (all laugh)
Taliesin: That's going to be the saddest brothel.
Marisha: The saddest brothel!
Matt: You find your way inside the abandoned tavern. And it is what was this giant L-shaped building, right here in the corner of the town square. There is a second floor, approximately runs 20 rooms. They are all currently unlocked, some of them left open, the bedding covered in dust, some of it looks like it was left in a hurry.
Travis: Yeah, we'll take it.
Matt: There is a cellar.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: You find the cellar, and down there, there are a number of empty barrels, and a couple of ones that are still full.
Sam: Ooh!
Matt: One that appears to be a heavy whiskey barrel, probably about twenty untouched wine bottles. A little bit of ale, but it looks like a lot of ale was either completely used, or taken with whoever left and abandoned the premises.
Laura: I think we can definitely use these for explosions, if we need them.
Marisha: Ooh!
Sam: Or to drink.
Taliesin: Muscle relaxers. Is there a view of the tree?
Matt: Going from a number of the rooms up top, not every room has a window, but it's like every third room on that side of the building does have a view of the entire square.
Marisha: Can I get an eye as to how far away it is?
Matt: I'd say probably about 200 feet? 250 feet?
Laura: Can you go invisible and still talk to the tree?
Marisha: Hmm?
Sam: I can make her invisible if she can talk to the tree.
Laura: Can you talk to the tree if you're invisible?
Matt: If you cast a spell while invisible, unless it's Greater Invisibility, then it will drop the illusion.
Sam: I can make her invisible.
Marisha: I got an idea.
Sam: We can burrow under, we can--
Laura: Yeah.
Sam: -- find something closer.
Marisha: Actually, what are we up to right now? Are we doing anything? Are we busy?
Sam: Well, there are windows on the first floor, right?
Matt: There are some windows in the tavern; there was one on the second floor.
Laura: We're in the cellar, that's why I went to the cellar.
Marisha: Oh, there's a cellar?
Sam: I'm gonna just find some old rags, or anything I can find, tablecloths, and just cover the windows.
Laura: But make it not obvious, because it doesn't want to look like we covered the windows.
Sam: True.
Liam: I've watched you pass through solid stone and earth. How long can you do that for?
Marisha: I mean, I can burrow us a tunnel right now.
Laura: Do it!
Liam: Can you get us close to underneath the tree?
Laura: That's what she's going to do.
Marisha: I'm going to do it right now. I'm going to cast Move Earth.
Laura: From the cellar.
Matt: You're going to start carving a tunnel--
Marisha: To the direction of the tree. And I want to be careful, I don't want to damage the roots of the tree at all. So, as I start getting closer, I want to start looking for the roots of the tree.
Matt: Okay. Easy enough to find old rags; all of them have that stale, musty towel scent to them. You get them a little wet. There's no water here; all the water here has dried out.
Sam: We use the wine.
Matt: You'll have to use the wine; it'll probably kill some of the bacteria. There are wells throughout the towns you see, ground wells that are set in the city. There is no nearby river. The closest river, the one you know about, is about a 30 minute walk south.
Taliesin: It's a bit of a ways.
Matt: Yeah. You use that to coax them out a bit. It's easy enough for you to go around and put cloth over the windows. It's a dark interior, so it's not like an immediate--
Taliesin: Just so light doesn't leak out.
Liam: But, just in case, I think I'll hang back. I'm not going down to the pre-made tunnel, I'll just keep an eye above ground.
Travis: I am, too, I'm staying up in the tavern.
Laura: I'm going with you to the tunnel.
Taliesin: I'm going to tinker a little thing. Can I borrow an arrow?
Laura: Yes.
Taliesin: Thank you. I'm going to tinker a very little, easy thing.
Travis: You want the top floor, I'll take the bottom floor.
Taliesin: I want to be able to fire and ignite one of the parchments on an arrow. So that I can--
Laura: Do you want me to shoot the arrow for you?
Taliesin: -- set a burn mark at a distance.
Matt: Interesting. Okay.
Taliesin: It would be a spark, as opposed to actual flame. It would just be concussive force.
Matt: Right, it's more getting the parchment there without it tearing or the arrow leaving it behind, because it is a thin, flimsy piece.
Taliesin: It would be coiled.
Matt: Coiled and then--
Taliesin: Hit, release.
Matt: That's going to be a really intricate-- go ahead and roll a tinkerer's check.
Liam: 20, 20, 20.
Taliesin: 16.
Matt: Okay. You toy with it for a while; you think you have something that may work. You're uncertain as to on its release if it'll function or not. So, write down 'Parchment Delivery Arrow' with a question mark next to it.
Sam: Maybe there's a simpler way.
Taliesin: There might be, but just in case there's not, I want to make sure this works.
Marisha: You could always slap it up there and shoot it with a flame arrow.
Taliesin: I've got three of them, so I've got options. But I just want to make sure--
Marisha: How's my burrowing going? 200 feet.
Matt: All right. You continue to burrow through the ground, moving the earth aside and the tunnel opens before you like the clay slowly melting away. And it is wet earth. Eventually, you start getting to a few thick roots under the tree.
Laura: Can you talk to it from here, Keyleth?
Matt: The roots that you see, they continue past the tunnel. They go very, very deep into the ground.
Marisha: Awesome. I'm going to clear out a little more area, and I'm going to touch the roots and cast Speak with Plants.
Travis: Holy shit.
Sam: Speak with Plants?
Liam: Haroom haroom.
Taliesin: The only superpower more pathetic than Aquaman's.
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: Shut up.
Taliesin: Sorry, had to.
Laura: (kid's voice) Gee wiz, I wish I had some water.
Marisha: (kid's voice) The sun is so bright today!
Laura: Too bad we don't have Tiberius with us with his endless water fucking pitcher.
Liam: It's Ent voice. Haroom haroom!
Taliesin: Hi, Aquaman.
Laura: Sure, sure, sure.
Taliesin: Hi, Aquaman.
Sam: I can go to one of the wells and get some water.
Taliesin: Hi, Aquaman.
Marisha: Hey, he's cool sometimes.
Taliesin: Hi, Aquaman.
Marisha: Sometimes.
Taliesin: It's what fish say. Hi, Aquaman.
Marisha: That's what fish say.
Liam: That's all they say.
Taliesin: Hi, Aquaman.
Matt: You finish the spell and you reach out and you touch the root and you instill the force of your nature-based divine energies into the root. Silence.
Sam: Oh no.
Matt: This tree is dead.
Travis: No!
Sam: Dead?!
Laura: You can bring it back!
Marisha: I can bring it back. Should I?
Sam: You can do that?
Marisha: I'm a druid, that's my-- yeah man!
Sam: You can bring dead things back?
Marisha: Yeah, it's called Plant Growth!
Sam: What?!
Marisha: Yeah!
Sam: This I gotta see.
Marisha: Should I? Okay. But it's dead. What time is it now?
Matt: Right now, with all the traveling you guys have done, I'd say it's past noon, probably. Including the time you've spent inside the tavern, searching it through and preparing it as your base of operations.
Laura: Try it.
Marisha: Should I start it up now?
Sam: Yeah!
Liam: Go for it!
Laura: Go for it!
Travis: Go for it!
Marisha: I'm going to start my Plant Growth. I'm going to drop. Can I try to clear out an area where I can-- I should be fine.
Laura: Reach up in its junk.
Taliesin: Put your hand in it.
Marisha: I'm going to strap on my gloves.
Travis: Okay.
Liam: Turn and cough.
Marisha: Hope you guys are ready for this.
Sam: Is it going to be loud?
Marisha: No, it's just going to take a long time.
Travis: Vax and I are guarding the tavern, so if anything comes--
Sam: I'm going to get provisions ready to spoon-feed her.
Marisha: Actually, before I do that, can we all have one last meal together and eat a Heroes' Feast?
Laura: I like it.
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: Certainly.
Taliesin: Let's eat.
Matt: So, you've made the purchase within Emon for how many of the requisite chalice for the Heroes' Feast?
Marisha: How many did I buy?
Taliesin: You have at least one.
Marisha: It gets used. It's expensive.
Laura: It's $1000.
Marisha: It's $1000.
Matt: It's a gem-encrusted bowl worth 1000 gold pieces, which the spell consumes. So, we'll say how many of those did you purchase in Emon, knowing you'd be casting this in the future?
Marisha: How much gold do we have?
Sam: Not a lot.
Laura: Is that for each person, or 1000 gold for the whole party?
Matt: For the whole feast.
Laura: How about you did three bowls?
Marisha: Three bowls.
Matt: Mark 3000 gold from the group's queue. And you have three gem bowls, using one now. So you have two bowls left at your disposal. And you prepare a Heroes' Feast for the group to consume.
Marisha: I take some of that leftover wine, use that to make it fancy wine.
Sam: This is great. This is awesome.
Laura: Are we eating in the cellar?
Marisha: So you get, I believe, 2d12 additional hit points on top of your maximum hit points.
Sam: Wait, forever?
Laura: No, no, for how long?
Marisha: For 24 hours.
Matt: It lasts for 24 hours.
Sam: 2d12?
Matt: So, until about--
Sam: What the fuck is a d12? I've never rolled a d12.
Matt: -- 2PM tomorrow. So mark that down, somebody note that it lasts until 2PM.
Laura: An additional 2d12?
Matt: 2d10?
Marisha: Oh, I'm sorry, 2d10.
Taliesin: Damn it.
Laura: Overall hit points.
Marisha: And, you should have- Ooh! I got two tens!
Laura: Ah, badass!
Matt: Trinket can also benefit from this, by the way, too.
Laura: Yay! Nice.
Taliesin: You also get other bonuses.
Matt: Yep. You are immune to poison, and diseases, and being frightened, and all wisdom saving throws are made with advantage. Feast is awesome.
Sam: Why don't we do that right before we go see the Briarwoods, also?
Laura: We have another bowl.
Marisha: We have two more bowls.
Sam: Because that is fucking awesome.
Marisha: Doing that right now, just in case the Briarwoods decide to come say hello.
Taliesin: Or any of the other terrible people who live in this town because there are terrible people in this town.
Travis: That was a delicious feast.
Sam: The tikka masala was tangy!
Marisha: So, we're immune to poison--
Matt: And disease and frightened. So, feast consumed, you now take your next eight hours--
Marisha: I'm going to go meditate. I'll be back in eight hours.
Matt: --to work on this. As she sits down to begin the ritual of cleansing, or bringing plant vitality enhancement to the vicinity of Whitestone. We're going to go ahead and end today's session there. Pick up at the end of that spell at the beginning of next week.
Taliesin: I love you all so much. I love you so much.
Matt: This is getting real interesting.
Marisha: What time is it?
Liam: It was like eight in the morning-ish when we found that building, yeah?
Matt: What?
Liam: Was it around eight in the morning when we got to that house?
Matt: You guys got to town around nine, 9 30.
Laura: So the spell probably started around 11.
Matt: Walking around, seeing things, finding the tavern. And then getting in there and cleaning it out. I'd say you're getting close to one, two o'clock now. You've also taken it slow, you're also being stealthy and not trying to be conspicuous as you move through.
Laura: Right, so we'll start the fight in the morning the next day.
Marisha: Well, I'm meditating now. I dropped into my meditation--
Sam: We're not starting any fight, we're forming an insurgency.
Marisha: Hopefully nothing happens and y'all don't have to defend me while I'm doing this shit. That's what I'm hoping for.
Taliesin: I have stuff to give you, too, 'cause, yeah.
Sam: Wow.
Laura: Man.
Taliesin: Thank you for letting me roll with that, by the way.
Matt: Of course. It fit right into my--
Taliesin: I had a funny feeling it would.
Matt: All right, guys. So we'll pick up from there next week, right in the center of the--
Marisha: A tree full of dead us? That's fucked up.
Laura: That's mean, Matt.
Taliesin: That was some mean shit, man.
Liam: That's what you call a giving tree.
Matt: It's a friendly place, Whitestone.
Sam: And the tree was happy. But not really.
Taliesin: Yeah, no, so that was it.
Matt: All righty. Well, I guess we have the announcements.
Zac: We have some donations.
Matt: Yeah, you guys are awesome.
Zac: And I wanna thank the chatroom for being on their best behavior tonight.
Laura: Thanks, guys.
Zac: Avoided the banhammer.
Sam: The what?
Zac: They avoided the banhammer.
Taliesin: There was no banhammer?
Zac: Not by me, anyway. There's always a couple trolls that find their way.
Matt: Yeah, it's the internet. Trolls happen. But yeah, guys, thank you for being respectful.
Taliesin: Guys, thank you, oh my god, I'm so happy to be sharing this.
Zac: You know what makes you guys so awesome? Donations for charity! (all cheer)
Matt: All right, so we have Maxine Palaquin donated leet, $13.37. That's fantastic, thank you so much, Maxine. Matthew Robinson donated $25, Matthew, brilliance. Elizabeth Lee's donated $100. Thank you so much, Elizabeth, that's incredible. Arthur Still donated $50, thank you so much, Arthur, well-played. Two anonymous people donated $15 and $25. Thank you guys. You're awesome, whoever you are. Sam Falco donated $25. Sam, you're rad. Kristen Wilhelmy donated $20. Way to go, Kristen. John Reed donated $15 and Sarah Hannah donated $100, John, you're awesome, Sarah, you're $100-awesome. Killer Penguin, another $20. Killer Penguin, always a good one. LoveMyMom donated $22.
Taliesin: Yeah we do.
Matt: Thelosthikers donated $25. Hikers, hope you find your way. Brian Wheedler, I think it is, donated $3, thank you so much, Brian. And any amount helps, by the way. Seriously guys that's great. Thank you so much. Patrick Toro donated $1,337. To Extra Life charity. That is fully a leet donation. Wow, Patrick.
Sam: Wait, maybe the decimal place was wrong?
Zac: Well, that would... sorry?
Taliesin: Thank you, we're very sorry!
Matt: I mean, that's incredible, Patrick, seriously. Malachi Olden donated $25. Thank you, Malachi. Emma Angfwist donated $50, sorry for ruining that, but thank you so much, Emma, that's wonderful. Ryan Kerr donated $25, Ryan, you're great. Emma came back with another $25 donation again.
Marisha: Double-dipping.
Matt: Thank you so much, Emma, I really, really appreciate that. And love to you this week. Anonymous donated $35.10, anonymous, whoever you are, love you too.
Zac: We'll go back to the beginning.
Matt: Got you, no worries. Richard Redmond donated $35. Richard, well-played, well done. Jordan Goland donated $15, thank you, Jordan, you're awesome. Another anonymous person donated $25. Whoever you are, hearts. Tim Pearson returns with a $25 donation. Thank you so much, Tim, you're rad. Steven Sudeban Davis donated $100. Steven, thank you, that's incredible. Onna Nelson also donated $100. Onna, you're awesome, that's incredible. Anna Law donated $25, thank you Anna. Well-played. Louis Lovelan donated $560. Louis. This community has so much people, so awesome.
Zac: An interesting note, they said they wanted to donate $20 per episode, 'cause they just caught up.
All: Oh!
Laura: That's a lot! Lot of episodes.
Matt: Chris Black donated $35. Chris, you're fantastic, thank you so much, buddy. Kash Brown donated $50. Kash, yeah. Steven Duggan donated $5. Is that the Dugganator?
Marisha: Yeah, that's Dugganator. Steven Duggan? Yeah.
Matt: Well, $5, thank you so much. James Ramsey donated $25. James, you do encourage goodwill. Tim Nicholson donated $25. Thank you so much, Tim Nicholson. Another anonymous, #pumpkinspicethisbitch donated $25. Thank you so much. Sidney, oh, Rokushepard, Sidney, who we met in New York actually, donated $15. Thank you so much, Sidney. Great to meet you. Arthur Gibbs donated $50. Arthur, you're fantastic, buddy. Joseph Allen donated $25 to Extra Life. Joseph, thank you so much. Another anonymous donated-- Oh, it's Megan! Donated $5. Thank you so much, Megan, really appreciate that. Joseph Ulbricky donated $25. Thank you again, Joseph, that's amazing. Descentfromgrace returns with a $50 donation, Descentfromgrace, yay! Thank you so much. Vin Call donated $10, Vin, thank you so much. GhostKaidan donated $15. Thank you so much, GhostKaidan. And one more that just came in, I believe. Tyson Poirier. I'm sorry if I ruined that. But Tyson, you're awesome, you donated $40, really appreciate that. Donated based on critical fails and natural 20s.
Laura: That's kind of awesome.
Matt: That's kind of a cool way to do it. Guys, you're all continuously fantastic in your support for this community, for the charity causes that we put this out for, ever-humbled.
Zac: Another big charity cause tomorrow. Where you're on drums. So tomorrow the Battle of the Bands from 5-7PM. Your team, in case you don't know, is you, Felicia Day, Tom Lenk, and Josephine, one of our mods. See, Felicia was doing this thing where she was like, what team could I put together that will immediately win fan-favorite without doing any actual work? So we saw your plan, Felicia, and we came back with our team of Lucas, Mr. Spoopy in the back, running the tech board.
Matt: Heck yeah.
Zac: Augie, who is a professional drummer, Hector, and Amy Dallen, and we know, between Amy and Josephine, our chat room is definitely going to be split on who's the chat room favorite, so.
Matt: So is the professional drummer on bass?
Zac: No. Definitely not. He is not on bass.
Taliesin: You dropped Whitestone.
Zac: He is not on bass. Lucas is able to play all songs on Expert on guitar, I think you guys are gonna have your work cut out for you. For sure.
Matt: It's all good.
Zac: For sure. They also work here almost all week, and practice after all the shows. (laughs)
Matt: That's cool.
Taliesin: Is that what you do?
Matt: I prefer to light my opponents on fire while they're drumming, 'cause I find that's a good challenge for their skillset.
Zac: Oh, that would make sure a good show. I'm very okay with it. Like, let's go for it. It's for charity, let's just do it.
Matt: All righty.
Taliesin: I wanna say, we had a studio audience for this show as well, which we're very thankful for.
Matt: Yes we did, actually.
Marisha: Fellow critter! Alec!
Zac: Come on up real fast. Yeah.
Marisha: Go next to the DM!
Matt: Come here real fast!
Travis: Duck down low!
Matt: Come on down here and say hello.
Alec: What's up, Twitch chat? How you doing? These guys are exactly as awesome as you imagine them to be. I have to say, completely blown away. Absolutely blown away.
Laura: Oh, you.
Taliesin: Thanks for just stopping by. That was cool.
Marisha: Yeah. Yeah.
Matt: Seriously, man. Thank you so much.
Alec: Thanks for having me.
Matt: Of course, buddy. And guys, thank you all so much for tuning in. Hope you enjoyed it. We'll be back next week, Thursday. I guess we'll end here with a is it Thursday yet? Have a good night, guys.

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello, everyone, and welcome to this evening's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us voice actors get together and roll dice like we're awesome nerd people, which we are. So, welcome! We're going to do a couple quick announcements here before we kick things off. You want to go ahead and start?
Zac: Yeah, I'm that guy that you can't wait to stop talking so the show can get started. So guys, last week we hit 516 on the sub-train. Okay? And each week, in theory, should grow by itself because re-subs count. So basically, if we break 516 and make a new record, we will do a giant giveaway which includes everything from Heroclix to Steam keys to D&D schwag, books from Felicia, all sorts of stuff. It will be a giant box of wonderful Geek and Sundry-related stuff. So that is if we break 516, so there's a reason to keep that train alive, guys. We are also very close to hitting 10k. We are like 160 away from reaching 10,000 subscribers. How many? 154 away from hitting 10k. Now you guys may remember #noshavetil10k. I have not. If we hit 10k, right when we hit, a straw poll will be released into the chatroom, and you guys get to vote on what my face gets shaved into for the next week of programming on G&S. And it is very unfortunate that that's how we're going to do it. So tomorrow night on Gather Your Party, it will be Stef and Jessica's birthday, we're going to be throwing a birthday party, and I'm going to let them shave my face in whatever you guys vote on, as a birthday present to them.
Marisha: So many things.
Matt: The possibilities are endless.
Zac: Just saying that out loud honestly hurts me. A lot.
Matt: It is thick, too. You can get some nice dimension in there.
Zac: Great.
Liam: Words, shave words in--
Taliesin: You could build a bear in the beard.
Zac: I could build a bear. Yeah. Great.
Matt: Can we shave off bits and then re-apply them to other parts of the face?
Zac: If you want to wear them, yeah!
Matt: Okay! I might do that, yeah.
Zac: And then this weekend, Nerdist is running a 24-hour livestream for Extra Life. You guys may recognize some of the faces that stop by. They are going to be streaming from our set. So, let's welcome them. We'll be hosting it, but I encourage you guys all to head over to Nerdist, twitch.tv/nerdist. This weekend it'll be Saturday from 9AM to 9PM Pacific Standard Time. I will be there the whole time helping out, as well as some of our other Geek and Sundry hosts. So you guys should check that out and help them be part of our team, raising money for Extra Life. And Matt, I wanted to thank you for helping us make Battle of the Bands a success last week. We all know that the voting was rigged and that's why your team won, but it was a valiant effort nonetheless. And if you guys enjoyed that, you should tweet at Geek and Sundry's twitter and let them know, and we will try to do things like that for you more in the future. That's pretty much all I have. Let's get to 10k and get this stupid stuff off my face.
Matt: Thank you very much, Zac. Speaking of shaving, let me take a moment here to mourn the Mercer-beard. Those who saw on twitter. I was trying to hold off until 10k and Halloween for my costume, but due to work, had to shave it as of last night. So, I apologize. I'm in mourning. So please bear with me for this evening, going forward. Couple announcements. Critical Role-related: we have a lot of our party in transit right now. Laura and Travis just flew in from Toronto and will probably be a little bit late to the game. Sam is currently heading here from a session and will get here as soon as possible. Unfortunately, Orion will not be joining us again this evening, but hope to have him back next week for Halloween. So, things will get rolling as they arrive. Thankfully, we're at a situation in the game where I don't think it'll be too halting. We shall see. Next announcement, we're putting out Critical Role thematic playlists. All the players have put together playlists of Spotify songs that they feel encapture aspects of their character and their character's journeying as Vox Machina and in the world of Exandria. So those will be releasing every week, starting tonight at 8PM with Percy, I believe. So Taliesin's playlist will be up available on Geek and Sundry's website and--
Taliesin: Dropping mad jams-- I'm not.
Marisha: They're mad, you're allowed.
Taliesin: I'm going to show you some music.
Marisha: It's good. Go download Spotify right now, so you can go, if you haven't. It's free!
Matt: There you go.
Taliesin: It's cancer. It's been a weird weeknight.
Marisha: It has. It's been a long day.
Taliesin: I had a strange day. I've infected friends with Spotify now.
Matt: As you should. Infecting friends is fun. Couple other things. For those who haven't seen it already, the D&Diesel videos went up earlier this week, where we had the wonderful chance-- for me, at least-- to Dungeon Master for a half an hour for Vin Diesel, along with Travis and Laura, and Jessica and Dan of Nerdist ilk. Had a great time, so hopefully you liked it, and if you'd like to see more stuff like that, hopefully we'll have more things coming up in the future in that vein, because we had a good time. Also, along with that, I released my Witch Hunter class, which was a customized 5th edition class that I designed after I ran that game, based on the character I created for Vin. It went up on the website, untested. Feedback is always welcome, and I will be updating it on the website as feedback comes in and balancing is tweaked for it. But have at it, have fun, hope you guys enjoy it. I had a good time creating it, and it's a good time. Also, just a reminder to you guys: our official Critical Role t-shirts are available on the Geek and Sundry website store if you want to wear any of the awesome red shirts that we've shown on the show with our full-on Critical Role logo. Shown in an exemplary dark, fine ink. Those are available for purchase.
Marisha: And keychains.
Taliesin: What if, due to some strange third-arm syndrome, I can't wear t-shirts; is there any way I can show my support to the show?
Matt: Yes, you can. We have necklaces and keychains with our logo as well. Also available on the store. So, you're welcome to check those out.
Taliesin: With my third arm, I need necklaces and keychains.
Liam: Three-armed shirts are coming in 2016.
Matt: Yeah, three-armed shirts will be on the docket. Thank you, Liam, I was trying to get to that.
Marisha: There's a new shirt up. I didn't know that.
Matt: We have a new shirt up?
Offscreen: How do you want to do this.
Matt: We have it up?! This is good news to know. We have now up on the store our official "How do you want to do this" shirt as well. So you can go check that out on the shop. Prepare for the holiday season with your Christmases and your Chanukahs and your Critmases and all that fun stuff to make people look as nerdy as we are. Which is I think part of my goal, personally, through world domination. (laughter)
Matt: Maybe not Liam. Everyone but Liam can look weird. There's no way to help you.
Liam: Can I just interject for a second only because I'm hot as hell. I just want to thank @pupgames on twitter for making me this fabulous stealthy cloak. I'm going to take it off in about two minutes, because it's more t-shirt weather here in the studio. So I'll just let everybody bask in the glow of my absence of light for two minutes, and then I'm going to switch to t-shirt mode.
Taliesin: You're so stealthy.
Marisha: Where'd Liam go?
Matt: It's mysterious.
Marisha: Holy shit.
Matt: All righty. Also, our cast interviews on the Geek and Sundry website are almost over. Orion's went up today and those will be finishing up shortly.
Marisha: But we have Spotify lists to replace them.
Matt: Yep, Spotify lists coming up.
Marisha: So there's still more content.
Matt: If you've missed any of the cast interviews, they're all available on the website. So feel free to check them out.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: Marisha, you wanted to follow up on the 826LA news you had.
Marisha: Yes. 826LA, they're in a campaign right now for-- let me try to get all this right-- for LA 2050 which is a big contest that's sponsored by Goldhirsh, right now, and it's all for sponsoring education and a brighter future for Los Angeles. So 826LA and Young Storytellers are actually partnering together, and they're in this contest right now. You have to go vote, and they could potentially win $100,000. Which: awesome. And we've got Critters. I think they'll win. So you have to go vote. I tweeted the link, so the mods, go find it on my twitter, or you can just search #LA2050, and you should be able to find it. So, yeah, go vote.
Matt: Team Hooman, Critters, come up there and make this happen.
Marisha: Also, they just announced they're going to be opening an 826LA-- sorry, not 826LA, but an 826 in San Francisco!
Matt: Awesome!
Taliesin: Another 826 in San Francisco?
Marisha: Oh, is there another, I guess so.
Taliesin: Yeah, because there's one there--
Marisha: They might be opening a second one.
Taliesin: They might be opening-- that would make sense.
Marisha: I think they said they announced they're opening one. I think.
Taliesin: I'm retweeting you right now.
Marisha: Okay. Taliesin's retweeting me.
Matt: So there you go. Follow either of their twitters to get the information.
Marisha: But, go vote. Help them win 100k.
Matt: All right, Taliesin, you wanted to mention something about Tara's--
Taliesin: I do! Tara Platt, who is a wonderful friend of the show and amazing voice actress and extremely fabulous in many different ways; she's a sky pirate, she does all sorts of crazy stuff. She's got an Indiegogo for an interactive book called, and I'm hoping I pronounce this right, Zartana. You should check it out, it's really cool, it's really pretty and beautiful. It's got a very Stardust-y vibe. I've already picked up my copy. So you should go, there's just a couple days left, just hop in and grab a copy for yourself. It's going to be really exciting. And--
Marisha: Yeah, it's like about a g*psy girl, and it's got a bunch of recipes, and it teaches you how to make a bow, and has herb cards and all sorts of cool stuff. I was into it immediately.
Taliesin: For the cool child in your life this Christmas. This would be for the kid who needs something that's not quite outdoors, but not quite a video game.
Marisha: Zartana.
Taliesin: Zartana.
Matt: There you go.
Taliesin: Also, I will be in OniCon in Galveston, Texas over Halloween. So, if you're in Galveston, Texas and it's Halloween, and you want to go to an anime con, I'll be there. And I'll be in costume, and it will be pretty hilarious.
Marisha: And last, but not least, last Thursday while we were here, looking at dead versions of ourselves hanging from a tree, Super Power Beat Down won a Geekie!
Liam: Oh! Mazel tov!
Marisha: Yeah, glad I came here instead of going to the award show. Totally worth it. But we won a Geekie. So, I thought I should say that.
Liam: Well-earned.
Marisha: Thanks.
Liam: You nerd.
Matt: Good on you.
Taliesin: You should wear it like bling. Get a chain for it. That'd be great.
Marisha: Just, once again, like, it-- No.
Taliesin: No. No, never mind.
Matt: All righty, any other announcements anyone needs to make?
Taliesin: God damn it, it keeps happening.
Liam: I'm good.
Matt: All righty. Well then, let us go ahead and get ourselves tuned in for tonight's episode of Critical Role. [dramatic music]
Matt: And welcome back. So, everyone, our Sam arrived--
Sam: Samurai?
Taliesin: Samurai?
Matt: We have our samurai! Laura and Travis are in transit, they'll be here as soon as they-- (thump from Sam's mug)
Matt: Well played. So. To give us a little overview of the current story. Two nasty individuals known as the Briarwoods, Lord and Lady Briarwood, have, for the past five years, been occupying the city of Whitestone, which was once the home to Percival here, after it was forcefully taken from his family, most of which seemingly have been either killed or lost in the process, and he was scattered to the four winds to find Vox Machina. After encountering the Briarwoods in Emon in a scuffle that took place, the Briarwoods retreated to Whitestone, inviting the party to come and say hello. Since then, the party has prepared the best they could, made their way towards Whitestone, and, through some bit of infiltration and subterfuge, managed to sneak into the city itself. They, under the guise of Scanlan's Seeming illusion, appeared to be as common folk as the rest of the poor saps that still live in Whitestone. They scoped out an abandoned tavern, which they fitted to their needs as a base of operations, and also managed to come across a central portion of Whitestone's city structure and history, known as the Sun Tree, a tree once risen to the might of the god of the sun, Pelor, now lies dead in the center of town, and from it hung eight figures that appear to have been individuals killed, hung, and painted up and dressed to resemble Vox Machina as essentially a warning, or a welcome. It's hard to tell when it comes to the Briarwoods. Nevertheless, a message was definitely delivered. The party, retreating back to the tavern, set up for the remainder of the afternoon. Keyleth carved, through her druidic magical ways, through the ground to find some of the roots of the Sun Tree, and began preparing an extensive, time-consuming ritual in hopes of restoring some semblance of life to the entity itself. That is where we left off. While the rest of you have been going about your preparations for the rest of the afternoon as this ritual for Keyleth is an eight-hour ritual and it begun in the early afternoon around 2:00, so this will conclude by around sundown, a little past sundown. While she is down there, essentially meditating with the barren roots of the Sun Tree, is there anything you guys would wish to do, or are you just waiting for her to complete her ritual?
Taliesin: Well, there are options.
Sam: What do we need? We have to get water, right? There was some issue about-- we don't have any water, do we?
Taliesin: Was that an issue?
Sam: I don't remember. There was some wells around.
Marisha: Can I do a few checks while I'm preparing the ritual to see if this is a curse over this tree?
Matt: Go ahead and make a religion check, I guess.
Marisha: Not great. Hang on, my ring of protection is in the way. Nine.
Matt: Nine. Honestly, it's hard to tell if it's a curse, the tree itself is just dead. You are very well-connected with the natural essences of the world, the life essence of plants and natural growth. All of your interactions with the Sun Tree are devoid of any response. It seems dead where it stands. But, as you continue your ritual--
Marisha: God, I hope this works.
Matt: Anyone else have anything they want to do?
Liam: Well, couple of things. Grog and I were keeping watch. I forget, one of us was on the first floor and one's on the second. I'm just going to say that I was on the second for now. Because I can't remember. It's probably wrong. I'm going to take all daggers out of my Blinkback Belt except for the Keen Dagger and replace them with wooden stakes that I purchased. And I'm going to spend an hour or so, whatever it takes to-- I've got partial gloves on; I'm going to take that symbol of Sarenrae and I'm going to take as much time as it needs to sew it so that it is fixed firmly to the back of my right hand. I tell Grog that I'm going to go down below and check, and I follow the path all the way down to find-- I think everyone else is down there.
Sam: Oh hi, Vax.
Liam: I step over Scanlan's head and I kneel down by Keyleth and gently place a hand on her shoulder and say: What do you need? What can I get?
Marisha: I don't really know. I don't know if this is going to work, to be totally honest. The tree is dead. Do you have any of that holy water?
Liam: I got holy oil. Not water.
Marisha: Do I have holy water? I don't know if I took one or not. I can't remember.
Matt: If you didn't write it down, it's not in your inventory.
Marisha: I'm pretty good about that. I don't think I took one.
Taliesin: In the meantime, there are options.
Liam: I got two. I remember it. It was two vials of holy oil. I gave one to my sister, and I have the other. If you think it will help, you take it.
Marisha: Okay.
Liam: Do you need me to get water?
Marisha: Yeah, let's get some water.
Matt: Yeah, because as you guys went through the tavern, you found there was no actual water. There was old ale. There were still a few casks of wine. Stuff that was abandoned when whoever previously was the owner of this tavern either left Whitestone or fell to a worse fate. But there was no plain water to drink.
Liam: I'm going to go out into the street. I'm going to find water.
Taliesin: I can show you where there's water.
Sam: What?
Taliesin: I lived here my whole life.
Sam: Are you guys disguised?
Liam: Yeah, we all are.
Matt: They're still technically under your Seeming spell, for the next few hours, at least.
Marisha: Yeah, we cannot let that go.
Sam: Does that have a range? No, it just lasts.
Matt: As far as I know, it lasts just for an eight-hour period. I'll double-check.
Liam: Percival, do you want to come upstairs to the window, and--
Sam: I'm coming.
Liam: Oh, you're coming, too? All right. You're my son, let's go. (laughter)
Matt: Yeah, it lasts for eight hours and allows you to change the appearance of--
Sam: Great. We're still peasants.
Marisha: Remember, we also have Heroes' Feast up.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Sam: Oh, okay.
Marisha: Advantages on wisdom throws and whatnot.
Taliesin: Hit point bonus, advantage on wisdom throws--
Marisha: Yeah. 2d10 hit points. Max hit points.
Taliesin: I have my advantages still. So I'm going to lead them to the closest well.
Matt: Okay. Stealthily?
Marisha: I'm going to start-- I've kind of cleared out around the roots.
Matt: It's a lot. It's earth and then giant roots from a very large tree that go past. You aren't at the bottom of the roots. You've met the roots as you were carving through. They go even deeper than where you are right now.
Marisha: Yeah. Can I start carving a little ravine around it for where we're going to start pouring the water?
Matt: If you've already started the eight-hour process of the secondary spell, you would not be able to really interrupt that to be able to continue another spell you've been doing. I could say that you did that as part of your preparation for the roots. That's fine. That's fine. It'd be a small ravine, because you also don't want to--
Marisha: Damage anything.
Matt: You continue your ritual. The rest of you make your way out the same window that you entered, into the alleyway, following Percival. You lead them to the back of the tavern into one of the large alleyways between this chunk of the city. You find there was a grassy area; most of the grass here has turned gray and brittle, as it is starting to push towards the winter months. And even for the daytime, the temperature is pretty chilly. It's probably around 50 or so degrees, 55. Fahrenheit, for our un-American friends. Eventually, you make your way to the nearest well that you've been to. And there is a bucket there. It looks like it has gathered some dust and some cobwebs. You get the bucket, and you let it down, and eventually it finds its way into the water. It's pretty deep before it hit the water. You don't know if it's been just, like, water level, or if this particular well itself is drying up. But you manage to get a bucket up, and you pull it up and check it and it looks clear. You take the water back with you to the tavern. Seemingly uneventful. You guys have managed to stay far enough out of sight. Nothing seems to caught your attention.
Sam: Okay. Should we scout around and see if there's anything else around the hideout that we should be aware of, or any other hiding places, or safehouses?
Liam: I feel like we should probably bring a little more water than one bucket. So we should spend a little bit of time doing that. But maybe my sister and I can have a look around, see if there's anything that we've missed. Outside.
Taliesin: Well, here's the question. There's three lordly houses that we have to avoid at all costs, for now. There's a few shops that if we feel might be in our best interest to scout out. I know where an old weapons depot used to be. We could check the temples to maybe see if we could maybe find some support to begin with.
Liam: Do we trust anyone here?
Sam: We need friends.
Taliesin: There might be people I trust.
Sam: Is there a central meeting place?
Taliesin: There's a temple.
Sam: Is that a place where you can really chat up brand new people? Or is there a pub? I guess it's not really a pub town, is it?
Taliesin: It's not a pub town. And it's a place where you don't necessarily chat up new people, but maybe find some old ones.
Sam: Okay. We could go there.
Liam: Percival, we're on your turf, so I'll follow your lead.
Taliesin: (sighs) If we have just enough time, I'd like to try to go to the temple and the cemetery. Leave, maybe Grog and Vex to guard Keyleth.
Matt: Okay. So, Keyleth, you're staying behind to finish the ritual?
Marisha: I'm doing what I do best. And I focus all my energy on this thing.
Matt: There are two temples in here. There's the temple to Pelor, which is known as the Zenith. Within the graveyard.
Taliesin: Yes, the Zenith is the one I wanted to go to.
Sam: What's the other one?
Taliesin: The other one is called The Lady's Chamber. It's a temple of Erathis.
Sam: That sounds fun.
Taliesin: I don't know anybody there.
Sam: I might!
Taliesin: That's what I'm afraid-- they might know you, so no.
Matt: So the Lady's Chamber, the temple to Erathis, is more central to the city and is partially a courtyard, partially a half-dome amphitheater place of worship. You guys make your way through the city. I'll have you all roll stealth checks if you could.
Sam: We're not trying to hide, are we?
Matt: Well, if you're not trying to hide, then make deception checks instead.
Taliesin: Awesome possum.
Sam: I rolled an 18 for something.
Liam: Can I choose to hide instead of deceive?
Matt: If you'd like to.
Liam: Yeah, I'll hang a little bit back from them.
Taliesin: I was trying to be stealthy, as well.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: Although I'm fine either way. 23.
Sam: I'm better deceiving.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: 26.
Matt: So we have two folks staying to the shadows, best they can in broad daylight in a clustered city. And one child-looking pauper of a boy wandering through the city alone towards the graveyard. As you guys make your way through, staying off to the side, jumping, or running through buildings and staying off the main path, you walk along the central road to the far eastern side of Whitestone. A few folks come out during the day, some are carrying bundles of textile goods. There's one guy that has a small cart, and it looks like he's bringing tools and stuff either to or from a store of some kind. Gives you a curious look as if he hasn't seen you before but doesn't seem to--
Sam: G'day, sir!
Matt: "G'day!" And just keeps rolling along, the wheels squeaking as he pushes up the road.
Sam: I wish I had a yo-yo.
Taliesin: How about a wheel and stick?
Sam: Oh, the wheel and stick would be good.
Matt: Eventually, you guys make your way to the far eastern side of Whitestone. This is where the boundary wall that surrounds most of the city from a defensive standpoint lies. There is the multiple exit points throughout this wall. You dart around the outskirts of it, being careful to avoid the pattern of the undead giants that are slowly stomping through the city, like these hulking sentinels that walk in a perpetual pattern through the town. You follow the winding path through the thick woods, just on the outside of the wall of the city itself. You sticking to the path in your open way, or do you want to join them in the side of the forest?
Sam: Well, I've got to stick with them, I guess, although I like being a young peasant boy. It's kind of fun. All right, I'll go with them.
Matt: All right. So the three of you dart off into the woods, skirting the outside of the road, but making your way following it to the outside of the graveyard itself. Eventually, you come to the outside of the graveyard. Large iron fence that marks the outside of it. It's rusted from time, small spikes mark the very top of it, about six feet tall, and the gate itself is partially open. With a little bit of breeze that's blowing through, very, very cold breeze that blows through this part of the forest, it's opening a little bit, and (creak) against itself. You push through the gate--
Liam: Wait a minute, nope. Let me look. I'm just going to move in, ten feet ahead, and see what I see.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: That is a 23 for perception.
Matt: Okay. You skirt up and look inside. And there's a handful of trees in little clusters here and there, but for the most part this old graveyard is flat land, with just stones set up throughout. The older stones have very little rhyme or reason to their placement. They're sporadically thrown around, fresher ones tend to be more clustered with family names. This definitely looks like something that was put here when the town was founded and has been slowly expanded over time, and it's not uniform.
Liam: I hiss back at Percy  is this the way to your temple?
Taliesin: (whispers) Yes.
Liam: Through here?
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: You do see, a little ways ahead in the center of this open barren area, there is a stone temple that has, from what little you can see, a bit of stained glass pattern to it.
Liam: Do we knock?
Sam: Is it safe? Should we go up?
Taliesin: We go up to the doors, and give it a tug.
Matt: Okay. Percy walks up to the doors.
Liam: Well, all right.
Taliesin: This is my neighborhood. I feel comfortable.
Matt: Okay. You--
Sam: All right, Papa, let's go.
Matt: You go to the doors of the temple, the large wooden doors. In them are carved this flaming wreath into the wood. It looks almost like the outer ring of the classical depiction of a sun and going across the sky where you can see the waving flames licking the sides of the actual doors. And it is a double door. As you tug on the handle at the front, it gives very little to you. You give a little more of a tug on it, not enough to gather attention, just enough to really see if it's just stuck, or if it's locked. And it appears that the doors are not opening.
Liam: And I look--
Sam: This is what he does!
Liam: It is what I do. This is an old, old type of lock, hold on.
Matt: There is no lock, actually.
Liam: There's no lock? Oh, but I rolled a natural 20. Does that help? Let me get through the door?
Taliesin: Suddenly, a lock appears! Utterly pickable! (laughter)
Marisha: Utterly pickable! It's the most pickable lock I've ever seen!
Matt: There is no lock. It is barred from the other side. There is some heavy wooden plank that is currently set on the other side of the door.
Liam: Oh, where's Grog when you need him?
Matt: So, with your expertise in these sort of circumstances, you know that with the proper placement of a long blade and enough strength and weight put at the right fulcrum point, you can probably shimmy it off, and it may take a little bit of teamwork to do so.
Liam: Okay who's got a-- mine are all very small. Do you have a shortsword?
Sam: Everything I have is short. I can just go in there and open it from the inside.
Liam: Oh, right. I always forget.
Sam: It's not concentration, so I can just jump in there.
Matt: Essentially.
Liam: Don't fuse with a church pew.
Matt: If you're referring to a Dimension Door--
Sam: Correct. It's not concentration, I don't think.
Matt: No, it is not concentration.
Liam: More of a sneeze.
Matt: You can visualize it. It doesn't have to be a place you have seen yet.
Sam: I can say I want to go ten feet in that direction.
Matt: Yep.
Sam: Before I do, why are we trying to get in here? I thought it was to meet people. I don't think there's anyone in there.
Taliesin: I would like to find out what happened.
Sam: Okay, good enough for me. I go in.
Matt: Okay. (spoof) With a burst of dark purplish energy, Scanlan steps through the door, leaving no mark or trace behind. On the other side you hear this muffled (spoof) as he reappears on the opposite side, completing his transition. You appear now in the central worship hall of the Zenith temple. To each side of you, you can see there are windows, about ten foot wide, stained glass windows, about every ten feet around this pattern, it looks like three to each side. There are pews set up for the masses to come and sit and worship, but a lot of the pews have been pushed off to the side, set astray, some have been destroyed and ruined. There's a pile in the corner of a number of sundered and tattered pews. There is a red carpet that marks the center that goes all the way to what looks like a raised altar on the opposite side of the room. You can see that some of the stained glass further down has been shattered and broken, and a little bit of sunlight creeps through. You can see there is on the altar a large stone platform. It's hard to see from this distance. Make a perception check.
Liam: (muffled) Scanlan! Open the door.
Sam: We do have earrings. 17.
Matt: There appears to be something on the the altar in the distance, small and scattered about it, but from this distance, it's hard to make out the details. But you hear Vax muffled through the door.
Sam: All right, how big is this thing that's keeping the door shut?
Matt: It's about eight feet wide and about a foot-- eight feet long, about a foot wide and about six inches thick. A big old piece of wooden board.
Sam: A couple hundred pounds?
Matt: I would say it probably weighs about 40 or 50 pounds.
Sam: 40 or 50 pounds?!
Matt: It's wood. It's porous.
Sam: And how high off the ground? Could I touch it?
Matt: You could touch it. It gets to about your head, a little higher.
Sam: All right. I'm going to try and lift it off.
Matt: Go ahead a make a strength check. Athletics! Make this athletics.
Sam: Athletics? Hmm. Not good. 12!
Matt: (grunting) From this position, it's not even budging.
Liam: All right, Scanlan, step back from the door a couple of paces. I'm going to stick a blade through the door.
Sam: It's not going to do much. There's a big heavy thing.
Liam: I'm going to hold on one side, you're going to hold on the other, and we'll do it together. Percy, can I borrow your blade?
Taliesin: I've never used this. I've had it since I created the character and I've never used this blade once. This is the most use it's ever gotten. I pull out this pristine piece of shit (laughs) I don't even remember. I think I found it in a dungeon. It's terrible.
Matt: What is it?
Taliesin: It's a boarding sword, it was one of those little curved swords.
Matt: Right. A scimitar or falchion.
Taliesin: A scimitar. But short. It was nothing, it was terrible.
Liam: It's all we need.
Taliesin: Yeah so. Get it in there.
Liam: Scanlan, grab some rags or something, wrap it around the blade. You're going to lift on your side; we're going to lift on this side.
Sam: I get the sharp side?!
Liam: I can't get the handle through the crack in the door.
Sam: All right. I feel like there's some sort of spell I could use. All right, let's just do it your way.
Liam: Got that Bigby's Hand, is that what you're saying?
Sam: Yeah, I've got a million things I could do.
Taliesin: Are any of them concentration spells?
Sam: Bigby's is probably concentration, but I've also got a potion of strength.
Matt: As a note, Seeming isn't concentration.
Sam: I thought it was.
Matt: No. You cast it and it lasts for eight hours. You don't need to worry about that.
Sam: No, I want to follow this through.
Taliesin: Let's keep going.
Liam: All right. Can we lift it together?
Matt: (laughs) We can try. All right, so. This is going to be the three of you as a skill challenge, I want all three of you to roll. Not athletics, just a straight strength roll.
Taliesin: One, two, three.
Matt: Add your strength modifier.
Taliesin: 16!
Sam: Plus strength. 12. (laughter)
Sam: Wait, did you get a four? Four? We are the worst! We are the weakest ones. Oh, I cut my hand!
Matt: Which is exactly what happens.
Taliesin: Bigby's Hand? Bigby's Hand!
Liam: Bigby's Hand? Bigby's Hand!
Sam: I'm going to take damage.
Matt: Yeah. First and foremost, you take four points of slashing damage to your hand. You pull back, and there is a line of blood now, beginning to drip off your hand. You shake it amongst yourself.
Sam: Oh, I can't say "God damn it" in here. I'm in Pelor's-- Sorry, Pelor.
Taliesin: Let's use a sword, I want to see how this plays out.
Sam: God bless you. Gesundheit, Pelor. Man, all right. Well, jeez Louise.
Liam: Whip out the purple hand, man!
Sam: Seems like overkill. What about a Thunderwave? Can I do that?
Matt: Certainly.
Sam: All right. Does it only affect living things? Or does it affect--
Liam: Wait. Scanlan, are there any windows in there?
Sam: There are. There are windows. Good call.
Matt: It's a blast of thunderous energy in an area, it would affect living and nonliving matter, yes.
Liam: Hold on, this is stupid.
Sam: Are you sure?
Taliesin: We are going to the window. We are going to the window.
Sam: No, let's carry this out.
Taliesin: No! We are going to the window. Please do not destroy the temple of Pelor.
Sam: Three hours later, we are still trying to open the door.
Marisha: It's not even locked. It's just heavy.
Sam: I can Bigby's Hand. I'll just Bigby's Hand.
Liam: Which way to the window? I can walk to the window.
Sam: It's up there. You can make it, but Percy can't.
Liam: I can probably lift that door bar from inside.
Sam: You could, probably.
Liam: With your help, son.
Sam: Yeah, but I could blast it. Would be very dramatic.
Liam: Let's save that for important stuff. All right, where is the window? Which way do I go?
Sam: To the right and up.
Matt: There are windows shattered on both sides. They're broken a little higher up. So you could either continue to break the bottom part of the window, or just attempt to leap through the hole.
Liam: Yeah, I'll attempt to leap.
Matt: Okay, so give me an acrobatics check.
Liam: All right.
Sam: The saga of the door!
Marisha: It's just a door, you guys! It's just a door.
Liam: 25.
Matt: 25. You get a running start, leap off the side and parkour up between the actual-- there is an extension to the side where another room is attached on each side of the temple towards the back. You leap off that wall onto the small pillar that's holding the side of the window and up through the broken portion of the stained glass, landing, three-point landing, on the inside. You almost land in one of the shattered piles of wooden pews and splinters and jagged pieces of wood sticking out of it. About a foot away from you, and you are like, "Oh, that was close." You see Scanlan across the way. You see the altar to your right.
Sam: Hey! Oi! Your stupid idea cut my hand!
Liam: Builds character. I'm going to stay away from the altar and skirt the wall all the way around it. Mat: Okay, you get to the door.
Liam: I'm going to try to help. Do you want to help me lift this thing?
Sam: With my good hand, yes.
Matt: Have both you guys make strength checks.
Sam: You know what, I'm going to get some assistance. I call my Unseen Servant to assist.
Matt: (laughs) Okay.
Sam: He is going to lift with us.
Matt: With a brief burst of wind energy, a shimmering form, somewhat humanoid in shape, but still amorphous appears.
Sam: Hi, Darrell.
Matt: (wind sounds) and begins to shove itself up against the bottom of the wooden bar. Make your check, as well.
Sam: That was a six. Is that for me?
Matt: That's for you, and then roll and add five for your Unseen Servant.
Sam: So, five extra to that is 11. Right? No?
Matt: Roll again, add five.
Sam: Oh, I see. Four. So that's a nine.
Matt: The three of you, one mystically summoned from a plane beyond your own, cannot seem to budge this single wooden door! You've defeated beholders. You've slaughtered illithid underneath, in the Underdark, deep in the belly of the planet. But this door bests you!
Marisha: Man, Laura and Travis ain't missing shit!
Sam: All right, I'm doing it. Step back!
Liam: Whip out the hand!
Sam: All right, I summon Bigby's Hand! The mightiest hand that will ever unlock a door, ever! (singing) Bigby's Hand!
Matt: This giant, glimmering, purple fist appears in your vicinity. It grabs the bottom. Go ahead and roll a d20.
Liam: Come on.
Sam: 12.
Matt: Plus eight to it.
Sam: Plus eight? 20!
Taliesin: How do you want to do this?
Matt: With its finger, just goes (ping) and it (thudding noises). The door (creak) opens up and Percy stands there, looking not very happy.
Taliesin: Was it overkill? Because really it took that.
Sam: It took three spells to open this door! Three spells!
Taliesin: It's not overkill if you used what it took.
Sam: Three spells and I injured myself.
Taliesin: We took damage from an inanimate object. Oh god! Get it out of our system now!
Sam: Welcome, Percy.
Taliesin: Oh god! All right, I'm looking around, taking in the damage. Anything that I notice is particularly out of whack from the last time I was here? Other than they're upgrading the locks, apparently.
Matt: Looking about the place, it looks pseudo-ransacked. There has been much force used in whatever destroyed these pews. The glass that was broken, was broken from the outside in. So, definitely seems like there was someone throwing a rock through, or a intrusion from an outside standpoint. As you walk further and look around, the two rooms to the side, the doors are closed. There is the altar on the top, and you do see, there is a couple of small sacks, laid to the side of the altar. What looks to be some low-lit candles, and there are some braziers. One to each side of the altar, and one against each wall. All of them appear to be long dark and out. Go ahead and make a perception check.
Sam: All of us?
Matt: All of you.
Sam: 15.
Taliesin: 15.
Matt: You both, as you approach the far side of the temple towards the altar, you notice the brazier to the right is smoldering ever so gently. Just a very faint glow of ember to it.
Liam: What's the matter?
Taliesin: Reynal?
Sam: Who? Reynal?
Taliesin: Father Reynal? (louder) Father Reynal? Let's check one of the doors. We'll start on the door on the right.
Matt: You step up. You can see now, on top of the altar, there appears to be a couple of glass vials that are overturned, a little liquid spilled. You can see bits of broken glass across the bottom, the one step that leads down from the altar's raised platform.
Taliesin: Can I dip and smell?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Taliesin: 13.
Matt: 13? Okay. Looking at just the general vicinity of the altar. You taste the liquid. It's definitely somewhat caustic in nature, you can't really determine it. But, just touching it to your tongue, your tongue goes numb for a second and you feel a slight burn. Your nostrils clear out a little bit from the scent. There is some random powders and such that've been brushed off. You get the feeling that the way that all this was treated, it wasn't so much like it was destroyed more than it was hastily packed up. Roll a perception check.
Taliesin: 20.
Matt: 20? Okay, looking about the outside of the altar, you do notice that around the brazier that is slightly smoldering there is a layer of ash there, gathered on the inside of the brazier and a little bit on the floor, around its base.
Sam: Okay.
Taliesin: Someone has been working on something in here.
Sam: It couldn't just be ash from the thing that is burning?
Matt: If you look at the other braziers, there is no ash around it. Most of the ash is contained. The wood ash itself tends to fall; it's a little heavier. This seems to be a lighter shade of ash and it's more of a-- has found its way out of the brazier from just the heat and the air.
Taliesin: I want to smell the ash. Does it smell like some sort of-- is it perfumed?
Matt: You lean down and you take some of the ash in your fingers and smell it. It's not perfumed, but you've had some experience with dealing with various burning materials: this is definitely paper-based ash. You do also notice underneath the brazier there is one sliver of paper that was not wholly burned.
Sam: Paper.
Marisha: (whispering) Paper.
Sam: It's a golden ticket.
Taliesin: "Without sufficient magical essence the distillation is proven to consistently fail. A shame, really. I shall seek an influx of materials elsewhere before I can continue this project. Regarding the weapon, after a year of taking notes from eyewitness accounts, my original designs were faulty and recently cost me my hand. The wind of fortune has seen a shift it seems as Sylas just returned from Emon, having encountered the still-living subject, and had the pleasure of seeing his work first-hand. His unnatural eyes took in much detail. I believe his observations have brought me to the brink of finishing my design. I intend to journey from Whitestone within a couple of months to gather the components needed. But, if Delilah's hunch is correct, the subject is heading here. I may find myself needing to leave sooner than anticipated."
Liam: They're trying to copy your work.
Sam: Copy?
Taliesin: Why?
Liam: For war.
Taliesin: I want to take another look at everything that was on the altar, and I want to see if it looks--
Matt: Go ahead and make an investigation check.
Taliesin: 18.
Matt: Testing what's there  I mean, a lot of the material has been scattered and mixed but there are elements that resemble the black powder you've used in some of your constructs and tinkering in the past.
Sam: They're making guns!
Taliesin: Well, we know we're looking for someone without a hand.
Sam: To do what?
Taliesin: To find out who's trying to copy my work.
Sam: Someone who is working with Sylas, right?
Taliesin: Yes. Let's check the rest of the temple.
Liam: Yes.
Sam: Okay, I'm going to go up on the altar. Was there a small something on the altar?
Matt: What you noticed were like some of the glass vials that were overturned.
Taliesin: What's in the pouches?
Matt: Looking at the pouches, it looks like some of them contained phosphorus, some of them contained other alchemical reagents that were used in the research but most have been emptied, and it's just a residuum on the inside.
Taliesin: Checking the door on the right.
Matt: Door on the right.
Liam: Going with.
Matt: (creak) Opens up into what was Father Reynal's room. As the door opens, you're immediately hit with terrible smell of decay. And you can see, shoved under the bed that first appears on the opposite side of the small room, what appears to be the remains of Father Reynal. Long passed and left to fester beneath his bed.
Sam: Can I tell how he died?
Matt: You're welcome to go ahead and take a look. Roll an investigation check.
Sam: 23.
Matt: 23. Looking at the body, it appears that there are a series of puncture wounds. Rapier-based. They're too long, like stiletto, too long to be a dagger.
Sam: Not teeth.
Matt: No, they are inflicted by a weapon, a long thin weapon. And multiple to the torso.
Taliesin: I'm going to search the room for anything else. Search the body.
Matt: Okay. Searching the body, searching the room, it looks like everything of interest has been taken from the place. You find some leftover stale food, you find some candles that are generally used for the purposes of worship here in the temple, but anything beyond that-- all the drawers have been emptied, everything has been taken by whoever was previously setting up residence in this facility.
Sam: Are there any holy symbols or anything that we might take to give to Keyleth to, I don't know. Wasn't she gonna-- I don't know. Do some holy shit?
Matt: You do notice that, throughout the temple, there are images of Pelor, flame-wreathed face, various sun and stars that are set up, but most of them have been profaned, marked on, shattered, or covered in soot. An intentional effort has been made to dampen the power of Pelor in this once-holy place.
Liam: Are there any untouched?
Matt: None that are untouched, but there are some that could possibly be cleaned. A couple of small medallions that are hanging up in the room where the Father lays.
Liam: I'll snag those.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: I want to check the other room. The room to the left.
Matt: Make a perception check.
Taliesin: So much perception. 19.
Sam: 19.
Liam: 20.
Matt: All right. As you walk back into the main temple--
Marisha: Finish. First.
Matt: All right. Your ears catch a faint, distant sound like a strong wind pushing through a mountain pass. This low mournful wail-type sound.
Sam: What's that?
Matt: No wind is moving. There is a stillness to the air.
Liam: Stepping back into the darkest shadows I can see.
Matt: As you guys take in this sense, this sound gets louder and louder. At which point, the air itself gets colder and colder. As you nervously exhale, you can see your breath becoming visible in the air around you. As you all look at each other, you, stepping back into what shadows there are, as it is a very open temple, as it's a temple of sun--
Liam: 32 stealth.
Matt: You find what tiny little alcove you can of shadow. It's not going to offer a lot of protection once you move, but for now you seem to be out of the circumstance.
Sam: I grab Percy, and I make us both go invisible.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: So, what is that, a 3rd-level Invisibility spell?
Matt: Yeah. You guys both vanish, holding your place on top of the altar, and as that moaning tends to grow louder and louder you can see this shimmer at the doors that are open on the opposite side of the room. It looks like a woman. A form of a woman, but translucent in nature, drifting in, giving off the horrible (raspy groan) sound, as it drifts in and you see it looking around and the features are gaunt as it gets closer. It looks elven by racial nature, but the eyes are just these sunken faintly glowing sockets, the hair wild and matted and floating behind it, its hands reaching out, and as it gets partway through the temple, it looks like it's seeking something, and its eyes fall directly on you two.
Liam: I'm throwing a dagger right now.
Matt: Let's go ahead and--
Sam: Ugh! What if she was a good guy?
Liam: It's a banshee, man.
Sam: What if it's a good banshee? Some of the banshees that I've met have been decent. We're rolling for initiative?
Liam: There's Siouxsie and the Banshees, they're all right.
Sam: I'm glad I used half my spells trying to get into this goddamn place.
Matt: Off to the side there.
Liam: He means well.
Taliesin: He means well. That's a terrible costume.
Matt: You guys are on the altar there.
Taliesin: You were so prepared for me to go to the temple that you built it?
Matt: I built the whole city, because I didn't know where you guys were going to go.
Sam: Jesus, Matt!
Marisha: He does have a pile of maps over there. MATT Shh! Don't look at it.
Taliesin: I'm not looking, I'm not looking.
Marisha: I'm just noting the pile.
Matt: So, first and foremost, let's go ahead and roll initiative.
Liam: Okay.
Matt: You'll get a surprise round.
Liam: Okay.
Marisha: Dope.
Liam: Natural 20 for initiative, as well.
Marisha: You finally got a good initiative roll!
Sam: I got a seven.
Taliesin: I got an 11! Together, we can get a Slurpee. I'm weird tonight. I don't know what's up.
Matt: All right.
Sam: Well, I can't do anything.
Matt: All right, well. First and foremost, before anything happens, this entity, as it notices your presence, it begins to transform and its image becomes more horrifying. As you pull your dagger out, I need all of you guys to roll a wisdom saving throw.
Marisha: You have advantage!
Taliesin: I rolled a one and then a natural 20.
Matt: (laughs) Nice.
Liam: 17.
Matt: 17?
Taliesin: Thank you for the advantage.
Marisha: You're welcome.
Matt: Scanlan?
Sam: 11.
Matt: With advantage?
Sam: I also always have advantage, so do I get to roll a third time?
Liam: No. Doesn't stack.
Matt: Unfortunately you are considered frightened by this entity. It scares the crap out of you.
Marisha: You can't be frightened after a Heroes' Feast.
Taliesin: You can't be frightened after a Heroes' Feast.
Matt: Ah! Then never mind. You feel it shake your form for a second. Its horrible visual presence, for a second, freaks you out, but then you remember the knowledge that your friends are here and you have to serve a purpose and you shake off--
Sam: Not only do I shake it off, I gird my loins!
Matt: Pull them up and get ready. All right.
Marisha: Just for a refresher  you're immune to poison, disease, and fear, and you have advantage on your wisdom throws.
Taliesin: We should do this every time we fly.
Marisha: It's expensive.
Liam: So, do I get to attack and then move into the combat round where I got a natural 20 plus five for initiative?
Matt: Well, you go first. Technically, it's not a surprise round because the creature can sense life and saw them before it happens, so it wasn't ambushed. But you do get to go first, and you do get to go before it. In the use of surprise, I didn't mean to use it in the surprise round fashion. These entities can detect living creatures up to five miles away.
Liam: So, there's no sneak attack damage on this thing, is there?
Matt: If you get to it first, you still have advantage.
Liam: All right.
Matt: Because it doesn't see you. You're still hidden from it.
Liam: 15, so this is a 26 to hit.
Matt: That hits.
Liam: Okay. And this gets the sneak attack damage?
Matt: This would, yes.
Liam: All right, here we go. But it's not a critical hit from assassinate because--
Matt: It is not surprised.
Liam: It's not surprised. All right. So, that's a four plus seven is 11. Plus 15, 19, 20, 24, 26, 28?
Matt: Okay.
Liam: I'm just going to keen dagger it three times in a row. Oh, I've got to roll to attack, so that is a twelve plus-- 22?
Matt: Hits.
Liam: Okay. Two, and that is six of damage, and then natural 20 on that one. That is three, four, three, plus seven is ten, so 20 for that, if it's doubled for a critical hit.
Matt: For double dice, not doubled modifier.
Liam: Oh, all right, so six plus-- 13.
Matt: Okay, 13, good to know. Awesome. So, out of the shadows, (whoosh) three daggers strike this wailing ghost entity. Each dagger, it punctures, and you see it reacts from the impact as there's a flash of magical energy with each hit. The daggers then tumble out of its form and then blink back to your belt side. It looks like it definitely did some damage to it, but it's--
Liam: You know what, just to be fair, I changed out all my daggers except for one, so I probably couldn't throw the same dagger three times in a row, so I think should pull back some of the modifiers, so I would pull out four, because my dagger is plus two. So the plus two for two of those hits gets taken out, right?
Matt: It would actually, yes.
Liam: So four, minus four.
Matt: So, minus four damage to this other guy.
Taliesin: So truthful.
Sam: So, we're fighting it with wooden stakes?
Matt: Wait so you threw wooden stakes at it as two of the attacks?
Liam: I threw one dagger and two wooden stakes.
Matt: Okay. So, the first dagger hits?
Liam: First was the dagger, yeah.
Matt: Yeah. The two other stakes pass through its form without any other impact. The one dagger does return to you, but the two stakes just clatter in the distance, and the creature seems unharmed by those two.
Liam: Even though they came out of the belt?
Matt: Yeah!
Liam: All right.
Matt: Sorry.
Liam: It's okay. It's just wood.
Taliesin: You learned.
Matt: So that ends that point. The creature now swoops up to the center of you three and gives out this horrible (roar) this wailing scream that bursts out in the air, you feel like the wind push you back and all of you feel like for a moment you're staring at your own death. I need all three of you guys to roll constitution saving throws.
Sam: Does our meal help us with that at all?
Matt: Nope.
Taliesin: 11.
Marisha: Wait, don't forget you have the additional--
Liam: What?
Marisha: 2d10 hit points on top.
Sam: Okay. 16.
Liam: 16.
Matt: Okay. Both of you guys, you feel this chilling burst of spiritual energy blast through your soul. And you each take 14 points of psychic damage. Percy, however, as you look at it, it seems like this blast actually forces the soul from your body momentarily. You immediately drop to zero hit points and are unconscious.
Sam: What? No! No, he can't. Oh, god.
Matt: So with that, you see Percy, eyes roll back and then collapse onto the floor like a pile of cold bones. Out. Percy, it's your turn. Go ahead and make a death saving throw.
Taliesin: 11.
Matt: 11, okay.
Marisha: That's a good sign.
Matt: Scanlan, it's your turn.
Sam: Very quickly. Should we flee?
Marisha: Get the fuck out.
Liam: In a little bit.
Sam: In a little bit? Okay.
Liam: Without Percy?
Marisha: Well, get him up.
Matt: You still have Bigby's Hand, by the way, on concentration.
Sam: Oh, that's right!
Matt: Let's see how long that lasts, actually. Let me see how long it lasts. Just to be safe.
Taliesin: We haven't been there very long. (whispering) God damn it.
Matt: Up to a minute. So probably would have faded by now.
Sam: God damn it.
Matt: Sorry. What are you doing, Scanlan?
Taliesin: Really, it's the door's fault.
Sam: Shit. I'll just Lightning Bolt her. Him. It. Whatever it is.
Matt: Okay. So you release a bolt of lightning energy right in its direction. Go ahead and roll damage for that.
Sam: Oh, just damage?
Matt: You don't have to hit for lightning bolt; it just hits everything in front of it, and you have to try and avoid it.
Sam: Oh, 8d6.
Matt: What's the DC?
Sam: Do I get my hand cone?
Matt: It is a free action to pull it out, so you instinctively-- hand cone, cast the spell-- out the bolt goes.
Sam: So, 19.
Matt: 19, okay.
Sam: 8d6.
Matt: Does not make its saving throw.
Sam: Great.
Taliesin: Need more d6, or are you cool?
Sam: Nope, that's it. I just need help counting.
Marisha: That's good!
Sam: 16, five, 21, 27.
Taliesin: 28, 29, 30. 34!
Sam: 34.
Matt: 34 points of damage. The lightning blasts through her, not impactful as you think it might be. This entity because it is in an ethereal state, is not as effectively hit by such magics. However, it does take damage.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: I will move back a bit. Away from the thing. And I will-- Oh! We have people.
Marisha: Yay! Percy's unconscious!
Laura: No!
Travis: Keep fighting!
Marisha: It's okay, it's cool.
Laura: We've been listening in the car.
Taliesin: Okay, so you know.
Matt: Scanlan, you move back?
Sam: Okay, and then I can, as a bonus action, still get a bonus? I will heal him, this doofus here.
Taliesin: I didn't do anything!
Matt: Healing Word.
Sam: Okay, yeah. (singing) I'm bring health points back. Yeah! You mothafuckas don't know how to act-- Yeah! That's all I got. (singing) Take it to the bridge!
Matt: All right, so Healing Word is 1d4 plus--
Sam: Yeah, but maybe I should do it at a--
Taliesin: Just get me up. It's okay.
Sam: Just get you up? Okay. 1d4 plus something?
Marisha: Do it.
Sam: Two plus whatever. Six? Eight?
Marisha: I think it's plus your spell level.
Matt: Healing Word will be--
Sam: It's 1d4 plus five, so it's seven points.
Matt: So, seven hit points. You're conscious, but you're still on the ground, face down, loosely fallen over the stuff on the altar.
Taliesin: I don't get my turn until next round.
Matt: Correct. So, Scanlan? Your turn's done? Vax, you're up.
Liam: All right, so where is it? I'm just going to back away from it about three steps, while I pull Flametongue Dagger out of my cloak.
Matt: Okay. You're in this room currently.
Liam: Yeah, oh! That, oh, okay. No. So, I'm going to walk, thanks. I'm going to slide up the wall along where Scanlan is. Towards Scanlan. And another thing I realized, I haven't clicked my Boots of Haste, so I wouldn't have been able to do whoosh, whoosh, whoosh, anyway. And I'm still not going to. But I'm pulling out my Flametongue Dagger and now I'm throwing Keen Dagger, Flametongue. First one is 26.
Matt: Hits.
Liam: And the second one is 23.
Matt: Hits.
Liam: Okay. First attack gets 11.
Matt: All right.
Liam: And the second attack gets eight.
Matt: All righty. Both daggers hitting it, you see its form being impacted by each dagger hit. It still continues to come forward toward the two of you. Is that the end of your movement?
Liam: I'm going to, without doing any dash or anything, because I can't, I'm going to move as far as I can just going kitty-corner. Behind Scanlan, walking along the wall.
Matt: Over here?
Liam: Absolutely.
Matt: That far?
Liam: Yeah, that's as far as I can get, that's good.
Matt: I think so. All right. That ends your turn. The creature now is going to drift up to the unconscious form, or the now-conscious form of Percy. It's going to swipe at you with its Corrupting Touch. Since you're prone, it has advantage on the attack. That'll be 20 to hit. What's your AC?
Taliesin: 18.
Matt: 18? Okay. As its hand reaches down and passes through, as you just come to consciousness, and you start getting yourself up, you look up and feel this cold sensation as its hand reaches through your back and seems to almost grasp your spine. Your whole body lurches from the impact. You take 12 points of necrotic damage.
Taliesin: I'm back to zero.
Sam: That's two!
Liam: It starts over.
Sam: It does?
Taliesin: Yeah. I'm back to zero.
Sam: If he dies once, comes back and dies again, is that two?
Matt: No, he has to fail his death saves.
Taliesin: I just woke up and went, (groans). Passed back out again.
Matt: That ends its turn. Well, no actually, it's going to start moving now. It's going to drift through the rest of its movement this direction. That ends its turn. Go ahead and make your death saving throw.
Taliesin: Yes, 19.
Laura: Yeah.
Travis: Yay, little snitch.
Matt: All righty. That ends your turn. Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: Hey, should we leave?
Liam: No, we should kill this thing!
Sam: Damn it! All right.
Liam: We're not going to be able to run. This thing flew in here on the breeze.
Sam: I don't think Eyebite's going to work against it. So, fuck, I'll cast Bigby's Hand at 6th-level, then.
Matt: (laughing) Okay!
Travis: Has that ever been done?
Sam: I don't have any more 5th-level slots. So, I'm just going to make it even bigger.
Matt: All righty.
Sam: I don't even know what it does.
Liam: Fingers going out the windows of the church like Alice in Wonderland.
Matt: All right. Bigby's Hand. With a clenched fist deals an additional 2d8 damage.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: So if you're going to punch it, it does an additional 2d8 damage.
Sam: Yes, I think--
Matt: What are you going to do?
Sam: I'm going to bitch-slap it, but the forceful hand. So I can just push it far away from us. Possibly to the front door.
Matt: Okay, I see. So it does no damage but it does force its movement.
Sam: Yeah.
Matt: Okay, and I'll say because you did it at a higher level, it's an additional five feet of movement on that. So, as the hand shoves toward the creature--
Sam: It takes no damage for that?
Matt: The forceful hand it doesn't, no. There's grasping hand and the clenched fist do damage.
Sam: All right, so then I'll just hit it. I'll just hit it hard.
Matt: Okay. So, you bitch-slap it physically hard. Clenched fist. Go ahead and make a spell attack. Go ahead and roll a d20, add your spell attack modifier.
Sam: 14. Plus, what am I adding? Oh, nine. Plus nine.
Matt: 14 plus nine? That hits. Go ahead and roll damage. That's 6d8 force damage because you cast it at 6th level.
Sam: 6d8. I don't even know what those are. That's a ten.
Liam: They look like diamonds.
Sam: There they go. I got one. I'll just roll it six times.
Travis: (singing) Diamonds are Scanlan's best friend.
Laura: No, diamonds are Vex's best friend.
Sam: 24?
Matt: 24.
Sam: Even at 6th-level, that's all it did.
Matt: Yeah. As that happens, the fist clenches and (wham) bitch-slaps the back of the wailing ghost creature. As it does you hear it scream out in pain (screech) as its spectral form is scattered across the air and dissipates.
Sam: What?
Marisha: Thank god.
Sam: What?
Travis: I think you smashed it.
Marisha: You killed it.
Liam: You crushed it.
Sam: But I'm so little and wee!
Liam: Lift yourself up for a victory lap.
Sam: Yes, I lift myself up with Bigby's Hand. Yeah, that was a great idea.
Matt: You toss yourself up a couple times.
Sam: Whoa!
Travis: Meanwhile, Percy's unconscious.
Sam: Oh shit! Percy!
Liam: No, I've got four healing potions. I pour, it's not the best. It's a greater healing?
Matt: So, it's 4d4 plus four.
Sam: I will also sing for him a Song of Rest, which is just another d6.
Matt: If you guys are taking a short rest--
Sam: Yeah. Oh, are we clear of danger?
Liam: We don't know, but I poured the potion into Percy's mouth.
Taliesin: 4d4 plus four?
Matt: Yep, you got it.
Taliesin: Four, five, six, seven, nine, ten, 14. Yep. I'm awake. Hurt, but--
Liam: I slap him twice, anyway.
Taliesin: Ugh! Ah!
Liam: What do we do?
Sam: What are we doing here?
Liam: The priest's dead. Is there anyone else, or should we head back?
Taliesin: We should head back. Apparently, any help I thought we'd find here is obviously gone.
Sam: Should we check this other room first, before we go?
Taliesin: Did we not check the other room?
Sam: No.
Liam: No.
Taliesin: Let's check the other room, and--
Sam: Quickly, though, quickly.
Taliesin: We'll check the other room quickly.
Liam: While they check the room, I'm going to go all over the altar and see if there's anything, any hidden door, any trapdoor, anything like that.
Matt: Okay, go ahead and make a perception check.
Liam: Eh. That's a-- oh! No! Wait, I keep forgetting that's a rogue skill. That's a 20.
Taliesin: I was really hoping you missed that part.
Matt: Looking over the altar, it appears to be smooth, solid stone. Nothing catches your attention. You check the other room. This is a small kitchen, essentially, for whoever was running here would make small meals or things to delineate during worship and/or just cook for its own meals when the father was keeping--
Taliesin: Has it been used recently? Is it--
Matt: It does not appear to have been used, you can make an investigation check to gather an idea of how long it's been there. SAM I'm going to look around as well and food and stuff.
Taliesin: 12.
Sam: 22.
Matt: Okay. You get the feeling that the last time this was used was a little under a week ago.
Taliesin: All right.
Sam: Any provisions that we can take? Water, food?
Matt: You find a couple of loaves of stale bread, some dried meats, salted dry meats, like some jerky-ish type things. Things that are meant to last a while. There is produce here, but the produce has long wilted and gone to rot.
Taliesin: I have theories on who's been using this space. Is there anything that would clue me in to who's been using this space?
Matt: It's hard to really tell. You're not too familiar with lifestyles of different individuals. Whoever left the notes, and whoever was dabbling with the vicinity does have a tendency towards sciences and alchemy in ways that seemingly can blend and overlap with your specialty. That's the best you can ascertain, based on the information given.
Taliesin: Now, here's the question. Do we leave them a sign that we're here, or do we hope that they don't notice?
Sam: Well, let's leave them a sign. We're supposed to be sowing discontent, right? So, let's leave a sign that someone was here and fucked up their shit. Do you want me to pee on the altar?
Taliesin: No.
Liam: I take my dagger, and I go to the altar--
Taliesin: Wait.
Sam: No, don't leave your dagger; it's your only one left.
Liam: I didn't say I'm leaving it. Yeah. You want that?
Taliesin: I want that.
Liam: I start-- would you hand me that scrap of paper, yeah?
Sam: Whoa, this is our sign?
Liam: So I start carving this-- Is this Pelor?
Taliesin: This is not Pelor. It's part of the crest of de Rolo.
Laura: Ooh!
Marisha: de Rolos are back!
Liam: Okay. So, I just start scraping it into the stone with the Keen Dagger.
Matt: Okay. And it gives a horrible screeching sound as you carve into this well-polished stone surface that's used predominantly for worship, or when it was. Given about five, ten minutes in you manage to scrape a design into it that is visually distinct against the smooth surface, and does match the design best to your ability that Percy--
Taliesin: I would also like to drag Father Reynal out of his room and put him at the pedestal.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: And then before we go, I'm going to the wooden door, and I carve into the door: Pelor lives in Whitestone.
Sam: That's a lot of words.
Marisha: Six hours later...
Liam: It's wood! It took me five minutes.
Matt: Okay. You finish your carving, seemingly without recurring incident.
Taliesin: Like to head back now, I believe.
Matt: Yeah. You guys make your way out of the temple back into the center of the graveyard. The sun is beginning to set. The reds and purples of the night sky are starting to creep in, as it just begins to crest on the far western side of the mountain range surrounding the valley.
Marisha: I have a question. MATT Yes.
Marisha: What's the weather been like since we've been in Whitestone?
Matt: It's been spotty, cloudy--
Marisha: The sun has come out during the daytime?
Matt: Bits and pieces. There is heavy cloud cover that seems to be pushing through. It brings colder weather. It looks like when you first got there, there was some snowfall that happened before you arrived. You've had a few days of sun, but I'd say about half the day is cloud cover.
Marisha: Does it seem to be fairly natural weather for this time of year? Okay.
Matt: And this far north, too. All right. You guys--
Liam: I also grab those wooden stakes off the ground.
Matt: Okay. Takes you a little time, because they're amongst a bunch of other broken wooden scraps--
Liam: I grab a couple extra, as well.
Matt: Okay! You find some splintered wood. You guys make your way back into the town. I'd like you all to make a stealth, or a deception check, if you prefer.
Sam: Deception, please. (sings a ditty) I'm just a peasant boy.
Taliesin: 13.
Matt: 13.
Travis: G'day sir.
Liam: 23.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: 32.
Matt: All right. As you guys are making your way back towards the tavern, there is a small group of Whitestone villagers walking and having a conversation. Not heated, but there is a sense of desperate conversation amongst them. And, standing with them you can see there's an older gentleman, mostly bald, long scraggly gray hair that falls past his shoulders, a little bit hunched. He's wearing dark leathers and a cloak that's over one shoulder and drags the ground behind him. And they're talking to him and he's growling to himself and the best you can make out is there's an argument about farming shipments and the inability to make dates and requirements. He shouts back to the remainder, says, "Listen, it is beyond my control. This is what has been decreed by Sir Kerrion. That is how it'll be. If you cannot provide, then taxes will be pulled. If you cannot pay, then there are far worse things we can take. Now, be on your way!" And steps away from the group, looks over and sees a little boy and this in the shadows skulking individual. "You there!"
Taliesin: Yes?
Matt: "You new around here?"
Taliesin: A bit, yes.
Matt: "I don't recognize you." And two of the guards step forward.
Taliesin: I suppose it's our good luck, then.
Matt: "What's your name?"
Taliesin: (sighs) Reggie.
Matt: Make a deception check.
Taliesin: Fuck my life. I know! 21!
Liam: My name's Reggie.
Matt: "Then make yourself useful. Maybe you can make up for some of these lost crops that these bags of shite keep saying they can't do."
Taliesin: I'm actually supposed to be going back for a--
Matt: "I don't give a shit, move on, boy."
Taliesin: Yes, sir.
Matt: He grumbles and keeps on walking. The guards give you a look. One of them spits at your foot, keeps walking on. Eventually, they drift aside. You continue your path back to the tavern where the rest of you are waiting. The sun has now set. Night has taken the sky and Keyleth is on the verge of completing her ritual.
Laura: I'm cleaning my nails as I'm watching her.
Taliesin: I'm keeping an eye from the second floor. I want to see how much movement in the city there is and whether or not there's any guards by the tree, whether or not the tree seems to be left to its own devices.
Matt: Okay. As you're keeping watch, you notice occasionally there will be one of the zombie giants that will lumber through the center of town. There's a very specific pattern that they tend to follow.
Taliesin: Definitely trying to memorize that.
Matt: And you do notice a couple of other guards that you didn't notice during the day begin to show up. They're humanoid; they're armored. They sneak around. They're humanoid, but their movement is unnatural.
Taliesin: Is there a lot of light in the town, or not very much light?
Matt: Not very much light at all. There's very low-lit points at certain crossroads that've been left up for general visibility for those who have to travel at night, but you gather most people just do not travel at night here in Whitestone.
Laura: Make sure no lights are lit in our--
Taliesin: We've already blacked out--
Sam: I blacked out the windows.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: Keyleth--
Marisha: Yeah?
Matt: You finally complete your ritual. Sweat pouring down your brow, you have your hand on the roots--
Marisha: Can I do something? Something real quick for my final, extra drama? So, as I complete the ritual, remembering that Pelor, and this is a sun tree. I'm going to cast my 6th-level Sunbeam spell as I'm finishing the Plant Growth with the last big essence--
Sam: At night?
Marisha: I'm underground. So, I'm going to take my Sunbeam, and wrap it up with my druid goodness. And shove it in the tree.
Taliesin: You're going to shove it where the sun don't shine.
Marisha: Yeah, I'm going to kill it. I don't know if it's going to work or not.
Matt: Okay. Roll a d20 and add your wisdom modifier.
Marisha: Do I get advantage on this? Because of Heroes' Feast?
Matt: I would say no, because this isn't a saving throw and because what you're attempting to do is essentially convert a highly damaging spell into a non-damaging circumstance at the end of an eight-hour endurance match with a ritual. This is going to be a difficult attempt. So go ahead and roll a d20. Add your wisdom modifier.
Marisha: I hope I didn't just fuck up by doing this.
Laura: You got it, Keyleth.
Travis: Yeah, you never get arrested or anything, you're good.
Sam: Use the green one. This is you doing greenery.
Marisha: I'm so nervous.
Sam: Natural 20. Easy. Or a six.
Laura: Oh, no.
Marisha: But my wisdom's not bad, so 12?
Matt: You complete the ritual and release the healing energy of your Plant Growth spell. As you release it you begin to concentrate on the sun ray and you begin to see, throughout the pieces of earth around, seeds quickly begin to germinate and small little bits of ivy, greenery begin to pierce out from parts of the earth in your immediate vicinity, as this affects a large radius. There does not appear to be any sort of immediate reaction by the tree. You begin to pull back and concentrate on the spell. You release the Sunbeam forward. In the frustration of the lack of reaction from the tree and the desperation to make sure some effect happens, you release the full force of the beam as opposed to the prequel aspect and you burst into some of the roots, blasting some of them apart and beginning to set flame to part of the under of the tree.
Marisha: Oh, cool. That's cool. Cool story.
Liam: Bucket of water.
Marisha: I'll put it out.
Matt: You guys hear this (explosion).
Laura: That's right in front of-- I pull out my cloaks in my bag and start trying to put out the flames. Keyleth, what? Was that supposed to happen? Is that good? Was this good? Should I stop? I keep putting out the flames.
Matt: You put out the flames. And you notice where the fire had burned aspects of the wood, there is the black char marks across the roots where the flames touched, and the area surrounding the root is a little more of a vibrant brown color. Almost like a little hint of life seemed to have seeped into the root.
Marisha: Oh my god.
Matt: It expands for a moment and you can see a little bit of life return to that localized section of the tree.
Marisha: Ooh! Like starting a fire. (blows air) Go, go! Can I Druidcraft? Come on!
Matt: As you do, there's still these bits of ivy greenery, this long-embedded seeds through years and years and generations of earth layering in here. These long-dormant seeds are starting to come to life and spring through the earth around you. The expansion of the healthier portion of the root begins to spread, and then stop spreading. And you begin to notice all the greenery begins to immediately wither and crumple and turn to ash. And you watch as the vibrant aspect of the roots slowly drain from the bottom up. Like something is pulling the life force out of the roots.
Laura: They're sucking the life force out of the earth.
Marisha: I take some of that holy oil that Vax gave me and I dip my finger in it and start rubbing it along the vines that are growing along the edge of the roots.
Matt: You take the holy oil and place it along the roots, and it soaks into the dry and in some cases now charred aspects of the roots. You wait a moment, and the oil seems to almost burn off and evaporate.
Sam: So, the ground is cursed.
Marisha: The ground is cursed.
Sam: Well, poo.
Travis: Should I try peeing on it?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Marisha: Perception check?
Taliesin: That thing you hate doing?
Marisha: No, I'm good at perceiving things, I'm just not good at reading people.
Sam: You know what we need to do?
Marisha: That's not bad. 23?
Sam: Hydroponics. No ground, just grow it above.
Matt: The pattern of decay that followed your initial attempt at reviving this vicinity, all had a very distinct downward motion of draining. There was something about the ground, something beneath the tree and where you are that is seemingly taking the life force of the surroundings.
Laura: Oh, my god, what if the vampire thing is right underneath us?
Marisha: I was going to say, can I still see the green being sucked down a bit?
Matt: At this point, all the life force was very quickly drained.
Laura: Can I use my Primeval Awareness and sense any sort of vampiric presence within our very close vicinity?
Matt: What's the radius on that?
Laura: It's a minute. It's up to six miles if I spend six minutes.
Matt: Okay. So you take your time, and you begin to focus and it expands. As you do, focusing on vampiric presence, you feel a fair amount of presence: above, below and further north. And smattered throughout the city. You get the sensation at this point in time that there is much more beyond just Lord Briarwood that have come to be a creature of the night in this city.
Laura: (whispering) That's good. Bad. Probably bad.
Travis: Maybe they're not below the tree, maybe it's just the soil.
Taliesin: The ground is tainted.
Marisha: I'm exhausted.
Sam: Let's sleep.
Taliesin: Let's sleep.
Laura: We're just going to sleep? Surrounded by vampires, we're just going to sleep surrounded by lots and lots of vampires?
Taliesin: I'm going to tinker for a moment on my glove with that thing I talked about.
Matt: Okay. Make an intelligence check.
Taliesin: An intelligence check?
Matt: Yeah, just a straight intelligence check.
Taliesin: 14.
Matt: 14. Incorporating this organic organ? Keeping it from rotting is already going to be a feat. In order to incorporate any of its natural charge essence is going to require your workshop. Doing that on the go is too intricate.
Taliesin: I just wanted to think about it. It's fine.
Matt: I mean, it may be functional. It's definitely possible to use what you extracted from the behir to be a way to charge your Diplomacy, but that is something that you'll have to do in a controlled space when you have everything at your disposal. It's a very delicate process to even attempt it.
Taliesin: I think we get it.
Liam: I'll take first watch.
Matt: Okay. You all take an evening's rest.
Marisha: I'm sorry I couldn't fix the tree, you guys.
Taliesin: We learned a lot.
Laura: You even did that awesome fire thing at the end that was really, really cool.
Marisha: Thanks. I was afraid I was going to permanently kill it for a second.
Taliesin: We know it's not dead dead. That it's just tainted.
Sam: Guys, I just want to say that I killed a door and a banshee, so--
Laura: Really?
Sam: Yeah.
Laura: Nice, Scanlan.
Sam: The door was harder to kill.
Travis: That's some door!
Taliesin: It's okay. I think I figured out what we have to do first.
Marisha: What do we have to do first?
Taliesin: I think we have to kill Kerrion Stonefell.
Sam: Who's that?
Taliesin: It's the one that everyone-- he's the one managing all of the goods and all of the farming.
Sam: Is that who they were talking about today? The group?
Laura: Where is he at?
Sam: Oh, Sir Kerrion. I thought they said something else.
Taliesin: Kerrion Stonefell. He's in one of the three-- I would assume that he's been given one of the three mansions in town.
Sam: You think if we find him, kill him, and leave his body on some sort of public display, it would sow some seeds of rebellion?
Taliesin: I think it would be the beginning. He's who everybody's afraid of.
Travis: We could hang him in the tree.
Taliesin: We could hang him in the tree.
Sam: We could. Grog, could you do something nasty to his body?
Travis: Just say the word.
Laura: Oh, this is messed up.
Sam: All right.
Travis: Do we check the mansions for him?
Taliesin: I think we ask around to see if there's a way to ask around to find out who's in what house.
Sam: Ask around? Let's just go house to house and kill everyone in all of them!
Taliesin: Let's-- Eventually, yes.
Travis: Hello. I'd like to share the news of our Lord and Savior: my axe in your face!
Sam: Yes. We could be Mormons.
Matt: As you guys take your watches and go to sleep in the cold interior, and it is a cold interior of the tavern. As the night comes through, this is your first time really staying the night in the center of Whitestone. Even though you slept in the forest, in the boughs of the trees itself, the temperature grows far colder here, and even with the warm interior, the windows frost over and you find yourselves having to huddle or build some sort of small fire to even keep a semblance of comfort to rest. You all eventually go to sleep throughout your various times. I would like everyone to make a wisdom saving throw. With advantage, because you're still affected by the Heroes' Feast.
Sam: Until noon tomorrow, right?
Marisha: 2PM tomorrow.
Sam: Yeah!
Taliesin: 12.
Sam: 17.
Marisha: 25.
Liam: 20.
Laura: 23.
Travis: 14.
Matt: Okay. All of you wake the next morning rested as best as can be. Percy, your entire evening was wracked with nightmare after nightmare, imagery you wish to not recall. Whispers and voices familiar, unfamiliar, seeing yourself pulled from your physical self into the heart of this banshee, then wrest from death, barely, cackling in the distance. I want you to go ahead and mark on your sheet one point of corruption.
Laura: Oh.
Travis: What does that mean?
Marisha: Oh no!
Sam: I don't even know where that is on the sheet!
Laura: He could be evil. We could turn evil here!
Matt: As you wake up, you find yourself wracked by those nightmares, a sense of nervousness comes to you. And there's a tremor to your voice now that's uncontrollable. At times of silence, you find yourself impulsively clearing your throat. And with that we're going to take a five-minute break.
Marisha: What the fuck?!
Taliesin: Yay!
Matt: All right guys, keep this to a stringent five-minute break so we can get to as much as we can before the show's up tonight. So we'll see you guys here in five minutes? All right?
Liam: See you in 17. [break]
Matt: Welcome back everyone. So, a couple quick things. One, we're roughly 30 to 25 subs away from our next milestone. The milestone, as we do with every 100 subs, the winner in the chat room, as long as you're active in it, gets a package of one of our signed cast photos, as well as a wonderful poster art piece from our artist, Kit Buss, signed by the cast, and that will also be our 10k mark.
Travis: Damn!
Liam: Damn, damn!
Travis: Skittles, motherfucker!
Matt: It's pretty fantastic. So, as soon as we hit that we'll have our next giveaway and a big celebration as we hit 10k.
Marisha: Get yourself a double cheeseburger.
Liam: (singing) Look at the Sun Tree!
Matt: Also, you guys just caught, as that break ended, a quick episode of Omnibus. Omnibus is a new show that shows here every Tuesday. It's helmed by Ian and Hector, some of our fantastic hosts here. It talks about all sorts of things. Not just Batman things. All sorts of things in geek culture and-- what's that?
Taliesin: There's more than Batman?
Matt: There's more than Batman! It's crazy! I pop up there every now and then to answer some questions and talk about some cool things, as well as a number of other cool personalities that pop in and out. Check it out if you're around on Tuesday. It's a lot of fun. All righty. So let's kick back into this. So, a rough morning's rest come to fruition. Percy seems a little worse for wear after the evening's sleep.
Marisha: You feeling okay?
Taliesin: (grunts)
Marisha: It was cold. Did you catch a cold?
Taliesin: No, I'm fine.
Marisha: Is your throat ticklish?
Taliesin: A little ticklish, I'm fine.
Marisha: Do you want some Goodberries? It might help a little bit--
Laura: Keyleth.
Marisha: What?
Taliesin: I'll take some Goodberries.
Marisha: All right. If you suck on them a little bit they act like "logenzes."
Sam: "Logenzes?"
Marisha: Well, shut up.
Liam: Kenny Logenzes.
Sam: Kenny Logenzes.
Marisha: Kenny Logenzes.
Matt: It's a whole business opportunity that was missed.
Laura: Oh wait. Seeming has ended at this point, hasn't it?
Matt: Seeming has ended, yes.
Laura: So, Trinket is a bear.
Matt: Trinket is now a bear.
Laura: Okay, cool.
Matt: And not a donkey.
Travis: And not a donkey.
Liam: But he's indoors with us, right?
Laura: Yeah. I've been laying on him all night.
Travis: Man, that was a good night's sleep. Who do we get to kill today?
Sam: Sir Kerrion.
Travis: How many mansions are there?
Taliesin: There's three.
Travis: Right. One, three.
Liam: Do you know which one he lives in?
Taliesin: I don't.
Liam: Shit.
Sam: Only one way to find out. Burn every house down except for those three mansions and see who runs out.
Travis: I like it. Seconded.
Taliesin: I also think perhaps we should find a new place to sleep tonight. I think it might be best. To mix it up. Keep moving.
Travis: But I've been peeing in the corner.
Laura: That's why it smells like it does. Grog!
Travis: What? Look, it's like they did in the old days, they had chamberpots. I mean, I have my corner. It's my recreation corner. Sorry. Yeah, that's my brand.
Liam: That is ripe. We're leaving.
Sam: You want to all be peasants again? Can we not just disguise ourselves in tattered clothes?
Laura: I have a bear. Do you want to disguise the bear?
Sam: Oh, wait. We could just leave the bear behind.
Laura: In the house.
Sam: He could guard this safe house, and then we could go find another safe house.
Taliesin: Scanlan, cast the spell.
Sam: All right, fine. Seeming it is. We're all peasants and he's a donkey. And I'm a little boy.
Matt: You're a little boy. Jovial boy without a yo-yo.
Taliesin: There's a shop that I used to frequent. We can see if that's perhaps been abandoned.
Laura: All right. I want like a crazy eye in my Seeming.
Sam: Of course you can! I'll give you two crazy eyes.
Matt: (laughs) You now have two crazy eyes.
Liam: That's an improvement. That's nice.
Matt: The majesty of bardic illusion.
Taliesin: So we're going to go to Beyond the Horizon.
Matt: Going to Beyond the Horizon?
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: All righty. You guys step out into the day's sun. Today is fairly overcast. Clouds have taken the sky, and there is a bit of a light mist that is falling. Not quite rain, but not quite drizzle, but just a mist in the air. It's a cold day. The ground and most of the walkways and roads are a little damp due to the moisture in the air. Not muddy, just a little bit of a packed wetness to it. As you head over towards Beyond the Horizon, and that lies more in the northwestern quadrant of the city. A little ways around the street from one of the noble houses, so you keep a wide berth. You come to the row of shops that bookended it before, and you go to the curiosity shop to find that the building itself is partially collapsed and ruined. The door is torn off the hinges and left to the side. Part of the ceiling is fallen in.
Sam: Is there a basement?
Laura: Yeah, secret doors? Can I use a perception check to see if there's any kind of secret entrances in the rubble at all? Something that leads to a cellar?
Matt: Do you wander into the building? You guys are still on the outside--
Liam: How collapsed is it?
Matt: The whole building is still standing. It just looks like the front entrance is caved in and the doors were pulled off.
Laura: I'll just old lady walk into the building and look around.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: I'll go in with her.
Taliesin: Do old ladies lick the air?
Laura: Yeah, she does. This crazy-eyed old lady does.
Liam: Yeah, the eyes, they never go in the same direction; one's always to the left and one to the right.
Matt: Looking about the inside, most of the furniture has been broken or taken. You can see a bunch of shelves set up as this was once a curiosity shop. Empty. Anything of worth has long been taken.
Sam: Oi, Grandma! Any yo-yos in there?
Laura: I'm looking, boy.
Matt: A large scattering of broken glass, and a peppering of stains. Dark, ruddy stains across the hardwood floors you can see spattered in places. Occasional rat seems to crawl out in the distance a little (rat squeaking) sound. But there is no other sign of life within the interior. Go ahead and make an investigation check.
Laura: Ooh, with no advantage, right?
Marisha: What time is it?
Sam: Oh, until noon.
Marisha: Until 2PM, yo!
Matt: Wisdom check, not saving throw.
Marisha: Oh, never mind.
Liam: 13.
Matt: 13?
Liam: 13.
Laura: That would have been an eight.
Matt: Eight. Okay. You take a while pushing through some of the rubble, checking behind the main desk, if you will, as to where most purchases would have taken place. The place is cleared out, and looks like it's covered in enough dust to have been left here for the better part of six months to a year.
Laura: I can't see any kind of like door that leads to a cellar?
Matt: Glancing about, you find what looks to be a small cellar door that opens up in the floor in one of the back rooms. You open it up, there's a small ladder, not even a staircase, a ladder that leads down in there. It's a small room, about ten foot by ten foot. That room is also entirely cleaned out.
Laura: All right. No yo-yos here, boy.
Sam: Thanks, grandmama.
Taliesin: Can we use this as a base of operations in the moment, then?
Laura: But it's half-collapsed, it would not be very protected.
Travis: Yeah, we're fully exposed.
Sam: Let's just take a walkabout and see if there's anything else around the area.
Travis: Do you want to head in one of the directions of the mansions?
Taliesin: Let's head to the closest mansion.
Matt: Okay. So you skirt back towards the the crossroad, the nearest crossroad that heads northward to the very, very far northwest section of Whitestone. There you come to this noble house, which has a nice bronzed fence around the outside of it. Probably about seven feet tall with these intricate spears affixed to the top, almost in a fleur-de-lis type pattern, but looks sharp enough to keep anyone from trying to leap over. The front gate is currently chained off with a lock on it. There is a lawn, but the lawn itself appears to be frost-crusted from the evening's moisture and cold temperature. What grass is there is very gray and dull and currently crisp with a white frost dew. Is a slight hill, and you do see the building itself. It's a very nice building. It's a deep brown. A lot of it appears to be like natural stained wood from the local forest surrounding Whitestone, with highlights of deep green and black. There does not appear to be any immediate sign of life from the inside, but there does appear to be a light coming from the inside, so even at this point in the day, it can be dark on the interior. You can see a little bit of light coming from one of the doors.
Marisha: Is there a mailbox with a name? (laughter)
Sam: Are there guards out front or anything, or is it just a gate?
Matt: It's just a gate, currently.
Sam: Do you want me to go in?
Laura: What if we went to the fields and we asked other peasants how we report to what's-his-fuck. Keron. Keron?
Taliesin: Kerrion.
Laura: Kerrion?
Travis: Oh. That's actually a good one.
Taliesin: I will say, chances that anybody in any of these buildings is somebody we're going to want to take care of is very high.
Laura: So, just bust on in and kill them right now.
Sam: Just, whoever's in there?
Marisha: Is that actually what you're saying?
Liam: And you went from focusing on Kerrion, to kicking in doors?
Travis: Are you feeling all right?
Laura: Yeah, you look a little pale, Percy.
Taliesin: I am a little pale.
Marisha: It's kind of like the game show problem.
Sam: Well, you know.
Laura: Are you sick? Does Keyleth need to cast, I don't know, Restoration on you or something?
Taliesin: I just had a bad night's sleep, that's all.
Travis: Scanlan, go knock on that door.
Marisha: Do you have a fever?
Sam: I'm just a little peasant boy.
Marisha: Is he running a fever?
Matt: He is not actually, he's quite cold and clammy.
Marisha: Ew.
Taliesin: My nice jacket. We can ask around. See if we can manage to ask somebody without arousing--
Sam: Is anyone else on the street?
Matt: Right now, in this particular area, there is nobody on the street. You passed a few folks. A lot of them seem to be traveling southward.
Taliesin: How far are we from the temple? The Alcove?
Matt: The Alcove is a little further east, it's probably about a 15-minute walk. The other temple, that one is about a ten-minute walk south of here. It's closer to the southwestern side of the city.
Taliesin: We could take a walk to the Lady's Chamber and see if we run into anybody there or on the way, and it's only ten minutes out of the way.
Travis: The Lady's Chamber?
Taliesin: Not as exciting as it sounds.
Liam: You know someone there?
Taliesin: (sighs) It's not looking like it.
Sam: I bet it's empty. I mean, it's a temple. The other one was.
Travis: All right, but I thought we were killing somebody in this house.
Sam: I thought so, too.
Taliesin: We'll get to it.
Sam: I can just pop in there and see who's in there and pop out.
Laura: Be killed? Never pop back out again.
Taliesin: He doesn't know what he looks like, anyway.
Sam: I'm just a peasant boy. You wouldn't kill a harmless peasant boy.
Taliesin: I think they would, actually. They already have.
Laura: We saw the tree.
Taliesin: Genuine proof that they are perfectly fine killing a small peasant boy.
Liam: What is there in the way of guards out in the open now, and those giants strolling about?
Matt: The skulking humanoids you saw last night that were wandering the streets? None of them visible. You do take in that far down the road to the east of you there is a large shape looming around the corner in a shadow stretching across the road. And you hear the distant (muffled stomping noise).
Liam: Are we within eyeshot of that thing right now?
Matt: Not yet. It looks like it's coming around a corner at the bend of the road a ways to the east.
Liam: Is there anyone our size, any humanoid guards around?
Travis: No.
Liam: Nothing?
Matt: Currently? No.
Liam: I'm guessing the best time to sneak into any of these places is during the day.
Marisha: Do we want to sneak in, though? You're the only one who knows what they look like.
Matt: It's coming around the bend.
Marisha: Okay, wait. Are the gates locked?
Sam: Let's get out of here. Take a walk, we're going to take a walk.
Taliesin: We're going to take a little walk and let it pass by. Let's go to the Lady's Chamber.
Liam: Lady's Chambers, anyone?
Sam: Towards the Lady's Chamber. We're not going in.
Liam: It's full of prostitutes, Grog. Full.
Taliesin: You'll see. It's not really that complicated.
Liam: What did you roll?
Matt: All right. You guys dart southward across the road, ducking into the alleys of the southern portion of the road, getting out of the visual range of the zombie giant that is making its way down the road, across your path. Heading southward, you dart through the back alleys and keeping free of the main central visual areas of the city, you eventually make your way to the corner that houses the Lady's Chamber. And as you guys see it--
Sam: Have we passed any people?
Matt: If you're keeping an eye out for that, yes. In some of the alleyway, you do pass a couple that are holding some, what looks like either scavenged groceries or some sort of food they have keeping close to themselves.
Sam: Can I go talk to them?
Matt: You can, indeed.
Laura: I'm going to come with you.
Matt: All right. As they're both walking by, keeping the hush, they see you guys step in the same alley. They stop for a second, looking you over, give a nod.
Sam: Oi, excuse me? My papa sent me to send a present, a gift of sorts, to a Sir Keri? Kurion?
Laura: Kerrion?
Sam: Kerrion?
Laura: Kerrion?
Sam: We're just looking to see where we can deliver the gift.
Matt: Make a deception check.
Liam: Scanlan's forte. Come on.
Sam: 29. (laughter)
Matt: You both stop and the man gives her a look like he's trying to usher her along, pulling her arm and she goes, "No, honey, it's just a child." Walks up and leans forward and says, "If you're looking for Sir Kerrion, you'll find him in the extravagant abode to the southeast of the city."
Sam: The one right over there?
Matt: "No." And gives you a side look for a second and says, "You don't want to go find the Countess there. If you're looking for Sir Kerrion, you go to the southeast. Look for the brick building. That's where he stays. Near the farming area south of us. You're not from here are you?"
Laura: We're new to town.
Sam: She's blind.
Matt: "Well, just do what he says. Don't question. All right?"
Sam: Okay. I just need to bring him this sack of presents, or my papa will whip me pretty bad.
Taliesin: TMI.
Matt: "Then perhaps you could do that quickly."
Sam: You're so pretty and clean.
Matt: She blushes for a second, goes like, "You stay safe." And brushes the hair out of your eyes for a second and pinches your cheek a little bit, and there's a look of sadness in her eyes, almost like, what horrible fate befalls this child, if he's not careful.
Laura: I smack him on the back of the head and say: Let's go boy! Keep up!
Sam: I'm her seeing-eye boy. (laughter)
Matt: She rushes back to the side of the man with her and, "See, it's fine. Good luck!" And they both dart off down the alley again.
Liam: Sam Riegel, ladies and gentleman, he played Gavroche in Les Mis. Gavroche, right here, Gavroche.
Matt: On Broadway. Literally.
Taliesin: He is Oliver Twist.
Sam: (singing) Consider yourself! (speaking) Oh, that's a different show.
Taliesin: I was ready! I was ready.
Matt: All right, so. You make your way southward to probably what's the second largest road intersection in this city. Away from the Sun Tree square. You can now see the temple to Erathis here. And it is a large stone half dome amphitheater set up where it's built outward to face the actual crossroads. And there is a courtyard built around it, a small stone wall about three feet tall, that encapsulates this area. There is a couple of trees, but there isn't a lot of grass, most of it's just stonework-- Erathis being the goddess of civilization. You know, it has an interesting duality and disrespect to Melora and all unbridled nature. Things that are controlled and civilized are definitely her realm of expertise. But as you approach, like most of the grass here, it's pretty desolate and dead. Winter is definitely making its way to this part of the city. You do notice that surrounding it, there is dried ivy, and just a general feeling of solemn desperation and sadness. There are a few people scattered throughout sitting on benches, sitting in quiet contemplation. Some of them are clutching small holy symbols and doing a prayer to themselves while rocking in the bench. You do see within the dome, there is a group of about four people that are all sitting, looking up to a man, an older man with a thick, white mustache and receding white hair. His gray robes he's wearing look weathered. You recognize him. While you haven't had too much interaction, not being much of a pious man, in any form of religion from your history, but you do know, Keeper Yennen is the head priest of Erathis here and is currently giving the tail-end of a small sermon to those here. Hearing him, he speaks words of comfort talking of, through these dark days, we must bind together as a community. We have to ensure that our livelihood and our existence is kept, and we look out for our fellow man. There is solace in the friendships and bonds we keep here. And best not to upset those that wish to keep us down. Erathis looks over us. There will be a time in which our salvation will come. And he goes into this very rallying speech and trying to lift the spirits of those around.
Marisha: You said there was 40?
Matt: Four.
Marisha: Four. Right.
Sam: But they're allowed to assemble?
Matt: Yeah. There's four around him in the amphitheater. There are probably another ten or so scattered about the various ground surrounding it, just doing their own private prayer.
Taliesin: Do I have an opinion on Yennen?
Matt: Yennen? From your previous experience and what you've heard is a very-- can be a bit arrogant in his worship, but not in a way that is considered dangerous or impactful to when the de Rolo families were in rule. He does good for the people. Kind of a tool at times. But he practices well and he keeps the people's spirits up for those who worship.
Taliesin: We found him a bit obnoxious to our means and ends on occasion?
Matt: On occasion, but mostly just his personality. Nothing he's done personally. He's not a bad person, by any means. He's just, you know.
Taliesin: He's also not a lapdog.
Matt: Yeah. Strong-willed in his ideas.
Laura: Can we insight check him to see if it seems like he's changed at all, or if he's still that same douchebag or if he's--
Matt: You would have no basis of comparison. You would be the only one that has.
Taliesin: I'm going to walk up to the little meeting. Is it wrapping up right now?
Matt: It seems like it's winding down. He finishes the discussion about the bonds of community, speaks about this city sprang up from nothing, but has a greater destiny to itself. If not here at Whitestone, one day we will all go past these boundaries, these borders, and create our own cities. There is hope for this. And then begins to go into a couple of familiar prayers tailored specifically to the Erathis way of thinking, and then finishes and everyone looks up, bows their heads for a second and begin to stand up and walk away from the amphitheater as he turns around and begins to clear off one of the back benches for him to sit on.
Taliesin: I'm going to just walk up and start a conversation.
Matt: Okay. You walk up to him, he sits down. "Can I help you?"
Taliesin: Do you think there's any hope for Whitestone? Do you think there'll be a day the people can find happiness again?
Matt: "I can say this. If history has taught me anything, our people are a resilient bunch. There has been much death, opposition, to all the free peoples of these lands. And yet, they persevered and surmounted these odds. I think, though, to some degree a prison this town may have become, perhaps we ourselves cannot see the distant ends. It's easy to misinterpret the means of those that would oppress us. But we can't go too long before the world at large can see the atrocities committed, the terrible entities that walk these streets."
Taliesin: Do you think there will come a day that these people can seize freedom for themselves against their oppressors?
Matt: "I look forward to a day in which there can be a beacon of outside hope. From the inside, I fear many wills have been torn asunder. I'm sorry. Forgive my manners. Welcome to the Lady's Chamber. You are unfamiliar to me." And he looks out at you guys standing at the peripheral of the amphitheater. "Travelers?"
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: "I fear the cold winter is looming. An ill omen takes this city, friends. You may stay to give worship, if you will, then I recommend you continue on your way. There is little here but dying tradition."
Taliesin: I have a prayer to give.
Matt: "Interesting."
Taliesin: I pray for a day to come when outside forces can rally the people of Whitestone again. That strangers may come and bring with them salvation, and that the people will seize it.
Matt: "You speak in strange confidence for a traveler."
Taliesin: Look for signs, Keeper Yennen. Look for signs. I'm going to hand him a piece of parchment.
Matt: "Signs of what, I might ask?"
Taliesin: Salvation. Good day to you, sir.
Liam: Act cool. Everybody act cool.
Taliesin: We walk south.
Travis: We walk south. We leave.
Taliesin: And you know what I've left him.
Matt: Yeah. As you're walking away, you hear his voice call out after. "Wait! What does this mean?" He pulls the parchment forward, revealing the symbol of the top of the de Rolo family crest.
Taliesin: That... (sighs) What appears dead may not necessarily be death. And that with the shadow of death over the city perhaps there is life deep underground. Perhaps things that appeared ended and gone are perhaps continuing to this day. And may rise again.
Matt: Go ahead and make a persuasion check. Give you advantage on this.
Taliesin: 16.
Matt: Nods his head slowly, looks back at the sheet. Looks back at you with a discerning look.
Taliesin: He's definitely not going to--
Matt: Oh, not at all. You look like a dirty peasant right now. Takes it and hastily closes it and folds it and puts it in the pouch. Steps back over and gathers some of his loose tea leaves-- he was making himself some tea-- and looks about shiftily, calls over one of the other worshipers and begins talking with them as you guys walk away.
Taliesin: Let's head south.
Travis: South it is.
Sam: To the--
Laura: To the house?
Sam: To the house.
Taliesin: Kerrion Stonefell's stately manor.
Marisha: So wait, which mansion were we at?
Sam: The Countess.
Laura: The Countess.
Taliesin: Countess Anna Ripley.
Marisha: Which mansion is that out of the three?
Taliesin: That's the northeastern one.
Marisha: That's the northeastern one?
Laura: And she was which? Who was the Countess again?
Taliesin: I'm assuming if it is who I suspect it is, it's Countess Anna Ripley.
Sam: And who is she to you?
Taliesin: She is a terrible person.
Sam: Wait, she's the one who killed a bunch of your people, right?
Marisha: She's the doctor, right?
Taliesin: She's the doctor.
Laura: Oh, she is the one!
Travis: Do we get to kill her?
Taliesin: I hope so. But let's-- one at a time. If we're lucky, maybe one a day.
Marisha: Well, okay.
Travis: Like a vitamin?
Sam: Like a Flintstone's vitamin. Except it's assassination.
Taliesin: (coughs)
Sam: Do you need some healing? Are you okay?
Taliesin: I'm fine. I'm fine.
Sam: Scanlan can make you feel good.
Taliesin: I'm fine.
Travis: (laughs) He can make you feel real good.
Laura: Can I go up and ask Keyleth, outside of his earshot, to maybe cast some sort of restoration on him, without-- He's fighting it. I don't think he's feeling well. Can you heal him?
Marisha: I'm mean, yeah. He's going to feel it once I cast it on him, but I can try.
Laura: He looks cold and kind of slimy, and he's coughing a lot.
Travis: Wow, that's harsh. Looks cold.
Sam: He's probably been up tinkering all night.
Liam: Who are you to talk, Crazy Eyes?
Laura: I know.
Taliesin: I look like like a dirty peasant right now.
Laura: No, that's true.
Marisha: I don't know if my-- I don't know if Greater Restoration will work.
Laura: All right.
Taliesin: Should only take 20 minutes to get to the house, shouldn't it?
Matt: Yeah. Approximately.
Taliesin: We're not passing anything interesting on the way, are we?
Sam: Any other safe houses? Potential candidates?
Matt: I mean, there are plenty of houses that currently don't show signs of life.
Taliesin: I was thinking mostly of the barracks or the Alcove.
Sam: Yes, but after we kill this thing, we're going to need to know where to go.
Taliesin: Got some thoughts.
Sam: Thoughts? We need a place to retreat to immediately.
Taliesin: The Lady's Chamber.
Sam: It's an amphitheater isn't it?
Taliesin: There's quarters. They'll be able to hide us.
Marisha: What makes you think they're going to hide us?
Taliesin: Hunch.
Sam: Shouldn't we have a backup plan, in case they turn us out onto the street?
Taliesin: Actually, my thought was if we take care of Stonefell, why don't we hide in his house?
Laura: Nobody will know, right? Let's do it!
Sam: That's a good plan. They probably have some good wine.
Travis: I always wanted to be a lord.
Sam: All right. Let's go assassinate someone.
Marisha: Percy? I don't mean to beat a dead horse or anything, but--
Taliesin: If it would make you feel better, you can do whatever you like, but I think it's just a tickle.
Marisha: No. You're sure about all of this?
Taliesin: This has been what I've been working for for years. I'm not going to lose-- I was surprised last time. I've had time to think about it. I'm going to be all right. And I'm keeping it together. I'm not going to pretend that I'm great. But I've got a hold on it.
Sam: They also have technology, now. They have weapons, guns, that they're developing. It could be a threat to many, many other people.
Marisha: Well, that I'm fine with. No, not that I'm fine with. I mean, I'm fine helping prevent that. I'm just more worried about your sanity than anything else.
Taliesin: I've got a hold. And I respect that if you think that I'm slipping, you'll let me know.
Marisha: Okay. You followed me into the fiery abyss, so--
Taliesin: If that isn't a sign that I must be crazy, I don't know what is.
Marisha: Touch. I'll follow you, though. I'll follow you to the end.
Sam: As the oldest among us, I say that he's fine.
Taliesin: Are you actually the oldest among us?
Sam: Well, I assume so. How old are you people?
Laura: What?
Travis: Me?
Sam: Yeah.
Travis: Somewhere between one and 50.
Liam: Well, I'm 27, but I don't know how old she is.
Matt: And with that, rainfall begins to hit upon the city--
Laura: Oh no.
Sam: Let's go.
Matt: The ground immediately becomes thick with mud and sludge as you begin making your way through the city to the eastern side.
Marisha: I go puddle hopping!
Taliesin: This is not a happy place.
Travis: Low key.
Liam: Low key.
Marisha: Oh. I look miserable.
Taliesin: Look wet.
Travis: I take the Dust of Tracelessness to void out any footprints in the mud.
Liam: It's been washed away with the rain.
Matt: You do it. As you walk along, you do, some of the mud shifts behind you. It can be a little conspicuous if you're not careful.
Travis: Oh. Not my normal flower girl routine; maybe it's like the old Shawshank Prison walk. (laughter)
Taliesin: The old Shawshank Prison walk.
Matt: All right. The Alcove is a little ways north. It would take some time. You're pushing at like 10:30 in the morning at this point, around 11AM. Are you going straight to the supposed homestead of Kerrion Stonefell?
Laura: Let's do it!
Liam: We're going straight there?
Laura: Yeah.
Taliesin: We're going straight there.
Matt: All right. You bee-line it. You're all getting cold from the wet rain that is now soaked through your clothes. You make your way, and this home is a deep, red brick in construction. This house was not here when you lived here. It looks like what house was here has been demolished and rebuilt with sturdy masonry. It's a two-story building. There appear to be two guards currently set outside. Two regular leather-armor looking, more thugs than guards, but they're just both keeping under the overhang at the front porch to keep dry and grimacing at the weather. There is a gate around it. This gate is more for purpose than visual presentation. It's a black iron, nasty, jagged, rusty-looking gate. Not too dissimilar to the one that surrounded the graveyard. It's about a 20-foot walk from the gate entrance to the front step of the actual building itself. How do you want to approach this?
Taliesin: Let's walk around the back, I think.
Liam: As we walk up, I'd like to trail back by Grog in the rain. The killing's going to start soon. It's not going to stop. We're going to protect them. All of them. (laughter)
Liam: Yeah, big guy?
Travis: Yeah.
Liam: All right.
Sam: Vax, you have your daggers back, right?
Liam: I got them all.
Laura: I put a couple arrows in the holy oil that we have.
Matt: All right. Each holy oil is essentially three--
Laura: Oh, can I just dip one arrow in, then, right now?
Matt: Mark that off from one of your holy oils, you have one of three uses of that, and that that arrow does have a holy oil essence.
Sam: Percival? If we get in there, what are the chances that this gentleman, Sir Kerrion-- Korean--
Taliesin: You can mispronounce his name. It's fine.
Marisha: Sir North Korean.
Taliesin: Sir Starbucks, yes.
Sam: Sir Starbucks. What are the chances that he's going to be in a coffin? Sleeping?
Taliesin: 50-50.
Sam: Okay. All right. Good to know.
Travis: Would it be worthwhile to maybe say that the little boy and the old lady were caught hoarding crops and we brought them to this guy, see if we can draw him out of his house?
Sam: Ooh, that's a cool plan. I like that plan!
Marisha: It is raining.
Sam: Oh, wait, but I would be bait?
Travis: Yeah.
Sam: Okay, fine.
Taliesin: Let's take a long walk around the house to see if there's a way in through the back.
Travis: Okay.
Marisha: It's dark. It's raining.
Taliesin: And I can't imagine that many people attempt to infiltrate this house.
Liam: How dark is it?
Matt: I mean, it's overcast, but it's getting closer to noon. Even though you can't see the sun, and it is dark clouds overhead, it is still a general universal storm light. Darkened daylight.
Travis: Once around?
Marisha: Does it look like it's going to pass soon?
Matt: No. It looks like it's probably going to be here for most of the day at the very least.
Sam: The rain will dampen the screams from inside. So we go around once? Once around?
Matt: Okay. Perception checks all around.
Sam: Perception check.
Liam: I'm looking specifically for ways in the building other than the front door.
Sam: I'm looking for clouds because I rolled a two.
Travis: Four.
Taliesin: 21.
Laura: 24.
Liam: 20.
Marisha: 21.
Matt: All right. I will say above 20s, you guys notice there is a cellar door outside the building that descends beneath it. There's no indicator as to whether or not it's attached to the house or if it's just an exterior cellar that you can enter from the outside. You do also see there are a number of windows around the household that are all currently closed that lead into the interior. You're uncertain if they're locked or open. There's a little bit of light from the inside.
Marisha: Like candlelight?
Matt: Like candlelight or lantern light, the darkened exterior has made most of the sunlight that would warm a building or light it up from the inside has been cut off by the rainstorm. So, there is a necessity for internal lighting.
Marisha: Is there any sign of windows that are blacked out?
Matt: No, but you do notice that one of the windows to the far back side of the building where most of the light's coming from-- occasionally the light does seem to shift or a shadow moves past it. There's movement within that room nearish that window.
Sam: They're watching TV.
Laura: Probably. I cast Pass Without a Trace on all of us.
Sam: Ooh, thank you!
Marisha: Are we going through the cellar?
Sam: Is our meal still affecting us?
Taliesin: Until two.
Sam: Yes! Let's go in quick!
Laura: Is it possible to see what the movement is, who it is inside that window?
Matt: Not from this 25 to 30-foot distance from the building and you guys trying to be inconspicuous.
Liam: There's nothing between us and the building?
Matt: There is the gate. The gate, and what looks to be a few rocks and a couple small trees that are on the actual grounds of the house surrounding it.
Laura: Is the cellar door hidden from view of everything or is it out in the open?
Matt: Which one?
Laura: The cellar door that we saw.
Matt: The cellar door is out in the open, buttressed against the back of the house. It's up against the ground on the side. It has two doors that open up and lead into the cellar below.
Laura: Does it look like anybody can see us?
Matt: From where you're standing? No. You're going to be hardpressed to get across without being in sight of somebody if someone were nearby.
Marisha: We're between a fence, right?
Matt: You're on the outside of a fence.
Travis: Do we want to try to draw them out or get to the cellar? Either way, those two thug guards are going to die.
Marisha: There are guards?
Laura: There's two guards.
Sam: There's two guards.
Matt: They're currently not in visual range of you. They're guarding the front of the building. You guys moved around back. So you don't see the two guards currently on the opposite side of the house.
Travis: What's the fence made out of? Is it the spear-y shit?
Marisha: Is it poky up top?
Matt: It is poky. yes.
Travis: It is poky.
Matt: It's not super sharp poky, but there's iron rods.
Travis: So, I could throw Scanlan over.
Liam: If you roll a two, you can get hurt.
Matt: Yeah, if you rolled poorly, it's going to deal some damage.
Sam: Should we do a diversion for the guards?
Laura: They can't even see us, though!
Sam: Yes, but once we go through the fence, they might. I don't know. All right, you want to sneak in?
Taliesin: Let's try to sneak in and leave the guards there unless they notice us and then we'll just (thwip thwip).
Sam: All right, sure!
Travis: How do we sneak in past them?
Taliesin: You want to try to pull one of the wrought irons off, maybe?
Travis: I'd be down for that.
Sam: If I puffed some smoke, would it draw attention to us?
Taliesin: Yes.
Sam: Okay, then never mind.
Taliesin: It's raining. We can make a little noise, it'll be okay.
Liam: Where are the guards in the front?
Matt: They're currently on the opposite side of the building. If you guys are looking at the back. They're in the front of the building guarding the front door.
Liam: Inside the gate at the house?
Matt: Correct.
Marisha: Want me to heat up that metal bar for you?
Liam: We still have to go over and in.
Travis: Sure.
Laura: Let's just up and over the bar, athletic it. Acrobatics it?
Liam: Grog, can you bend that shit open?
Matt: Your donkey's still there beside you.
Laura: Fuck!
Liam: Yeah, well, if Grog can frigging make a hole in there--
Travis: Can I try and Lou Ferrigno those bars?
Matt: You're more than welcome to. Go ahead and make a strength check.
Marisha: The bar that he's--
Taliesin: Lou Ferrigno-ing.
Marisha: -- Lou Ferrigno-ing, I'm going to cast Heat Metal.
Sam: Is that going to burn his hands?
Marisha: Put on some gloves.
Travis: I don't have any gloves.
Marisha: Spit in your hand a little bit. Grip and bear it.
Sam: It's raining. It'll be fine.
Matt: So, you cast Heat Metal on the bars and a certain area of this gate begins to glow with a dull orange to become a brighter orange, and portions of it going whitish-hot in places.
Sam: Why don't you just hit it with something?
Laura: Wrap your hands.
Marisha: You can use your axe.
Matt: The rain, by the way, is puffing against it and evaporating as it impacts the now-heated metal.
Sam: But that'll be loud!
Marisha: You do you! You do you, Grog.
Travis: I rolled a 23.
Matt: 23? Okay, you reach over and grab it, your hands smoking on the-- use the pain! Use the pain and pull down the bars. You get a large portion of the gate to actually bend downward into an arc, causing the whole gate to fold inward on that side, making it much easier for anyone to pass through. However, you do suffer nine points of fire damage from the burn and your hands are currently scalded.
Taliesin: Now we can get Trinket in!
Liam: That's a hangnail on his pinky toe.
Travis: It's all right.
Marisha: I go ahead and I cast Healing Word on his hands.
Matt: Okay. So it's 1d4 plus six. She's rolling it.
Marisha: Ooh! 11.
Travis: Hey, back to full!
Matt: So, the scarring stays for a bit. You do smell the burning flesh, but there's no lasting wounds on your hands.
Taliesin: You can check to see if there's a lock on the cellar door?
Liam: Yeah, sure.
Travis: We gotta make it across the lawn first.
Laura: Well, we're in the back of the house.
Liam: Well, we're all just walking very quietly.
Laura: We're stealthing.
Matt: So, everyone make a stealth check.
Taliesin: We have advantage?
Matt: No, everyone gets plus ten to their stealth. You have disadvantage on the stealth check, though.
Sam: Plus ten.
Matt: Yes, plus ten to your stealth roll.
Sam: 17.
Travis: 23.
Liam: 34.
Laura: 32.
Marisha: 34.
Taliesin: 26!
Matt: All righty. You guys all keeping low and quickly darting across the grass field. You make your way, pattering across the somewhat slick grass. The rain is a little warmer than the frost that kept the grounds frozen as the morning came to. So, it's a little slick, but you make your way to the back of the building. You're still loosely out in the open, in a weird way, so you don't want to be out in the open for a long period of time. This isn't a safe place. You're currently, apparently made it to this side of the building unnoticed. But you don't want to stay here very long because you are visible to anyone who's on either side of the gate exterior.
Liam: I'm going straight to the cellar door.
Laura: Up against the wall of the building.
Liam: I give it a little (clunk) to see what I feel.
Matt: It is locked. It does gives resistance.
Liam: I get to work.
Marisha: Do your thing.
Laura: I feel like it's been a while since you've done this.
Liam: Did what?
Laura: Lockpicking.
Liam: I already did it earlier when you weren't here. 14, that's 27.
Matt: 27. You reach over, without even looking. You grab the lock; you're familiar with this kind of lock. (clicking) You take the lock off the chain. The chains fall loose against the opposite side of the, or the inside of the door. You pull it open. It's dark inside. You can see the dry stone steps that lead down below the building as rain starts darkening them with drops that are hitting them.
Liam: I lean my head in really fast and just see if I can hear anything, and roll a one.
Laura: Could I stealth in a couple of steps look around and see if there's anybody in there, or hear anything?
Matt: Okay. Make a perception check.
Liam: No, I said it's good! It's good! Let's go! Right? You agree. We're never wrong!
Laura: 19.
Matt: 19. Listening to the inside. The smell's a little musty, like a cellar you'd expect. But a little bit of dust and untouched earth. There's nothing down there; no movement, no sound.
Laura: It's clear, let's go! Ish!
Matt: You all drop in. Darting into-- which is good, because you notice around the corner one of the giants is turning the corner. You all dive inside, close the cellar doors. Bringing you to the interior.
Laura: I wonder if they're going to notice that fence.
Sam: They might.
Matt: You hear the pattering of rain across the wooden doors of the cellar. You made your way down underneath. And it is pitch black. There is no light source down here.
Liam: I pull out my Flametongue Dagger.
Matt: Okay. A little bit of flame causes enough candlelight to see the surface. And it is a wine cellar.
Travis: I have Darkvision.
Marisha: I'll go ahead and use my flaming hands.
Matt: Okay, so with an instant of will, all of a sudden flames burst around-- [no audio]
Matt: -- is a small ladder in the corner that seems to lead up to a latched door that leads to the interior of the house.
Laura: I got up to it and listen.
Matt: Make a perception check.
Laura: I don't hear anything, you guys. I think it's fine!
Liam: My ears are bigger than yours. Let me have a listen. Get down.
Laura: Yeah! Your ears are huge compared to mine!
Liam: Definitely, look at them!
Matt: Your sister assures you she heard--
Laura: There's nothing there!
Liam: I don't hear anything, either. I think we should just bust in.
Sam: Okay!
Travis: Wait.
Taliesin: (whispers) Quietly!
Marisha: Wait, hang on! Grog just said wait!
Liam: I keep forgetting the rogue skill, so really I rolled a 20.
Sam: Wait, what? You rolled a three and it becomes a 20?!
Liam: For perception, I can no longer roll lower than ten, unless I roll a one. But if it's a two or nine, it's actually a ten for me.
Laura: That's awesome.
Matt: Rogues are pretty cool.
Taliesin: That's crazy.
Laura: Yep, rogues are awesome.
Travis: Rogues are whatever.
Matt: So you put your ear up to it and listen carefully. And you hear pacing footsteps creaking against wood no more than maybe four feet away from you.
Liam: Is that one person?
Matt: One person stops and then moves again, then moves again almost like there's pacing, and you hear low voices. It's a conversation; there's two voices. You hear one voice very muffled, but it seems to be similar to the voice of the gentleman that came across you guys on the street that actually briefly talked to Percy the day before.
Liam: The old guy; the balding guy?
Matt: The balding guy with the long stringy gray hair.
Liam: He's just reporting in. He's his frigging money collector.
Matt: The other voice you don't recognize, and it's too muffled for you to make out anything. About four feet from you, not over the cellar, but off a ways to it. You're not certain where this doorway leads to, the level of muffling you can hear through the floor leads you to believe that they're not directly above you.
Liam: Not directly above. All right. There's nobody right above us, but there's people in the house.
Laura: They might be close.
Travis: Just to be clear--
Liam: No, they're on another floor or in another room.
Travis: Before we start  we're killing everything, right?
Taliesin: Yes.
Travis: Okay, good. Do we want to send one person out sneaky and then have a code word like Cheeto if it all goes wrong?
Marisha: Last time we did that, it went really well.
Travis: Did we do that before?
Liam: No, we didn't send anyone, I just--
Taliesin: Let's just go one room at a time.
Sam: One room at a time? We have to get up through this latch and there's people right above us!
Liam: Scanlan, you or me? You want to go invisible, or do you want me to creep in?
Sam: I think you should have some fun, too. But before we do anything, do you want me to send a cloud up there of gross smoke to smoke out the area?
Liam: No.
Taliesin: No.
Taliesin: Let's not let them know we're here.
Laura: Wait, before we do this. Keyleth, can you maybe make the gate outside not look like it's all bent to shit?
Liam: Zombie guards aren't going to-- giants are stupid.
Sam: It'll be fine.
Liam: They're stupid. I mean, there are the guys out front.
Laura: Yeah.
Travis: It's fine!
Sam: What could go wrong? This is a stealth mission. We'll be in and out of here in six minutes if we do this right. Let's go! Go, go!
Marisha: Wait, are you going in? Are you infiltrating?
Liam: I'll go up and see what I see. Just above us, not far away.
Marisha: I touch Vax's shoulder and I cast Enhance Ability and I'm going to give you dex saves-- what do you want?
Liam: I'm good on that.
Marisha: What do you want advantage on?
Liam: Not dexterity. Constitution. I'm feeling a little weak.
Marisha: All right. Constitution.
Matt: What's this for?
Marisha: Enhance Ability. So I think it's called Bear's Constitution or something weird.
Matt: Advantage on constitution checks. Those are different from saving throws.
Laura: Oh.
Marisha: Checks.
Matt: But it does give him 2d6 temporary hit points, but those do not stack with the current temporary hit points you have. Constitution would not be of much benefit to you.
Travis: We could just set a fire down here.
Marisha: Okay. Do you want dex or anything?
Liam: I'm pretty dex-y already.
Marisha: Instead, I say, good luck.
Sam: Bonne chance! Vive la rsistance!
Travis: All right.
Liam: I'm going to check and see if it gives at all or if there's anything to it.
Matt: (creak) It gives.
Liam: It gives. All right, so I'm going to go up.
Travis: Invisible or not?
Liam: No, stealthing up. All right. So, okay, hold on, I get advantage. 23.
Laura: Wait, no. Plus ten because Pass Without a Trace.
Liam: Oh, 33.
Matt: 33. You move it up, without a sound, dart up, catch yourself and lower it down carefully. Dark interior, you use your Flametongue Dagger to look inside. You are inside of a closet of some kind, a ten by five closet. There are coats and outfits around you. You can push them aside. This looks to be like a small storage room that has been repurposed as a closet of some kind.
Liam: I am listening intently and feeling through as many pockets as I can find around me.
Matt: Easily enough. As you put your ear to the door, they are talking immediately on the other side of this door. You are a room adjacent to it. You do manage to pocket from a few of the coats about 47 gold pieces in total.
Marisha: Who leaves that much in their coat pockets?
Travis: Dead people, that's who.
Liam: Can I make anything out through there?
Matt: You make out conversation. It seems to be between a voice you don't recognize and the gentleman earlier you met, basically saying, "With everything that's going on now, it's honestly very frustrating that these people wouldn't do their share of the bargain. I, myself, I've been doing my best to keep them in order, but at this point in time, I think we need to do another show of strength in order to keep them working as hard as we have been." Another voice calms him down and says, "Don't worry, don't worry. Keep it under control. At the very least, we should have to be ready, prepared. If what Lady Briarwood says, we should be having visitors any day now. And I would hate to be caught flat-footed. So, we're going to go ahead and gather our arms, going to make sure that we outfit the place the best we can. Traps, alarms, whatever is necessary to make sure that we are not caught off-guard." (laughter)
Marisha: This is about to be hilarious!
Matt: You guys came at just about the right time.
Liam: I'd like to-- everybody hold.
Sam: Hold?
Laura: Hold.
Liam: I just want to wait for one minute and see what progresses.
Matt: Okay. The conversation continues. The older gentleman begins talking about, "I don't like the idea of there being any sort of conflict on our home turf. I wish they would just meet them out, head them off, cut them off at the head. Why did we invite them in here? That seems to be a dangerous circumstance."
Liam: While they're talking I say  we've got two gentlemen up here.
Sam: Two gentlemen!
Laura: Okay. I start climbing the--
Liam: I think it's time to start killing.
Sam: Grog up first!
Marisha: Places everyone, places!
Laura: Grog up before me.
Travis: It's opening night and I'm so excited! (laughter)
Matt: Stealth checks all around.
Laura: Plus ten!
Liam: Send up the goliath.
Marisha: That's good!
Travis: 29!
Sam: 18.
Laura: Plus ten!
Sam: That was plus ten.
Marisha: 32.
Taliesin: 28.
Laura: 34.
Matt: All righty. You all slowly make your way up. There's not enough room for all of you inside this room, this storage space.
Laura: Grog first.
Matt: Grog, you go up, you push open the door into the next room and it is a-- for lack of a better term, a music room. There's a few couches around, there's a piano set up.
Liam: Oh, it went closet to music room?
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: Oh, we're opening the door?
Matt: You guys are opening a door to a room next to-- the wall you were listening to is the room next to you. This opens up into a room adjacent.
Marisha: A music room! How regal!
Matt: So, as you push out into the room, it's dark in here. The only light that's coming in is from the nearby window. A little bit of sun's coming through from the rainstorm. You can still hear the rain pattering on the window and the second floor above you, there is no sound from the rain hitting the roof from this distance.
Liam: Dart my eyes around. Is there anything that's useful in here?
Matt: Not particularly; it's mostly decorative. Few vases, some books on the shelf. There is a door that is partially open that leads into hallway. A hallway that seems to connect the two rooms.
Liam: Which way are the voices coming from?
Matt: Yeah. The door is the opposite of the window and the room that you're in is adjacent to the room that the voices are coming from. The closet is in between the two.
Liam: Oh, between the two. So it is out, door, hallway?
Matt: Yes, out, door, hallway, and then the room where the speaking is coming from.
Sam: Do you want me to create a diversion of some sort? No?
Laura: Just run in, surprise him.
Sam: Are we going to go around?
Liam: So, we're stealthing, right?
Matt: Yeah.
Liam: So I pull both of their hands and I say--
Sam: Who's they?
Liam: Grog and Keyleth. I start pulling them through-- that's all right. Out the door. Along the hallway towards the voices.
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: Matt, that's a lot of maps you have down there.
Laura: Really? Really?! I'm offended. And I'm hurt.
Marisha: I look back at Vex and I just go--
Laura: I give you the worst evil eye I've ever given anyone.
Liam: Too bad one's going that way and the other's going that way.
Sam: As they go, I quickly lock eyes with Grog and I give him a quick little inspiration. (singing) Blood, glorious blood! Grog's about to take some. Dead dudettes and dudes, Grog's about to make some! (laughter)
Matt: All right, so take a d10 inspiration die. So, the three of you move on ahead. The rest of you-- Trinket is unable to climb.
Sam: Oh! Can I? Trinket  stay. (laughter)
Laura: I smack the back of your head again. And it's hard because I'm angry right now.
Travis: Do you have any of your rings on? Turn them inside and (impact noise).
Marisha: It's the mom slap, exactly! It's the grandma backhand.
Matt: All right, the three of you stand at the double doors. You moved around to the hallway. Is there a change to this arrangement that you would like? You currently have Grog, Vax, and Keyleth at the front, and three of you in the back.
Laura: Yeah, I want to stealth in behind Grog after they go into the room.
Matt: All right, so there you are. I'll put you on the side of the door there. You hear the voices from the other side of the door conversing and talking back and forth. Scanlan, Percy.
Marisha: Oh my god. Someone say something cool!
Matt: What's the plan?
Liam: I put my hand up in the air.
Sam: de Rolos, roll out!
Liam: And I click my boots together. (click) Feel that adrenaline rush.
Travis: I rage.
Liam: And I kick the door as hard as I can and go right in!
Marisha: (scream and cheer)
Taliesin: (scream and cheer)
Sam: (scream and cheer)
Matt: (impact noise) The door swings open, both of them slamming into the sides of these two bookcases. Immediately, you see behind the desk here and standing in the center.
Liam: It's Kiefer Sutherland.
Matt: You see the older gentleman in these long robes immediately spin his head and see, essentially, a troupe of armed villagers, peasants, dirty faces come rushing in. all fucked up eyes and all. Rushing into the room. They both turn, looking completely caught off-guard by this. You do also see in the room, there are a few guards that are just waiting off to the side. There's a couch area, there's a fireplace.
Marisha: Of course. Damn guards.
Matt: You guys get a surprise round.
Marisha: That's right!
Matt: So, let's go ahead and roll initiative to get the order of things here.
Travis: Advantage on initiative because I have that thing.
Sam: Are you alert? Do you have Alert? Is that what it is?
Travis: I have Feral Instinct.
Sam: Ooh!
Travis: Which I forget sometimes. That's better.
Sam: (sing with the battle music)
Laura: (sing with the battle music)
Matt: All right, so 25 to 20?
Travis: 20!
Taliesin: 23.
Matt: All right. 20 to 15?
Sam: 16!
Laura: Whoa! Look at you, Scanlan!
Sam: Better figure out what I'm going to do!
Matt: So, Scanlan is 16. 15 to ten?
Liam: 13.
Laura: 13.
Marisha: 13.
Liam: Half-elves!
Matt: Ten to five? Is that everyone?
Laura: That's all of us.
Matt: That's everyone, yeah.
Marisha: Bitches gonna die!
Matt: All righty! First, surprise round from all of you guys, catching them off-guard. Up first is Percy.
Marisha: Percy!
Taliesin: I'm going to pull into that empty-- Oh, I've got a button, don't I? I'm going to pull into that corner right there?
Matt: Over here?
Taliesin: And I'm going to take two shots at that soldier in the corner, that guard.
Matt: Okay. The guards, you can see, are wearing dark studded leather armor, no cloaks. Both have rapiers or stilettos, daggers on their sides. They look at the sudden intrusion and begin going for their weapons. You caught them off guard.
Taliesin: 22.
Matt: 22 does hit.
Taliesin: That's just a d10, where are my d10s? That's nine points of damage.
Matt: All righty.
Taliesin: Another shot to him.
Matt: All righty.
Taliesin: That's a misfire. I'm going to do a quick repair. And that's fine.
Matt: Does the repair take an action?
Taliesin: No, it takes a--
Matt: Okay, so you're fine. It does not break. Cool. That's your turn. One shot off. The blast rings out. As you fire the pepperbox, it misfires, and you quickly throw one of your tools in the air, catch it, and with one swift movement you unblock the passageway, click it back up into its place. Out of the corner of your eye, you turn, and for the first time in five years, you see, standing behind the desk, Sir Kerrion Stonefell. Visually, nearly the same as the last day you saw, except maybe a bit of white on the sides of the hair. Armored with a nice set of relatively ornate leather armor, blue hues and blacks. The hair itself is this tousled brown. There's a boyish charisma to him, if he wasn't such an asshole. And the moment you see him, there's this boiling rage from within just to have that moment of sight.
Taliesin: If you're lucky, you die last.
Matt: There's a look of complete confusion, as he has no idea who any of you are. You look like paupers that literally burst into his office. That ends your turn, Percy. Grog, you're up.
Travis: I hear him say that he has to die last, and in my rage, I race forward to that fuck in the middle of the room and I swing my Firebrand Warhammer at him twice!
Matt: All righty!
Travis: I would make to make this first one a new feat called Great Weapon Master.
Matt: All righty!
Sam: What does that do?
Matt: Minus five to hit.
Travis: I'm going to use my-- no, not on that one. That misses.
Matt: What did you roll?
Travis: A two! So that's 11. Yeah, that misses.
Matt: That definitely misses. As you swing in, (nervous yell) just ducks out of the way, and even though he's older, he reacted pretty quickly. Your weapon slams into the ground, splintering some of the wood. You peel back for a second attack.
Travis: That makes me even angrier. And now I'll use inspiration. 18... minus five, 23!
Matt: 23 does hit! Plus ten damage.
Travis: Okay. Plus eight is 13, 17, 27!
Matt: 27 points of damage, ooh!
Travis: Plus four for the fire damage, but still the 27 total.
Matt: So, as he ducks out of the way, you bring up the hammer a second time and (whack) smack him right square in the chest. (grunts) The wind escapes him for a moment and the flames lick across the front of his chest. He catches himself on the table between the sofa and chair behind him. Gets back on his feet. Looks to you for a second and pulls out two short swords.
Travis: That's the best thing you could have ever done.
Matt: "I don't know who you are, but you're going to regret this!"
Laura: What does Grog look like?
Matt: Grog looks like an oafish butcher. Tubby on the sides, an oldish, middle-aged looking man. Scruffy beard. Scanlan does his best on that one. Whatever other visual you want to--
Sam: Potbelly.
Matt: Huge potbelly. Grog, that ends your turn?
Travis: Yep.
Matt: All right. In theory, it is a surprise round. So you may have had advantage on that first strike, so go ahead and roll it.
Travis: (screams) 26. Minus five is 21.
Laura: 23. No, you're right.
Travis: Yeah. 21.
Matt: Roll damage again. We'll say this is an additional third strike in reaction to him pulling his blades out.
Travis: 32.
Sam: Jesus! God!
Matt: (wham) The hammer slams him a second time and he almost drops his weapons. The actual end table he's resting on shatters beneath him and he, (grunts) has to get back up onto his feet. Looking genuinely fearful now. That ends your turn.
Travis: You dropped your toothpicks.
Matt: Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: Okay, so he's been attacking the old guy.
Matt: Correct.
Sam: Those two flanking the big boss are just guards, right? They're just standard-issue guards?
Matt: Best you can tell, they're both in studded leather armor. They don't look like guards, like armored, they look like thugs that are essentially there to watch.
Sam: All right, well, I'm going to run in the room.
Matt: About how far in?
Sam: Make a left. I'm sorry, turn right, away from the action. And then I'll look at the guard behind and to the right of the big guy.
Matt: That guy there.
Sam: The good guy-- the bad guy.
Marisha: You got it.
Matt: That guy there?
Sam: No, this guy over here. And I'll Dominate him.
Marisha: Is that also a guard? There are three guards?
Taliesin: There are three guards.
Matt: All right, you're going to attempt to Dominate Person.
Sam: Yes. I pull up my hand cone and I say, (singing) You're as cold as ice! Willing to sacrifice your boss! And so I tell him to kill his boss. (laughter)
Matt: What's the DC on that?
Sam: 19.
Matt: Wisdom. He rolled a 17. That's a fail.
Travis: Yes!
Matt: He is currently Dominated by Scanlan.
Travis: (singing) Cold as ice!
Matt: Good to know. So, as he pulls his heavy crossbow out, loads it, and aims it towards you, looks over his shoulder for a second, and trains it on his boss. Sir Kerrion looking confused by this whole circumstance.
Marisha: Cool.
Matt: That ends your turn?
Sam: Yeah, that's it.
Matt: All right. Keyleth, Vax, and Vex, take your surprise rounds now.
Laura: Can I go first so I don't do any damage to you guys if you guys go in?
Marisha: I'm also probably going to do a ranged spell.
Liam: What are you guys talking about? Kill him!
Laura: I want to go in, peek my head in and shoot-- first, I'm going to shoot from my Longbow of Sky Sentinel. And I'm going to use-- it turns into three arrows for one of my attacks, so it's three more attacks, potentially?
Matt: Well, it's two additional attacks against the one arrow. So you'd get four attacks in one round, essentially.
Sam: Good god!
Laura: Okay! I'm going to do that! I'm going to attack him, the guy.
Matt: Which guy?
Laura: The bad guy.
Matt: There's two bad guys in there.
Laura: The one that's in charge. Kerrion.
Matt: Sir Kerrion? All right, go for it.
Laura: Yeah! 28.
Matt: 28 hits.
Laura: Okay, so I make an attack for all three arrows.
Matt: Correct. That was one of them. You fire it, it splits into three along the way, and you roll for each attack on each arrow.
Laura: Oh, that one doesn't hit. Well, probably not. 13?
Matt: No.
Laura: 18?
Matt: 18 unfortunately does not hit, either.
Laura: Jeez Louise, what a waste of a storm arrow.
Matt: And you still get a fourth attack with your second--
Laura: Yes.
Taliesin: Hunter's Mark?
Laura: That was the wrong thing. I can't; I'm going to Hunter's Mark him after this first one because it's a bonus action.
Taliesin: Oh, yeah.
Laura: What am I doing? 14, 15, 16, and then plus another d6, so it's basically like Hunter's Mark, right?
Travis: Nobody knows what you're doing. (laughter)
Matt: So the first arrow does an additional lightning damage.
Laura: 19 is the first one. And then I attack again. I'm going to Hunter's Mark him now. Can I do that?
Matt: You haven't used your bonus action, so yes you can. Two eyes going all--
Laura: 29.
Matt: 29 does hit, yes.
Laura: I'm so confused right now.
Liam: Us, too.
Laura: I know. 14 on the second one.
Matt: Okay, gotcha. So your arrows split, two of them embedding into the actual desk itself and exploding with a burst of electricity. A third one strikes him in the chest and you can see it stick in the armor and (boof) jolt him for a second. He backs up a little bit, catching himself on the edge of the desk as the final arrow comes and strikes him in the shoulder. He cuts off the shaft of the arrow as it hits (grunts) out of anger and frustration.
Laura: I totally shit the bed on that one, guys, and I apologize. I had things I wanted to do.
Sam: After she does that, I say  that was my grandma! (laughter)
Laura: That's right, boy!
Matt: This little boy.
Travis: Adding to the confusion.
Matt: Do you want to move at all? You would've had to move into the room to do that shot because you were outside in the hallway.
Laura: Huh?
Matt: You were in the hallway when that happened, so I'd say you'd have to be in the room to shoot them. Where would you want to be?
Laura: Oh, just right inside the door.
Matt: Right there in the door?
Marisha: What kind of armor is Sir Kerrion wearing?
Matt: Best you can tell, it looks like a very high quality studded leather.
Marisha: Studded leather?
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: Okay.
Laura: Can I say I peeked in to shoot and then went back around the side of the door?
Matt: Yeah, you can do that.
Laura: Yeah.
Travis: Keyleth, Vax.
Liam: Is it up to us?
Matt: You guys are the last ones to go.
Liam: Go.
Marisha: Okay, I'm going to cast Call Lightning. And I'm going to bring down a bolt. Here we go. This way. Right in between Sir Kerrion and this guard so they both have to save from it.
Sam: Take that, Sir Korea!
Marisha: Yeah!
Taliesin: Kerrion Stonefell.
Matt: As a thing of note, a storm cloud appears in the shape of a cylinder that is ten feet tall with a 60-foot radius centered on a point you can see in the air.
Marisha: Oh, so it's going to--
Matt: The room won't fit it, unfortunately.
Marisha: The room won't fit my storm cloud?
Taliesin: That sounds like a great song.
Matt: It says if you're in a room that can't accommodate the cloud, it can't appear.
Marisha: Pooper muffin. Okay. Well, then.
Matt: If you want to consider your next move, Vax can go.
Marisha: Yeah, go Vax.
Liam: I am running straight towards what's-his-name, Kerrion? Is at the desk, so I just run right towards the desk, I step against the desk, leap up in the air and go (stabbing sound) into his shoulders.
Matt: Right there?
Liam: Yeah, no, I'm on the desk in front of him, going for his chest.
Matt: Go for it.
Liam: First, and I get advantage on everything is a-- It's a 30! And this is surprise attack, so it's a critical hit plus the sneak attack damage. This guy is going down! One plus seven is eight-- what gets doubled?
Matt: Just the dice.
Liam: Just the dice? But not the sneak attack damage?
Matt: No, the sneak attack damage, as well, but just the modifiers don't get doubled.
Liam: Okay. So that was-- okay, two plus seven is nine. Nine, ten, 11, 12, 18, 23, 29, 33, 66 for the first attack, darling.
Sam: 66?!
Liam: 66! Here comes the second dagger into him at advantage.
Marisha: 66?!
Matt: Surprise rounds.
Liam: Is 28, so that obviously hits. And that is seven. And then the third dagger comes down. Is 29, and that also hits. So I've shanked his ass, that's an eight. (stabbing noises)
Sam: That's 15, is 70-- is 81.
Matt: Yep. 81 points of damage in one round of combat. As you land on the desk, your daggers bypass the armor and they find their way through the top of the armor and sink past the clavicles into the deep portion of the chest. He (choking noise) from the impact and you hear him choke and blood splatters up from his throat. He reaches up and grabs your hands and lifts them off out of the wound. You see a gout of blood pour from the wound as you reach back and stab him a third time with the dagger as you catch yourself on the desk. He reaches up and kicks you, forcing you to get back on your feet with your daggers at the ready. The blood's beginning to pour. It's not a mortal wound, but it's looking really bad for him. He's not on death's door, but that definitely took him down a few pegs.
Liam: I give him a Vex wink.
Matt: (laughs) He looks at you and growls. Draws two rapiers from his side.
Travis: Two rapiers?
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: He draws two rapiers? Do we get any indication by what we just saw if he might be a vampire or something?
Matt: Make an insight check.
Marisha: I can make an insight check? Ooh, yeah! 27.
Matt: 27. Nothing yet has given away any sort of essence of that. He doesn't look particularly pale.
Taliesin: He's also aged. He's a bit peppered.
Marisha: Yeah, he has aged.
Matt: He definitely looks wounded and unhappy.
Liam: Can I ask a technical question?
Matt: Sure.
Liam: According to Assassinate, any hit I score against a creature that is surprised is a critical hit. Any hit. So are the two subsequent attacks--
Matt: After the first hit--
Liam: That's sneak attack. This says, "in addition, any hit you score against a creature that is surprised is a critical hit."
Matt: Right. Okay.
Sam: Any? He wouldn't be surprised after the first one.
Matt: I'm usually under the impression that after the first hit, they're no longer surprised. They know you're there.
Liam: Okay. Okay. Got it.
Travis: (grunts) Ow! (grunts) Ow?!
Liam: Well, I thought they were like 0.3 seconds apart, so I thought it was so fast.
Matt: That's true. I'll allow it.
Travis: Oh!
Taliesin: What?!
Travis: Double what?
Liam: Double the last two attacks. Which were much less.
Sam: It was 15, so it becomes 30.
Matt: Yeah. Okay. So, yeah, he's not happy. Really not happy. Okay. All right. That ends your turn. Keyleth, what are you doing?
Marisha: All right, I'm going to do some fun shit. So seeing Vax go up and get next to Lord Kerrion or whatever the shit his name is. I'm going to go and turn into a dire wolf this time. Mixing it up from Minxie.
Taliesin: That's like a normal wolf.
Marisha: But slightly bigger.
Taliesin: But dire.
Marisha: But dire. It's white, a wintery wolf from the mountains that I'm from.
Matt: You are now filling up the entirety of the double-door frame right now.
Marisha: I'm going to rush and use my pack tactics and flank Lord Kerrion.
Matt: At your size, you can't quite get to him, unfortunately. You can try and move around this way, maybe. You will probably take an attack of opportunity from this guy, but you can try and move around.
Marisha: Oh, from a random shithead? Yeah, let's do it.
Matt: What's your movement?
Marisha: 50 feet.
Matt: Yeah, you can do that. You move around and you get over there.
Marisha: Is that flanking?
Matt: It's not flanking, no. Yeah, it's not flanking per se. I mean, you're adjacent to him. You'd have to be on opposite sides to flank.
Marisha: I know, that's what I was trying to get. All right. Well, then, since Vax has that guy, I'll go for this guy. Take him out.
Matt: Okay. So you move into that guy there.
Marisha: Okay.
Sam: That is the most peasant-looking direwolf ever.
Matt: Yeah, this little peasant girl just went (growls).
Marisha: Ooh, that was a 19 to hit.
Matt: That'll hit.
Marisha: Okay, 2d6 plus three. That's not great, four, five, six, seven, eight piercing damage, and then do I also-- oh, and he has to make a DC 13 strength saving throw or be knocked prone.
Matt: He rolled a 12.
Marisha: (cheers) So he's down.
Matt: He's knocked prone. How much damage was it?
Marisha: Not a lot. What did I say, six?
Matt: Six points of piercing damage?
Marisha: Yes.
Matt: He's knocked prone. (impact sound) Falls on the ground.
Marisha: Do I get my fiery stuff for that?
Matt: What attack was it? Was it bite?
Marisha: Bite.
Matt: No.
Marisha: Okay. Okay, he's down.
Matt: All right. Is that your turn?
Marisha: Yep.
Matt: All right. That ends the surprise round. Now we're at the top again. Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: I'm going to take one step forward. I'm going to shoot that guard once, one more time.
Matt: The one over here?
Taliesin: Yep.
Matt: All righty.
Taliesin: Fuck it, I'm going to try sharpshooter. And that's 14, 15, 21 to hit?
Matt: 21 hits.
Taliesin: That'll do 19 points of damage. Actually, that's more than 19 points, because it's a fire shot, so 19 plus two, so 21 points, with two points of fire damage in there.
Matt: 21 points of damage. All right, (gunshot sound) you fire. There's a burst of flame that gouts out the side of the pepperbox, (impact sound) blasting into the chest of the guard off to the side. He's thrown against the wall from the sheer force of it. Reaches down and grabs his chest and looks at it, and you can see there's this red crimson across his hand, as you've actually blown a piece of his leather armor open and you can see the wound in his chest. There's a little bit of blood trickling out of his mouth, and he looks angry at you.
Taliesin: I'm shooting him again. (laughter)
Taliesin: That's 17.
Matt: 17 hits.
Marisha: Nice.
Taliesin: That's 21 points of damage.
Matt: 21 points of damage, nice. (gunshot) You blast him, this time on the other side of the shoulder, you can see now this armor is now torn open exposing the wound here and his arm's now hanging to one side. He's (grunts). He's looking in severe pain and barely hanging on at this point.
Taliesin: Fall, damn it. Shooting him again.
Marisha: Kill him!
Taliesin: That's 20 to hit.
Matt: 20 to hit. It hits.
Taliesin: Eight points of damage.
Matt: Eight points of damage. All right, this is the final one as he's looking at himself; he's like (pained noises), angrily looks at you, picks his crossbow up and aims it at you. Before he gets a chance to, you aim your third shot, (gunshot) firing, hitting him right in the center of the head, (impact noise) blasting out part of his face, his body spins, and then he falls over into the plant in the corner, slumped over it there.
Taliesin: I finish walking almost into the corner over there, right next to him, about there. Spend an action surge, taking three more shots at Kerrion.
Sam: Whoa.
Marisha: Yeah!
Sam: Damn.
Taliesin: This is a sharpshooter round.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: That's 19, 26 to hit.
Matt: 26 hits.
Marisha: Do you crit on a 19?
Taliesin: I don't crit on a 19.
Marisha: Fuck!
Taliesin: Oh, that'll do. 24 points of damage plus a point of ice damage. So, 25 points of damage.
Matt: Plus an additional d6 points of damage for that.
Taliesin: Yay! Because he's an asshole. That's six more points of damage.
Matt: So, as you go around and fire from the barrel, the shot fires out. And as you recoil you guys, for those who are noticing off to the side, this dark smoke's beginning to slowly pour out of Percy's body, out of his eyes and his ears and the hand on the gun. There's black smoke beginning to emit from his body and beginning to envelop the gun arm.
Sam: What?
Marisha: We all see this?
Matt: For those who are paying attention, which right now would be pretty much just Scanlan and Vex.
Sam: You're weird.
Taliesin: So you don't see shit. Shut up.
Marisha: I'm not crazy! No, and I'm at this guy's throat.
Taliesin: I'm going to take a quick reload, and I'm going to fire again, with Sharpshooter, and I'm going to do a head shot.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: So, I'm going to attempt to make him have issues doing things. Natural 20. (cheering)
Travis: The golden snitch strikes again!
Marisha: Yeah, it did! I can see it from here!
Matt: Damn!
Taliesin: I swear it's-- yeah.
Matt: With the additional d6, by the way.
Taliesin: What?
Matt: With the additional d6.
Taliesin: Does the d6 double or does it not double?
Matt: All dice rolled double. Then add the modifier.
Taliesin: This is going to be angry.
Marisha: Yeah it is!
Liam: Gunslinger warlock.
Taliesin: So.
Marisha: That's pretty "grood."
Taliesin: 42 points of damage. Of fire damage. 42 points, and that's with 5 points of fire damage. 42 points.
Matt: Okay. (gunshot) The first blast hits and you can see the cloak is blown off the shoulder and set aflame and actually burns to cinders in the corner. Sir Kerrion looks down and is like (grunts), and is looking very, very curiously. The second shot rings out (gunshot), and at this point now the smoke is wreathing your entire arm, the gun isn't even visible, it's just this giant column of smoke. (gunshot) The second shot rings out, this time hitting him in the side of the neck and the shoulder, blowing a chunk off of it so part of the bone is now sticking out it's like (noise of pain). He reaches back with his arm and is like with the rapier up, clutching it for a second and leans over and looks back over and is (pained panting) "Ripley."
Taliesin: Just as an action, as a bonus action, I'm going to remove my hat, and I'm just going to say: Drop it.
Sam: Will this take an action?
Matt: To drop the spell? You can do it on your turn.
Taliesin: On your turn, yeah.
Sam: Okay. I think that's next.
Matt: All right, so.
Marisha: He thinks it's Ripley. He thinks it's Ripley with the gun! Ripley's building guns!
Laura: It's Ripley that's doing the guns!
Marisha: Fucking Ripley!
Matt: So. That finishes Percy's turn. It is now Sir Kerrion Stonefell's turn. Kerrion's going to use a bonus action to use Second Wind.
Sam: Oh no, that's some sort of healing thing isn't it?
Taliesin: That's healing. It's not much healing.
Marisha: Wait, who's doing what?
Sam: He has 6,000 health points.
Marisha: Kerrion's healing? Is it a regeneration thing or is he casting a spell?
Taliesin: No, it's a fighter action.
Matt: And that was with the head shot, you said?
Taliesin: Yeah, it was with a head shot. So that means he has disadvantage on attacks for one round.
Matt: And deals damage, right?
Taliesin: And deals damage.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: I'm a good boy.
Matt: Sir Kerrion is going to, in the circumstance, is going to move this way just to hide alongside Vax, and since you're on top-- his both rapiers out, and you just jammed your daggers in, is going to do a flurry of four strikes against you.
Liam: Okay.
Matt: With disadvantage on all the attacks.
Travis: His clavicles sticking out of his shoulders.
Matt: Yeah.
Liam: I'll use Uncanny Dodge for the first one that hits.
Matt: 16, the first attack?
Liam: No.
Matt: All right. Rolled a one on the second. That is a 21 on the third attack. And, no, that's a 14 on the fourth attack. That disadvantage just-- swinging wide, gets one hit on you.
Travis: Get that clavicle; be working.
Liam: Yeah, Uncanny Dodge on that attack.
Matt: That is eight points of piercing damage against you.
Liam: So, four.
Sam: Ooh! That's nothing!
Liam: That's nothing.
Matt: That finishes Sir Kerrion. Sir Kerrion is now going to--
Sam: Turn invisible.
Matt: He's actually going to take a step back towards the wall. You get an attack of opportunity.
Liam: All right. I throw a dagger in his face.
Matt: All right.
Liam: That is a 28.
Matt: That hits.
Liam: That is eight points of damage.
Matt: All righty. Steps back and slams his fist against the wall (thudding).
Laura: Oh no!
Sam: Wait, who did that?
Laura: Kerrion.
Travis: Kerrion.
Laura: He's calling in backup.
Marisha: Wait, he's calling in backup? Shit.
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: So, that ends Kerrion's turn. Grog, you're up.
Travis: I keep smashing shithead that's in front of me!
Matt: Okay, go for it!
Travis: That's 24. These are just regular.
Matt: Yeah, 24 hits.
Travis: Oh, I should roll the other one first. Again, 24.
Matt: 24 hits. Are you going into a frenzied rage?
Travis: Regular rage. 23 on the first one.
Matt: All righty.
Travis: And 12 on the second.
Matt: Gotcha. (whack) Is this with the fire damage as well from the hammer?
Travis: Yes.
Matt: Yeah. so the hammer strikes across the back, the broadside of his shoulders and back. (grunts) Looks up at you and looks over at Sir Kerrion being annihilated behind the desk and is trying to nervously gauge his circumstance. Second strike smacks him upside his body and he's like (panting) and he's trying to take in the surroundings and figure out a plan. All right, are you going to stay where you are?
Travis: That's it.
Matt: It is now Master Vouk's turn.
Sam: Who?
Matt: You have not heard his name yet, but it's his turn.
Travis: The guy I've been smacking.
Taliesin: Mr. Rogaine.
Laura: I'm picturing him as what's-his-name in--
Taliesin: From Harry Potter.
Laura: Yeah!
Taliesin: Yeah. I know, me too.
Travis: Mr. Filch?
Taliesin: Filch. Filch on steroids.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: He's going to use a-- okay. He's going to use a bonus action to disengage from you. He's going to back away just one step that way. Use his action to--
Laura: He has magic?!
Marisha: Oh, he's going to Dimension Door out.
Laura: But Mr. Filch doesn't have magic.
Travis: Yeah, he's a squib!
Laura: He's a squib! Squibs can't do magic.
Travis: He knows this. He's making origami.
Taliesin: Don't you get an attack of opportunity?
Matt: Actually, instead, he's not going to use bonus action to disengage, he's going to use a bonus action to use Misty Step. Vanishes, reappears over by the wall. Uses the action to cast a level three Invisibility on both him and Sir Kerrion Stonefell. So they are both considered invisible at the moment.
Travis: With the Missy Elliot step, I don't get an attack?
Matt: Not from that, unfortunately; it's an immediate teleport. So he just vanishes from in front of you.
Travis: What the fuck?!
Matt: We'll say, for the purposes of this, they are both currently invisible. And that's going to end--
Taliesin: That soldier hasn't attacked yet, either.
Matt: Correct, his turn hasn't come up yet. Now it becomes Scanlan's turn.
Sam: Oh. Well, I can't see anyone who's alive who I haven't Dominated already, except for the guy under the dire wolf. I will remind all my fellows to keep one alive to spread our terrorist message and I will run out to the hallway and say, Vex, get inside. Because I know reinforcements are coming, I cast Stinking Cloud out into the hallways.
Matt: Okay. Stinking Cloud appears. What's the radius on that?
Sam: (singing) Stinking Cloud!
Matt: I think it's a 20-foot radius, isn't it?
Sam: It says 90-feet range, let's see here. 20-foot radius.
Matt: Okay, cool. So you just filled this entire hallway.
Sam: Yeah. Will it seep into the room as well?
Matt: You can keep it localized to that area, you'll just be in your own cloud.
Sam: Oh. Well, can I stop just short of the door?
Matt: You stop just short of the door and fill this whole area with a Stinking Cloud.
Sam: Sorry, Vex.
Taliesin: You can hold that action until she comes into the room.
Sam: Okay, I will hold that until she comes in the room.
Matt: Okay. So Stinking Cloud is not yet up. Okay.
Sam: Laura's next, I believe.
Matt: So, next round. You are up next.
Sam: And I will inspire her, as well.
Laura: Yay!
Sam: Do you want a d10?
Laura: Yeah.
Sam: Okay. (singing) Vex be nimble, Vex be quick! Vex jump under limbo stick! Now you don't know how you're going to react because Vex has an attack! Oi!
Travis: Amazing! How?! God! I don't get it!
Matt: You take your d10 inspiration. Confused, but accept the inspiration. A chuckle in the middle of a hearty battle is always worth a little inspiration.
Laura: All right, so I go in the room.
Matt: You step into the room. At that point, you trigger your action to release the Stinking Cloud. You want to stay there? You're just outside of the radius.
Laura: Yeah, I stay in the doorway. Actually no, I back-- well.
Matt: What are you doing, Vex?
Laura: Yeah, I'm staying right there. I can't see; is there a soldier right there next to the invisible guys, or is it just the invisible guys?
Travis: On that wall, it's soldier being eaten by Keyleth, and then invisible.
Sam: There two invisibles, and then another soldier who I have already Dominated. He still hasn't had a turn?!
Matt: Surprise round, and they're lowest on the initiative count.
Laura: Actually, I'm going to do Lightning Arrow because that gets everything within ten feet.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: I'm going to cast Lightning Arrow on the soldier on the ground.
Matt: Which one?
Travis: The one that Keyleth's attacking.
Laura: The one that Keyleth's attacking.
Matt: I will say you don't really have visual on him from that position.
Laura: Can I move to a place where I get it?
Liam: Do a bank shot off the ceiling.
Matt: Now you can see, yeah.
Laura: Awesome. Let's do it from there.
Matt: Okay, go for it. You have advantage on the attack roll because he is prone.
Laura: Nice. 27.
Matt: 27 hits.
Laura: Okay, so that is 4d8 damage to him.
Matt: All righty.
Laura: And then anything within ten feet has to make a dex save.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Is that including your brother?
Laura: Yeah, that's everything within ten feet.
Travis: It's also including invisible guys.
Matt: If it's ten feet, he's not there. It'd just be Keyleth and Sir Kerrion.
Marisha: 22. 21!
Matt: Makes it, 21, actually, exactly.
Laura: 19 to little prone soldier.
Matt: Okay, 19. As it snaps and it bursts, the electricity shockwaves out, he shakes and on the ground takes in the effect. The blast seems to-- is it half damage if they make the save?
Laura: To the little prone guy?
Matt: No, it's to anybody within radius.
Laura: Anybody within radius takes 1d8 if they make the save and then 2d8 if they fail.
Matt: Okay, so roll 1d8.
Laura: One.
Matt: Okay. So one damage to you, and one damage to Sir Kerrion.
Laura: Oh.
Matt: You see a spark of energy around the invisible form as it wavers in place.
Travis: That's good; at least he (electricity noise) around some.
Matt: All right. That ends your turn. Vax?
Liam: I saw that spark in the air and I start knifing right into it.
Matt: All right. Was that the last thing you wanted to do with your turn?
Laura: Yeah. Does the Hunter's Mark damage him, the invisible guy, still, if he gets hit with anything? Or is it just if I attack him with an arrow?
Matt: I think if you attack him. That was more of the burst in the vicinity.
Laura: Okay.
Liam: So, hearing him go (grunts) and seeing a spark right in front of me, I start knifing at that point.
Matt: All right. At disadvantage on all the attacks.
Liam: Disadvantage? But I get advantage, so it cancels out.
Matt: Why do you get advantage?
Liam: Oh, no, I don't. I'm sorry.
Matt: Disadvantage on weapon strikes because he's invisible.
Liam: The first one misses. That was it. So, the first two were terrible. That's terrible. That's also terrible. I whiff. I just (whooshing).
Matt: Yeah, you're swinging in the area, and you can't get blades to find any of his physical person. You're striking and arcing across the wooden wall behind him, causing these giant gashes. All right, that ends your turn.
Liam: Still bleeding!
Matt: Unless you want to stay where you are right there?
Liam: Yeah, I'm going to stay there.
Matt: You probably would've had to move up there to attack him. Oh, you're just throwing the daggers, right?
Liam: I back up. Is Keyleth on the desk?
Sam: No, she's next to the desk.
Liam: And I'm on the desk? No, I'll stay where I am.
Matt: Okay, so you're just throwing the daggers from the desk? Okay, that ends your turn. Now, Keyleth.
Marisha: Looking up and noticing that Sir Kerrion is gone and Vax is blindly stabbing into the distance, I'm going to drop my wolf form and cast Faerie Fire in that radius.
Matt: Drop your wolf form.
Marisha: 20-foot cube.
Sam: Mark that shit.
Marisha: Right here.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Realizing my party members are clearly stabbing at something.
Taliesin: I like it when he has to go to the book. Makes me feel like there's, perhaps, things he doesn't know.
Sam: Faerie Fire is an underused thing. It's really cool.
Matt: Yeah, so both of their forms all of a sudden are outlined by this sparking purple halo that shows you directly where they are.
Sam: Yes!
Matt: All right. So that's your turn? You going to move anywhere?
Marisha: I'll back up a tidbit.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Just back up a smidge.
Matt: Okay, as you back up an invisible form that just got revealed swings out at you with a rapier, an attack of opportunity.
Marisha: Yeah, sure, whatever.
Taliesin: But, he's--
Matt: At disadvantage on the attack. He has advantage on her because he's-- although--
Marisha: I can see him now.
Matt: You can see him, that's true.
Laura: This is confusing!
Matt: Faerie Fire kind of made this weird.
Travis: To the books again!
Matt: Indeed.
Marisha: Faerie Fire always makes it weird.
Taliesin: Ain't it the truth? Man, that Faerie Fire.
Matt: Just a minute, folks. Lot of overlapping effects, here, because everyone has magic.
Sam: Now's a good time to go to the store and check out Critical Role t-shirt--
Matt: Yeah, it doesn't benefit from Invisible. It's at disadvantage. It has disadvantage on the attack. That is--
Sam: Brand new t-shirt for sale, guys.
Matt: And 15.
Marisha: Miss.
Matt: Yeah, so (whoosh) as you back up. All right. That ends your turn. Now, this guard gets up, (grunts) gets his crossbow, aims it up and, looking around the room, aims it, this would be-- seeing his friend turn on his boss briefly after you shouted that song at him, is going to turn the crossbow on you.
Sam: On me?!
Matt: Yes.
Sam: Jesus.
Matt: That's going to be a 16 to hit?
Sam: I don't even know any more. No one's attacked me in a while.
Taliesin: It's your AC.
Sam: It's 17.
Matt: 17!
Sam: Well, it's 15 plus two because I've got some thing on.
Marisha: You've got the amulet on.
Matt: All right. So, as it comes towards you, you just duck out of the way and it passes and snags into the wall behind you (arrow landing sound). No hit. The thug is then going to drop the crossbow on the ground and rushing up, pull out a mace that was hanging from the side of its belt and engage you right there.
Travis: I thought he was coming for me.
Sam: I thought so, too. That would have been good!
Matt: This guy is going to attempt to make two attacks against Master Vouk Strono. Has advantage on them because Faerie Fire. That hits. And, two attacks with a mace. That is 18. Yeah, hits with both. (whack whack) With the mace both times.
Marisha: Is that the guy who you charmed? Awesome.
Taliesin: Nice.
Sam: Wait. Who's this?
Liam: The guy you charmed.
Sam: That's not my guy, Matt.
Matt: That guy?
Sam: Oh, that guy there is, yeah. Oh wait, he's attacking my guy?
Matt: No, he's attacking the guy that's invisible. (laughter)
Matt: Doing a total of 16 damage with his mace. (whack whack) Bludgeoning. He's now going to try and make the saving throw to shrug it. What's the DC on that?
Sam: On my spell?
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: It's 19.
Matt: 19. Yeah, he does not make it. Still under control. That ends the thugs' turn. Top of the round. Percy, you're up!
Marisha: Go Percy, go Percy, go!
Taliesin: Sharpshooter against Kerrion.
Matt: Sir Kerrion, okay.
Taliesin: Do I have advantage on that because of Faerie Fire?
Matt: It does not benefit from invisibility and you have advantage. Yes, you do. Vox Machina: broken. (laughter)
Taliesin: 16.
Matt: 16 to hit?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: Misses.
Taliesin: Taking another shot.
Marisha: That was with advantage?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Marisha: Pooper.
Taliesin: 20.
Matt: 20 does hit.
Taliesin: 15 points of damage.
Matt: 15. (gunshot) You see one blast hits the wall and causes part of the wood to splinter outward. The second shot impacts the partially invisible form. You can see a splash of blood across the desk in front. Partially spattering across Vax and one of his guards.
Taliesin: Third shot with ice. No sharpshooter. Natural 20!
Travis: What?!
Marisha: Percy rolls!
Travis: What the hell?!
Taliesin: It's making up for my gun failing four times.
Travis: Whatever, you possessed Voldemort.
Taliesin: I know.
Travis: (laughing) Smoke arm.
Taliesin: Six, 16, 25, 31 points of damage. 31 points of damage with four points of that being ice damage.
Matt: So, Percy  how do you want to do this?
Travis: He said that weird.
Marisha: This against Kerrion, right?
Matt: This is against Sir Kerrion.
Sam: Wow! How do you want to do this? That's the logo that's on the shirt that's for sale right now.
Taliesin: Oh, stop it.
Travis: Is this the name on one of the barrels?
Matt: Percy.
Taliesin: Don't cheapen this!
Sam: Too late.
Matt: Currently visible, at your disposal, Sir Kerrion. You have enough of a shot to finish him off. The smoke is pushing you, "Vengeance. Vengeance. Vengeance." Repeatedly echoing in the back of your mind. How do you want to do this?
Taliesin: I'm going to put on the mask, since he still doesn't know who I am.
Matt: Okay. You pull the mask down, the bird-beaked element to the mask now wreathed in smoke, resembling, very closely, the entity that made the original bargain with you.
Taliesin: I'm going to walk up to him. Yeah, there's no way to drop the illusion. That's such a damn shame.
Sam: Oh wait, you told me to!
Taliesin: I did.
Sam: I could have; I didn't. Fuck! (laughs)
Marisha: Could you do it now, for flavor?
Taliesin: That's fine. The mask will do. I'm going to take one last shot. I'm going to look right at him, I'm going to catch his eye. This is for the de Rolos. And let me say: you were the one I was least looking forward to.
Travis: That's some cold shit!
Matt: With that, the little bit of wreathed magical energy you can barely make out an expression of horror on the face before the resounding blast sound rocks the room. The actual bullet itself a trail of black smoke behind it as it impacts the front of Sir Kerrion's face. The entirety of his head caving inward as the back splatters across the scarred wooden wall behind him. The body slumps to the ground immediately. You guys all glance over at Percy. You don't even see Percy, you just see a humanoid entity made of black swirling smoke energy with the peaked beak of his mask poking through.
Marisha: Not 100% sure what's going on. Can I take my Faerie Fire concentration that I still have up and move it over top of the black smoke figure?
Matt: Can you move a Faerie Fire?
Marisha: I don't know; can I move a Faerie Fire?
Matt: I think when you use it, it just stays where it was. Could be wrong, but I'm pretty sure that's how it works.
Marisha: 20 feet; is he in it, perchance?
Matt: From there, it's 20 foot, no. Not from where you placed it right on him, unfortunately. That's okay. Yeah, no, it just happens once.
Marisha: Never mind.
Matt: With that, you recoil from it and the voice echoes in the back of your head, going "Yes."
Taliesin: I'm going to drop the gun.
Matt: You drop it (impact sound).
Taliesin: Remove my mask. Run to find something metal, something sharp, anywhere on the table. And just start scratching off the name on the gun. I'm just going to go to a corner and just start scratching the name off.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: He's disturbed.
Matt: Okay, that's your turn.
Taliesin: That's my turn.
Matt: Sir Kerrion is gone. Annihilated. That brings us to Grog.
Travis: Percy's having all the fun. And I start smashing that fuck that's looking at Vax.
Matt: Right there, okay. So you move up to him, (whoosh) swinging the hammer wide.
Travis: Might as well make these great weapon master strikes, just for fucking why not. That's a 15.
Matt: 15 just hits.
Travis: Yeah, that's awesome. And the second one-- Yeah, that's pretty good. 28 minus five. 23.
Matt: 23 hits.
Travis: Okay. 15. 20 is the first one, with the fire damage. Oh!
Laura: Actually that's 30.
Travis: Yeah, 30 is the first one. Plus 10. And 13, 16, 26 for the second one.
Matt: Okay. So as you rush up, you can see, it's pulled out its mace and is swinging it in a wide arc towards Vax. As soon as you rush up, it looks to you out of the corner of the eye, drops the mace and before the mace can hit the ground, your hammer actually swings around, hits the mace, and then both your hammer and the mace slam into the side of his head, pushing him down onto the desk. Stunned, blood spatters across the wood as he's (gasping) twitching on the table, already done. And you swing the hammer, lift it up, (impact sound), like Gallagher performance, the head just (explosion noise). (groaning)
Laura: This is disgusting.
Liam: Happy Halloween, folks.
Travis: Great weapon master.
Matt: Vouk is currently looking very--
Sam: He's Vouk-ed.
Matt: Yeah, he's Vouk-ed. All right. Is going to cast Haste on himself and is going to run, dropping invisibility, and leaping through that window.
Laura: Doesn't the guard get a--
Matt: The guard gets an attack of opportunity, and Keyleth does. The guard has advantage. A three. No, the guard misses, with a mace.
Marisha: Natural 20.
Laura: Yeah! With your fire hands?
Marisha: No, it's with my staff, I'm assuming, right? Unless I wanted to deck him in the face.
Matt: No, this would be with your staff.
Marisha: This is with my staff, okay.
Matt: You just (whack).
Marisha: So it's five, so that's 11. I don't attack a lot. 13 damage.
Matt: 13 damage?
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: All righty. As you smack him at that point--
Marisha: I just clothesline him. I see him running, I'm like (grunts).
Matt: It brings him exactly to zero. (cheering)
Matt: You whack him right in the face, knocking the teeth out, and he just falls to the ground. Unconscious and bleeding.
Sam: Good, yes, keep him alive.
Matt: All right. That ends his turn (laughs). Wow. Man. Surprise rounds, man. You guys are nasty. All right. Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: Scanlan's up?
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: All right. I go run up to the guard I have dominated, and I just-- Is he still dominated, can I change the domination?
Matt: I mean, you can cancel it, but otherwise he's just--
Sam: I mean, can I change it from "kill your boss" to--
Travis: "Kill yourself."
Sam: To "give up"?
Matt: Yeah, you can tell him. You can't tell him to attack himself.
Sam: No, I will tell him--
Taliesin: You-- Oh, go ahead.
Sam: No, what?
Taliesin: I was going to say, tell him to go tell anybody else in the house everything's fine.
Sam: Oh. Ooh! That's good.
Travis: Yeah, because we should kill the more powerful guy.
Taliesin: Tell him that everything's fine.
Sam: Okay. You there, guard! Go tell everyone that everything's fine. Go into that Stinking Cloud out there and tell all your friends that everything's hunky-dory.
Matt: Technically, Stinking Cloud is a concentration spell.
Sam: Is it?
Matt: So if you were to maintain concentration on that, you would lose your Domination.
Sam: Oh, okay.
Matt: So it's your call. Which one do you want to maintain?
Sam: The domination.
Matt: Okay. So the Stinking Cloud fades from the hallway.
Sam: Stinking Cloud is concentration?
Matt: I believe it is. Spells like that usually are, if it's to maintain--
Sam: It is! I never wrote down a C next to it.
Matt: This is where that circlet would come in handy.
Taliesin: Can I run over to Kerrion's body?
Matt: You will be able to shortly.
Sam: You mean the thing that Orion took from me? Yeah, the thing that I needed? Yeah.
Matt: It's all right. He's used it pretty well a couple of times.
Sam: Yes, so I tell him to go warn his friends-- not warn his friends. Tell his friends that everything's fine. All is good.
Matt: Cool. Good to know. That ends your turn. Is anyone going to take any specific actions?
Laura: I want to loot the bodies.
Taliesin: I'm running over to Kerrion and just going to rage loot him.
Sam: I'm going to go to the desk.
Matt: Okay. While you guys all do that, the guard leaves the room. You hear a few whispers in the hallway, a conversation with a person unseen.
Liam: I walk towards the door.
Travis: Uh-oh.
Sam: A giant attacks.
Matt: The conversation fades and the guard walks back, seemingly job done. Also is going to make a wisdom saving throw. That is a 17?
Sam: 19.
Matt: He remains dominated. You guys now-- For the moment, the threat seems to have subsided. At the moment. You're still in the house and there's still, apparently, things in the house. Whether it'd be guards or other individuals in the house that are on edge as they heard a series of gunshots ring out, screams, and other sorts of cacophony. The fact that this is even right now being handled is a very lucky series of rolls on his part.
Travis: I want it said that this one should die. He has magic. He's too strong. They could set better traps.
Sam: We can interrogate him, though. Get crucial information. He's an officer.
Taliesin: I can't talk yet.
Matt: So you're going through Sir Kerrion's body.
Taliesin: I'm taking his swords, and I'm going to use his sword to get that deep gouge into the gun.
Matt: He has two rapiers, so it's like holding a stiletto.
Taliesin: And anything he has on his body, I'm taking it.
Matt: He has a potion of greater healing on him. Never got round to actually using it.
Taliesin: And once there's a good gash in the name, I'm going to sit down and breathe.
Matt: Okay. As you finish gashing the name out on the side of the metal and start breathing, you can see the name itself begin to glow with a slight dull purple glow and burn away from the metal, leaving just the scratch marks. From his body, you have two rapiers, regular rapiers, studded leather armor that is enchanted with a plus one bonus, and that potion of greater healing. So you can mark those down.
Laura: I'm keeping a very strong eye on Percy right now.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Anything on the desk, papers of any sort?
Matt: Going through the desk? Go ahead and make an investigation check.
Sam: It's a lot. Yeah, it's tons. It's 27.
Matt: Yeah. You find wax seals, you find parchment, you find pocket change, about six or seven gold pieces just left in there. On himself though, on his actual person, on Sir Kerrion's body, you find about 320 gold pieces as his own personal fund. Looking through the desk, you find mentions of the bridge plan to move between the two continents. To go across the channel to Wildmount. Basically plans, the discussion, a lot of what they were planning to do with Emon.
Marisha: Someone write that down.
Sam: I got it.
Matt: You also find a small notebook that just has some hand notes of his.
Sam: I'll take it.
Matt: Okay. So mark that down.
Travis: I start tying up unconscious guy on the floor.
Matt: He's currently-- He's got to zero hit points, he's bleeding out.
Marisha: What about the dominated guy? He's about to save from it. Domination, he can save from it at any second.
Travis: No, I know. I thought we wanted to interrogate--
Matt: Which he does not; he's still dominated.
Liam: I take a rag out of my pocket and I roll it up and I shove it into Kerrion's mouth while Grog is tying him up.
Taliesin: Kerrion's dead.
Liam: I thought he was out.
Sam: Vouk's.
Travis: The balding guy.
Liam: Balding. All right.
Travis: We tie him up, he shoves a rag in his mouth, I put one hand on the top of his head and the other hand under his chin. Should we bring him back just a little so we can ask him some questions?
Marisha: Vouk?
Travis: Yeah.
Marisha: Okay, but what are we going to do about dominated guy? Can we tie him up, too?
Laura: Yeah, tell him to go sit in a corner, Scanlan.
Marisha: He could save from that any second. We need to like off him or something.
Taliesin: There'll be time for that.
Liam: I got it. Could you tell him to look in the corner?
Sam: Turn away, look in the corner, Blair Witch style. (laughter)
Laura: Oh, this is so wrong.
Matt: Doesn't make his save.
Laura: Oh, terrible.
Sam: Grog, do you want to?
Laura: No, this is so wrong.
Travis: What? We're asking questions. We got to bring him back, just a little bit.
Sam: Are you on Vouk's right? Or whatever-his-name?
Travis: We're on Vouk.
Liam: Can we put him to sleep, or anything short of me knocking him out?
Sam: I can put him to sleep.
Liam: Put him to sleep, then.
Sam: But I have to drop my thing first.
Laura: Just knock him out.
Liam: I'll do it. I'm really good at knocking people out.
Marisha: Just knock him out. Knowing what's coming, I'm going to Druidcraft some pretty kaleidoscope-y flowers in front of his face. Pretty image before you die.
Matt: All right. He seems momentarily confused before the blow of the-- Are you hitting him with the blade or pommel?
Liam: Oh, pommel.
Travis: Before we knock him out, should you make sure that whatever he tells people is truly fearsome? But not too descript about us?
Sam: Well, he already told his friends in the hallway--
Travis: That everything was fine.
Sam: That everything's fine. So now we're just knocking him out.
Marisha: While all this happens, I'm going over to baldy. Lord Vouk or Mister Vouk and pop a Cure Wounds potion into him. How far down is he? He was just at zero. I brought him to zero.
Matt: Yeah, he was unconscious and he was making his death saving throws. I was treating him for that circumstance. When you go straight to zero like that, you know--
Marisha: Yeah. All right, I'll pop a Cure Wounds into him.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: The guy in the corner? Scanlan, could you go stand next to him and tell him a joke?
Marisha: I was giving him pretty flowers.
Liam: You're standing next to him?
Marisha: I gave him pretty flowers to look at.
Liam: You walked over and gave him pretty flowers?
Marisha: I Druidcrafted from a distance.
Travis: Are you standing next to him?
Sam: I walk next to him and sort of distract him with a little soft shoe tap.
Liam: Thank you. That's what I needed. I got an 18. Sorry, I got a 29. And that is eight plus 14, 22, six, seven, 32.
Matt: 32. He is (impact noise) from barely damaged to nothing. He goes immediately unconscious in the corner, face down, in the middle of a bookcase.
Marisha: I drop 18 points of healing into Vouk.
Matt: Okay. (gasps, chokes)
Travis: The rag's in his throat. You are going to listen very carefully as my friends ask you some questions. You'll shake your head yes or shake it no.
Laura: What are we going to ask him?
Sam: (laughs) Percy?
Taliesin: I'm not available right now.
Sam: All right.
Liam: All right.
Liam: Come on. Come with me.
Laura: Okay.
Sam: Where are the Briarwoods?
Laura: Where are the Briarwoods?
Liam: You've got to do yes or no.
Laura: Are the Briarwoods--
Sam: -- in the palace?
Matt: (muffled moaning)
Liam: Yes or no.
Sam: Just nod or nod.
Laura: This is really smart. I feel good about this.
Travis: Should we take the rag out?
Laura: No.
Sam: He can do spells.
Liam: I just want to remind you that my friend over here can split you in half like an apple, right?
Travis: I nod his head yes.
Matt: (muffled murmur)
Liam: Have you seen the Briarwoods this week?
Matt: (affirmative grunt)
Liam: Do you like working for them?
Matt: (sounds uncertain)
Laura: Do they know we're here?
Matt: (affirmative grunt)
Laura: Yeah.
Sam: Are they in the palace?
Matt: (sounds ambiguous)
Sam: Sometimes.
Laura: Do you know where they are?
Matt: (negative grunt)
Liam: Do they have pointier teeth than most?
Matt: (sounds ambiguous)
Sam: (laughs)
Matt: (sounds sad)
Sam: This is mumblecore.
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: Is your life worth giving a little information?
Matt: (affirmative grunting)
Liam: We want to know how to get into the palace without a problem. Got any advice?
Matt: (eager affirmative grunting)
Liam: Now I just want to remind you. He can take your head off, your knees off, your cock off, anything, in half a second.
Travis: I just give a little squeeze.
Liam: I'm going to pull the cloth out.
Sam: I cast Blindness on him.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Don't know if he's blind.
Matt: Suddenly he goes (muffled panic noises).
Sam: Oh, he's blind. He's blind.
Liam: I give him a pat on the cheek.
Matt: (whimpers)
Laura: Oh, now I feel bad.
Liam: I'm a big fan of efficiency, so I'm going to pull this rag out and you've got about 30 seconds to start talking about something useful. Otherwise, my friend is going to make you about six inches shorter.
Travis: Yeah. I'm going to turn your head into a dreidel.
Liam: So we're going to start talking now, yes?
Matt: (grunts in agreement)
Liam: In three, two.
Matt: (gasping for breath) "Please don't kill me. I can show you a secret entrance into the castle. I know a way in."
Laura: It's not guarded?
Matt: "I don't think so. They've closed it off. If you can find a way through, they won't expect it."
Taliesin: Is it the one in the forest?
Matt: "There is one, yes, yes, in the forest. Look, I can bring you to their project room under the castle, what they're working on. Please don't kill me."
Laura: What is the project room?
Sam: Are they working on explosives?
Matt: "They've been-- They've been working on something. It's hard to describe. I've only been there once. It's beyond my interests, but it is part of the reason they even took this place."
Liam: Lord Briarwood is a vampire.
Matt: "Aye."
Liam: What the fuck is Lady Briarwood?
Matt: "She's powerful, I'll give you that. She scares me more than the two of them."
Laura: Is it hard to talk with no teeth?
Matt: "It's more difficult than expected, aye."
Travis: I start to tilt his head and I'm like showing us won't work, we need a location.
Matt: "It's under the castle. It's under the city. All the caverns are there. I can show you how to get there, I've been there. They've taken me."
Laura: Do you know what they've done to the ground here? Do you know why nothing grows?
Matt: "Stuff grows. It's how we do the farming."
Marisha: Stuff doesn't grow, though. Not like it should. What did they do to the land?
Matt: "I don't know. Maybe it has something to do with what they're doing under the castle."
Marisha: And what exactly are they doing under the castle?
Matt: "It's an excavation, or they're building something. I don't know the details of it."
Liam: You've no idea what they want?
Matt: "Comparatively, I'm just a peasant to them. I work with-- well, I worked with Kerrion."
Taliesin: How long have you worked with Sir Stonefell?
Matt: "Five years."
Taliesin: Were you here when he took the castle?
Matt: "Yes, yes. I was part of the incursion."
Taliesin: Good. You're very lucky. Because you're going to live if you show us-- And I bring out a map.
Sam: He can't see anything.
Taliesin: I know. Drop the Blindness.
Matt: He hears the crinkling of paper.
Taliesin: Drop the Blindness.
Sam: All right. I drop Blindness and I drop Seeming.
Matt: (scared, fast breathing)
Taliesin: Look at me. Look at me. You're going to show me where on the castle is the secret entrance. Do you know who I am?
Matt: "No."
Taliesin: You will. Mark it on the map.
Matt: He looks down at his bound arms and legs.
Travis: I take his head and I shove his nose and his face right above the map. And I say: use your nose.
Matt: "It's right--" He spits and puts a little droplet. It's loosely in the area of the western side of the mountain that the castle is built on. Roughly around the entrance where you escaped when you and Cassandra left Whitestone, five years before.
Taliesin: I know where that is.
Travis: That means we don't need you anymore.
Matt: "No! I can show you-- I can show you where their project is. The tunnels. You need me."
Travis: He'll set a good trap.
Laura: I just want to ask, when do the Briarwoods come out?
Matt: "Not often. They don't need to. Kerrion does the work for them. Did the work for them."
Sam: Those giants. Who controls them?
Matt: "Lady Briarwood does. She's the one who made them."
Travis: It's all over the room.
Marisha: She's the one who made them?
Taliesin: Can I propose something to you?
Matt: "She's strong with necromancy, she is."
Liam: I shove the rag back in his mouth for a moment.
Taliesin: Mark his face, take his tongue, let him loose.
Sam: His eyes, too?
Taliesin: No, just his tongue.
Travis: His tongue?
Taliesin: Mark his face.
Travis: I stick my two fingers inside of his nose, crank back on his nose, reach in, and rip his tongue out of his mouth.
Sam: I cover Keyleth's eyes.
Taliesin: That was a bit more than I was--
Travis: You said take his tongue! That's a natural 20.
Marisha: Natural 20?!
Taliesin: Natural 20, really? I'm feeling like such a bastard right now.
Matt: There isn't even a slow scuffle. You just reach in and (wet ripping noise, pained scream) You immediately jam the cloth back in. The cloth begins to slowly soak with blood. You hold almost a pound of muscle: a now motionless tongue in your hand, bloody at its base. These tears are running down his face. (muffled sobbing and coughing)
Travis: Is that good enough for your message?
Taliesin: I take my gun. I'm going to shoot it very gently-- I'm going to shoot into the ground to muffle the sound. I'm going to take the heat of it, and I'm going to cauterize it. His tongue, so he doesn't bleed out.
Matt: You pull the cloth out. (pained cry and choking sounds)
Taliesin: I'm going to mark his head with the still-hot gun.
Matt: (noises of pain) He starts screaming in pain as you're burning what into his head, the symbol of the de Rolo family?
Sam: It's a very complicated symbol. (laughs)
Taliesin: I'm going to do it. And then, I say we let him run out the front door and we set fire to the house.
Travis: I'm good with that. I've got this.
Sam: Where are we going after this?
Marisha: Whoa!
Travis: No. I like that a lot.
Marisha: You would, though. You would.
Sam: Trinket's downstairs. We should leave Trinket.
Travis: Have we forgotten that this entire town is full of evil, undead vampire people?
Marisha: Have we also forgotten that this entire town is looking for us?
Taliesin: They don't know we're here.
Marisha: They will after we set fire on the house and send a man screaming through the street with your symbol on his forehead.
Sam: They don't know where we live.
Marisha: They will! They're going to go, "Hm, let's look at the burning smokestack of a house and start there."
Taliesin: He's going to be missing by morning. They're going to know.
Travis: We've got the guy painted all over this room. They're going to find out one way or the other. Might as well do it with a little showmanship.
Sam: We're trying to make everyone know that we're here.
Taliesin: We're trying to start a rebellion.
Marisha: (voice cracking) Yeah, but-- yeah.
Travis: Come on, be the Mockingjay, Keyleth!
Taliesin: (giggles) Don't make me laugh. This is dark shit.
Travis: It is!
Sam: We can stay the night before we release him and burn it down.
Taliesin: Fair.
Sam: Although there are a bunch of guards around.
Marisha: We can't stay the night.
Laura: We can't stay the night.
Sam: All right, just burn it, then. Let's get out of here.
Marisha: Hang on. Fellow half-elves, you look as horrified as I feel. What do you guys think?
Laura: I feel like it's a little stupid, since we have nowhere to go.
Sam: We can go back to our old hideout. We have the tavern. No one's found it.
Liam: Percival, I know what you've been through, to an extent.
Taliesin: I don't even know what I've been through, to a certain extent, but yes.
Liam: We came here to wipe out a scourge on this city. Careful lest you become the scourge you've come to destroy. These people have eaten shit for five years. I'm not saying that man was innocent, but he's had a hard road. Everyone here has had a hard road. I am maybe willing to overlook what's just happened for all the hardship you have had, but careful how you are walking.
Sam: Hey, wait a second here, Vax. That was an enforcer. He kept the people oppressed. He worked for the Briarwoods and punished all of these farmers for not bringing enough taxes and enough tithes.
Liam: Are we to turn into Jack the Ripper because of it?
Sam: Well, that's what a rebellion is.
Travis: I do like ripping.
Taliesin: There's no pretty way to do this.
Laura: I'm fully in support with burning down a house, I just feel like it might backfire a bit.
Marisha: Look, I agreed to start a rebellion and let the people have their uprising, but I'm with Vax. I was trying to tell you this before we even came here, Percy. You don't want to become the thing that you are so desperate to seek vengeance on. How are we any different than the Briarwoods, at this point?
Travis: We're not fucking vampires. Look, what are our options besides burning the house down? I'm open to other ideas.
Sam: We can just leave it as a symbol of our terror.
Taliesin: I've marked him. I'm willing to walk away.
Travis: And where do we stay?
Sam: Somewhere else.
Travis: The tavern? Do we have to find another building?
Taliesin: I know a barracks. It's not too far away.
Liam: I agree with you, with burning the house down. Let's find anyone who's in here and get them out.
Taliesin: I think they'll get out when the house catches on fire.
Liam: Your soul doesn't need to be forfeit, Percival.
Taliesin: (sighs heavily) Things are more complicated now.
Sam: Percy, is that last barrel for you?
Taliesin: No. But, if it was, would I tell you?
Sam: No.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Marisha: Why are things more complicated, Percy? Clearly, we all just witnessed what just happened.
Taliesin: That was unexpected.
Marisha: Yeah, no, I'd agree with that, yeah.
Taliesin: (sighs) That's a longer conversation.
Sam: These guards aren't going to stay out for long. We should set fire and get out of here.
Liam: We burn the house down, and we find a place to hole up for the night.
Laura: Hey, buddy. How's it going?
Matt: He looks over at the body of Sir Kerrion, which is still slumped against the wall.
Liam: Percy, we need to have that longer conversation soon.
Laura: Soon, but not now. Let's go.
Marisha: Let's get out of here. All right, we're setting this damn house on fire?
Laura: Let's do it.
Travis: I take the tongue-less one, and I throw him out. I keep him bound. He's bound amongst the chest and hands. And I throw him out the window. Bye, motherfucker!
Matt: He falls out into the rain, (boof) falling on his side. (whimpers) He's being rained on, and he's trying to struggle with his bindings.
Travis: He'll get up. His feet are free. His legs and feet are free. I'm picturing chest and arms.
Matt: Okay, then he gets to his feet and starts running.
Sam: Grog, can you carry this unconscious guard out on our way out?
Travis: Sure. Do I kill him first?
Matt: Are you leaving Sir Kerrion's body?
Sam: Sir Kerrion's body?
Matt: Are you leaving Sir Kerrion's body to burn with the house?
Taliesin: Yes.
Laura: Are we?
Taliesin: Let's take him, too.
Travis: We might as well leave him out on the front step, or something. I'll grab Sir Kerrion--
Sam: Can you carry both of those fuckers?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: He threw one of them out.
Sam: No, there's the unconscious guard and the body.
Travis: I'll grab unconscious guard and the body.
Liam: He weighs like 600 pounds.
Marisha: I'm going to say  All right. Well, if we're going to light this damn house on fire and make it a symbol--
Sam: You have fire hands.
Marisha: We're at least going to make it cool and make it the message that it's supposed to be.
Travis: There you go!
Marisha: I turn into an eagle and I fly to the roof.
Matt: Flying out the window that you just shattered.
Marisha: Give me your symbol.
Taliesin: I give her one of the parchments.
Matt: You fly up. The rain is coming down on you. It's a little hard to fly. You get up to the top of the roof.
Marisha: I cast Flaming Sphere.
Matt: You transform into yourself again?
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: All righty.
Taliesin: We're all going to start going out the way we came.
Travis: I throw unconscious guy and Sir Dead.
Marisha: Hope you guys were ready to get out.
Laura: I open up a bottle of wine and take a giant swig.
Matt: Okay. As you guys head back down to the cellar?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: You guys all head back down to the cellar. You throw them both out the window, including the body of Sir Kerrion (boof) out into the yard. You head back down into the cellar.
Marisha: I cast Flaming Sphere, and I start moving it around on the roof and start drawing the shape of the de Rolo family crest on the roof.
Matt: Okay. It will take you a few minutes. You now see, as you're finishing the symbol, Vouk running to the front of the building, and you hear the voices of two guards going, "Master Vouk? What happened? Tell us. Unbind him!" "Yes, sir." And the two guards at the front of the building are talking with him. You finish the symbol.
Marisha: And I take my Flaming Sphere, and I throw it right at the feet of where the guards are.
Matt: Okay. You're on the roof, so you don't see them, but you know they're off to the side of the roof, so you can roll it off the roof down to them. They both freak out and react and seem to get into a defensive position. They start arming themselves, and you hear crossbow bolts being set into place.
Marisha: I run over to the edge where the cellar was, and I go, (whispering) Grog. Grog!
Travis: What?
Marisha: (whispering) Come to the side of the roof!
Matt: You guys make your ways back down through the cellar, where Trinket's waiting patiently. (bear grunts)
Laura: Hey, buddy. Let's go.
Travis: Hi, Trinket. Get out.
Matt: You guys come out of the cellar now.
Marisha: (whispering) Grog! Hey!
Travis: What?
Marisha: (whispering) Catch me!
Travis: Okay!
Matt: Catch Keyleth. You guys are now out in the open, still during the day, rain pouring down.
Laura: Running toward the woods? Where are we running?
Marisha: Get the fuck out of here.
Taliesin: Let's head back to the inn. Let's try the barracks. We'll try the barracks.
Matt: The barracks are attached to the castle.
Taliesin: Shit. Okay.
Sam: Back to the tavern, then.
Taliesin: Back to the tavern for now.
Laura: They're going to notice--
Matt: Stealth check real fast, guys.
Marisha: I was going to say, do you have Pass Without a Trace, can you summon any more spells?
Laura: I don't. I mean, I can cast it right now.
Matt: If you want to quickly, yeah.
Marisha: Yeah, before we move.
Matt: Stealth checks?
Sam: 19.
Liam: Did we get the Pass Without a Trace?
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: So, plus ten, right?
Matt: Yeah.
Liam: 34.
Taliesin: 20.
Marisha: 25.
Travis: 21.
Laura: 24.
Matt: Sure enough, both guards rush around the corner. You guys have already leapt over the fence. However, they see the fence. "The fence is bent!" And they go rushing toward that direction. You guys have already disappeared into the various alleyways, making your way back towards the inn in the center of town.
Laura: Pass Without a Trace, I mean, Dust of Tracelessness.
Travis: Okay, yeah, just throwing it down behind us.
Matt: Okay. They're giving chase. They're hearing the sounds of your footsteps a little, but eventually their sounds fade. You do hear in the distance a bell start going off.
Taliesin: We're going to go into the basement.
Matt: You start seeing people emerging from their homes, hearing the bell. And, you would know this, this would be a warning bell for whenever a fire breaks out in the city. You see smoke beginning to rise up, even through the rainstorm. The fire is fighting the rain. But the smoke is black and it's starting to fade. You gather the building itself did not catch fire enough to burn into rubble due to the rain, but you've probably left a very visible mark on the roof.
Taliesin: That'll do.
Matt: People begin to gather from the outside, and you see folks running past the alley as you make your way back to the tavern that you currently have as your base of operations. You all make your way in safely from the rain. Take a deep breath and come to understand that you've definitely started the motion of whatever it is you're intending to do. We'll see how it plays out in the near future. We'll call the session there for the night.
Travis: Shit got hairy.
Taliesin: That was amazing.
Laura: That was dark, you guys. Super dark.
Sam: I found seven gold.
Taliesin: I have a sword, now.
Travis: It's October.
Marisha: Speaking of Percy and his crazy storyline--
Taliesin: So that's about to happen, yeah.
Marisha: I'm guessing by now if you go on the Geek and Sundry website, you can find his playlist.
Taliesin: Music to burn a house to. Music to violently murder people to.
Marisha: I was gonna say, music to murder to. Go check it out, it's great.
Taliesin: Music for a midnight murder. There we are. Actually, I have some art that I would love to-- can I put on the--
Matt: Yeah, sure.
Marisha: Taliesin art.
Taliesin: Yeah, I drew pictures. Just in case everybody wants to see, this is the terrible thing we keep carving into people and things.
Marisha: Or burning on rooftops.
Taliesin: And then this is actually the de Rolo family crest. Just another fancy thing.
Matt: Very, very cool, and well done, sir.
Taliesin: Thank you. I drew a picture. So that shit happened.
Marisha: Glad I'm not the only one who thinks you're crazy anymore.
Taliesin: I think I'm crazy now. It's gonna be interesting.
Marisha: You're all crazy, we've all seen it. Now we can handle it as a family.
Zac: Yeah, y'all's fucked up.
Taliesin: That got way darker than I was expecting.
Zac: Yeah. I'm sure that won't have any negative repercussions whatsoever.
Matt: No.
Taliesin: I hate you, Matt.
Laura: Hey, man. Did we hit 10k?
Zac: Yep. (cheering)
Zac: 10,060. Currently Starburns is winning.
Marisha: Starburns! Do it!
Taliesin: Starburns! Do it!
Zac: Here's what they forget  Jess and Steph are the ones doing it. If anyone's watched Jess and Steph's craft show, it will most likely end up being just a shaved face. If you think Jess and Steph can pull off Starburns, you're lying to yourself, and it will just end up being a clean shave.
Taliesin: I got a straight razor, we could go for this. You trust me, I mean, you know. I can get in there.
Zac: Moving on.
Taliesin: I can Sweeney Todd that.
Zac: Okay, so. Tonight, guys, we're just gonna be reading off the names and we're gonna knock through 'em pretty quick.
Matt: We're trying to keep time down for weeknights. All right, guys, so we have donating tonight to Extra Live, we have Connor Brown, Steven Sudeban Davis, Ravi Persuad, Mitchell DeFow-- sorry if I ruin any of these names, guys, by the way-- Tom Revely, Caleb Popum, Michael Holloway, George Rinn, PumpkinSpiceThisBitchTheFourth, Anonymous Donator, we have Patrick Toro, the Lost Tigers, Rebecca Case, Lewis Letter, Emma returns, Emma Engquist, I hope I'm not ruining that too bad, Pernil Ilfsen-- that's a cool name-- Arthur Gibbs, another wonderful anonymous donator, Maxine Poloquin, another great anonymous donator, Christian Huntlee, James Bell, John Reap, Killer Penguin, Monica Dahl, Kayla Ernest, Tim Pearson, another great anonymous donator, PumpkinSpiceThisBitch twice more--
Zac: Well, one's the original and one's the second.
Matt: Oh, it carried over, I see. I see. The original and the second. There's a third one in there, probably. Guys, thank you so much. It's really incredible, each one of you that donated to help Extra Life. We really appreciate it.
Zac: Since this weekend is the 24-hour Nerdist Extra Life stream, starting next week we'll go back to 826LA and get those donations rolling back in for 826--
Marisha: But in the meantime, don't forget to go to LA2050 and vote for 826LA so they can win 100k.
Zac: I would also like to throw out there the other-- it currently looks like it's a race between Starburns, Freddie Mercury, and Fu Manchu.
Laura: Oh, I like Freddie Mercury.
Taliesin: Starburns' really kinda rocking it for me.
Marisha: I was gonna suggest-- we had the Hunger Games reference, so what was his name? Kerrion or whatever? The Gamemaster in the first one?
Zac: There is no way Steph and Jess have the ability to do something like that.
Matt: I almost wanna see the tristache. Tristache is when you shave the handlebar, and then a smaller handlebar, and then a smaller-- (laughter)
Zac: Poll's out. The poll's out, dude.
Sam: Is the Hitler on the poll at all? (groaning)
Taliesin: You're a terrible person! That is the worst thing I've heard yet.
Sam: The Charlie Chaplin.
Zac: We also have a video to show you guys from a community member about their own D&D Extra Life stream they're doing this weekend, so we are going to show that to you guys here once you guys sign off, so.
Matt: Fantastic, thank you so much.
Zac: Stick around tomorrow for Jess and Steph's birthday, where they cut my fucking face up. (cheering)
Matt: That's gonna be worth its own weight in gold. Well, all right, guys, we'll be back next week for our special Halloween episode of Critical Role. We'll see how the story progresses darker and darker down this hole of horror and moral conundrum. (laughs) I'm excited. I hope you are too. Once again, guys, thank you all so much. Our love to the Team Hooman, Critter crowd out there, and is it Thursday yet? See you guys next week.
Travis: Damn straight!

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: So first and foremost, we'll get our announcements out of the way as fast as possible. First thing I want to announce, with a little help from our resident gnome bard here today: Scanlan's playlist on Spotify went up on the website. Do you want to talk a little bit about that?
Sam: Go log on to GeekandSundry.com, slash "find it on that site somewhere."
Marisha: It's on the front page right now.
Sam: And you can find it on Spotify. There's some cool songs on there.
Travis: That's baby-making music right there, baby.
Sam: Yeah. There's some panty peelers in there, too.
Laura: Oh god.
Matt: That's a terrible term.
Sam: I wrote it in the song description. Somebody edited it out. (laughter)
Marisha: Oh no.
Taliesin: Well.
Matt: Go check that out, guys.
Laura: Go check that out, guys.
Matt: Exactly. It's actually a pretty great playlist; I've been listening to it all afternoon while prepping for this. By the way, it's really interesting to write stuff for the current scenario in Whitestone with some Marvin Gaye in the background.
Taliesin: Are we going to feel that influence in tonight's game?
Matt: I certainly hope not. Also, next cool announcement: our first Critical Role comic came out today. Our four glorious first panels starting off the past adventure of the party in Westruun for their first Winter's Crest Festival. So yeah, there will be one four-panel comic coming out each week to go through the six week run of this storyline, written by our fantastic Taliesin Jaffe and Marisha Ray over here, and drawn by the incredible--
Sam: Sam Riegel.
Matt: No. (laughs) @WendyDoodles on Twitter. You guys know her as Wendy. She's one of our official artists. She's absolutely amazing. She's our artist for this run. So show her some love.
Liam: Endlessly charming.
Laura: Yes, she is.
Matt: Very much so.
Zac: Really quick announcement that I forgot to put on the document. Hey, guys. We are still in sub-only chat tonight, but we will be doing a giveaway at the half if we reach the sub goal, which is every 100, and I think we're 93 away from the next one. So if we hit 11,500 before the half, there will be a giveaway, and we will open that up to everyone watching, not just subscribers only. So anyone watching, don't fret. You still have a chance to win stuff.
Matt: And what is in the giveaway?
Zac: Tons of shit. Signed posters, D&D stuff. It's just a box of awesome shit.
Taliesin: www.TonsOfShit.com
Marisha: Don't look that up.
Taliesin: Don't look that up. It's just going to make you unhappy.
Liam: We got a big fat care package from Kurtis Wiebe, who is the writer of Rat Queens, so we have collected volumes. I think the first volume or two of Rat Queens. There's some t-shirts, so some of that will probably be finding its way in. Obviously, we love Rat Queens.
Laura: Obviously.
Matt: We like to fill your care packages with tons of cool shit. We throw random things in there for you guys, as well. Cool random things, not just random things.
Marisha: It's like Critical Role's favorite things.
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: Yeah.
Taliesin: We'll be putting out a catalog.
Marisha: Yes.
Taliesin: Critical Role's most favorite things.
Matt: Cool, so check out the comic strip.
Zac: There is a fucking broom behind you.
Matt: There is a broom. Get that out of there. There you go.
Travis: It's because we're going to sweep these Briarwoods under the carpet!
All: Whoa!
Sam: That was quick. Love that one.
Marisha: So good.
Matt: Are you? (laughter)
Taliesin: I've got another character ready to roll when this all goes down.
Marisha: No! You can't have a plan B already.
Laura: I don't have a plan B.
Taliesin: Much like my parents, I have no plan B.
Matt: Laura, if you want to take this away, we have some new merch, apparently, that just went up in the store.
Laura: Oh my goodness gracious! So yeah, starting today, there will be a couple of Critmas hoodies available in the Geek and Sundry store, so Marisha, if you want to hold up one?
Marisha: Ready?
Laura: There's black and green. You guys should go on the website and check it out, because all the little details are freaking amazing.
Travis: There's ugly Critmas sweaters.
Laura: And these are designed by Kenneth.
Taliesin: Yule poop! There's yule poop here.
Sam: Aw, there is, and it's singing!
Laura: There's a little Trinket and there's Minxie. And there's a Pepperbox shooting bullets
Taliesin: And then there's arrows.
Laura: And there's "dagger, dagger, dagger."
Marisha: It's a Critmas sweater.
Liam: I just tweeted out links to the store from the @criticalrole twitter handle.
Laura: So they're the coolest, and then I know everybody was talking about how the "How Do You Want to Do This?" shirts were sold out. Those will be coming back very soon, and there is also "How Do You Want to Do This?" mouse pads for those people that don't want to wear anything and just want to surf the web.
Travis: Watch us, au naturel.
Taliesin: I'm now wondering how much of our audience is currently-- no, never mind.
Sam: Just wearing a mouse pad? (laughter)
Matt: For those who don't know, I don't wear pants during this show.
Laura: We're like newscasters.
Matt: Exactly.
Taliesin: He's so hairy, we hardly notice.
Matt: It's true, I'm like a satyr. (laughter)
Marisha: This is escalating quickly.
Taliesin: I've got plastic on my character.
Travis: A satyr! Draw that shit first. (laughter)
Matt: No, damn it. Oh man. Yeah, we had a lot of great feedback from people saying that shirts were great, but we want to expand into other parts of merchandise people were requesting, so we're starting to do that.
Laura: Yeah, there's some other cool things coming up, too, but that's what's available now.
Matt: We've been trying to be creative to make sure you guys have stuff if you want it, especially for this season.
Taliesin: Oh, and just to do it again since we haven't done it enough, please do check out the Spotify links and the comics. Go to the actual Geek and Sundry website because the more traffic the Geek and Sundry website gets for you guys going there to look at our stuff, the more excited they are to do cool stuff for us, so if you want more of this, definitely go there.
Laura: Well, also if you go to the website, then you can see the blurbs that we wrote about each of the songs and the explanations about why we chose them.
Marisha: We each picked fanart.
Sam: What I do is I favorite the geekandsundry.com website. I check it every morning when I wake up. That's what I do. It's my news in the morning.
Travis: I think I'll do that tomorrow morning. That's a great idea. That's imitatable.
Taliesin: We have so much stuff we want to do for you guys. We have grand plans.
Laura: Grand slam plans.
Taliesin: Thank you, ma'am.
Marisha: Thanks, Denny's.
Matt: All right, cool. Next up, just to remind you guys, most of our actual show announcements and stuff go up on our @criticalrole twitter handle, and we have all our personal ones, but that's our central place for all Critical Role-related business and announcements, so if you don't already follow that, you should because all our cool stuff goes up on that. Also, today's donations and our donations for a while are going to be going towards a new charity, pushing towards Doctors Without Borders, to help support people in crisis around the world. It's a wonderful organization. We're going to play a video with information about it during the break today, but in a world that is filled with a lot of positivity, there are dark places and there are dark things and people need aid, so we're hoping to do what we can to try and give to those circumstances, so check it out at the break and if anyone who is able to help give to that, please do so.
Travis: Solid.
Matt: Let's see, a couple other announcements. We will be off next week for Thanksgiving because all of us have families to see, so there will be no Critical Role next week, unfortunately. I think we'll be doing-- are we doing a rebroadcast of something?
Zac: We'll probably do a rebroadcast of all the episodes.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Like a marathon?
Zac: Sure, why not.
Matt: Or just 24 hours of a close-up of a turkey. A turkey I cooked, so undercooked. But yeah, so we won't be here next Thursday, but we'll be thinking of you lovingly in the process, and we'll be returning the Thursday after that to continue the story.
Taliesin: You'll be DMing a game for your family, I would assume. (laughter)
Matt: No, it never ends. No, I'll be eating copious amounts of pumpkin pie, probably.
Liam: You are now Homer Simpson in hell with donuts just going in. (laughter)
Matt: More, more! Yeah, so there's that. Other cool announcement, this week saw a video game release of Star Wars: Battlefront.
Travis: It's so good.
Matt: I haven't had a chance to play it yet, because Fallout.
Laura: Because Fallout.
Marisha: Because Fallout.
Matt: But that's next on the list. But you can hear both me and Marisha in Star Wars: Battlefront as stormtroopers. (cheering)
Matt: Both to kill you if you're rebels or to do better if you're with the Empire.
Marisha: This is the first time they're really focusing on female stormtroopers, so it's pretty cool.
Matt: I think it's rad. So apologies for being yelled at by us. Anything else you want to go over?
Travis: Yeah. Sam. Put your hand up by your face. Now high five me while I high five down on the count of three. One.
Sam: Wait, do I go up or down?
Travis: You're going straight down, straight up. One, two, three (impact noise). Did it work?
Sam: Did it work?
Travis: I've got to go lower. One, two, three (impact noise).
Sam: Ah! So strong! (laughter)
Laura: I want to see if it works.
Travis: You've got to wait 20 seconds. (laughter)
Liam: Switched over to PayPal. While he looks at that, one last thing. We are, as always, friends with Wyrmwood Gaming. If you want beautiful wooden boxes in all kinds of colors and patterns, go to Wyrmwood Gaming, and if you use the code CritRole, you will get free shipping.
Laura: Say it again. CritRole.
Liam: You'll get free shipping. Hey, one nerd helping out another.
Travis: They are so sexy.
Laura: They are very sexy. And they have magnets in them to keep your dice protected when they're in your other bags. Your Bag of Holding.
Marisha: Christmas is just around the corner.
Matt: It keeps my Critmas bronze? Thank you.
Taliesin: Oh yeah, you've got your little mini.
Matt: I know I'm so excited I have a mini! I'm not even in the game, really, but I am.
Laura: That's Gilmore's mini. Any time Gilmore talks, can he have that mini?
Matt: No. I'm going to one day do a Gilmore mini in private. It'll be fun. All right.
Liam: I brought this for good luck today. (laughter)
Liam: It's going to be my woobie.
Taliesin: Hey, now. Not cool. Not cool. We do not use the W word around here.
Sam: Does he even know what he's saying?
Taliesin: Yeah, he knows.
Liam: We're off the rails again.
Sam: All right, let's go.
Taliesin: Sorry.
Marisha: Fucking vampires.
Matt: Did you use woobie intentionally?
Liam: Yes.
Taliesin: Goddamn it.
Liam: He's in Mr. Mom!
Taliesin: They don't know where you're pointing.
Laura: Point down!
Liam: He's in Mr. Mom. This guy right here.
Matt: Anyway! Let's get kicking into this evening's episode of Critical Role. So. To get all of you up to speed. The party has traveled to Whitestone, partially to free their name of some negative political ramifications back in their home city of Emon, and to aid Percy in possibly freeing his hometown of Whitestone from the oppression of Lord and Lady Briarwood, a couple who have risen to power over the past five years after slaughtering his family and taking it over and keeping it all this time. After arriving, they found a very heavy undead presence in the town, with giant zombies roaming the streets as sentinels. Most of the townsfolk kept under perpetual watch in this slowly will-crushing atmosphere. But as Vox Machina arrived, they began to instill the thoughts of rebellion. Stoking those flames once again with the return of the surviving de Rolo, they began to sway the people's minds to make a final stand. During that time, they also discovered that Percy's sister Cassandra is also a surviving de Rolo and exists somewhere in Castle Whitestone, seemingly under lock and key. The party began to systematically take out members of the new nobles who worked underneath the Briarwoods, setting many buildings on fire, leaving emblems of the de Rolo crest across the town and written in the sky, and after an extensive battle, began to make their way toward Castle Whitestone itself. Burrowing into a partially collapsed but long-remembered secret passage underneath the castle, the party rested for the evening with the help of their recently arrived cleric Pike, who had managed to project herself through the will of Sarenrae as a spiritual body given temporary physical form. While they were searching this tunnel, it led to the dungeons, the prison cells beneath the Castle Whitestone where Percy once woke up five years before, before Cassandra helped him escape. While they were walking through those cells, they discovered an old woman currently locked down below there who is asking for the party's aid in freeing her from her imprisonment. And last time we left off, you were helping with--
Laura: Fake helping.
Matt: Fake helping with the lock, much to her chagrin.
Laura: Yeah, and I had just snapped it off into the locks so that it's jammed it.
Matt: Yeah, you're a terrible person. All right, so as you snap off the lock and pull away from it, having the strange physical interaction in the darkness around here, Trinket behind you just breathing over your shoulder, keeping close to you just in case anything's wrong. She pulls her hands away. "Fine. (huff) Do as you wish, leave me to rot."
Laura: Oh, we'll be back. Don't worry.
Matt: She backs up and sits in the far corner of the prison cell and (huffs).
Laura: I look around. Has everyone left me?
Travis: The only people that are in the light--
Laura: All right then I follow to where everybody else is going.
Matt: All right.
Travis: She only saw me and--
Laura: Me and Scanlan.
Matt: And Scanlan, yeah. You all stepped out into the light. The rest of you stayed in the shadows.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: All right, so there are the rest of the cells which Vax has gone through and taken some time to inspect, where you found what appear to be the remnants of individuals who were imprisoned here and then left to die, long rotted, their corpses picked apart by various resident rodents and other creatures. After doing your passes, the conversation has happened, you see no other signs of life down here. This being the sole prisoner currently within the cells below.
Laura: I go and I find Scanlan.
Sam: Oi.
Laura: So, question.
Sam: Yes?
Laura: When you cast Seeming on us, our visual-- if you made me look like a cow, would I seem like a cow when I bumped into you, or would I seem like a human?
Sam: Are you asking me to make you into a cow right now?
Laura: No, I'm saying that if something was different--
Sam: Because I think this is not the right time.
Laura: I think that old woman was doing something weird.
Sam: Why do you think that?
Laura: Because she looked like she had full handses, but--
Sam: Four hands?
Laura: Full.
Sam: Oh, full hands. Okay.
Laura: Normal sort of hands, but I didn't feel them.
Sam: You didn't feel them? You touched her hand and it just passed right through?
Laura: Her hand touched me, but it didn't--
Sam: That's an illusion of some sort, yeah.
Laura: So she was doing some sort of--
Sam: I don't know what, but yes. If I were to cast Seeming on us, or some other sort of magic, it would make us look one way but not feel that way.
Laura: I guess it's good that we left her, then.
Sam: She's a caster of some sort?
Laura: I don't know.
Travis: Can you dispel Seeming?
Sam: Should we go find out?
Laura: I don't know.
Travis: How would we do that?
Laura: Can you dispel Seeming?
Sam: I don't know. (laughing) Let's go find out.
Marisha: Do you have a Dispel Magic on you right now?
Sam: I have-- No.
Marisha: Oh my god, I do!
Sam: Well.
Marisha: I learned it.
Sam: Oh, Keyleth?
Taliesin: Are we calling everyone over for this conversation?
Sam: I think we should.
Travis: Away from her.
Laura: Yeah, I'm far away from her now.
Sam: That prisoner over there is casting magic of some sort.
Laura: I think she had Seeming cast on her. I don't know if she did it herself or if-- well, I don't think she was what she appeared to be.
Taliesin: Do we want to waste power on somebody who's...
Sam: What if she's--
Travis: An early warning system?
Sam: Yeah, what if she's a guard?
Marisha: What if she's Lady Briarwood? Like what we were saying? That's what I'm most afraid of.
Sam: Well, then we should find out now and kill the shit out of her.
Travis: I vote for that.
Marisha: Well, before we do that, let's see who she is. I did come prepared, though, to dispel magic.
Laura: So you can do Dispel Magic?
Marisha: I learned it. I did.
Laura: Stay in the shadows, Keyleth, and cast it on her.
Travis: Percy, you're wearing what?
Taliesin: I'm wearing a hat of disguise so that I'm not immediately identifiable.
Travis: What are you in disguise as?
Laura: A dude in a hat.
Taliesin: Link from the Legend of Zelda. I don't know.
Sam: Well, you've got to figure it out right now.
Taliesin: I'm going to figure it out right now. Just as a reasonable Whitestone peasant.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Terrible teeth.
Taliesin: Trying to blend in.
Matt: By comparison to this troop, you're some poor sap who got pulled along, but yeah. You are that one quest-giver in Warcraft that walks way too slow and the party is like, "Come on, move!" That's who you look like right now.
Travis: Before we dispel magic on her, should we have someone put her in their sights in case she gets a little funky monkey?
Marisha: She will be able to feel it.
Laura: Well, yeah. She'll look like she's not herself.
Taliesin: We could also just ask her to drop it.
Travis: We asked her who she was. She lied. A lot.
Taliesin: Well, we could ask her to drop the Seeming.
Marisha: She lied pretty well, too.
Taliesin: She did.
Sam: I could go talk to her, and meanwhile she could be fiddling with her magic behind me.
Laura: Do it.
Marisha: You go talk to her. I'll be prepared.
Laura: I'll stay in the shadows with my arrow notched.
Travis: I'll stay with Scanlan in case things go wrong.
Marisha: I stay next to Vex.
Taliesin: I stay in the shadows.
Liam: How close together are the bars to this cell?
Matt: The bars are about four inches apart.
Liam: Four inches.
Laura: So my arrow will do much better than your dagger.
Liam: Well, no. I'm not saying for you not to, but would I be able to comfortably throw through?
Matt: Yeah!
Liam: Yeah? All right. I'm not telling you not to.
Laura: No, it's fine.
Matt: She'd have a little bit of cover.
Laura: Shoot your arrow, too. Shoot your dagger. Whatever.
Marisha: Shoot your dagger?
Sam: He doesn't shoot daggers
Liam: Passive-aggressive much?
Sam: All right, so I stroll over back to the cell.
Travis: With Scanlan, also.
Sam: Oh, flanked by Grog. Yes.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Not looking friendly, neither.
Matt: Okay, and there is the one torch that's a little off to the side that gives a little bit of light into this one portion of the dungeon below here. She's sat out, into the shadows of the far corner, arms crossed. You can see a little bit of the light framing her form. You make out okay in the darkness this close as a gnome, but you can see that she's just hunched in the corner, huffing in frustration.
Sam: Oi. Old lady. Listen. We said we were going to come back for you and release you when all was said and done, but we cannot make that promise if you don't tell us the complete truth. Now, we know that you're using magic of some sort. Tell us who you really are.
Matt: "I'm sorry, what?"
Sam: We are smart little people. And big people.
Travis: Thank you.
Sam: And we can sense that you are casting magic of some sort on yourself to disguise yourself. Now, I have some familiarity with this, so I make no judgment as to why, but please reveal your true self to us or else we cannot trust you and we will leave you here to rot and possibly die.
Travis: (whispered) Now.
Marisha: Now! I do it now! (laughter)
Sam: "Now, I do it now?"
Travis: Hopefully quieter than that.
Matt: As Keyleth, partially in the shadows-- the form of Scanlan small enough to not really obscure her presence-- but she nevertheless gestures in the air, recites beneath her words the forbidden druidic languages that coalesce the powers of nature around. At which point, there's a dull flash of energy within the cell. Some of the nearby straw on the ground gets blown away from her form from the general push of air the spell disperses and the impact.
Marisha: Sorry, got a little squirrely on that one.
Matt: The grey hair, the tattered clothes all vanish, revealing beneath it a woman in her early mid-forties or so. Jet black hair pulled into a tight ponytail, but strings of it in front of her face. Still in disarray but nowhere near as wrecked as the previous visage you were presented with. She's wearing nice travel clothes with what looks like some sort of a long duster-like coat that is a little ragged. You can see there's a little stain from being down here for a while. As soon as this moment hits, she pushes back even further, pressing herself against the wall, arms to the side.
Travis: There you are.
Sam: I must say, you look way better like this.
Matt: "Happy?"
Sam: Extremely.
Travis: Yes, I'd say so.
Sam: Yes, so who are you for real?
Matt: "My name is Anna, and I would like to be set free, if you don't mind. I can be of assistance to you. I happen to know a lot of information about the people that currently reside within this castle."
Sam: How would you know anything about them?
Matt: "Release me and I'll tell you."
Travis: You want to be set free?
Laura: Tell us and we'll release you.
Matt: "You've been so forthright in your interest in helping such an old and frail woman. How can I have any sort of guarantee of my safety should I give you the information you seek? You could very well slay me in this cell."
Travis: That might happen if you're not careful.
Marisha: What's Percy doing right now? Where's Percy?
Laura: Do you recognize her, Percy?
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: You very much recognize her. You do notice, by the way, her right hand? The sleeve ends. There is no hand there. It is just a missing hand, and the left hand is visible.
Travis: As far as we can see, unarmed? Right?
Matt: Yeah.
Taliesin: Anna?
Matt: "Yes?"
Taliesin: Let's be frank with each other. You have two options: either you are going to die in this cell-- and I promise you, you will die in this cell-- or you are going to convince us why you shouldn't. So I would start talking right now or I swear we will not leave this dungeon before you're dead.
Matt: Roll an intimidation check.
Marisha: It's pretty good.
Taliesin: 16.
Matt: 16, okay.
Liam: And just as he finishes talking, I throw a dagger a foot away from her head in the wall.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: You gave her a fucking dagger? And then it flashes back to you, right? (laughter)
Matt: So the dagger which is thrown (whoosh) hits the stone wall next to her and jams itself between two of the stone bricks and gets wedged there for a second. She looks over for a second, reaches up for it and grabs the hilt as it vanishes in a puff of smoke.
Laura: You are so fucking lucky it did that. (laughter)
Matt: She leans forward and stands up and steps into the light, and you have a better look of her now, and her face is a little weathered from travel. You can see she definitely doesn't appear to be nobleborn, at least. She's by no means a homely looking individual, but you can see she's seen the world, or elements of it, to have those dark lines at the sides of her face, whether it be from smiles or frowning. She steps into the light and looks to you, this peasant individual making these threats, and seems partially shaken but keeping her composure in the face of such threats. She says, "Well, for one thing, I've been here with them for the past five years. I helped them reestablish their current social control of this city when they left it a pile of flames and rubble. And their little experiment beneath the castle? I was one of their chief scientific designers."
Taliesin: Tell us about the experiments beneath the castle.
Matt: (chuckles) "You'll have to ask Sylas or Delilah for that. I don't have all the details or the reasons behind it, other than the process I was brought in to construct."
Marisha: Can I see if she's lying?
Matt: You can. Make an insight check.
Marisha: Not great.
Taliesin: That's a number.
Marisha: It is a number. 16.
Matt: 16? Okay. You get the sense that she's telling the truth. You're not quite sure how far off the truth, but there doesn't seem to be any sort of bald-faced deception in her voice, at this point. She speaks with a confidence and a brusqueness of a person who is frustrated by the circumstance and has no other choice. "I wasn't interested in their zealotry or the whispered dealings, just the challenge behind the construction. I enjoy challenge. Challenge that pays, well, (chuckles) I enjoy that even more."
Taliesin: Question two  What are you doing down here, really?
Matt: "I'm down here because my work is done and I wish not to linger with an impending battle. I don't choose sides; I merely let them fight while I live another day far, far away. I wouldn't have gotten this far dealing with the people I've dealt with in the past if I had chosen to stick around under such circumstances, so I tried to leave. It appears Anders saw me packing and decided to gain 'a little favor by turning me in, so they threw me down here, told me to wait out the rest of the experiment, at least until the ziggurat was complete. So here I am, living amongst rats in a cell for over a week. That's my reward."
Laura: How did you lose the hand?
Matt: "Experiments can be dangerous, sometimes. I dabble with chemicals and alchemical reagents that can be miscalculated, and I paid a price that will be an ever-present reminder until I can find a way to fix it. And there are ways."
Travis: Are you looking for ways to get back at the Briarwoods?
Matt: "Based on the way they've treated me here and their possible intent to not even keep up their end of the bargain now that I'm free to walk away? Perhaps."
Taliesin: Can you lead us to Cassandra de Rolo?
Matt: She turns her head with a curious look. "I could, yes. Why do you ask?" She looks at you very intently.
Taliesin: That may be what your life is worth.
Matt: "So. What else do you wish to know? What else do you need, even, to get me out from behind these bars? Because I'm growing very uncomfortable and cold here in this cellar."
Taliesin: I pull forward, I look her very deeply in the eye, and I say, you should know who your friends are here. Do you know that we're friends? And I'm going to become friends. I'm casting Friends.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: What?
Laura: What?
Travis: Is good Percy casting Friends or shadow monster casting Friends?
Sam: We'll never know until he and Ripley kill us all.
Taliesin: I'm getting creepy. Just for flavor. There is definitely some creepy happening.
Matt: Okay. You stare at her at this point, intent pushing yourself toward the bars, and she's still looking you over like she's searching for some sort of an inclination as to why you're so interested in these particular questions.
Taliesin: You've been truthful with us so far, correct? You haven't been fudging around or playing games with us, really, have you?
Matt: "I've no reason to lie. Worst comes to worst, you kill me where I stand or leave me here to rot. What do I have to gain by lying at this point? Besides, you've already proven you can see through quite a few ruses. Apparently."
Taliesin: So you'd be happy to help us find Cassandra de Rolo, wouldn't you?
Matt: "If it gets me out of here and gets me free to do my own business, then yes. I'll have to get a few things from my room, but I would be more than happy to be free of this desolate landscape. This whole town is a ruin of misery, and it has no color. It has no culture. I've grown bored of it."
Laura: You say you're a scientist.
Matt: "Yes."
Laura: Do you use magic?
Matt: "I've no interest in paltry magics. I'm more of one who embraces the sciences as a means of understanding mystery. My whole purpose here was one giant chemical experiment."
Laura: Then who cast Seeming on you?
Matt: "Oh, that isn't to say I have don't have my tricks."
Taliesin: Anna. You will take us to Cassandra de Rolo. You will tell us what you know about what's in the basement. You will tell us where to find Lord and Lady Briarwood, and you will tell us where to find professor Anders. And for this, we may let you go.
Matt: "Hmm, may. That word, 'may.'"
Taliesin: I'll let you leave the castle.
Matt: "And if I agree to these terms, you'll release me at this moment? Keep me safe until it is time for me to take my leave?"
Sam: We may chain you to a bear, but yes.
Laura: This is Clarota all fucking over again.
Taliesin: You are, at the moment, the luckiest person in Whitestone. Do you know why? Because you're at the bottom of my list. (laughter)
Taliesin: And I take off the hat.
Laura: Oh shit!
Marisha: Oh shit!
Matt: As the peasant image fades, for her, there's an intensity to her eyes, a widening of realization as she steps back instinctually with a gasp. And there is definite fear in her voice and her eyes, but there's an uncontrollable smile on her face which catches you off guard. "Percival." (laughs)
Marisha: She's a nervous laugher.
Matt: "Well, then. This certainly explains a lot. I have many questions. I found your recent work very fascinating."
Taliesin: I will be happy to give you an up close and very personal demonstration. Unless, of course, you would rather have conversations about other topics.
Matt: "We'll start with the other topics." She adjusts her coat, regains her composure, and steps up to the bars expectantly.
Sam: Vax?
Liam: All right. I come out of the shadows.
Laura: Oh god, are we really letting her out?
Sam: Get a chain ready, or a noose of some sort.
Travis: No, we have manacles.
Laura: She's got one hand. How's that going to be useful?
Marisha: One hand and then one on the bear, right?
Taliesin: It means there's only one to shoot off to make sure she won't be a problem.
Liam: I pull out a pick and I walk up to the gate and I say, he's a very good shot. She's a very good shot.
Laura: He poops on things.
Liam: This guy, I've watched turn things into the Jelly of the Month, so I would tread very carefully.
Marisha: And then I peek out of the shadows and go, hi. (giggles)
Liam: She's a nervous laugher. (laughter)
Matt: Go ahead and make a check lock pick. This will be more difficult than normal because--
Laura: I snapped off a thing in there. Sorry about that.
Liam: All right, I'm going to use Luck.
Laura: You're going to use Luck now?!
Sam: Shall I inspire you?
Taliesin: Don't use Luck yet
Liam: It's not that bad. That's a 20.
Matt: That's a 20 baseline?
Liam: Yeah, because of my--
Matt: Expertise? All right. 20 is exactly what you needed.
Liam: Skadoosh.
Matt: That was the next one. So you take a moment you walk up all slick and (click).
Liam: Wait. One sec. This never happens. (laughter)
Matt: You have to get down and you spend the next 30 seconds actually managing to get the pin that she has stuck in there out without actually breaking the spring inside.
Laura: Sorry about that.
Sam: Fucking doors!
Liam: Shut up!
Laura: It never ends!
Matt: About a minute and a half of awkward quiet as the sound of scraping metal and jimmying thieves' tools, eventually (click).
Liam: We're still very tough. (laughter)
Matt: And with that, (ting) the lock comes loose and the bars (creak) open a little bit.
Laura: Trinket, watch her.
Matt: (grunts) The bear, which at this point has been barely visible, steps out of the shadows, as well--
Sam: Bear-ly? (groaning)
Matt: It would be you.
Liam: Kill him!
Matt: Steps out and presents a very puffed-up Trinket made to look intimidating. (growl) Towards Dr. Anna Ripley.
Taliesin: Here's the deal, Anna. You do what we ask, you do not betray us, you do not make our life difficult in any way, and you have my word that you will leave Whitestone unmolested by us. If I sense the slightest hint, if I have a moment where I think that you might make a run for it, if I have a moment where I think you may cough inappropriately, I would ask you to think about everything you did to me, and I would like you to know that I have learned so much more than what you taught me that day, and I cannot wait to show you. And I will. But not until I find you again.
Matt: "Understood, Percival. Well, then. Shall we?" She steps out of the cell, pushes the bar aside, saunters up past you, steps over, still facing you underneath the torch light.
Sam: Should we shackle her?
Taliesin: No.
Sam: Oh? All right.
Taliesin: It'll arouse suspicion.
Matt: "I'd like to gather my things."
Sam: Things? They let you have things in a prison cell?
Matt: "Well, I don't have them here in the cell. They're in my room."
Sam: We have to go to your room?
Matt: "I would like to."
Laura: Tell us what you need and we'll get it for you, dear.
Matt: "Very well. Come." And she begins to step up the stairway that leads out of the dungeon.
Laura: Can you walk quietly? Please?
Matt: You can hear the slight chuckle in the darkness. She goes, "I haven't lived this long without learning to step a little gingerly."
Sam: Oh boy.
Liam: Let's go parading through the castle.
Taliesin: I'll follow her.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Let's all follow her, right?
Travis: We should check any of the other cells?
Laura: We did. We already checked them all
Matt: As you're walking up the stairs, she's talking to you a bit out loud and she's just saying, "This whole entire endeavor-- while it did pay well at the get-go and did pique some of my curiosity, I'm very happy to see it out of my life after this." You guys get to the top of the stairs and there is a closed wooden door there. She comes to the door and listens to it for a second. (creak) Opens it up and looks out. "Huh. Empty." Holds the door open and says, "Who would like to enter?"
Sam: You would like to enter.
Matt: "All right, just giving the offer." And she steps into the room. This is the end of a long hallway that leads to a series of doors on the right and left side, and it opens into a large central entrance chamber to what would be the castle. So she steps in. She's not going too far ahead. She's being very conscious that based on the fact that she has nothing on her and you are very well armed, it would not behoove her to attempt to make a run for it.
Laura: Do we see anything in the room?
Taliesin: Perception is passive as hell right now. I am keeping very sharp eye on--
Matt: No, I understand. Looking around. She's taking her steps slowly, and she's looking around corners as you guys progress. The doors that are there-- everyone's being very quiet, just the very gentle sounds of careful footsteps against the smooth stone floor. (footsteps) She turns around, looking at the rest of you a little confused, and goes, "Huh. Usually there are a lot more individuals frequenting this castle."
Sam: Maybe they've been drawn out by the thing that we incited outside that's been going on for like 45 minutes now?
Marisha: Feels like a trap.
Laura: No, but there is fighting. Can we hear fighting?
Matt: You're inside the castle right now. You could go and if you want to try and enter one of the rooms to the right or left, you can see if there's a window.
Sam: Are there any open doors?
Matt: All the doors are currently closed.
Liam: I just want to see if I sense anything around.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: 23.
Matt: Perception?
Liam: Perception, yeah.
Matt: Okay. You take a moment and listen around. Silent. Still. It's unnerving.
Sam: Does she have a window in her room?
Matt: You asking?
Sam: We're at her doorway, aren't we?
Matt: No, you've just stepped up to the base floor of the castle. You're on the base floor, on the side of it. You're not even quite sure which way is north.
Travis: Nobody we're looking for is going to be above us, right? They're going to be below the castle.
Sam: For sure.
Travis: So we don't want her to get her shit in her room. We need to be asking how to get below the castle.
Taliesin: We'll get there.
Sam: What are you getting?
Marisha: She wants her weapons.
Taliesin: And I want to see what she's built, anyway.
Sam: Why would we let her have a weapon?
Travis: We're not going to.
Laura: Can't we look at what she's built after we fight them?
Sam: It could be useful.
Taliesin: As we're walking, I just want to very gently take my gun--
Sam: And shoot her with it. (laughter)
Taliesin: And just put it gently at her back, going, nothing personal. I'm just feeling a bit nervous.
Matt: "Understood." She straightens up a little more and continues walking ever so carefully. Not quite leaning her head or making too many large movements, but definitely still keeping a seemingly nervous eye on how quiet the atmosphere is.
Laura: I creep over to one of the doors in the room and see if I can hear anything on the other side.
Matt: You don't hear anything inside the room. Roll a perception check.
Laura: (groans) 14.
Matt: You hear some slight, muffled, dull thud noise, but you can't really tell how close it is. It's very, very faint.
Laura: Can I see if the door handle is--
Matt: (click) It's open.
Laura: I step to the side and push it open.
Matt: Push it open (creak) The door opens. Everyone before you whips around, hearing the noise in the silence. Looking inside, it appears to be a long-untouched music room, a space for hosting individuals where you would have small performances, and there is a very cold fireplace in the far corner. There is a small, circular window that is placed in the center of the room that has a very thick glass pane with cross bar on it that seems to look out. And this is your first view-- for you, especially, since you woke up in the tunnel-- your first view of the outside.
Laura: And?
Matt: Do you go up to the window and look?
Laura: Sure.
Liam: I'm following my sister in, doing the buddy cop thing.
Matt: Okay. You two coast up to the glass and look out, and another cloud-covered, slightly drizzly morning has taken the caldera between the mountains that houses Whitestone in this forest. You can see the entire city of Whitestone down below this elevated part of topography. What you do see, one, are large plumes of smoke, about six or seven of them, all gathered towards what you can tell now is the north side of the city, which is the closest to you. You guys are on the southwest side of the castle, based on the spatial awareness you've now made.
Marisha: Where the more upper-class folk would live, I'm assuming?
Matt: Go ahead and roll perception check, while you're glancing out.
Marisha: Sure.
Liam: So close.
Laura: That could've been so bad. 20.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: It was like whee-- oh.
Matt: (laughing) Love those little (gasps) moments. Taking a moment, you pull your brother in to point out where you're looking. It looks like the gates to the castle are wide open. There are tracks through the mud that lead down the pathway to the bottom, and right where the path from the castle intersects with the outer wall of Whitestone, there is a fray going on right now. It looks like the remnants of whatever sort of undead army that wasn't destroyed by you guys, combined with what may have been a number of the individuals who normally guard the castle, have all been momentarily distracted by the rebellion you guys have started, and for the time being, at least, have left elements of this castle unguarded.
Laura: Nice. I would loot, but it's Percival's home. Do we see anything that looks like it could be a doorway leading down, or anything?
Sam: We've gone up, right?
Laura: We're on the main level.
Taliesin: We're going to try to get my sister first.
Laura: Do you know, Percival, how to go under?
Taliesin: Yes. Unless there's something new, then yes. I was born here.
Liam: Before my sister leaves, I grab her by the arm and say, "Listen to me--" (creaking)
Liam: What is that? Pizza. Forget I said that. Listen to me, I do not have a good feeling about this. And I start to undo the cloak that's on me, And I want you to wear this. And I tie an elven cloak. Shut up, please. I don't need it. You will wear this. You will stay hidden when it is needed. You almost lost me. I almost lost you. You will wear this as needed.
Laura: I will wear it. Thank you.
Liam: I walk out ahead of her.
Matt: Pull the hood up. So you get advantage on stealth checks. As you guys step into the hallway and move forward, Pike's physical form is drifting along you guys as she takes each step. You can see she's stopped a little bit and she's lost in thought for a moment. And she looks at the rest of you and says, "There is a great evil here. It's--" And you can see part of her form flicker and shake and almost blink for a moment, and then she reaches forward and says, "Something's willing me away. I ca--" And with that, her form just vanishes.
Laura: Oh no!
Taliesin: Damn.
Matt: As you feel this warmth on your hand, Vax, and the symbol of Sarenrae that you have embedded in your glove. You look down, and it has a slight glow to it, similar to the color that her divine energy form had taken. And you see it just slowly fade, but not entirely. The symbol seems to just have this general very faint radiation. A reminder, or at least what small semblance of a connection to her in this dark, dark place.
Liam: (whispering) Goodbye, Pike.
Travis: Before we move on from that foyer, can we see the front door from where we're at?
Matt: If you go another 20, 30 feet ahead to the end of this hallway, it should open up into the main entrance chamber and you would be able to see the doors.
Travis: So we're not there yet, okay.
Taliesin: I'm going to take a moment and I have an epiphany, and I'm going to shift my form into a castle guard.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Vex, what you saw through the window, should we move through the castle quickly because it's unguarded?
Laura: I guess. There's fighting going on now. I don't want to eat right now.
Taliesin: We'll get it on the break.
Laura: I saw fighting, lots of fighting. I feel like if we're going to move, we need to do it quickly.
Travis: Yeah, we're on a clock.
Sam: Okay, let's go.
Taliesin: Anna. I lower the gun and let her move forward.
Travis: You don't need to lower it.
Matt: She continues forward, heads towards the rest of the hallway into the main entrance chamber of the castle, very carefully looking about. She gestures to the rest of you to follow. And as you follow along beside her, you can see the two large front doors that situate the entrance, the main entrance to Whitestone--
Sam: Are they open?
Matt: No, they are closed.
Travis: I have 20 caltrops. Can I throw ten of them in front of the door?
Matt: Yeah, if you'd like to. (laughter)
Matt: They scatter and clink against the ground, scraping against the stone and eventually coming to a stop loosely around the two doors, which are about eight feet wide each, so 16 feet of it, so you're scattering about one every foot and a half.
Liam: I watched him do that, and I shrug and I reach into my pack, and I throw 30 more of them.
Matt: Okay. The area has a little more coverage on there, but nevertheless there is a nice cluster of nasty spiked caltrops now.
Laura: That was a good idea. Very smart there.
Travis: Yeah. Thank you.
Sam: Grog, using your noggin.
Travis: One a day. (laughter)
Taliesin: Was that a thought for the day, then? Don't sprain yourself. We need you later.
Travis: I'm back. (laughter)
Matt: Ripley starts making her way up the stairs, and the staircase ascends for a good 15 feet up before it splits into two curved stairways that come around to a second landing to the second floor.
Marisha: So hang on one second, real quick, he's dressed as a guard?
Taliesin: Yes.
Marisha: I'm going to go ahead and cast Enhance Ability on you. For charisma.
Taliesin: I don't need it.
Matt: Well, you do now.
Taliesin: Has it worn off?
Matt: It lasts for a minute, so yeah, it's worn off.
Marisha: Oh, it only lasts for a minute?
Matt: Friends only lasts for a minute.
Taliesin: I had enhance charisma on for a while, but now it's gone, so if you do it, what I had is gone--
Travis: Pour some sugar on, Keyleth.
Marisha: I'll do it. I'm going to enhance. In case we get busted. So you'll have advantage on persuasion rolls.
Matt: Okay, so you have advantage on all charisma-based ability checks.
Taliesin: All right, putting that down.
Marisha: Also, no one forget that we have Heroes' Feast.
Laura: Wait, if I put the holy oil on things, it lasts for a few hours, right? It lasts for half a day or something?
Matt: I'd say it lasts for about an hour after application.
Taliesin: Wait until we're in the thick of it.
Matt: The oil will eventually just drift off, as it is an oil.
Laura: It dries and stuff.
Matt: Yeah, it dries and gets rubbed off. It lasts about an hour after application.
Taliesin: Let's head to her room.
Matt: Okay. You head up the stairs. She's being very quiet about it. She comes up to the landing, heads to the first major hallway that opens up into a long set that goes all the way to the eastern side of the castle. You recognize this area. This is where a number of smaller guest rooms were arranged. There's also a reading room. Around the corner and down the way is where your father's study is. And around the back is where Professor Anders's study was. She continues forward and eventually stops at a door halfway down the hall. Motions to all of you. "Do you mind?"
Laura: What do you want? What's in there?
Matt: "My belongings."
Taliesin: I want to see what you've been working on.
Matt: "All right." She opens the door. (creak)
Marisha: I'll wait outside and stand watch.
Laura: I walk in with her.
Travis: I stay right next to her.
Matt: So in her room, it's very plainly decorated. You know these rooms are generally very well decorated, just in case. Decorations have been taken off. This room looks very minimalistic and for the most part more for function than anything else. You see there is plain sheets on the bed, most of the room's open space is taken by a long table that's been put here that has a series of alchemical glassware, and you can see what looks to be small containers that contain different materials and powders and seems like she does her own work here. There are two open drums on the side, and there is this very caustic smell to the air. There is an acerbic tinge to the nose as soon as the room enters. There's just this ever-present, very heavy fresh rust smell to the room. She walks to the far end. Underneath the desk that contains this alchemical setup, she pulls a small chest out--
Taliesin: I watch very carefully.
Matt: She brings the chest to the top. She opens it up, and on the inside you can see just some folded clothing. She moves the clothing off to the side and she pulls out what looks like relatively simple leather armor. "May I?"
Travis: Very, very slowly.
Laura: Don't be creepy, Grog. (laughter)
Travis: Creepy? I'm going to put her through the wall if she moves in the wrong way.
Taliesin: You know, I almost killed you in Stillben.
Matt: "Really?"
Taliesin: Do you remember?
Matt: "Huh. I didn't know that was you."
Taliesin: I was kind of curious if you had figured it out or not.
Matt: "No."
Laura: Tell you what, I'll hold onto that armor for the time being.
Matt: She's partway into it.
Laura: Yeah, you can take it off. We'll put it in the Bag of Holding. You can put it on after we're done.
Matt: (heavy sigh) She folds the tunic portion over the chest piece and hands it to you, pulls out some of the arm braces and leg guards and hands those over as well.
Taliesin: Show me your work.
Matt: She goes underneath the chest and she pulls out two small glass vials and sets them on the side. She then reaches underneath and pulls up what looks to be a false bottom of the chest. Places it. At which point she reaches in and pulls out a metallic construction that you all see looks not unlike in shape and purpose as the Pepperbox that you've seen Percy use all this time, though it has only a single barrel and has a small rotating four-part chamber to it. It's a little more refined than his construction, and you can see now part of the alchemical setup she has in here actually is, and you recognize this as you get close, part of it is designed in the creation of ammunition and refining the powder that is used by this process. You see a series of notes that are off to the side that have sketches outlined of your Pepperbox, though not really accurate. Almost like they were recalled from various individuals that had seen it in person and given accounts of it. She's been keeping a very close log of eyewitness accounts of your weaponry, apparently, for some time.
Sam: She's a fangirl.
Marisha: Yeah, she is.
Taliesin: I'm disappointed. I was expecting something more imaginative.
Matt: (laughs) "You've seen my room, have you not? I prefer function."
Taliesin: (scoffs) Hack.
Matt: She reaches down and--
Travis: Keep your hands away and step back.
Taliesin: We'll give those to you when it's time to leave.
Matt: "How am I to defend myself should things go, and pardon my term, ass-up?"
Laura: Are you planning on fighting with us? Helping us?
Matt: "You say you won't release me until you've finished what you're doing here. I assume that what you're doing here is ending the current reign of those who rule this town. I can't assume that's going to end with a conversation."
Liam: I lean my head in and say, the goliath could turn your head into paste now, if you like.
Laura: Tell you what, we'll take the weapons and give it to you if we need your help.
Taliesin: Let her have the armor. As a sign of good faith.
Travis: What if it's enchanted armor?
Taliesin: And give me your ammunition. And when it's time, I will hand some to you.
Sam: So you're leaving her the weapons but no ammo?
Laura: No, I'm taking the weapon.
Taliesin: The weapon's useless.
Laura: I don't care.
Matt: She gives you the weapon begrudgingly. Hands you a pouch about this big that's pretty heavy, containing a series of iron balls inside. You can see there's the various instruments she uses for forging them and crafting them there across the table. She puts her hand out towards you for the armor. She puts it on, a little quicker this time, because she feels like she had a little victory. She takes a little vial, puts it in her pocket. She reaches over and grabs a little pouch inside the side with change. Puts a little bit of money to the side there.
Travis: What are in those vials?
Matt: She reaches in, pulls them out, shows them to you. And you recognize the color. She goes, "What, you think you're the only one who doesn't occasionally suffer a wound? I have to look after myself, as well." It's a greater healing potion.
Travis: One of them is? Or they both are?
Matt: The one she pulled out and showed you.
Travis: What about the other one? (laughter)
Matt: "Really?"
Travis: Really. Lest your brains leak out your ears.
Matt: She pulls out the other one. "This is in case things go really poorly and I need to uphold my sense of self-preservation."
Laura: What does that mean?
Travis: Yeah, what does that mean?
Matt: (sighs angrily)
Taliesin: Convince us to let you keep it.
Matt: "It allows me to make a fleeting escape on the air as opposed to by foot."
Laura: Oh. Well, then give it to me.
Travis: Axe. (laughter)
Matt: And with that, the glass almost shatters with the amount of frustrating force she slams it into your hand.
Laura: Careful. That's made of glass, darling.
Travis: I was only stretching. No need to get testy.
Matt: So you have a Potion of Flying in your inventory right now.
Taliesin: And god forbid you'll see how gracious we're feeling when we find Cassandra De Rolo unhurt.
Sam: Yeah, Grog! Grog with the steal.
Laura: Ooh, I get a piece of paper!
Travis: Shit, Potion of Flying.
Laura: This is awesome.
Sam: All right, do you have your shit? Can we get out of here?
Matt: "Yes. Everything else here is of no interest to me." She kicks one of the drums on the way out. Slips back into the hallway.
Sam: Anything you could use, Percival?
Taliesin: Was there any more black powder? I've taken all of her ammunition and black powder, I suppose. Anything else that looks useful to me?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Taliesin: That's intelligence.
Matt: Yeah.
Taliesin: Oh. Well, hell. Eight.
Matt: Eight? You give a quick once-over of the room. The place is pretty barren. Other than the large drums of what seems like three inches of some weird caustic substance at the bottom.
Taliesin: I hate what you've done with the place.
Matt: It's a recurring substance. A lot of the vials are based around it. There's a recurring theme of this caustic liquid throughout all of her instruments.
Taliesin: We'll have a conversation about what she was trying to do off-camera so I can have a better understanding of it.
Matt: In what way?
Taliesin: I figure I may poke you later to get a better understanding, just so we don't have to bore other people with her technical accoutrements, but I would like, at some point, an out-of-character understanding of what I'm looking at. Of what I could discern about what I'm looking at.
Matt: Or we could have it on camera.
Taliesin: All right. No, I just figured it'd be, I don't want to-- (laughter)
Taliesin: I want to kill something tonight.
Laura: Yeah! We were also running out of time.
Taliesin: Exactly.
Laura: There are people fighting right now.
Taliesin: Committed as much to memory as possible. Let's go.
Laura: When we defeat the Briarwoods, you can come back and explore this room to your heart's content.
Taliesin: Touche.
Marisha: It'd still be your place.
Matt: "Now, to your sister, is it?"
Sam: Up or down?
Matt: "This would be on the other side of this floor."
Taliesin: Which room?
Matt: "I think you know the room." And you know that you're not too far from your sister's room.
Marisha: They let her keep her room.
Liam: See you later. I go stealth. 20. No, 23.
Matt: As you guys make your way across the other side of the hallway, back toward the western side of the castle, eventually finding where, not far from where your room was, as well as the rooms of your brother and Cassandra. They're all localized in this one area of the castle, so you were all nearby. She goes straight to Cassandra's room. Goes to the door and doesn't touch it yet.
Taliesin: A quick question before I open this door. Am I going to have a violent reaction towards you when I open it?
Matt: "I certainly hope not."
Taliesin: Good. (sighs)
Travis: I stand right behind her.
Taliesin: I motion to everyone, stay back, open the door, and I push Dr. Ripley into the room, with me behind her.
Matt: Okay. As you pull the door open, (creak) you push her in. The room is dark. There is no light. What little bit of light that peeks in from the hallways in the poorly-lit interior of the castle for this time of day. You can see there is her canopy bed. You can see there is her cabinet in the corner, but the room appears to be dark and empty.
Taliesin: Torch.
Marisha: Are there any wall sconces around? Torch wall sconces on the outside?
Matt: There are a few along the walls that are currently burnt out at this point.
Travis: I take a torch out of the Bag of Holding and I take the Firebrand War Hammer, ignite it, and hand the torch to Percy.
Matt: Okay. You glance about the room. It's lived in. The actual bed covers themselves are pulled off. You can see she has a vanity mirror cabinet in the far corner. It's all put away. The chair's open a little, like it was stepped out of. The room is absent of anyone.
Taliesin: I walk over to the closet. I open it.
Matt: Okay. You open the closet. She has outfits there. Many of them don't appear to have been worn in a while.
Taliesin: Looking for signs of life with the paper on the desk.
Matt: You search her desk?
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Taliesin: Let's have a real roll. That will do.
Marisha: That's a really good roll.
Taliesin: That's a natural 20.
Travis: It is?
Marisha: Yeah.
Sam: Classic Percy.
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: It was doing this on Group Hug, man.
Matt: You go through her vanity cabinet, and you find there's small gems there. Just little keepsakes of hers. Things from her childhood. You do find there is a tattered portrait of her and your brothers and you that appears to be partially burned on one side that is kept on its own at the bottom of the top shelf. You can see currently it just shows half of your face, her next to you, and your other three brothers to the side. The rest of the family is burned off at the top point, but this was once a portrait that was in one of the hallways that apparently was destroyed in the initial attack or since then. And she's kept this scrap as some sort of memory and hid it within her cabinet. You also do find a stack of paper, a series of partially-written notes and ink and quill that are false stops. Letters that were partially written and then crossed off, or mistakes were made or they never got finished that are all written to Archibald. And they talk about the general unrest in the city. Preparation for a possible coming rebellion. Discussing past failures but the intent to try again. There's a theme through a lot of these notes that this appears to be one of the methods she was using to communicate in the outside of the castle, and was her role in previous attempts at freeing the people of Whitestone.
Taliesin: She's not here.
Matt: You see Ripley's also like, "Well, if she's not here, she's somewhere else in the castle. I assume."
Taliesin: Where would she be?
Matt: "I don't spend my time wondering or curious about her well-being! I just know that she is usually here."
Taliesin: Anna. I'm going to take a leap of faith and believe, contrary to all evidence, that you are a smart woman. I pull out the gun, and I put it to her head. Now. If you were the Briarwoods, where would you put my sister?
Laura: An important question here, Percy. Are they keeping her, or is she here of her own volition?
Taliesin: I don't know. And if you don't know, make me believe it.
Matt: "I know she's not allowed anywhere near the ziggurat or near our distillery."
Taliesin: Distillery? I pull the gun away.
Matt: She breathes a sigh of relief. "That's been largely my project as part of this entire endeavor. All right, so when I was brought in here, I was tasked to experiment with the design and create large amounts of a very, very delicately prepared acidic compound, one that could dissolve the stone of your whitestone and distill it down into pure residuum. This would allow the bulk creation of a very powerful magical essence for use in construction materials that we could instill and use apparently for this ziggurat, as well as other such things. Thus, that was my main reason for being here. We were ahead of schedule, and I completed the bulk of our development weeks ago, and I no longer had much of a purpose here."
Marisha: Ahead of schedule? I'm sorry. Hi. By the way, I'm Keyleth. We haven't really talked yet. What schedule were you trying to keep? What was the deadline?
Matt: "We were trying to create enough continuous acid to develop enough residuum to be used in the reconstruction of the ziggurat. Once I had developed enough of the compound to where we no longer had to create more, my purpose was complete. I had no interest beyond that. The rest is gibberish to me."
Taliesin: So you're telling me that somewhere in this castle there is a storage facility full of caustic acid that dissolves the very stones of this castle?
Matt: "Yes."
Sam: I reach out and I take out my potion of acid resistance and I drink it. (laughter)
Matt: Okay. Mark that. She looks at you, goes, "Yes. If you've seen the vents of greenish fume billowing out in the garden, that is where the distillery exhausts to."
Taliesin: Well, this is interesting.
Laura: Ziggurat? What's it for?
Marisha: What exactly does it do?
Sam: Hurry up. Time is of the essence.
Matt: "I don't know. It has something to do with the Briarwoods' interest in some third party. Someone they've been working with. Someone I've not met, someone who I have no interest in inquiring within."
Marisha: A name. Give us a name, girl.
Matt: "I was not given a name. They don't speak of this individual's name. They are very secretive about it. They paid well, they gave me land, they gave me a title, and when things were done, I was to go free. Which is why I was not happy in which the predicament you found me, made me."
Travis: Where can we find this ziggurat?
Matt: Her eyes trail down to the floor. "The ziggurat itself is, well, based on the tunneling structure, the distillery's direction? Right beneath the city of Whitestone."
Travis: The city or this castle?
Marisha: They're going to destroy this fucking city.
Laura: Is it underneath the Sun Tree?
Matt: "No, not the distillery. The ziggurat might be."
Sam: Wait, what?
Taliesin: Oh dear.
Marisha: They're going to-- yeah.
Taliesin: Are they still melting down the whitestone for magical energy?
Matt: "No, I don't believe so, not for weeks. We finished that process for quite a bit now."
Marisha: So you're done melting the whitestone, but you still have a whole bunch of this acidic compound kicking it in a warehouse somewhere?
Matt: "Well, not in a warehouse. That's all kept stored underneath the garden of the castle."
Travis: We need to finish clearing this house now. I don't know if they're even here.
Taliesin: We'd better move.
Sam: Downstairs.
Taliesin: Downstairs.
Matt: "You were asking about Anders, though. Do you wish to pay him a visit?"
Taliesin: (growls)
Matt: You can see a smile on her face. She does not like Anders.
Marisha: She's trying-- Percy? Percy, she's trying to bait you. She's trying to waste time right now. Come on.
Matt: "He was your sister's keeper."
Marisha: She's trying to-- Percy, la la la. Percy, come on.
Laura: He's probably with the Briarwoods.
Marisha: Come on, he's not there.
Liam: I'm off sitting in the shadows, but I say, Percival, we need to cut off the head.
Taliesin: Is it possible that my sister would be with him?
Matt: "It's very possible if she's not here."
Laura: Anna, shut. Up.
Matt: "Very well."
Laura: Percival.
Matt: "I only say because my whole--"
Laura: "Anna!" And I notch an arrow and aim it right at her throat. "Shut. Up."
Marisha: Percy?
Sam: Where would this professor be?
Matt: "I imagine his study. It's around the corner."
Taliesin: We'll check his study, and then we'll go.
Marisha: No!
Taliesin: Just his study, then we'll go.
Marisha: Percy!
Taliesin: Even if he's there, if she's not there, we'll leave.
Travis: Go. Lead the way.
Marisha: We're running out of time.
Laura: Brother, run and check the study.
Liam: I start running towards the direction that was described.
Laura: Let's go towards the under--
Taliesin: Very well.
Laura: Lead the way down.
Matt: "Very well."
Laura: No talking.
Sam: Wait, we're going down?
Travis: Yeah, we're not leaving Vax.
Laura: We're heading down. He's going to catch up.
Matt: She begins making her way towards the landing that leads to the stairway down, whereas you stealth off in that direction. You find your way around that corner. Go ahead and roll perception.
Liam: As I'm moving, by the way, it's minor, but I take out Clarota's (sniffs, groans) metallic cap and put it on, and I also whip out this other cloak that I've been looking at and whip it around. You're not here. And now continue on.
Matt: All right. So both will attune to you at your next short rest.
Liam: Yes, all right, excellent. It's fine.
Laura: Well, you've worn Clarota's thing before.
Liam: There's two things. Moving forward.
Matt: All right, make a perception check.
Liam: That is 22.
Matt: All right, as you make your way down the hallway, you hear what sounds like a muffled female voice from behind a distant doorway. Like a small cry in pain or worry.
Liam: Do I need to stealth again, or am I already stealthed?
Matt: You rolled stealth before this.
Liam: Yeah. It was like 23 before.
Matt: Yeah.
Liam: So I'm going to move toward that sound. Carefully.
Matt: Okay. It leads down. There are three doorways on this side of the hallway. The central door there is where you hear the noise coming from.
Liam: Okay, I'm sticking my ear to the door, and I'm going to listen for a full minute to see what I hear.
Matt: You hear a little bit of quiet and a light sobbing. Then you hear another voice, a male voice, an older voice, just say quickly, "Shh! You be quiet until you're told to speak. They should be close."
Liam: I want to gently try the door handle.
Matt: Okay. It is not locked. It does turn.
Liam: I want to push it like one inch in and try to peek in.
Sam: Just the tip.
Laura: Don't.
Marisha: I'm having deja vu.
Laura: I know. We've been here before.
Matt: You glance inside the room, and it's a nice study, and there is a fireplace on one side that is part of a continuation of a two-story fireplace column that goes up through the castle on this side. There are shelves of books, there is a desk in the far corner, there's a couple of chairs laying around. From this side, from what you can see, in the center to the back of the room is an older gentleman wearing a breastplate. You can see his very short gray hair, a little bit of facial hair that's grown in but not to a full beard. It looks like it's been left to go on its own for a little while. And he's currently holding a young woman, roughly early twenties or so with dark brown hair with a couple streaks of white through the sides of the temple. Holding her by her hair with a dagger to her throat, saying, "Shh! Now. When I tell you, you'll say what I told you to say. Got it?" And you can see she has tears streaking down her face she's like (gasping).
Liam: I back up about five steps and very quietly say, Jenga. (laughter)
Liam: And I run at the door and I kick it open and throw at him.
Sam: Yeah!
Taliesin: Well, that happened.
Sam: Yeah.
Matt: All righty.
Laura: So we take off running towards him.
Marisha: Here we go. Jenga. Fucking asshole. (laughter)
Taliesin: Dick!
Marisha: It's a trap. It's such a trap.
Sam: Of course.
Matt: All right. (laughs) So you have a surprise round.
Liam: Yeah.
Marisha: Come on, Sneak Attack.
Matt: Both those individuals right there. Go ahead and make your attack.
Liam: What am I looking at?
Matt: Okay, so as you burst in. You can see the man's holding, there's the desk behind him, right there. Papers and stuff scattered on there. There's some tables around with some chairs. There are these large bookshelves that hold this side and there's the fireplace in the far corner right there. Flames. Warming the room. There's a small chandelier on the ceiling that has magical light emanating from it that gives the room this warm glow. You don't care right now because you're throwing a fucking dagger.
Liam: Right. But he's behind her a bit, right?
Matt: Yeah, he's holding her right there with a dagger to her throat.
Liam: Well, I recently added the sharpshooter feat, so three-quarter and half cover means nothing to me. So I'm going to aim for his eye that's peeking out the side. All three are going right in his eye.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: So here's the first. The first is 24.
Matt: That'll hit.
Liam: Okay, the second is 26. As you can tell, I've been screaming monster sounds. My voice is a little ragged. 26 on the second.
Matt: Hits.
Liam: And 16 on the third.
Matt: 16 misses. But the first two strike true.
Liam: The first, it's three plus seven is ten. Plus 14, 20, 26, 29, 33, 39. That's the first one. And then the second one does four plus six is ten. Oh! But it's surprise, so the first one is doubled because it's automatically a crit.
Matt: All right, so what's that now?
Liam: Well, it was 39, so now it's 60, 78. For the first one. Ten for the second.
Taliesin: I love you.
Matt: Okay. So 88 points of damage. You just went 80 miles per hour on your first turn. As you kick the doors open. (whoosh) The first dagger, he sees it coming towards him for a second and attempts to dodge out of the way, and as he moves this eye out of the way, the dagger (impact noise) right into this one, he screams out (screaming) in pain as it just plunges into his eye socket. Not deep enough to actually hit any brain, but enough to definitely take that eye out as any sort of viable method. The second one just hits him in the shoulder and a reaction to that, Cassandra screams out, "No, run! It's a trap!" At which point, he takes his dagger and just runs it across her throat.
Laura: (softly) I don't think it's her. It's not her.
Matt: You see crimson start to pour down the front as she (choking). Go ahead and roll initiative.
Liam: All right. I'm going to do luck. Yeah. That's a 22.
Taliesin: Why would she be saying it's a trap if it's not her?
Laura: Could be a peasant.
Matt: All right. Okay. So you're going first. Also, at this point as you throw the dagger, you're still at the doorway and you hear what sounds like two sources of metal clanking together. You can't really see a source, but you hear other sounds in the room. What are you doing with your action?
Liam: I am running at him and stabbing the shit out of him.
Matt: Okay, as you cross this boundary, I need you to go ahead and immediately make a constitution saving throw.
Liam: I'll use luck again. Yeah.
Sam: That's two lucks.
Liam: That's 17 for constitution saving throw.
Matt: Great. All right, so as you step across the threshold of the room, the tile in front of you all of a sudden bursts in a flash of blue, painfully cold energy, like there's a concentrated moment of shredding ice.
Liam: Am I able to use evasion for that?
Matt: You can, technically.
Liam: So if I succeed, I take no damage.
Matt: Correct. Okay, so you take no damage. You dart across, just managing to use that momentum and your intensity toward this horrible moment that just happened before you. And you feel the explosion happen behind you. You just manage to pass beyond it. You rush forward to him. All right. And he's dropped her to the ground now. She's fallen onto her hands and knees.
Liam: I'm going into his guts.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: So first attack is a 25, second attack is a 20, and the third attack is a 26. One, two, three?
Matt: One, two, three.
Liam: Oh, and I'm going to turn the poison on for the poison dagger, which I'm going to use for the second.
Laura: Just flip the little switch.
Liam: Well, it just drips. So nine for the first, eight for the second, plus the poison is-- shit, I didn't copy it down here. I think it's 1d12. Let's say it's 1d12, because I can't remember. If anyone wants to correct me, they can. Five points of poison added to the five is 13. And then the last dagger is nine.
Matt: Okay. So as you rush up to him and shank him repeatedly in the side, the breastplates deflecting part of the blow, but you're managing to find openings in the side, and you go for a shoulder and jam it underneath his arm, through his ribcage, and he screams out (yelps) in pain, and you can see there's blood pouring out the side of his mouth. And the dagger's returned by now, but there's this giant gaping, bleeding wound on the side of his face where one of his eyes is completely ruined. He looks both surprised, angered, and very, very confused about the way things suddenly happened.
Liam: Hello.
Matt: All right so that's your turn.
Liam: That's it, I'm out.
Matt: Okay, he's going to go.
Taliesin: Goddamn it.
Liam: We're six seconds in, Taliesin.
Matt: First off, there were two sets of decorative armor on the sides of the wall that suddenly have filled with some sort of reddish arcane energy that gives them a solid physical form, and they both step off their pedestals and begin (heavy impact) making their way towards you. But before all that happens, Professor Anders in front of you, wounded and not looking terribly happy at the moment, is going to use his action to attempt to cast Confusion on you. So he goes to step back, and (grunting) just releases his hand in front of you as one functioning eye bores into you as he screams out. You can feel the pressure towards your head. Go ahead and make a wisdom saving throw.
Liam: Wisdom, which I have advantage.
Matt: Well, wisdom saving throw because of that anyway, so.
Liam: That is a 20.
Matt: A 20? The effect shrugs off. Nothing on you. He is going to attempt to step back--
Liam: Oh, attack him.
Matt: So you get attack of opportunity on him.
Liam: Yeah, it's a 22.
Matt: 22? Okay, that does hit.
Liam: Eight.
Matt: Okay. He will use his bonus action and he-- let me look up the definition of it real fast. Okay, takes a bonus action as he steps back, "(grunts) Come. Take this inspiration to defeat my foe!" And he lends an inspiration dice to one of the armored creatures stepping forward towards you. Now it's their turn. Both these armored creatures pull out swords, and they lift up the shields that they had to their sides, and they rush into you from two sides right there. You see this as they rush up to you: they're not really touching the ground, they're gliding across it. So the first one is going to attempt to strike you with two attacks of its longsword. That is a 14?
Liam: No.
Matt: Second one is a 17.
Liam: No.
Matt: All right. The second one now is going to go ahead and take two swings at you. That is an 18.
Liam: Yeah, but I'll use uncanny dodge.
Matt: To reduce the damage by half?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Okay, so the first strike hits you for 13 points of slashing damage.
Liam: So, half that or all of that?
Matt: That'll be half that.
Liam: Half that. Okay, so seven.
Matt: There you go. And then that's going to be a 24 to hit.
Liam: That hits, yeah.
Matt: And this is not halved. Okay, that's 12 points of slashing damage.
Liam: All right.
Matt: Okay, now to Cassandra's turn. She is on the ground just spilling out her life essence onto the ground. She's clutching at her throat and is like (gasping). You hear that horrible sucking sound of her feeling her life drain from her. She's not unconscious, but she doesn't have long for this world. All right, that brings us to the top of the round. The rest of you guys are now rushing, I assume, dash motion, making your way as fast as you can to that side. Due to distance, you would all get to the end of this hallway, about there.
Taliesin: Is that including sprint?
Matt: Well, the dash action, yeah.
Taliesin: That's full dash?
Matt: This is your movement and then dash action, you guys, because you guys were down in this area, heading down the stairs. You just made it up and over. And this is Ripley. We'll use that for Ripley for now. Everyone else roll initiative. We're in a new combat round.
Taliesin: What the hell!?
Marisha: Oh! Percy's pissed.
Taliesin: I Percy'd again.
Marisha: He Percy'd.
Matt: Who got him that dice? (laughter)
Travis: The golden snitch is powerful.
Taliesin: No, I was on Group Hug last week with somebody else's dice, and it was comedy.
Laura: It's just you, Taliesin.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Matt: You are the anti-Wheaton.
Taliesin: I'm the anti-Wheaton.
Matt: If you guys were to play in the same group, all RPGs would fold into themselves and no longer exist. It's like the end of Timecop. It'll be terrible. Okay, so initiatives. We have 25 to 20?
Taliesin: 28.
Matt: 28.
Travis: 21.
Matt: 21. Remember your advantage, by the way.
Travis: That's the second roll.
Matt: All right, so Percy at the top.
Travis: Feral instinct.
Matt: All right, and you were at-- I think your initiative was 20?
Liam: I don't remember. It was early 20s.
Matt: Early 20s, yeah, so it'd be Percy, Vax. 20 to 15?
Marisha: 13.
Sam: 19.
Matt: 19.
Marisha: Oh wait, sorry. Might have jumped the gun a bit there. I'm excited. Sorry. I'm bringing up the ranks anyway, I think. It's fine.
Matt: Keyleth, all right. Vex, what'd you get?
Laura: 11.
Matt: 11.
Liam: I'm Vax.
Matt: I know, I said Vex! I got it right this time!
Liam: Oh, you're from California.
Laura: Yeah. (laughing)
Matt: Technically, I'm from Florida. All right, so Percy, you're up first.
Taliesin: Can I drag Ripley with me?
Matt: You can, but you'll be moving half movement.
Taliesin: Fuck.
Travis: Leave her. Somebody else--
Taliesin: So as my bonus action before anything happens I'm going to tell her, she lives, you show us where the entrance to the caverns are, you walk with your things. And run.
Laura: She was trying to set us up in this trap. You do understand that?
Marisha: Oh yeah, she's all about this fucking shit.
Matt: Full movement?
Taliesin: Full movement.
Matt: Okay, that's your full turn there. All right, that ends your turn, Percy.
Liam: I have one healing potion left, and I'm going to take it and stick it into this girl's mouth and empty it and maybe drip a little on her neck as well.
Matt: Okay, go for it.
Marisha: Maybe hold her neck. Make sure it goes down.
Matt: Well, you have to roll to heal. You pull back, and it's a really unsettling thing as you pull up her head to try and feed her the potion.
Liam: It's 2d4?
Matt: It's just a regular healing potion?
Liam: Yeah, regular. It's the lowest of the rung. Moderate? I think it's called moderate?
Matt: Sorry, got it right here. That's 2d4 plus two.
Liam: So four. Six. And then I want to step in front of her, between her and that one, and then stab the one.
Matt: Okay, as you take the potion, it's a messy process. You get most of it in her, but some of it drips on the ground, but the wound seems to close. All the blood goes away on the ground around her neck from the splashing of the potion, which has vanished entirely, and you can see she's (gasping).
Laura: That's good.
Matt: She's right on the edge, but she's looking pretty rough.
Liam: So is that the bonus action, or is that the action?
Matt: That was your action.
Liam: Action, okay. By the way, I'm realizing I didn't click my boots, so I did one two three before, and the third one missed, so luckily that worked out, but I'm not clicking those.
Matt: Thank you for the reminder. So used to dagger, dagger, dagger. I'm like, "Wait, no."
Liam: So I just step between them, and that's all I can do, yeah?
Matt: Okay, so you move into there, great. That's your turn.
Liam: No, I mean between her and the closest one to her.
Taliesin: Oh yeah, we've got this new thing now. That's so much better.
Matt: For those who don't know, we have a top-down camera for the players, which is really helpful for them to know--
Laura: What's going on.
Matt: So you move.
Liam: I was hoping to stand in front of her, yeah. Like that.
Matt: So you push her aside and get in between the two, okay. Cool, that ends your turn. Grog, you're up.
Travis: Dead sprint after Percy.
Matt: Okay, and your speed is?
Travis: 50.
Liam: (heavy footsteps)
Taliesin: (heavy footsteps)
Taliesin: Yeah!
Marisha: What's up, Grog?
Matt: You can get all the way up into here, but that's all you can do this turn. Yeah, so you're (heavy footsteps) bounding down the hall. You push past Percy and rush into the room, and you see a young girl on the ground, doubled over, barely conscious. You see Vax stepping in front of these weird, glowing armored creatures, and at the back of the room, there's a man with bleeding, gaping eye socket.
Travis: What the fuck did you do?
Liam: Welcome to the party.
Matt: All right. Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: I'm up? I run as fast as my little legs will take me. 25.
Matt: There you go.
Sam: I can't see them, so I'll just inspire-- Who's going to get in there next? Who's behind me? Can I inspire people that I can't see?
Matt: I think they have to be in your sight.
Taliesin: You can see me, though whether or not you want to inspire me at this point is definitely debatable.
Matt: You can inspire somebody else in the hallway, if you'd like.
Sam: All right. They can't even make it in the next turn, right?
Marisha: No, but we'll keep it.
Sam: Sure. I will inspire Vex, behind me, and I'll say, (sings) Arrows and bows, they fire at our foes and kill them, and they make them ghosts. They won't let go.
Sam: (sing) Arrows and bows!
Laura: (sing) Arrows and bows!
Matt: As the beat hits you, you feel yourself a little more sure shot with any arrows. Take your d10 inspiration die.
Liam: Forearms go (explosion noises). (laughter)
Matt: All righty. So, that brings us to-- all right. Professor Anders, now, is taking his turn.
Marisha: Professor Anders.
Sam: Professor Anders.
Marisha: Professor Anders.
Liam: Mr. Anderson.
Matt: He sees this giant creature in the room looming and he reaches up and closes up one eye and goes, "You. Do this for me." And as he looks at you for a second, he releases another spell and you feel a familiar arcane grasp begin to curl over the back of your mind. Go ahead and roll a wisdom saving throw with advantage because of your Heroes' Feast.
Travis: All right, okay.
Liam: Come on, baby. One more time.
Travis: 14.
Matt: 14. Your brain, not tempered against these types of magics and having previously failed you before. You feel your will no longer become your own as now you are an instrument of destruction controlled by Professor Anders. You've been Dominated.
Taliesin: Damn it!
Laura: Fuck!
Sam: Oh no. Dominate goliath.
Laura: We've got to kill that motherfucker!
Matt: Okay. I mean, he looks to you and goes, "Kill that one!" And points to Vax, and you look down at Vax with a grin as the blood-letting you've wanted so bad, your target lies before you.
Sam: Hulk versus Wolverine! (laughter)
Matt: Ending Anders's turn--
Taliesin: Remember what he did to your beard.
Travis: I know, is it me grinning, or is it dominated Grog? (laughter)
Matt: Moves to here.
Taliesin: Hulk versus Wolverine, man. I'm excited by that.
Matt: Both of these horrors move and shift around now at this moment to get on each sides of you, giving them both a flanking bonus. Now it's four strikes, longsword against you, with advantage. Double eights. Can't roll shit!
Liam: Why advantage? I'm just curious. Give it to me, but what's the advantage from?
Matt: They have advantage against you because they moved into flanking position.
Liam: Because they're in flanking. Got it.
Matt: Which, for those who're curious about it, it is an optional rule in the DMG. It exists. Second attack. Three and a four. I can't roll!
Taliesin: (sucking sounds)
Matt: So this guy just whiffs with both of his weapon strikes.
Marisha: You're sucking his energy?
Taliesin: (raspy) I have your power.
Matt: Natural 20 on the next strike.
Laura: Spoke too soon.
Marisha: Spoke too soon.
Matt: Two natural 20s.
Taliesin: Damn it!
Matt: It was a miss and a natural 20 on the first attack, and then a natural 20 on the first roll of the second attack.
Taliesin: Goddamn it. I'm sorry.
Marisha: Spoke too soon.
Matt: So you take on the first hit--
Marisha: You mock fate, fate punches you in the mouth.
Matt: That would be 16 points of slashing damage, and 20 points of slashing damage with the second strike, so a total of 36 points of slashing damage. And you can feel this strange, angry vibrating growl coming from within this unhallowed armor that floats before you. That ends their go. Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: I'm running like hell. Running, running, running. Can I see? Can I peek around the corner just to see?
Matt: You can just peek around the corner and see the circumstance.
Marisha: Can I see Cassandra?
Matt: You do, yes.
Marisha: Healing Word.
Matt: Okay, go ahead and roll.
Sam: Do you know it's her?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Laura: Either way. Whoever it is.
Sam: Do you know what she looks like?
Travis: Just do what you're going to do.
Laura: Just do it.
Sam: Okay.
Marisha: Healing Word.
Taliesin: Family resemblance.
Marisha: Family resemblance.
Matt: I'd say given the circumstances, you have an inkling that someone's in danger there. And the calling of Jenga. So go for it.
Marisha: I'll cast it-- no, I'm just going to keep it at 1st level for now. I'm going to save my higher-level ones for Cure Wounds, so I'm going to cast it at 1st level, so that's 1d4 plus my spellcaster. Three. That's not too bad. No, sorry. 16? No, 13.
Matt: 13? Okay, good to know. All righty. That's your turn. Vex, you're up.
Laura: So I'm with Anna. Trinket-- I tell him to hold onto her and drag her along with us.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: So he clamps down on her arm.
Matt: So one, two. He's going to attempt to grapple her. Go ahead and roll an athletics check with advantage because she's not expecting it.
Laura: 16?
Matt: Okay. Trinket grabs onto the scruff of her coat and begins pushing forward. They both get the rest of half of his movement because he's forcing her forward. That's as far as he can get.
Laura: But I can keep running? I can run all the way up?
Matt: What's your speed? Is it 30?
Laura: 30.
Matt: You get about there, right at the edge.
Laura: So I can shoot an arrow?
Matt: No, that's your movement and then your dash action to get there.
Laura: Okay, cool.
Matt: All right. Ripley is just going to stay put for the time being. She's held by a bear and being pushed along. She's just "Ugh."
Taliesin: With no weapons and no armor.
Matt: Leather armor, basically.
Taliesin: Leather armor, yeah.
Matt: Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: I'm going to run in. I can move six, right?
Matt: You can move six squares, yes.
Taliesin: One, two. Can I get a good view of Professor Anders and maybe get a little cover from the dining room table?
Matt: You can a little bit, yeah.
Taliesin: All right, I'll take my cover. I'm going to pull out--
Matt: As you walk in, around the corner you can see these armor attacking Grog, his axe forward at these two armored entities floating in the air. You see Anders in the corner, clutching a hand over one eye with blood streaking down the face, a number of wounds bleeding out from the armor. Already been a rough day for him, and your eye slips down, and for the first time in a long time, you see on the ground before you, clutching her throat, no wound or blood splatter but clutching her throat and breathing heavily, your sister Cassandra. And you look back up at Anders and you feel the burning rage begin to billow up inside you, and as you walk in the room towards the center of the table, you guys who are able to see the room, you see now, from outside of his sleeves, outside from under his coat, there's blackish purple smoke beginning to (whoosh) billow out from behind.
Marisha: Does it seem more extreme than it has been in the past?
Matt: It seemed pretty extreme in the past. It just started; you don't know. Go for it.
Taliesin: Bonus, I pull off my hat of disguise, drop it on the floor. And I'm going to just unload at that motherfucker.
Matt: As you pull off the hat, your image shifts fully to Percy, at which point Anders looks back and sees this source of smoke and glances over. His hand falls away at a moment of realization, eye goes wide. "Percy..."
Taliesin: Shot one.
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: Oh, for the love of god!
Marisha: Oh, when it counts.
Sam: (ricochet noise)
Marisha: (ricochet noise)
Matt: In the frustration, the rage and such, you pull up your gun and as you go to fire, the bullet gets caught in the chamber and it almost ejects the entire barrel from the front of it. It's not too difficult to repair, but it definitely upsets the current flow.
Taliesin: I'm going to attempt to repair it really quickly. Trying to remember how to do that because I hate it. (mumbling)
Matt: Is it an action or is it an attack to do? Should say under the--
Taliesin: Action, shit.
Matt: Yeah, so you have to use your next turn to try and repair it.
Taliesin: (sighs) So I'm just going to sit and scream a little bit. (shouting)
Matt: Okay, you can see that this whole moment here, as the smoke pours out from the front of the gun, you yell out angrily and there is this unnatural bassy reverb from your scream that shakes the room. Anders actually takes a step back from this and is looking about the room, and finds himself basically trapped in the far corner of his study.
Marisha: Oh, you better not!
Matt: That ends your turn.
Taliesin: That's my turn.
Matt: Vax.
Liam: I'm going to use disengage, and I'm going to hop over Cassandra towards Anders and stab him in the other eye.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: First attack is 21.
Matt: That hits.
Liam: Second attack is 17.
Matt: That hits.
Liam: Okay, ten on the first, ten on the second.
Matt: Okay. Needs to make concentration checks to see if he can maintain his Dominate. Against ten damage? That succeeds, and yeah, that succeeds. So he maintains concentration of his spell, but both daggers, you just run up and stab him. This angry grunt under your breath with each stab and you can feel the armor itself is now warm with the pooling blood from the wounds that you gave him before. He's looking pretty rough.
Liam: So, question? I asked if I could hit the eye. Did I hit the eye?
Matt: Unfortunately, no. It's one of those things where a Sneak Attack would be an eye shot for this one. You go and try and stab towards the eye, and he pulls away; he knows what's coming and uses that inertia to jam it into his side and stab a second time in there. So yeah, no purchase in the eye, unfortunately.
Liam: Okay. And I'm squared off right in front of him.
Matt: Yeah, just right in front of him. That ends your turn. Grog.
Travis: So when you're dominated, does that mean charmed?
Matt: Essentially, you have to follow his orders. He's not directly, specifically controlling you right now, but he told you, "Attack him," so you have to use all the things at your disposal to now attack him.
Travis: Okay. I can't try and break the domination? Or rage?
Matt: Nope. You get a saving throw at the end of your turn.
Travis: I'm not raging.
Matt: You're not raging.
Travis: So I only get two.
Matt: One. You step over Cassandra, (impact noise) stepping on the back of her leg, and find your way right there, which is flanking him between Anders, so you have advantage on both your attacks.
Laura: Shit.
Travis: It's a three.
Laura: That's good.
Travis: 21.
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Second attack.
Travis: 26.
Matt: Both hit. Go ahead and roll damage.
Travis: Really trying not to enjoy this.
Matt: (laughs) With your flaming war hammer.
Travis: 18 for the first one.
Matt: 18 points of slashing damage. No, sorry, bludgeoning damage.
Travis: Bludgeoning, yeah. And fire. 20, 21.
Matt: 21 points of bludgeoning and fire damage with the second strike.
Liam: I am on my feet, but I am swaying back and forth.
Matt: Unexpectedly, these two titanic slams hit you from behind. The first one throws you into Anders for a second. Anders then pushes you away, and as you are still reeling from the impact, you look up and see the hammer come down, and (whack) you move your head out in time, preventing you from being squished, but the impact hits your shoulder and the side of your neck, and your whole body crumples into itself. You cry out in pain instinctively, just (screams) from the hit. And your whole world blurs for a second as you're barely keeping yourself on your feet. Grog, that ends your turn. You can make another saving throw with advantage to try and shrug the effect.
Travis: Yeah. Add wisdom right?
Matt: Yes.
Travis: 19?
Matt: 19. With that, the momentary controlled bloodshed fades. Your mind becomes your own, and what little bit of remorse you may feel for the battered Vax in front of you, you can't help but laugh a little bit. But then you turn your attention to the one who bent your will, and your rage begins to swell up inside you. So that ends your turn. Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: I continue my long journey into the room.
Matt: You just get past there, and you can see into the room. You have visual on, yeah, pretty much everything in the room from there.
Sam: So I have to make a ranged shot if I'm to do anything.
Matt: Correct, yeah.
Sam: What do I see? Can I see how rough Vax is?
Matt: At a glance, it's hard to tell.
Liam: I'm bleeding out my mouth.
Matt: He's also facing away from you.
Sam: Looks normal to me.
Matt: You see Grog and Vax facing off the guy in the corner. You see two of these large armored entities.
Sam: Okay, I'll go for them.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Wand of Magic Missiles. And I'll shoot three at the one at the left. That's the first charge, and then use three additional charges on the one on the right.
Matt: Okay. How many charges were restored in the wand from your last long rest?
Sam: I roll every day, and I restored five and I had used five, so it's back to normal. I have seven total.
Matt: So you're casting three on one and then--
Sam: An additional three on the other.
Matt: Okay, go for it. So that's 3d4 plus three to each one. Go for it.
Sam: Right, 3d4. Okay.
Matt: (magical sound effects) Releasing the wand on both flicks of your wrist, you can see these bursts of arcane energy swirl around and slam into each one of these creatures.
Sam: 3d4 plus three? Is that right? Is that how it works, Matt?
Matt: Yes.
Sam: Okay, so five (mumbles), eight. Lame. And (mumbles) nine, no wait. Yes, nine.
Matt: Okay. All right. (explosion noise) The impact hits. You see the armor shake for a second and look angered and frustrated for what a faceless arcane entity in armor could, and both heads just go (shhhh) and look in your direction simultaneously. That ends your turn.
Sam: Oh, and I will inspire Grog. (sings) This is the dawning of the age of a-Grog-ius. Age of a-Grog-ius. A-Grog-ius! (laughter)
Travis: d10?
Matt: The words are lost on you, but it's a nice theme. You take a d10, yeah.
Travis: Not quite my jam, but I'll still take it.
Matt: All right, that ends your turn. Anders, frustrated by the whole circumstance and on the cusp of a really bad circumstance, is going to attempt to cast Dimension Door.
Marisha: I knew it. I knew he was going to do that.
Liam: Do I get an attack? A reaction attack?
Matt: Not unless you have-- there's a feat that lets you do that.
Liam: No.
Matt: Yeah, I think it's mage slayer.
Liam: I don't have that.
Matt: Okay, all right.
Sam: Do I see him?
Matt: Yeah, you see him.
Sam: I take out my broken shawm and I (piercing whistle). And I cast Counterspell on him.
Matt: Right, because you took that when you leveled up. (cheering)
Matt: All right. Oh lord bards. Shit.
Travis: (laughs) Shit.
Sam: Wait, I have to tell a level, don't I?
Matt: Yeah, you can tell me what level.
Sam: Do I know, because he's a bard, what he's doing?
Matt: You are very familiar with the spell. It is a 4th-level spell.
Sam: Then I cast it at fourth level.
Matt: Okay. Then there is no roll. With that, he takes a moment to finish casting. You see there's a moment where this bit of purple arcane energy, familiar to most of you as Scanlan's escapes, begins to sparkle behind him and as he goes to step into it, the shawm shrieks out into the room, he (groans) reaches up and covers his eye as it almost seems to be shrill to his head and cause the pain to pulse and the doorway just slams behind him. (panting)
Sam: Uh-uh, that door is locked, motherfucker! (laughter)
Sam: Get used to it, because I am! (laughter)
Matt: Yeah, that's his turn. That was his action. He's going to use his bonus action to say, "Come to my aid! Quickly!" He's going to put another inspiration die to the other armor. And that's going to end his turn. It's now their turn. They are both going to come around. This one is just going to move around Grog; no attack of opportunity because it's still in your melee. This one is going to step into range from over here. This one is going to turn and go for Percy. Sees this billowing as you're stuck there trying to fix the gun, and just rushing towards you with its shield forward, its horrible, jagged longsword in the air arcing towards you. Two strikes versus you. That'll be a 19?
Liam: That hits.
Matt: Okay, first strike, you take nine points of slashing damage.
Liam: I'm down.
Matt: So you go down. Second strike, because it's still going for you, hits automatically. It's an auto critical. You fail two death saving throws.
Liam: That's it?
Matt: That ends its turn. This one is now going for you, Percy. First strike. That would be a nine.
Taliesin: No.
Matt: It's going to use its inspiration die. Add nine to that, so 18.
Taliesin: 18? That's my armor class.
Matt: (evil laugh) Bards! I'm sorry. I don't get to use them very often. So that is 11 points of slashing damage. And the other strike-- oh, that's a natural 18, so yeah, that will be... cocked. Oh, only eight points of slashing damage.
Taliesin: So 19 points of slashing damage, total?
Matt: Correct. (whooshing) And it's painful, but not a huge thing at this point. You're so focused right now on the weapon. All right. That ends their turn. Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: Okay, can I see Vax down? Which one is he on the ground?
Matt: Vax is right there. You see him get slashed from behind, fall to the ground, and you see it raise a blade again and jam it into his torso, pull it out, and there's a streak of blood that just spatters across the ceiling from the force of the arc.
Taliesin: Yeah, I think you saw that.
Marisha: Okay. So I'm going to move around, tuck in the door a bit.
Matt: Okay, so you move in and you see this. As you rush into the room, you see this arc happening.
Marisha: Can I tuck right here? God, I'm shaking. Yeah, right behind that door.
Matt: Right there, yeah. That'll be pretty much your movement to get there.
Marisha: Okay, I'm going to duck down, crouch on the floor. I'm going to cast-- first I'm going to-- god I'm so nervous-- I'm going to use Healing Word on Vax, and heal that motherfucker.
Matt: At what level?
Marisha: You're like down down, right?
Laura: He's unconscious.
Liam: And I-- there wasn't even any rolls for that, right?
Laura: No.
Matt: If you're unconscious and a creature hits you, you automatically fail a death saving throw and if it's a critical hit, which if you're unconscious a hit is an automatic critical, it's technically two death saving throws.
Liam: Yeah, and just to understand the whole breakdown, but where do the three rolls come in?
Laura: If nobody hits you--
Liam: Oh, if nobody hits, got it.
Matt: Yeah, if nobody hits you and it's your turn, you roll to see if you-- but if something keeps hitting you while you're down? Can kill you pretty quick.
Liam: Got it.
Matt: Like two hits.
Marisha: But he just hit zero hit points, so whatever I bring will bring him over, correct?
Matt: Yeah, and your death saves go away. It's per turn. Per time you go down.
Marisha: Okay, I'm just going to do a-- I'm sorry, a level one Healing Word for right now.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Yes, which gives you 12 hit points. And then I'm going to use my bonus action to cast Grasping Vine, and I'm going to take the vine and I'm going to wrap it around--
Matt: Your source?
Marisha: Huh?
Matt: Which source?
Marisha: Next to me.
Matt: Okay. So right here?
Marisha: I guess, yes.
Matt: Okay so, out of the wood, a vine-- or it's not wood, actually. This would be a stone wall. So out of a crack in the wall, little bit of material begins to form into a giant vine that forms next to you. What are you doing with it?
Marisha: I want to wrap it around Cassandra's feet, her ankle, and I want to pull her toward me.
Matt: You pull her over to the side and she gets pulled across the ground, and she's on her back now looking up. Her eyes are a little starry-eyed, but she's (panting). Looks very confused, and her eyes are still adjusting to the whole circumstance.
Marisha: And I say, "Hi! Just hang on." And that's my turn.
Matt: Yep. All right. Vex, you're up.
Laura: Okay. So I saw him go down.
Matt: Yes.
Laura: Does it look like he's awake now to me? I'm mean, it was all happening very quickly.
Matt: You have no idea. This all happens very quickly. You just saw your brother take a huge--
Laura: I scream and I run towards him.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: I slide down on my knees and slide across the room and try to cast Healing Word the minute-- or cast Cure Wounds the minute I get to him.
Matt: You won't get close enough to do it, unfortunately.
Laura: If I slide down and slide?
Matt: Make an acrobatics check. For this circumstance, due to the circumstances with your brother being on the ground, I'll let this be a little more intense.
Sam: With inspiration.
Laura: With inspiration. That is-- wait, hold on.
Liam: Acrobatics.
Laura: Acrobatics?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: Oh, that's good. 17?
Matt: 17, all right. With that, you rush forward, just seeing this tunnel vision image of Vax on the ground, blood pooling under his form. You dart forward, slam on your knees and begin preparing the spell as you skid across the stone floor of the study. You reach out and your hands meet his form, stopping you in the process just as the surge of healing energy jolts through his body. So you can go ahead and cast it on him.
Laura: Okay, so I'm going to cast that at 3rd level. So that's 3d8. Where are my d8s? That was the worst roll! Nine!
Matt: So you heal nine hit points.
Liam: That's good.
Laura: That's okay, because I slid to you.
Liam: It was amazing. I'll never forget it.
Matt: (laughs) Okay, that's your turn.
Laura: Yeah, and Trinket keeps dragging her.
Matt: Forward? Okay. That ends your turn. All right, go ahead and roll an athletics check for Trinket.
Laura: Right, okay. It's going to count even though it slipped out of my hand. It's eight.
Matt: Eight? Okay. Trinket, holding onto the scruff of Ripley's neck. Ripley then tugs away from the grip. Reaches into the pouch she had earlier. As a bonus action throws down a small rock that (explosion noise) fills this entire tunnel here with a 20 by 20 fog cloud, apparently. And now that she's disengaged, she's going to...
Marisha: She smoke-bombed out.
Laura: She ain't got no weapons.
Matt: Nope. Trinket does get an attack of opportunity on her as she runs past.
Sam: Yeah, Trinket does. Come on, Trinket.
Laura: All right, he's going to bite her. Can he cannonball her as an attack of opportunity?
Matt: No, unfortunately.
Laura: No? Not so much?
Matt: No, sorry.
Laura: Nine.
Matt: Nine. All right
Laura: Oh wait! Oh, no. I've got to roll for attack first, huh?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: That was not what I was doing. So that's 21.
Matt: That hits, yeah.
Laura: Okay, good. That's way better.
Matt: She has no armor.
Laura: Oh, I don't know what I'm doing. What is going on? I never attack with Trinket. 13.
Matt: Okay, got it.
Taliesin: Cautionary tale in there somewhere.
Matt: She runs past. The whole area is obscured for Trinket. Trinket for the moment really has no idea really where she went as she rushed past, and bit out and is now giving out this (bear growl) notification growl sound, but in the chaos right now, it's not catching your attention as your brother nearly died before you.
Laura: Right.
Matt: All right, that ends her turn. Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: I'm going to break-- first off, I'm going to fix my gun.
Matt: Okay, go ahead and make your roll.
Taliesin: I'm going to make my roll. Come on. What do I have to roll? (muttering) I hit the difficulty. Does that--
Matt: You hit it, then yeah. With the creature looming there, you manage to bend it back into place. You get it aligned as best as you can. That's your action, though.
Taliesin: If that had been a slightly bigger fuck-up, that would have been-- oh god! Okay.
Matt: So your gun's functional, but that's your action.
Taliesin: I'm going to use an action surge anyway, so it doesn't matter.
Matt: Yes, you are. Okay.
Taliesin: I'm going to break off from this guy, and I'm going to rush towards Professor.
Matt: Okay, gets an attack of opportunity on you.
Taliesin: Go ahead. Don't care.
Matt: Guy rolls a 14.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: So you just (whoosh) duck under it instinctually. It comes toward you. Eyes forward, you duck underneath the blade.
Taliesin: I push him in the face. I don't care.
Matt: Okay, you get right up to there, and you can see Anders backing away as you approach.
Taliesin: I'm going to unload in him.
Matt: Go for it.
Taliesin: That's 21 to hit.
Matt: That hits.
Taliesin: That's 25 to hit.
Matt: That hits.
Taliesin: That's a natural 20.
Marisha: There is Percy!
Travis: What the fuck?
Matt: Anti-Wheaton.
Taliesin: Okay, let's see, that's 11.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: 14.
Matt: All righty. This is the critical.
Taliesin: Yep, this is the critical which is seven, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 20 with fire damage.
Matt: Okay. How do you want to do this? (cheering)
Taliesin: How close to him do I get? And this was without smoke damage, I might add.
Matt: You can get one more step up there. You can take the shots as you're stepping towards him, unloading.
Taliesin: Yeah, I'm unloading as I walk towards him.
Matt: So the first one (gunshot) blasts out the shoulder. You can see the bone exposed, the metal breastplate sundered by the bullet, as he backs up (gasping) As you're walking towards him, he begins shouting, "Percival, you disappoint us all. All you had to do was die like a good de Rolo."
Taliesin: Traitor! And I've got two more shots. Next shot.
Matt: This one (gunshot) into his chest, and you can see the actual breastplate bends inward to the wound and he's (choking noise) spitting out blood from his mouth as he bends forward. "This land has a greater destiny. You and that fool Ripley, you place your faith in toys and dust. You seek the transient truths."
Taliesin: How close am I to him at this point?
Matt: You're stepping up to him.
Taliesin: Perfect.
Matt: And as you're doing this, as you're pull the mask down, he says, "I die to rise again. We are his blood."
Taliesin: I put my gun in his mouth to shut him the fuck up. "You're the face I saw when murder entered my heart. This is your doing." And I pull the trigger.
Matt: With that, a resounding blast (explosion noise) echoes through the room. The back of his head just scatters across the wall behind him. The top of his head folds in a little bit from the lack of a substantial base, and he tumbles backwards, releasing the gun with a limp (splat) onto the ground behind. You're still holding the Pepperbox in front of you, hands shaking. As you hold it there, looking at it, you can see there's a flash of purple energy across the barrel that has Anders's name across it and (fluttering noise) the name burns away, leaving the barrel blank.
Taliesin: (heavy breathing)
Matt: Smoke begins to subside a little bit. It's still there, but it seems like at the moment, it has this release aspect to it.
Taliesin: That's my turn.
Matt: Yeah, that is your turn. Vax you're up.
Liam: How close are the suits of armor to me? I can't tell.
Matt: There's one over here, and there's one-- technically it's right next to you.
Liam: Right next to me? And am I still prone?
Matt: You're still prone.
Liam: So how much movement does it take to--
Matt: Half your movement.
Liam: Half my movement.
Sam: Don't give him an attack of opportunity.
Liam: No, I'm going to get up, and I'm going to use disengage.
Matt: As a bonus action, okay.
Liam: Yeah, and I'm going to skip back into the corner, and at this point I can throw one dagger at that suit of armor, so I'm going to do that.
Matt: Yes, you can.
Liam: That is 19.
Matt: That hits.
Liam: I have no voice left. That is an 11.
Matt: 11 points of damage, all righty. Great, okay. Let's see here now. That ends your turn. I had the list down here. All right. Grog, you're up.
Travis: Am I flanked by two suits of armor or just one?
Matt: Nope, there's just one right next to you.
Travis: I'll turn to him and rage.
Matt: Okay. Regular rage.
Travis: Regular rage, and swing away.
Liam: Classic rage, we call it.
Travis: Classic rage.
Laura: Good old classic rage.
Travis: 14?
Matt: 14 hits.
Travis: Nice. And 25.
Matt: Both hit, yeah.
Laura: You get three hits.
Travis: Nah, just two.
Laura: I thought rage-- oh.
Travis: Believe me, I know. 17 with the fire damage. First one.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: 18 on the second one.
Matt: Okay, cool. So as you slam your hammer twice into it, the armor dents. You can see now, the energy that's holding it together is flickering, almost like the arcane entity that resides within it is having a hard time keeping itself in physical form. All right. That end your turn, unless you want to move or do anything else.
Travis: Nope.
Sam: Did you hit?
Matt: Scanlan. You're up.
Travis: Yeah, twice.
Sam: Okay. Oh, me? Oh man, I can't do anything against these fuckers.
Marisha: Yes, you can.
Liam: You're Scanlan Shorthalt.
Marisha: Believe!
Sam: All right. I'll enter the room, I suppose. Just a little. Right there.
Marisha: Just the tip.
Sam: Just the tip, and shit. I don't want to waste anything on these fuckers. Okay, let's see here. I'll just do-- 2d8. All right, I'll run up. Actually, a little bit closer to the guy closest to me.
Matt: Okay. You'll get into melee with him if you do.
Sam: What does that mean?
Matt: Means if you want to do any ranged attack or spell attack roll, you would have disadvantage on it, but otherwise it has no effect.
Laura: He can attack you, though, because he's right next to you.
Sam: He won't be for long.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: So I get up close in, like five feet away, and then I'll just Thunderwave him.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: I do that thing where frat boys do the chest bump.
Marisha: Like, "Come at me, bro?"
Sam: Yeah. (grunts)
Marisha: That's awesome.
Travis: (quietly) We did do that.
Matt: All righty.
Sam: That's just like 2d8.
Matt: Yeah, okay.
Liam: Roll two d8s.
Matt: Is this the 1st-level Thunderwave?
Sam: I believe it is, yes.
Matt: Okay, so makes a constitution saving throw. No, he rolled a natural four, so it takes 2d8 thunder damage and he is pushed over the table, and then would fall over if it wasn't now drifting above the ground a few inches. Rights itself, but it did push it away from you. Roll 2d8 damage.
Sam: I did. It's only nine points of damage.
Matt: Nine points of thunder damage against that helmed creature. All right, that brings us to their turn. This creature you just slammed into is going to rush back towards you. This one's going to turn and attack you, Grog. Two strikes against you. That is a 15.
Travis: Misses.
Matt: Sorry. 25. Rolled an 18 naturally.
Travis: Hits.
Matt: And that is a 21.
Travis: Both hit.
Matt: Okay, so you take six points of slashing damage, halved to three, and nine points slashing damage, halved to five. So eight points of slashing damage total. Two strikes against you, Scanlan. That is an 18.
Sam: Oh, yes. That hits.
Matt: Okay, and then a 12.
Sam: Hey, that misses!
Matt: So you take-- that's seven plus 11 points of slashing damage. (whoosh) As it goes to strike a second time, you see the second blow coming and just duck out of the way. That ends their go. Next up is Keyleth.
Marisha: So there are two guys alive right now?
Matt: Correct, yes.
Marisha: One's on Scanlan.
Matt: One's on Grog. The one on Grog is looking a little rough. The one near Scanlan's doing okay.
Marisha: How's Cassandra looking next to me?
Matt: She's fine. There's no blood. There's nothing; the wound is gone entirely. But other than that, she looks fine.
Marisha: Looks fine. Okay, I've got my Grasping Vine still up. I'm going to wrap it around the guy that's close to Scanlan and just yank him off of Scanlan.
Matt: Okay. This pulls him over Scanlan's form and slams him right next to Cassandra.
Marisha: Okay, and then I will just go, oh! And pop him with my staff.
Matt: Go for it.
Sam: You can hit things?
Marisha: Yeah, I got a big old staff, yo! I'm not great at it, but I can do it. Oh, that's not bad. 16.
Matt: 16 does not hit, unfortunately.
Marisha: Aw. (ping)
Sam: He's got armor.
Marisha: It sounded nice, though.
Sam: It did.
Marisha: Kind of resonated a little.
Matt: Shakes off of it for a second. All right, so that ends your turn?
Marisha: Yep.
Matt: All righty. That brings us to Vex.
Laura: So I'm still down on my knees.
Matt: You're still down on your knees. Your brother got up and rushed off, he seems okay, (panting) taking a breath for himself.
Laura: I look up at Percy who is covered in smoke, and I grab his hand and I say, "Percival, how are you?"
Matt: His head slowly turns towards you, the mask still on. You can see his eyes just barely through the glistening circular glass slots where he looks through. The smoke still billowing up from underneath, the head slowly turns towards you.
Taliesin: Fine.
Laura: "Darling, take the mask off," and I--
Taliesin: I don't have a turn yet.
Matt: No.
Laura: And I shoot at the guy that's attacking Grog.
Matt: Okay. He is technically in melee with you, so you get disadvantage on these strikes unless you want to move away.
Laura: Does he get an attack of opportunity, though, if I scooch back?
Matt: He would, unless-- he didn't take one against you when you ran back because you disengaged, so yes, he would.
Laura: Okay, yeah.
Matt: Okay, so you move back a step. That is a 21.
Laura: Hits.
Matt: Okay, you take nine points of slashing damage as you reach back. The creature (whoosh) arcs with its sword and manages to strike you.
Laura: Bastard!
Matt: Roll for your attacks.
Laura: Okay, that is a 26 and a 23.
Matt: Both hit.
Laura: I didn't Hunter's Mark him, because I'm brilliant. Yes! 15, 30, 34 points.
Matt: 34 points of damage for both?
Laura: Yeah, two eights. Plus 14. Plus my bracers.
Matt: Right. You pull the arrows out and launch them both simultaneously, two arrows in one notch; release them both. One slams into the armor. That one goes underneath the helmet, and as it strikes you hear this horrible echoing (screeching) screech that echoes as the armor (thud) falls to the ground.
Travis: Yeah!
Matt: You can take the rest of your movement, if you like.
Laura: I stand up.
Matt: Well, you were standing up to move back.
Laura: I scooched back, right?
Matt: Unless you wanted to be like--
Laura: Yeah I wanted to be like--
Matt: Okay, so you pulled back while on the ground. Release the arrows.
Laura: Yeah, like up into them.
Matt: There you go. All right. Stand up, brush yourself off. That ends your go.
Laura: And Trinket isn't allowed to move any at all?
Matt: Trinket can, if you want.
Laura: Can he run after her?
Matt: Yep. Rushes out. Will get there. Rushes through the fog and looks over and sees her right there. Okay. That ends your turn, and now it's her turn. She goes into a full dash and takes off.
Taliesin: Does Trinket get an attack of opportunity for that?
Matt: Trinket does get attack of opportunity.
Laura: Okay.
Marisha: Come on, Trinket.
Travis: Scratch her up.
Laura: That's in the corner. I can't really say.
Travis: Oh, you piece of shit
Liam: (clicks his teeth together)
Laura: Don't do that. I hate that sound. (laughter)
Matt: So what did you roll?
Laura: That's a 12.
Liam: Good to know.
Matt: 12?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: 12 does not hit, unfortunately.
Laura: No, it doesn't.
Matt: Even with no armor, she's a pretty quick one. She ducks below and bolts down the hallway and around the corner.
Travis: Why did we let her have anything?
Matt: All right.
Laura: You're out.
Matt: So that ends your turn, her turn. Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: I'm going to pull off the mask and walk forward a bit, about there, and take three shots at the armor.
Matt: Okay, regular shots?
Taliesin: Sharpshooter shots.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: With one ice, so 14.
Matt: 14 misses. Deflects it with the shield.
Taliesin: Make sure I'm doing this right. Yeah. Goddamn it. 17.
Matt: Deflects the second one with the shield.
Laura: Damn it!
Matt: Heavy armor on this one.
Taliesin: Dropping sharpshooter for the third one.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: Not that it helped. 16.
Matt: This one actually manages to duck out of the way and splinters across the wall behind it.
Sam: They're tough.
Taliesin: That's my turn.
Matt: All righty. Vax, you're up.
Marisha: Kill them.
Liam: I'm just going to walk as far as I can, so 30 feet.
Matt: There.
Liam: Am I within 40 feet?
Matt: No.
Liam: Then I just stand.
Matt: Well, you can use the rest of your action to keep moving, if you'd like.
Liam: All right, yeah. I'm going to move around that table and get by Scanlan. Stand right next to him.
Matt: Okay, that brings us to Grog.
Travis: I would like to move to the suit of armor please.
Matt: Run towards it, jumping and putting one foot on the table; using that as momentum to rush in the air. Go ahead and roll your attack.
Travis: 24?
Matt: 24 hits.
Travis: And 25.
Matt: That hits.
Travis: 20 with fire damage.
Matt: Nice.
Travis: And 16 with fire damage.
Matt: Gotcha. (grunts) Bringing the hammer down, the helmet actually gets pushed into the armor and has to reform itself. Before it has a chance to, you bring around the hammer and hit the shield with such force that it pushes it into itself and slams it against the wall. You take the back of the hammer and slam it up under the actual helmet, hitting the creature. You see the flames burn across the side of its arcane form, causing it to shimmer for a second. It's looking pretty rough.
Matt: Instead of using the table, though, you use Grog's knee. You just run, jump onto his knee with one foot, leap off, blade in the air, go for the strike.
Marisha: That's cool!
Laura: You can do it, Scanlan! (laughs)
Sam: What do I add?
Marisha: Your attack bonus.
Matt: Attack bonus for your weapon.
Sam: I don't know what that is! (laughter)
Travis: It is never used.
Sam: Okay. It's a plus seven!
Matt: Yeah, so?
Sam: 15. (laughter)
Matt: As you rush in the air, you hesitate for a moment, remembering the Pike thing, and you see this burning arcane rage in the face of this entity. At that moment, that hesitation was all it needed. It takes the shield and almost knocks the weapon out of your hand. You catch yourself, land on your feet-- yeah, your fingers sting a little bit. (laughs) Worth a shot. All right, in retribution, it's going to strike at you twice. That's a 15?
Sam: That fails.
Matt: 21.
Sam: That is successful.
Matt: That is seven points of slashing damage.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: All right. Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: Ugh. You guys, I thought someone was going to kill him!
Sam: I tried, but he hurt my wrist really bad!
Marisha: I know, because I don't want to fucking burn any spells on this asshole.
Taliesin: Just hit him with your stick.
Marisha: Just-- ugh. God.
Matt: Roll for it.
Marisha: Goddamn it, this hopefully works-- nope.
Taliesin: No! Wow!
Marisha: Nope, that didn't work. (tink) (laughter)
Matt: Heavy armor on these guys. All right. Vex, you're up.
Laura: Oh gosh. I guess I shoot him. Can I see him to shoot him?
Matt: I'll say yeah, you can see him all right. You can move over there and get a better view a little bit. Just around this corner, off the table.
Laura: And I'm going to Hunter's Mark him.
Matt: Hunter's Mark him?
Laura: And then I'm going to shoot him.
Matt: Okay, go for it.
Laura: Oh gosh, I'm just so nervous about picking the 20. No. 19?
Matt: 19? The arrow hits the armor and shatters across the side.
Laura: Shit.
Travis: 19?
Laura: 24.
Matt: 24 does hit.
Laura: Okay.
Taliesin: Yay, you hurt it.
Laura: Well, maybe.
Travis: That's a high AC. Because of the shield, right?
Matt: Because of the shield and the armor.
Laura: 18.
Matt: 18 points of damage? With that, the second arrow strikes into the center of its chest armor. It hits some sort of core where its arcane form is held and the reddish energy blinks out, and the armor just (impact noise) crumples to the ground.
Travis: That's two of them!
Laura: What's up, bitches?
Travis: That was tough.
Marisha: Okay, I immediately turn my attention to Cassandra. Can I do a medical check on her to make sure she's okay?
Matt: Go ahead and make a medicine check, yeah.
Travis: Where's Ripley?
Sam: I start running out the hall to Ripley.
Travis: Me, as well.
Laura: Oh, Trinket is still running after her, too.
Matt: All right, make a perception check for Trinket.
Laura: Oh. (laughs) Okay, is it his smelling?
Matt: Yeah, it's his wisdom bonus.
Laura: I'm rolling a big dice for Trinket! Oh, that's good. 26!
Matt: 26, okay.
Laura: 25.
Matt: 25, okay. Trinket is giving chase best it can.
Laura: Except wait. Hold on, I get advantage because he's got advantage on smell perception. Oh, it's the same thing.
Matt: Okay, so Trinket is keeping track, but is having a hard time fully keeping up at this point unless you're giving full attention towards him at this point in time, but is keeping a track. He is rushing as fast as he can down the stairs and is currently out of your sphere of personal influence at the moment.
Laura: I should have Hunter's Marked her. (sighs)
Travis: I grab Scanlan, and we're taking off after her out the door.
Marisha: I rolled a 17 on a medicine check.
Matt: Okay, checking Cassandra, there is no sign of a wound now. She seems to be not in any danger.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: So, she's on the ground, dazed.
Taliesin: I'm going to collapse in a corner for a minute and start using my ascot to clean some of the gore off my weapon and my clothing and my mask.
Matt: It is a lot of gore. Okay.
Liam: Are we out of combat now?
Matt: You guys are currently out of combat.
Liam: Okay. I'm going to, clutching my bleeding belly, walk over toward Keyleth and say, that was a close one.
Marisha: Yeah. You know, I feel like we've been here before-- oh, right. We have been here before.
Liam: You know I'm in love with you, right? And I kiss her.
Sam: Oh!
Taliesin: (coughs heavily)
Sam: Persistent cough.
Matt: (laughs) And on that note, we're going to go ahead and take a quick little break!
Laura: What the fuck?!
Matt: (laughs) All right, quick break!
Taliesin: I want to see what color you turned. Oh my god, yeah! (laughter)
Matt: All right, awesome. Quick break, guys! See you guys back here in a few minutes.
Travis: Dude, what?! [break]
Zac: Couple quick things, guys, or I could just sit here and talk for a good ten minutes, make you guys wait before we come back to the bombshell that was dropped. I'm just going to keep going. We are 15 away from doing a giveaway, if we hit that 15 we will be doing that giveaway at the very end of this stream, right whenever Matt says that's it. We will open up the chat for everyone and do that giveaway. I also want to say for all the people wondering what in the world was the No Survivors thing, Snakes on a Plane number one was this last Monday, and it's up on the website right now if you guys are curious and want to check it out, it's probably the funniest thing we've ever done on this channel, and I don't say that lightly. But we're doing Snakes on a Plane 2 this coming Monday, so thanks, guys.
Matt: Hell yeah.
Taliesin: Snakes on a Plane 2  More Snakes, More Plane.
Matt: All right. So. With the chaos that has ensued through the battle in Anders's study in the castle of Whitestone, the party looks about, Cassandra de Rolo recovered, and pulled from seemingly the brink of death. Vax pulled seemingly from the brink of death, and Percy managing to squeak in a second killshot on a member of his list. As the rest period kicks in, Vax stepped across the room, holding his wound to his side, admitting his affection for Keyleth, and reaching out and kissing her.
Travis: Or attempting to kiss.
Laura: Roll for contact there?
Sam: Roll for tongue action.
Matt: No.
Liam: No.
Matt: So, as he breaks from the momentary, unexpected embrace, you catch yourself off guard.
Liam: You know, the way you turn into animals and stuff is really cool.
Taliesin: I'm going to collect some of Vex's arrows.
Marisha: Are you sure you're--
Laura: I leave the room and look for Trinket.
Marisha: Just... let me. And I Cure Wounds him. I'll do a 4th level. Shut up, Sam. I just can't find my spell. Yeah, I'll do that 4th-level Cure Wounds.
Matt: Burn all the spell slots. Go ahead and roll.
Liam: Folks, we don't know what we're doing. None of us know what we're doing.
Marisha: I feel like in the moment I would just do it really at a-- shut up.
Sam: Sure, overcompensate.
Marisha: Right. What do I roll? Hang on. 1d8. So I'm rolling 4d8. I need d8s, goddamn it! Give me d8s.
Taliesin: You can't have my d8s.
Marisha: Why can't I have your d8s?
Taliesin: Okay, fine, have my d8s.
Marisha: That's fine, give me one more.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: Okay, 14, 18. (counting)
Matt: What are you doing?
Taliesin: I'm collecting three or four of Vex's arrows from the ground and getting them in my hand, and I'm staying back from all of this and letting it happen.
Matt: Okay. Collect the arrows, Vex has stepped out of the room to pursue after Trinket, Trinket is currently pursuing Ripley. Grog, you watched that happen.
Travis: No, Grog and Scanlan ran out of the room after Ripley.
Matt: Okay, have you guys bolted out? Okay.
Travis: We're yelling out, Ripley!
Sam: Ripley!
Taliesin: Vax, are you all right?
Sam: We shouldn't yell, Grog.
Travis: Fuck that. I yell anyway.
Liam: Was there a total?
Marisha: 33.
Liam: Yes, I feel better. Thank you.
Taliesin: That's good. I'm going to now take my handful of what is now basically a switch, and I'm going to start whacking him with it really hard on the chest.
Liam: Who?
Taliesin: You! Don't go into rooms by yourself, god damn it!
Marisha: I back into a corner upon seeing this, as Percy ruins the moment.
Liam: Percival, he had a knife to your sister's throat. He was going to kill her.
Taliesin: Thank you, but count to ten. And now I drop them and go over to my sister.
Liam: I was afraid she was going to die.
Marisha: To be fair, you did get her throat slit, but it's okay.
Matt: As you're saying this, you turn around, you can see she's sat up and she sees this conversation and goes, "Percy?"
Taliesin: Hi.
Matt: "Percy!"
Taliesin: I'm so sorry.
Matt: And she gets up off the ground and runs up and just grabs you and embraces you tightly. You can feel all the muscles tense in her body as she just holds you with a slight shake to her body.
Taliesin: I'm so sorry for leaving you.
Matt: "I thought you were dead." She pulls away for a second and just looks at you, and there's a coldness to her face. She's happy, but even for her young age, you can see there's lines at the corners of her eyes. She's probably been through a lot. She smiles and looks up at you again and you can see there's the white shocks in her hair, and she looks up and touches your hair and goes, "I see we've both survived quite a bit."
Taliesin: I wouldn't trade.
Matt: She laughs to herself, and you see another tear curl at her eye, and then her face goes cold for a second and she, not breaking this gaze, steps back. "You shouldn't be here. They were using me to get to you. I'm so sorry."
Taliesin: Are you all right? Did they do anything? Are you yourself?
Matt: She reaches up and holds her neck. "I'm good. I'm good." And she steels herself for a second, and even more so, you see there's an intensity to her.
Taliesin: Perception check?
Matt: To...?
Taliesin: Insight. I want to make sure she's not holding anything really important back.
Matt: Okay, go for it.
Taliesin: Insight? Do I get a bonus for that right now? It's a wisdom-- yeah!
Matt: No, because you were concentrating.
Taliesin: This is not a saving throw, though.
Matt: Yeah, and that's wisdom, not a saving throw.
Taliesin: 11.
Matt: 11. Okay. Best you can tell, she seems very honest. She seems forthright. You're used to the memory of your sister being this bright-eyed, cheerful, youngest of the bunch, and definitely a woman who sees the world with fresh eyes. These eyes are different. They're colder. They're hardened. In ways, you're impressed; in ways, you're also immediately sad to see that that memory of your sister probably is no longer there.
Taliesin: We're putting an end to the Briarwoods tonight. Before the sun sets. This is the end of them. It's all going to be over, and we're going to stop whatever it is they're doing under the city.
Matt: "You say this. We've tried twice."
Taliesin: I know. This is it.
Matt: "That's what the others thought. You left me, you know."
Taliesin: I know, and I'm so sorry.
Matt: "Good. Well, if we're going to do this, let's get ready."
Taliesin: You're going to your room.
Matt: "Yes, I am."
Taliesin: To wait until this is over.
Matt: "No. No, I'm not. I'm going to my room to get my things. To get my mother's armor."
Taliesin: (sputters) You're-- I don't think that's a very good idea.
Matt: "You've been fighting them for what, a few days? I've been fighting them for nearly three years. You have no power over me, brother. And if our goals are aligned to free this city, let's do it together. But I don't have to listen to you."
Taliesin: God, you're irritating. Fine. Ugh!
Matt: She walks out of the room.
Marisha: Percy!
Taliesin: She's so obnoxious. What?
Marisha: You have a sister.
Taliesin: Oh god, I do.
Matt: You guys, charging off. Trinket's keeping trail. She's run down the stairway, he is beginning to slowly gain on her. She reaches the front doors, does remember the caltrops. Jumps over them, grabs the door, opens it, and rushes out into the daylight. Go ahead and roll a perception check for Trinket.
Marisha: Oh, come on, Trinket.
Laura: He saw it happen! He's got really good vision.
Marisha: Come on, Trink.
Taliesin: Yay!
Laura: Oh yeah, that's like 24.
Matt: Yeah, Trinket just jumps over. The door's only slightly open so Trinket has to stop and wedge his way through.
Laura: Can he cannonball into her? To try to catch her?
Matt: It's the same speed as if he dashed. It would be the same speed.
Laura: All right.
Matt: However, it takes a moment to get through. You guys now get down the stairs. As Trinket opens the door and wedges through, there's a scent out there, but she's nowhere in visible range. She's either darted off the path or possibly off the actual sides, and you can see now the struggle that's happened. You can now hear in the distance the sound of yells and fighting and there doesn't appear to be any one side or the other pushing.
Laura: I whistle at Trinket to get him to stop.
Matt: Okay, as you get to the landing you whistle out, and Trinket is just now pushing through the door and gets out for a bit, looking back and forth. Looks over the shoulder, and runs back to you. It appears that Ripley has scattered into Whitestone somewhere.
Sam: Damn it.
Travis: We stop.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: We need to find the Briarwoods.
Taliesin: I'm still upstairs. Are you going to come meet us again upstairs?
Sam: We'll get Trinket and go back upstairs, wherever they are.
Taliesin: Taking a short rest.
Marisha: We're taking a short rest?
Taliesin: We're waiting there. They followed her down; I'm waiting on Cassandra.
Travis: I could stay down in that foyer.
Taliesin: Come up.
Matt: Are you waiting in the study?
Taliesin: Yeah, waiting in the study.
Matt: Okay, she goes off to her room. You're there for a few minutes.
Taliesin: Does Grog show up?
Sam: We come back and say, that Ripley is very talented. She got away. Talented Dr. Ripley.
Taliesin: We have bigger issues than Anna at this point. Grog, do you have the Bag of Holding?
Travis: I do.
Taliesin: Can you scoop up what's left of Professor Anders?
Laura: Can I loot him first? I mean, just see what's on him.
Travis: Like, his head bits?
Taliesin: I don't want any of him sticking around.
Marisha: Do we have to put him in the Bag of Holding, though?
Travis: Why can't we just set him on fire?
Marisha: Yeah, stuff him in a closet or something for now.
Taliesin: Fire will do.
Travis: Is there a fireplace in the room?
Taliesin: There is. Throw him in. Fine, we'll throw him in the fire.
Laura: Wait. Let me see what's on him, first.
Matt: Okay. Make an investigation check.
Taliesin: We don't want him coming back.
Matt: He's crumpled up against the desk in the corner, there's all these papers that got pushed off the side, there were a bunch of random scrawlings.
Laura: 24.
Matt: 24? Okay. You search his body. You find 120 gold pieces on him. Not a whole lot. He doesn't keep his important shit on him, for the most part. You do find, however, the boots that he's wearing are very finely crafted, and unlike the rest of his wear, have a hand-stitching in it that is exemplary in construction and doesn't match with the rest of his ensemble. So it seems like something you'd wear more for function than for actual style. Pardon.
Laura: I take them.
Matt: You take them.
Taliesin: Take his shoes.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Does anybody have magic? Can you see what these are?
Sam: Sure, I can look at them.
Laura: Look at these, Scanlan.
Sam: I look at them.
Matt: Okay, if you're taking a short rest, you can take the short rest to inspect the boots, get the feel for them, they are indeed enchanted. They are a pair of Boots of Levitation. Once per day, you can trigger the levitation for up to ten minutes as per the spell. You can't actually move as part of it, you just levitate in the air, and you have to push off to get space.
Travis: So like zero-G.
Matt: Zero-G.
Taliesin: Like Willy Wonka.
Marisha: Zero-G boots! Oh, hell yeah.
Sam: Who do they fit?
Matt: They fit anyone who wishes to put them on. Magical items alter themselves.
Marisha: Oh, we're playing with that later.
Travis: I'll just hang onto it. I'll just hold onto it.
Marisha: Can we all just try them once when we get back to Greyskull Keep?
Matt: Anything else you want to do while you're waiting?
Sam: Anything else in the room? Can I sniff around the room and investigate?
Matt: Yeah, go ahead and make an investigation check.
Travis: I drag Anders over to the fireplace.
Liam: I'll look with Scanlan.
Sam: 12.
Travis: He doesn't quite fit, so I have to snap some joints.
Liam: 27.
Matt: Okay, good. As you're looking through and finding papers, papers and ledgers and tough discussions of old classes, untouched on the side, you go through one of the bottom drawers, and there's a lock to it.
Liam: Well, let's unlock that.
Sam: Vax, do you need my help to unlock it?
Liam: No, Shorty. Hold on. Are there any traps in there?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Liam: Oh, that is 20.
Matt: It does appear to be trapped.
Sam: It does appear to be trapped?
Liam: So what do I roll to undo that? Dexterity? Lockpick?
Matt: Thieves' tools, as well. So same check you did.
Sam: Oh, I can open it for you.
Liam: That's a natural 20, so that's untrapped.
Matt: As part of that, you notice that this mechanism is when it opens, if there isn't a switch underneath it held that's hidden, it will cause a poison dart to launch out in the direction of whoever's in front of it. You hold the button, you find it, you open it up without an issue, and you find the spring mechanism, snap it, and remove the little poison-tipped bolt, and chuck it to the side.
Laura: No, wait. Give me that. I take it.
Matt: Okay. You have a poison-tipped bolt.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: For a tiny little hand-crossbow is essentially what it is.
Liam: So now I've got to unlock it, right?
Matt: Yeah.
Liam: Yeah. Hey, 20.
Matt: Natural 20?
Liam: No, not a natural 20.
Matt: Oh, okay. Easy enough to unlock at this point, you get it open, you pull it open, there's a collection of letters.
Liam: Percival, come here. You're probably the best person to know what to make of these.
Matt: You glance through and inspect them, and you take the next ten minutes or so to get the gist of these letters while Cassandra's away. Many of them talk about a slew of things that are disconcerting to you as the information hits you, and you relay this information to the group. Notes on the removal of key magical defenses during the political meeting at Emon. The discussion, as in making sure that certain individuals and safeguards that are usually made during political meetings like that were not present during that endeavor.
Laura: Evidence is what that is!
Matt: Notes on best construction methods using the mined whitestone and repairs for the manse in the ziggurat.
Marisha: The manse?
Travis: The manse?
Sam: As in a mansion?
Matt: A manse is a place or a home; it has many different meanings. They're warning Anders, and there are multiple letters at different periods of time over the past few years that are warning Anders of an arrival of Seeker Asum's spies.
Sam: He's a good guy.
Laura: Oh!
Sam: No, he's a bad guy?
Matt: There are letters talking about plotting, diverting political attention away from Whitestone to leave it a political enigma during this period of time. There are letters talking about planting information within Wildmount that would lead their investigation team to believe the Briarwoods had been found dead.
Sam: This is a whole paper trail!
Matt: And occasionally there are mentions in a lot of these letters that speak of, "The Undying King shall return, we are his blood."
Marisha: Jarl? What?
Matt: The Undying King shall return.
Laura: Where did she get Jarl from?
Matt: We are his blood.
Laura: Oh, "we are."
Marisha: The Undying King...
Taliesin: Shall return.
Taliesin: We are his blood.
Sam: We are his blood.
Marisha: Which is what he said.
Sam: And then it says Jarl.
Taliesin: Jarl. Maybe he was dictating.
Matt: The letters aren't signed.
Sam: Okay? Are they all of the same hand?
Matt: They are all of the same handwriting. In the cluster, there is one completely unrelated letter that talks about business ledgers and construction of the bridge. It appears to be a simple discussion on the future plans to construct the bridge.
Sam: Is that in the same hand?
Matt: It is in the same handwriting.
Sam: And is it signed?
Matt: It is signed a Lord Riskel Daxio.
Marisha: What! Who? Axio?
Travis: Riskel Daxio.
Sam: Riskel Daxio.
Matt: Riskel Daxio.
Laura: We know him!
Marisha: We know him!
Matt: Yep.
Laura: Who is he?
Matt: He's on the Council of Tal'Dorei.
Laura: (gasps) Oh, motherfucker! He's a spy.
Marisha: He's our fucking spy!
Matt: He's technically also the one that helped designate the construction of your keep and plotted the construction stuff--
Laura: Oh no.
Sam: He built our keep!
Marisha: He's the construction guy, he's like our head builder.
Liam: He could be spying on us around the keep.
Taliesin: He could have a secret entrance to our Keep that he built and didn't tell us.
Laura: Holy moly.
Sam: As soon as I see that, I go down in a crouch and I shit-scry on our keep to see if it's still there.
Marisha: Oh my god, that's right, you did that! And I put an elemental there. It's babysitting.
Matt: Yes, you did.
Marisha: Hopefully still there. 30 days.
Matt: 30 days. Glancing within the kitchen, there doesn't appear to be much that catches your attention.
Taliesin: You shat in the kitchen?
Sam: I put a mound of shit in a jar in the kitchen and I told them, don't clean it up.
Matt: Like you do.
Sam: You know.
Laura: Like you do.
Sam: Thursdays.
Travis: I've got Anders in the fireplace, and I light the Firebrand War Hammer with the magic word, bacon, and I hit it and set him on fire.
Matt: There was already a fire in the fireplace, but you just stoke it a little further, and pretty soon the delicious scent of burning human flesh fills the room.
Laura: Bacon?
Travis: Yeah, bacon. Did you not know that's what the word was?
Sam: So everything's fine at the keep?
Matt: At the time.
Sam: At the time, okay.
Matt: At least, there's nothing on fire, there's no screams, there's no movement. It just seems like the cold kitchen is untouched.
Sam: Guys, my shit saw no movement. (laughter)
Laura: Good to know, Scanlan.
Taliesin: You've squeezed all you're going to be able to get out of that.
Travis: Percy. Can we get into the underground caverns from here?
Taliesin: Can I think of a way? I'm assuming I know a way to where this might be.
Matt: As you have this conversation, a voice from the doorway rings out. "I can take you." You look over, and it's Cassandra.
Taliesin: She's going to take us.
Sam: Is that your sister?
Taliesin: Apparently.
Matt: She's currently now dressed in armor you've seen as ornamental before. It was armor that your mother trained in when she was young, but was unused for a long time. It seems to be serviceable; it's been updated and such. She slides a shortsword into a sheath at her side, and her hair is pulled back and tied off, and she looks at the rest of the room. "So are we ready?"
Travis: Let me see your neck.
Matt: She steps up and lifts her chin up towards you.
Sam: By the way, this is Grog.
Liam: I'm going to insight check as he does that.
Taliesin: These are my friends, by the way.
Travis: Do I see anything on her neck?
Matt: No. It seems fine. There's no signs of any puncture wounds. Rolling?
Liam: It's a 15.
Matt: Okay. She seems as determined as the rest of you.
Laura: All right.
Taliesin: Lead the way, sister.
Matt: She turns around and she begins walking back down the hallway.
Laura: Can we expect any more traps that you're aware of?
Matt: "That I'm aware of, no, but I'm certain that there may be. They know you're coming, it seems. So be wary. Be careful. I'll take you to the undercroft."
Liam: Did we just have a short rest here?
Matt: You did.
Liam: Going to heal up.
Sam: Hey, Percival. Any chance you can load up one of Ripley's guns for me?
Taliesin: I don't know if it will actually-- I would have to probably train you in how to use it.
Sam: Really? I've seen you use it. You just pull your finger on the finger part and the big boom part goes out.
Taliesin: It's a little more complicated than that, actually.
Sam: Well, you have to point it at the thing you want to be boomed.
Matt: He could use it, he just wouldn't be able to add his proficiency bonus to the attack rolls.
Taliesin: I'll load one for you. I'll give him her boomstick.
Matt: Okay. You take it. You inspect it as you guys are walking along.
Taliesin: Just making sure it functions, too.
Matt: It seems pretty functional. It's well-constructed, it's sleek. Your Pepperbox has a bit of flair to its design, this is your background. Hers is just streamlined, simple, much like the decor of her room when you saw it. She doesn't mess with anything fancy or unnecessary. The ammunition she does have are made specific to size to her pistol. They will not function for the Pepperbox, unfortunately. They will only work for the pistol.
Taliesin: Doing okay. Not doing great, but I'm doing okay.
Matt: It does act as a pistol for rules-wise, which is on your sheet here, so yes, you would have that.
Laura: Do you want it? Just in case yours misfires?
Taliesin: I'll steal it back from him if I need, but it should be fine.
Sam: I'd like to make an athletics check. Athletics. See if I can spin it around and put it in my pocket.
Laura: Wait, where did you get it? I had it in my belt.
Taliesin: No, if you have it.
Laura: I have it.
Sam: Okay, give it to me.
Taliesin: Give it to him.
Marisha: Put your eye out.
Matt: All right. Go ahead and roll dexterity, roll a d20, add your dexterity modifier.
Liam: Don't roll a one.
Taliesin: This is literally how she lost her hand.
Sam: Wait, what's this? Why does it say plus four?
Laura: This music is awful as you're checking.
Marisha: Yeah, the violins plinking.
Sam: Well, it's zero, but it says a big plus four next to it for some reason.
Matt: I don't know. Add zero. What did you roll?
Sam: It was 14.
Matt: Okay. You manage to get it in there. Thankfully it's not loaded, because you feel the trigger go off. But there wasn't a bullet loaded, so it's like (click).
Travis: Yeah, we took out the ammunition.
Sam: Okay, now give me a bullet.
Travis: Maybe don't do that.
Taliesin: I hand him the ammunition. I load four of them.
Sam: Yeah!
Laura: Giving him a loaded gun?
Sam: I'm a big boy. Well, I'm a little boy. But I'm a little big boy.
Liam: I would like to walk past Scanlan and grab it out of his hand.
Sam: I will prevent him from doing that!
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: You guys are fighting over a loaded gun.
Matt: Sleight-of-hand check. Athletics check.
Liam: You go first.
Sam: Is this a skill check?
Matt: Yeah. Add your athletics to your roll.
Sam: 17!
Liam: Shut up. 27.
Matt: As you go to be, "No, what are you--" It's already gone. You don't even know where it went, you didn't see him take it, you just all of a sudden see it in his hand as he walks past you.
Liam: And I walk over to Cassandra. I don't give her the gun, I just say, you're Cassandra?
Matt: "Yes."
Liam: I was at the door. He had a knife to your throat. He wanted you to say something to us. What did he want you to say?
Matt: "He wanted me to shout for help. He wanted me to draw you in."
Laura: Can I insight check her to see if she's telling the truth?
Matt: Yeah.
Liam: You've been living here. How did it come that he had a blade to your throat today? How did it all unravel? Have you been living here?
Laura: 24.
Matt: 24. She's telling the truth.
Laura: Okay. That's good.
Matt: "Well, after the arrows felled me-- I guess I should start at the beginning." And she's walking along with you guys as she's leading you down the stairs and down to the bottom floor. She doesn't look to you. She's still looking ahead, very intent.
Laura: I take that pistol back from you.
Matt: "After the arrows felled me, I recovered. Father Reynal found me. Brought me from the brink at the temple of Pelor outside of town. Things hadn't fallen quite that far back then. We had more people in the city. At the time, the Briarwood rule was fresh and folks were eager to speak out against what they had wrought on this city, the fall of the de Rolos. We still thought they had fallen to plague, but through some unfortunate political business, they had come to power, but we began to question it. I knew better. I told the truth once I'd recovered. We began to build our first rebellion. Two years we built up the resistance before we made our first move. They seemed to know exactly what we were plotting. Cut us off at every angle. Couldn't see who it was who was giving up our information, but I knew it was close. But before I had the opportunity, I was helming a group that was traveling to utilize the escape route that I took you through when they first attacked. It was just after dusk, and Lord Briarwood was there waiting for us in the forest. He slaughtered most of the men, but he recognized my face from the dinner we had the night they took the castle. They did not harm me, strangely. They treated me like a guest against my will, in my own house. I seemed to ascertain that by keeping me there, having a member of the house within their grasp, they could use that as leverage. I don't know. Sylas, he had his charms, and there were many that worked beneath them against their own will. It did not work on me. My hatred was too strong. So instead, they tried to provide me with wealth. Power, here in Whitestone. I just took to reading and ignoring it all. I don't know why they kept me around, but I wasn't going to question it if it gave me a chance to possibly undermine them." She grabs the side of her sword as you guys have now reached now down the long hallway towards the back of the castle. You know the direction she's taking you. It leads to the cellar, to the undercroft and the de Rolo mausoleum. "Three years of reading in that library. Father's library. Strategy. Tactics. Old lines of information, as well as the myths and history of Whitestone. I found allies within the castle. I contacted Yennen, and through him, Archibald, who helped me build the first rebellion. Archibald still lives, Percy. He's been completely necessary for what we've built here." She looks down at her armor as you guys reach the edge of the cellar, and she pulls the door open quietly. There's wooden stairs that lead down into the cellar. She taps her armor. "This was Mother's. It's good to know I'm not the only tomboy in the bloodline." Brushes the hair out of her face, and for the first time really looks at you with a smile since she first saw you.
Taliesin: (sighs) Can we do one thing before we go down into the cellar? This is the best day of my life, and I can't help but be suspicious.
Matt: "I completely understand."
Taliesin: Is there any way to check if she's being controlled?
Travis: I was thinking the same thing.
Taliesin: Can we put your helmet on her?
Matt: The only thing you really have seen work is the Greater Restoration spell you cast on Seeker Asum when you guys were with the Council of Tal'Dorei. That did seem to remove any sort of charm effects, if that's what you're asking.
Laura: We don't have that?
Marisha: I didn't learn it. Not for today. I thought Pike's magic would hold up.
Travis: I can try and jog her memory.
Matt: "What can I do to make you trust me?"
Sam: Punch her in the face?
Taliesin: I do trust you. That's the problem.
Matt: She smiles a little. "Whatever you need."
Taliesin: I've got nothing. (sighs)
Matt: Does anyone have any creative means with which they would want to check?
Taliesin: What would happen if we put your helmet on her?
Marisha: If she's already controlled--
Taliesin: This would disrupt it, maybe.
Marisha: We could try it. It doesn't hurt to put a hat on.
Laura: It has to be attuned over a short rest, though.
Marisha: It does.
Taliesin: Does the hat need to be attuned over a short rest?
Matt: In theory.
Liam: I want to suggest something to you. We rest here for a half hour, and I give this to you. This came from a very strange creature. It will help you resist any control, if there is any control, and one of us-- you could even choose-- could strike you and try to take you out of it, and if you are not being controlled, then you are being struck across the face, and I'm sorry for that, but if you are, there's a possibility we'd pull you out. I know that would hurt, but it would go a long way to earn our trust.
Matt: "If that's what it takes." She takes it from your hand and inspects it for a second. "Shoddy craftsmanship." Places it on her head, and it's a little big at first, then it conforms to her head.
Liam: Your choice.
Matt: She sits down a couple of steps deeper into the cellar. Curls around a corner; ushers you all over into the shadows.
Marisha: Can I see, before we leave, are we near any windows?
Matt: From this location? No. All the windows that would be here would face out into the north side of Whitestone, which is forested.
Marisha: Backyard?
Matt: You guys are on the north side of the castle now. The city is south from you.
Marisha: All right.
Matt: So you take a moment and sit. While you guys are waiting, she takes a moment. She's adjusting it and feeling it and inspecting her hands. (sighs) "I don't feel any different. While we wait--"
Liam: What if the little one struck you?
Sam: Struck her?
Laura: Give it some time.
Matt: She gives a wry grin. "Whatever you choose."
Sam: I could try to tell if she's evil or not. Would that help?
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: I don't know. I don't think she's evil. She could be a puppet.
Marisha: Can I try this? This is a long shot. My-- actually, our fey ancestry, from being half-elves. We're immune to charm effects. Or we have resistance.
Liam: Resistant to it.
Marisha: Advantage against saves. Since we have that, can we use our fey ancestry, the three of us, to tap into her and see if we can detect a charm?
Matt: Your resistance doesn't make you attuned to it. Unfortunately, it's just a natural ability that's inherent. Her being human, there's not a way to really correlate with that. I mean, you've read over her a few times, doing insight checks.
Taliesin: Wait, it was Greater Restoration?
Marisha: Yeah.
Laura: Yeah.
Taliesin: Ah!
Sam: You have that?
Taliesin: I have a potion. This should solve all of our problems.
Sam: Or you could save that for when one of us becomes a vampire.
Taliesin: No, it will be-- And I'm pulling out a potion bottle. This is if you are controlled. This could fix it.
Matt: She puts her hand out. Her leather glove's pulled over it now. You've never seen her militant before, and it's a really interesting visual to you.
Taliesin: I look at her.
Matt: She drinks the potion. Whole thing down. (coughs)
Taliesin: That was actually a minor healing potion. I was just seeing if you did it intentionally. (laughter)
Matt: She gives a wry grin and wipes her mouth. "I thought I recognized that terrible earthy taste." She tosses the crystal decanter to you.
Liam: Clever boy.
Matt: "Huh. You always were the clever one."
Taliesin: I figured it was worth a shot. Best we're going to do.
Sam: Am I supposed to punch her in the face now?
Liam: No.
Matt: "Do you need this thing?"
Liam: I'll take it back, yeah.
Matt: She hands it back to you.
Taliesin: All right.
Matt: There's a fascination she has with her armor. "I've not been able to wear this before. It feels good to have something close to Mother."
Taliesin: It's been a long time. (sighs)
Matt: "Simon repaired it for me when he was working here. I haven't seen him in a while. I'm worried."
Taliesin: Let's go down and take care of this. Cass?
Matt: She leads you down through the cellar--
Marisha: Wait, hang on. Before we enter  it's safe to assume they know we're coming, correct?
Sam: If they're there.
Laura: Yeah.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Liam: Better safe than sorry.
Sam: Can I ask Cassandra--
Matt: You can ask her anything you'd like.
Sam: Are the Briarwoods going to be down there? Are they here?
Matt: She goes, "I have no confirmation of it, but they spend most of their time down here. They're preparing for something."
Liam: Have you ever been down here?
Matt: "I'm not allowed down here, by their orders, but I've snuck down a few times out of curiosity. I've only gotten so far before I had to return, but I've made it through the undercroft, through most of the tunnels, and I've gotten to the distillery, and that's about as far as I've gotten. But I've followed them down here, and they usually come with a group of guards, four or five strong."
Laura: All right.
Travis: Are there sentries? Can we expect to find traps, lookouts?
Matt: "It's definitely a possibility, so move quietly. Be careful."
Laura: What is Lady Briarwood?
Matt: "What is Lady Briarwood? She's a wicked beast of a creature, is what she is. I'd use less savory words, but my brother's here."
Taliesin: There's a first time for everything, I suppose.
Matt: As she leads you guys down the stairs towards the undercroft, she goes, "She's not like her husband. That I know. As far as I can tell, she's human, but she has a very powerful control over life and death. She's a practitioner of the arcane, definitely, but her focus seems to be necromancy on a wide scale. And while Delilah and Sylas are man and wife, they speak of another."
Sam: They speak of another?
Laura: The guy that they're trying to bring back.
Matt: "It's as if a third party completes their union."
Sam: Oh, this is the king that will rise again?
Matt: "They don't say any names. They refer to him as 'him' or 'The Whispered One.' No reference beyond that."
Laura: (gasps)
Sam: What?
Laura: (whispering) What if it's the guy in Percy?
Sam: What if it's what?
Taliesin: I'm having that thought, as well.
Laura: Percy's smoke monster.
Sam: Oh shit.
Marisha: Oh boy.
Liam: He's playing both sides, possibly, Percival.
Sam: Oh, another question for Cassandra. The duke, Negmeyer? Vegmeyer? Venkman?
Taliesin: Quagmire.
Marisha: Quagmire.
Matt: "Vedmeyer, yes."
Sam: Vedmeyer. Have you seen him around the castle today, or recently?
Matt: "I've only seen him in the castle maybe three times since we've been here."
Sam: Because Grog? He's a goliath.
Travis: He's-- wait, what?
Sam: He's a big goliath, so if he's here, you should just, you know--
Travis: How did you see him?
Sam: Oh, when I was a dinosaur and I burned down a house and killed a bunch of people...
Taliesin: That's a series of words that I know individually, but he strings them together in ways that don't make any sense.
Sam: I wouldn't say fought, because I beat him really easily, and then I ran away.
Travis: Oh, you killed him?
Sam: No, I just pushed him off a building, then I thought that was enough for the day, so I went home.
Matt: Cassandra looks over her shoulder at this. "It's a shame you're not as tall as your tales, small one."
Sam: Well, thank you. I'll take that as a compliment.
Taliesin: No!
Sam: Don't worry.
Marisha: (laughing) No. (laughter)
Sam: Before we cross the precipice into this-- what is it, undercroft?
Matt: Undercroft she was referring to, yes.
Sam: Percival, we all have fought with you this whole time, and you know that we have your back and that we're with you in this 100 percent. But I'd like our enemies to know that, as well, so with your permission, I will cast Seeming on all of us. And I make the girls look like Cassandra, and the boys look like Percy. So I give us all the gray hair.
Taliesin: You crazy motherfucker!
Sam: And if possible, I'd like to emblazon the sign of the rebellion on our chests in sort of an awesome Superman glowing thing.
Matt: With a flicker of Scanlan's arcane mastery, all of you form into a small battalion of Percys and Cassandras.
Liam: Is he a big Percy?
Matt: He would have to be, yeah, because he still stays similar to his actual size, so if Percy was a little thicker and a little taller--
Marisha: Percy's been hitting the 'roids.
Matt: Yep.
Laura: What is Trinket?
Sam: A bear with two streaks of white hair. (all laugh)
Laura: And he's wearing little circle glasses.
Sam: Yeah, with the little glasses. We are all de Rolos today.
Marisha: He's a Hello Trinket!
Taliesin: Hello Trinket?
Marisha: Hello Trinket.
Matt: Cassandra looks around very confused for a second. "Curious, yes."
Marisha: But abrasive. Right? You're put off by it, so it works. It's working.
Sam: Possibly confused.
Taliesin: Abrasiveness is his most powerful weapon.
Matt: "So I'm beginning to see. Well, then." She pulls her shortsword out. "Shall we?"
Laura: Are we going in to fight now?
Travis: We're going into the cavern.
Laura: I'm stealthing.
Matt: "As are we all." Everyone roll stealth checks.
Laura: Should I cast Pass Without a Trace? Yeah, I'm going to use Pass Without a Trace, because I don't have a lot of 2nd-level spells.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: Oh yeah. Please.
Matt: Plus ten.
Laura: Yeah, plus ten to your stealth.
Sam: Oh, really?
Laura: Yeah.
Taliesin: Thank god.
Travis: Boom!
Laura: Natural 20!
Liam: You're welcome.
Travis: 26. Natural 20.
Liam: 30. Natural 20.
Laura: Oh, natural 20.
Matt: 30, plus whatever your bonus is.
Liam: That's with the bonus.
Matt: I thought you rolled a natural 20?
Laura: That's 29, that's 39.
Matt: Oh, you?
Laura: 39 for me.
Matt: 39? Your sister just out-stealthed you.
Liam: I gave her my fucking cloak, Matt.
Sam: Do we all get plus ten?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Sam: Oh, then 29.
Marisha: 28.
Taliesin: 21.
Matt: You all (whoosh) vanish.
Marisha: Before we go in, I go, Vax?
Laura: How do you know it's him?
Matt: Solid point.
Marisha: Vax?
Sam: Yes, it's me.
Taliesin: Yes, Keyleth?
Marisha: Vax? (laughter)
Sam: Yes, it's me, Vax. What do you need? It's me.
Liam: Kiki, I'm over here.
Marisha: Goddamn it, Scanlan!
Laura: This is really creepy because it's brother and sister talking to each other right now. It looks like Percival and Cassandra.
Matt: She's very uncomfortable right now, by the way.
Taliesin: Is there anybody who is not made uncomfortable by this?
Marisha: This was supposed to be a passing comment, and it's turned into a thing. (laughs) Be careful.
Taliesin: Of course, Keyleth.
Laura: He will be.
Marisha: God damn it! I can't do this anymore.
Taliesin: Carry on.
Marisha: Just go. Let's go. Can we go?
Sam: Sister Vex? Do you mind giving me that gun again?
Marisha: Shut up, Scanlan.
Taliesin: It will be no problem at all.
Laura: No, you can't have it.
Sam: Why, because I'm three feet tall?
Laura: Because I want it.
Liam: (imitating Grog) Is this the body-switching episode?
Taliesin: Right.
Sam: Let's go.
Taliesin: Let's go.
Matt: Continuing down, a long set of whitestone-constructed stairs descend for about 45 feet before they level off into the de Rolo mausoleum. A long hallway continues forward that contains two ten-by-ten stone structures that contain the entombed bodies of previous generations of de Rolos, with six passages-- three on each side-- that split off of this main hallway that contain their own stone-encapsulated corpses. This is a place of silent prayer and showing appreciation for the previous families. Not all of them are full, and there were extensions planned as the family grew, but the first thing you notice is all of the tomb doors are open. Is anyone holding a torch light source, going through this?
Laura: He's got his flaming war hammer.
Marisha: Yeah, and I'll light up my hands.
Taliesin: I think I still have a torch, actually.
Matt: Have you been carrying it with you throughout this?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Dagger.
Matt: Okay, so you have enough light sources to keep a general idea of what's going on, and I know a lot of you guys have darkvision, too, so you have a pretty decent range. What's the marching order here, guys? Just so I know, continuing down this path.
Sam: We'll go Percy, Cassandra, Cassandra, Percy, Percy, Percy, Percy, Cassandra.
Marisha: Boy girl, boy girl, boy girl.
Laura: I'm going to perception ahead, so I'll be towards the front.
Matt: Towards the front?
Liam: How about Grog in second place? You big sponge.
Matt: Is Trinket staying with you or staying in back?
Laura: He's going to stay further back.
Marisha: Put me in a happy middle.
Matt: Grog's second. Keyleth is, you said, in the middle?
Sam: She's lucky Pierre.
Matt: All right, the rest of you guys?
Laura: Trinket's staying close to Scanlan.
Matt: Okay. Scanlan, you staying towards the back?
Sam: I guess so.
Matt: All right. Percy and Vax?
Liam: I'll be behind Grog, as well.
Taliesin: So I'll be in the back with my sister.
Matt: All right, and this is Cassandra.
Laura: Oh no. She's so drunk.
Matt: Okay, so it's like a flying V formation you guys are pushing in here.
Taliesin: Go home, de Rolo, you're drunk.
Matt: All right, so. You progress through the undercroft as quietly as possible. You notice as you get past the first section, you look to your right and left and the inside of these small like cubby offshoots that contain these separate ten by ten stone tombs. The walls have shelves burrowed into it, in which there are urns and small gems and offerings-- things that were buried alongside the family members as part of a remembrance.
Liam: (make snatching noises)
Laura: (make snatching noises)
Matt: Yeah, no. Don't go Skyrim on me.
Taliesin: Yeah. Not fun.
Matt: Once again, you see the doors are open, and from what you can tell, the stone lids on the tombs are pulled off and to the side. Across the way, as you move towards the center of the room to the second set of openings, you can see the far wall which, the room ends in the far side, but there is about a 15, 20-foot wide and about a ten to 15-foot tall hole burrowed into the far wall. And the closer you get, you see large piles of dirt that fill one side of the room were put off to the side as if pieces of this dig were discarded and there is a trail of dirt across the ground that appears to have not been very well cleaned to show that dirt was being moved in and out of this area. You also see, as you push two-thirds into the room, broken pieces of whitestone that had been carved into what looks like parts of walls or pillars. Support things that failed in their construction and just broke and were tossed and discarded to the side. Make a perception check.
Marisha: Oh!
Taliesin: Oh! Natural 20.
Sam: Jesus.
Travis: What the flipping fuck, man.
Taliesin: I had a one today.
Matt: A one.
Travis: And four 20s.
Taliesin: I had a one.
Matt: One of you Critters out there has to get Taliesin a really, really pretty new d20 that he has to use going forward.
Taliesin: That's shapeways.com.
Matt: Not that one! (laughter)
Matt: All right. So what did you get?
Marisha: 29.
Sam: 12.
Liam: 26.
Laura: I don't remember. It wasn't very good.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: 13.
Matt: Okay. Those of you with about 25 or above, you glance and you find two of these slivers of this material you don't recognize and part of this broken stone. It's like a dark green glass. About a half an inch to an inch thick in slivers. You only find a small scattering few, and it has a grainy texture to it, and you take a look at it, and it's transparent. You can see shapes through it, but it's opaque enough to the point where it distorts a little bit of the visual and color behind it.
Marisha: Can I do a nature check on this? Is this similar to the broken glass that I collected before?
Matt: Which broken glass you collected before?
Marisha: I don't know. I just have broken glass shards.
Travis: I feel like that was the red stones or something from before.
Marisha: I feel like there was some sort of--
Taliesin: There was that sea of glass.
Marisha: Yeah, we were in some cavern.
Matt: Oh, the sea of bone and glass? Okay. Yeah, it is not similar to that, no. However, those who are trained in arcana, you can go ahead and make an arcana roll.
Laura: Trained in arcana?
Matt: Trained in arcana.
Laura: How do you know if you're trained in arcana?
Travis: Negative two.
Matt: You would have filled in, if you have a proficiency.
Sam: The dot?
Taliesin: The dot.
Laura: Oh.
Sam: Oh. 11.
Matt: You have really no idea what this glass is.
Liam: I grab it back.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: That was just me? I'm the only arcana-trained person here?
Laura: That's it?
Sam: Wow. Sorry, guys. Sorry.
Marisha: Can I try a nature check on it?
Matt: Sure.
Marisha: He's like, "It's not going to tell you shit, but sure." 15?
Matt: It's glass. Most glass you understand is designed by usually sand or other materials that at a high temperature or some sort of process is melted and fused.
Marisha: So it's manufactured.
Matt: It appears to be, or naturally occurred, and the structure of it has this bumpy, wavy-- it's not like smooth glass.
Marisha: Like when lightning hits sand?
Matt: Kind of. But you're not sure what it actually is.
Laura: I wonder if this was holding that acid.
Taliesin: I wonder if something very, very hot...
Marisha: I'm wondering if it's a symptom of something.
Sam: When they burn the whitestone with the acid or something?
Laura: Do I see any recent tracks around here? Does it look like people came down here?
Matt: Make a survival check with advantage because you're a crazy ranger tracker.
Laura: 13.
Matt: You see tracks here and there, some fresher than others. Yeah.
Liam: How many of us found this?
Matt: Well, two of you saw it.
Liam: I've got one.
Matt: Yeah, you've got one piece.
Liam: And Percy's got the other?
Matt: Second piece, yeah.
Sam: You want to burn one?
Liam: I walk away from the group all the way to the back, and I take it--
Matt: To where you came from?
Liam: Yeah, towards where we came from. What's behind us? Is it just tunnel back that way?
Matt: You mean on that path you're going?
Liam: Yeah, I push through the back of the group to the back.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: What's behind us?
Matt: Where you just came from is the stairs that lead up to the castle.
Liam: I was going to throw it, but...
Travis: I see Vex looking around. Can I look for tracks as well? I'm proficient in survival, and I never use it.
Matt: Sure.
Travis: Natural 20! I swear to god.
Matt: While you sit there inspecting the dirt--
Laura: It looks like there's some tracks here, but I don't know what it's saying.
Matt: Grog, you immediately see a cluster of recent footprints, probably a day old at most, that lead in towards the tunnel. Looks like the prints are of seven individuals. Feet are fairly wide, masculine and heavy in step. One gait appears to be smaller, thinner, and more feminine.
Travis: How many tombs are open around us?
Matt: Eight total in this room.
Travis: Should we check the tombs?
Laura: They're already open and empty.
Sam: They're open and empty.
Matt: You all make a perception check.
Marisha: All of us?
Sam: Ten.
Marisha: 28.
Taliesin: 25.
Liam: 20.
Laura: 11.
Travis: 18.
Matt: Okay, 20 and above that'd be just you two?
Liam: 20.
Matt: Oh, yeah, three. All right, so you three, you notice the temperature drop ever so slightly in the room and in the darkened shadow. you look around and you see what appears to be some sort of ethereal mass drifting away.
Taliesin: Damn it!
Marisha: God damn it! Here we go again.
Liam: We've got company.
Matt: There's one round that you three get to act. The rest of you have a surprise round right now.
Marisha: What kind of mist?
Sam: Bad deadly ghost mist.
Marisha: What kind of mist?
Sam: A miasma.
Matt: Grog and Vex are out here checking this. You guys are back here. Keyleth is here. Vax, you're back here. Trinket's up with you, and Scanlan you're--
Sam: I was in the back.
Matt: So you're over here with these guys. You see one drifts out from this side, another drifts out from this side, and another drifts in from this side.
Marisha: Undead ghoulie guys?
Liam: Ghosts. Wraiths.
Marisha: Wraiths?
Matt: There is a cold chill that runs down the spine of Keyleth and Vax, as they've encountered enemies similar to this in the past.
Marisha: It's that fucking shit that turned us.
Matt: All right, let's roll some initiatives.
Travis: Just those three, right?
Matt: Just those three.
Taliesin: I feel like an asshole.
Marisha: Shut the fuck up!
Taliesin: I feel like an asshole.
Marisha: Get out!
Taliesin: I'm changing dice. This is bullshit.
Matt: Yeah, I'm banning that d20 for the rest of the game.
Taliesin: I'm changing dice.
Marisha: It makes no sense. Yes! It's a hollow die.
Taliesin: It's a hollow die. There's nothing to be weighted on it. It's a wiffle die.
Marisha: And I rolled a one!
Matt: So it's just you. Okay, so! Initiatives.
Taliesin: 28.
Matt: (giggles) Okay.
Marisha: 14.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: 15.
Taliesin: Thank you for that.
Marisha: (laughing) I can't believe I did that. Rolled a one on it.
Matt: All right. Percy, you're up first. You glance around, and you can see the two entities going (hiss) towards you, towards Keyleth, and you glance over your shoulder and see one drifting out of the distance towards Vax.
Taliesin: I yell, "Look out!" And I take several steps toward Vax.
Matt: To there?
Taliesin: Actually, on the other side of the pillar so I can actually see the one that's getting towards him.
Matt: There?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: You won't be able to see this one, just those. This one actually will block your view to that one. These are about ten feet tall. These are the little sections here, so right now, you would be able to see these two here and barely see this one. It would have three-quarters cover. Which you ignore, with Sharpshooter.
Taliesin: I know. I want to back up into that corner, though, just to get away from them.
Matt: Over here?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: Okay, so you can see one of them right now.
Taliesin: I'll take-- fuck. Yep, screw it. I'll take shots with the Pepperbox.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: I'll take my first shot.
Matt: Go for it.
Taliesin: That can't be right. Just checking. 20. Natural 20.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: With a different dice?
Taliesin: With a different die. Of course, with a different die.
Marisha: Shut the fuck up!
Travis: Who are you?
Taliesin: I'm the devil. I am the devil, and I have come to do the devil's work.
Matt: So all of you who are going to conventions to meet Taliesin in the future, make sure you get a nice long hold of his hand so you can roll better, too.
Travis: Yeah, would you touch my dice?
Taliesin: I will lick your die, because that is how I bless them.
Matt: All right, so that's your first attack. Second attack?
Taliesin: First attack.
Matt: Both at the same guy?
Taliesin: Yeah, all against the same guy.
Matt: Okay. Go for it.
Taliesin: First attack is 22 points of damage.
Matt: Okay, is this with the element, or not?
Taliesin: No, no element.
Matt: Okay. You fire. Just passes through it with no effect.
Marisha: Yeah, fucking misty dudes.
Travis: What?
Marisha: Damn misty dudes. I'm mocking them.
Taliesin: I spin.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: Shoot with fire.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: What the fuck?!
Marisha: Get out!
Matt: Take a picture. Take a picture right now.
Taliesin: Taking a picture.
Marisha: Get out! You're the anti-Wheaton.
Sam: He's had, like, eight tonight.
Marisha: How many is that?
Taliesin: I don't know!
Marisha: CritRoleStats, how many is that? Tell us! I know you've been counting.
Laura: Ridiculous.
Sam: Go to Vegas!
Taliesin: I'll put it on Instagram later.
Marisha: Go to Vegas!
Laura: Yeah.
Taliesin: I go to Vegas. I don't gamble!
Laura: We need to go.
Matt: You need to go find the D&D casino.
Sam: D&D casino?
Matt: D&D casino. Make it happen, guys. I know one of you can.
Taliesin: All right.
Matt: So which one is this?
Taliesin: This is fire elemental.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: That's 14 points of damage, plus three damage of fire.
Matt: That's including crit damage?
Taliesin: Including the crit damage. I rolled really poorly on my damage.
Matt: Okay, so this one, the bullet does (impact noise) hit its form with a burst of flame, the bullet converted to magical due to the nature of the chamber. You can see its form (raspy cry). It disperses for a second and then re-forms, continuing its movement.
Taliesin: We need magic! I'm taking my last shot.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: That was seven, by the way. Seven 20s this game.
Matt: That's stupid.
Taliesin: Okay, see? That's better. 15.
Matt: 15 does hit.
Taliesin: All right. They're easy to hit, at least. That's such a shitty roll. 12 points of ice damage.
Matt: Okay. The ice shot (gunshot) tears through it, doing additional damage. You see part of its form crystallize from the little bit of ectoplasm that's floating in the air, but it's not enough to actually disperse its form. It continues pushing forward. You would have to reload to use those again.
Taliesin: Yeah, I'm out.
Matt: Okay, that ends your turn. It's now their go. This one drifts forward to Keyleth. This one drifts forward to Grog.
Marisha: That's with our surprise round? You said we have a surprise round.
Matt: No, you guys were aware. Everyone else is surprised.
Marisha: Oh, we're the only three that aren't surprised. Oh, that sucks.
Matt: So. Unless you do anything against surprise?
Travis: Not unless I'm raging.
Matt: That's true. All right. Keyleth, I need you to make a constitution saving throw. Sorry, no, a charisma saving throw.
Marisha: A charisma saving throw? That's not great. And no saving throw bonuses, okay, so that's ten?
Liam: (quietly) Oh, she's gone.
Marisha: We've been here before.
Matt: Did you roll already?
Marisha: I did.
Matt: What did you get?
Marisha: Ten.
Matt: Ten. Okay. The ghost reaches out and embraces Keyleth. It disappears into her form and she shivers for a second, and it is no longer visible.
Laura: Oh, he's taken over her body?
Matt: Keyleth's eyes all of a sudden flare up with a ghostly blue glow, and she turns around, looking at the group with a hunger you haven't seen in her eyes. For those who see it, as well-- I should have made this happen before-- I need you guys to immediately after seeing these ghosts make a wisdom saving throw.
Taliesin: What for?
Sam: Everyone?
Matt: No, just the ones that see it.
Laura: We're all immune to fear because of the feast.
Matt: That's right, so never mind. That doesn't matter.
Sam: (laughs) Yeah!
Matt: Good reminding. So I was right, then. I didn't forget anything! All right, charisma saving throw?
Liam: Charisma saving throw?
Matt: Correct.
Liam: Okay.
Marisha: This isn't a charm thing?
Matt: And Grog, charisma saving throw.
Laura: Is this charm?
Matt: Nope. This is not a charm.
Liam: Okay, so a 12 for me. Am I caught, as well?
Sam: 12?
Matt: 12?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: God damn it.
Sam: That was your last Luck, too.
Liam: No, that's two, isn't it?
Marisha: You did two.
Laura: We're going to die!
Travis: Grog is batting for the other team.
Matt: What did you roll?
Travis: Four.
Laura: (muffled) We don't even have a cleric with us!
Sam: Wait, this is against charisma?
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: Yeah.
Sam: Jesus.
Matt: And with that, three of your teammates turn around, their eyes intensely glowing with some sort of a weird ghostly glow.
Marisha: Three v three, man. Battle royale. Let's do this.
Taliesin: Oh god.
Sam: Wait, we have to fight them?
Marisha: He's going to call it at eight. He's going to call it.
Matt: Everyone else roll initiative.
Sam: We have to fight them. How is that going to happen?
Taliesin: This is going to go so poorly.
Travis: Not us. Not the possessed ones, right?
Matt: No, you guys are already on the initiative. Oh, no. Grog, you still do.
Travis: I still roll initiative?
Matt: Yeah, for yourself.
Laura: What?
Travis: I'm possessed, though.
Taliesin: Roll your initiative.
Liam: What just happened?
Laura: You have to roll initiative to see when you attack all of us.
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: Well, then it's good it was a one.
Matt: (laughs) Okay.
Marisha: Do we roll initiative, too? We're re-rolling initiative, the three of us?
Matt: Everyone who hasn't rolled yet rolls now.
Marisha: Oh.
Sam: 15.
Matt: 15. Okay.
Travis: Unless I have to roll with advantage.
Sam: Do you have to roll with advantage?
Matt: Technically, you would, yeah.
Travis: Two.
Matt: All right, and what did you get?
Laura: 13.
Matt: 13. All right. Percy, you're up first.
Marisha: Help us!
Taliesin: I don't know what to do.
Laura: We don't have a cleric!
Sam: You have-- ugh.
Marisha: I think you guys--
Sam: No, it's up to us to figure out, right?
Laura: He cast Turn Undead. We don't have that.
Marisha: Was that when Kashaw was here?
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: That was Kashaw. Yeah, he cast Turn Undead.
Travis: Awesome. He's not here right now. What are you going to do?
Taliesin: Okay! What are we going to do?
Matt: What are you going to do?
Taliesin: (sighs) All right, who's the most dangerous?
Travis: Does Cassandra have any--
Taliesin: That's my first action. I'm going to use my bonus action to turn to my sister and go, what the hell do we do?
Matt: She looks at you, a little bit frustrated.
Marisha: Please tell me she trained in cleric. Please tell me she multiclassed.
Matt: She looks about, annoyed, and goes, "I'm sorry. I'm not a holy woman. I have no symbols. I have no power. I have nothing. Let's see what we can do."
Taliesin: All right. I'm--
Marisha: You guys have that holy water, right?
Taliesin: I'm backing up. I'm going to do my best to back up into the tomb right here.
Matt: Right there?
Taliesin: Keep going to my right until the drop-off behind me, and I'm going to back up into the tomb.
Matt: Okay. Into there?
Taliesin: No, up. Towards you; the other side.
Matt: There we go.
Taliesin: There we go. I'm putting my back against the wall.
Matt: Okay, so you're up against the stone?
Taliesin: I mean that column.
Marisha: Take the damn laser pointer.
Taliesin: Yeah, there.
Matt: There you go.
Taliesin: Yeah!
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: I'm unloading two shots. I'm reloading and unloading two magical shots at Vax.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: I'm going to burn some fucking points. What am I going to do?
Sam: We're fucked!
Travis: Do your worst.
Taliesin: First shot-- fuck it, I'm using the old die. I've already rolled two 20s on that one. First shot, I'm shooting to get Vax to drop his knives.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: Burning a grit point to drop his knife.
Marisha: Good idea!
Matt: He has two, so you only knock--
Taliesin: One of them out of his hand. The one that doesn't auto-return.
Liam: They all do.
Taliesin: They all do?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: That crazy belt, man.
Taliesin: Shooting him in the face. Fuck it. And my gun jams. You did that!
Marisha: I touched it. I'm sorry!
Matt: (laughs) You turn around and holding your gun out at Vax, even with this ghostly form, it's so hard to do so, and you close your eyes for a second and you pull the trigger, and in a weird way you're both immediately distraught and at the same time relieved that the gun jammed. (mechanical noise)
Taliesin: (frustrated noise)
Matt: So that's your turn.
Taliesin: Yep.
Matt: All right. Vax, you're up first. The ghost drives you to turn up to him as he's trying to fix the gun. Daggers out. Go ahead and make your two attacks against him. No sneak attack damage.
Liam: The first was a 13. The second was a 22.
Matt: Pretty sure the 22 hits.
Taliesin: 22 hits.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and roll damage against Percy.
Liam: Eight.
Matt: All right, so you take eight points of piercing damage. You feel the blade (pained cry) pierce into the side. It doesn't get too far in, but you haven't been on the receiving end of his daggers before, and it's not fun seeing what they do to others. All right, at the end of your turn, I want you to make a religion check.
Sam: Check?
Taliesin: Oh yeah!
Marisha: Come on.
Taliesin: Magic fingers.
Laura: Magic glove.
Marisha: Do you want Taliesin to lick it?
Liam: 18.
Matt: 18? That gentle glow left behind, that slight sliver of Pike's essence that went into your symbol of Sarenrae, flares for a second. It flares again, and for a moment, in your head, in which darkness has taken your vision, you feel your body moving on its own, but you have no control. You hear Pike's voice whisper in your ear from a distance. It says, "Vax? It's okay." At which point, suddenly you feel the coldness sucked out from you. The symbol flares for a second, and the ghost is thrust out of your form.
Marisha: (excited shout)
Taliesin: Yeah!
Matt: That is your turn, however. All right. Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: I read my Scroll of Spirit Guardians. I call them forth to protect us in this moment.
Taliesin: Treguna mekoides--
Sam: Hakuna matata.
Taliesin: Trecorum satis dee.
Sam: I don't know how this works. (laughter)
Matt: That's okay.
Sam: (silly voice) They attack bad things around me, and they don't like bad things, so I thought maybe that would be good. (laughter)
Sam: Spirit Guardians. The thing I bought from Gilmore. Right? Didn't I buy the Scroll of Spirit Guardians?
Laura: Yeah, you did.
Sam: They attack anything evil within 15 feet of me.
Matt: Indeed.
Sam: Necrotic damage.
Matt: There we go  Spirit Guardians. So you call forth spirits to protect you for the duration, for up to ten minutes. Your alignment is...?
Sam: Good?
Matt: Good, yeah.
Sam: Good-ish. Sort of devious good.
Matt: Okay, so here's what you do. You actually use this to create these guardians-- this spell hasn't been used, either. To a distance of 15 feet. You have to choose things within 15 feet of you, so you have these two right here.
Sam: They're both within 15 feet of me, aren't they?
Matt: So, these guys. Their speed is halved.
Sam: When they take their turn, they get 3d8 damage.
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: It's a very confusing spell.
Matt: Yeah, when they move within 15 feet of you, their speed is halved, and at the start or when they enter the area, they make a wisdom saving throw or take radiant damage.
Sam: Is that now or when they move?
Matt: That will be at the end of their turn.
Taliesin: Yay, radiant damage. That's awesome.
Sam: I know.
Taliesin: You made a good call.
Travis: Nice, dude.
Matt: All right. Does that end your turn?
Sam: Do I get a bonus action?
Matt: You get a bonus action, yes.
Sam: Okay. Who's not undead right now? You? I've already inspired you once. Sure, I'll inspire you again. I've got nothing. This time, I'll just go, (harmonica noises).
Laura: I feel really inspired.
Matt: Take the lamest d10 you've ever accepted, because harmonica's not your favorite instrument. All righty. Great. That brings us to Keyleth's turn.
Taliesin: (squeaking noise)
Marisha: Did you just squeak?
Taliesin: Maybe. You don't know. Shut up!
Matt: So it turns towards Scanlan, having cast that, and you make a staff attack against him.
Marisha: (grunts)
Sam: I do a little doo-wop. (vocalizes) And that's my Cutting Words to try to distract her from her attack.
Matt: Okay. Go for it.
Marisha: I rolled a 19.
Sam: Do I roll now?
Matt: Yeah, you roll a d10 and subtract that from her attack.
Marisha: I rolled a 19.
Sam: Two.
Matt: So it's a 17.
Marisha: What's your AC?
Sam: I have a 17 armor class.
Matt: Roll damage.
Sam: Oh, wait! No, that's a ten. That's right.
Marisha: It's not a lot of damage, I promise. Oh, see? Even better. Four damage.
Sam: Oh. I shouldn't have even wasted it.
Taliesin: It's "ow."
Laura: It's just your little staff?
Sam: You're adorable.
Marisha: I'm still doing my granny routine.
Matt: Okay, now it has to make a wisdom saving throw, which it succeeds. It still takes half as much damage, so roll 3d8.
Sam: Who, me?
Matt: Yes.
Sam: Oh. Yes. Of course I will. I will do that right now with these d8s that I have. 12.
Matt: Okay. All righty. So this burst of radiant energy burns around her. You take 12 points of radiant damage.
Marisha: 12 points?
Matt: Yep. Vex, you're up.
Laura: All right.
Matt: You see Grog turn to you with this wicked grin on his face, eyes glowing a pale whitish-blue as he brings the hammer up in the air.
Laura: Oh god! Am I close by him?
Matt: You are. You're right next to him.
Laura: I'm right next to him?
Matt: You're right there.
Laura: Oh no! I back away from him. He's going to get an attack on me.
Matt: Yep.
Laura: But I really needed to put some distance there.
Matt: Make an attack of opportunity.
Laura: Wait! Okay, that's good.
Travis: 13.
Laura: You don't hit me!
Matt: Whiff. (impact noise) The hammer hits the side of the stonework, cracking it a little.
Taliesin: Oh, that's my mausoleum.
Matt: What are you doing, Vex?
Laura: I'm going to have Trinket-- is he lined up with anybody?
Matt: Just Keyleth right now.
Laura: He can't cannonball through to Grog and Keyleth?
Matt: He can, but he'll hit Scanlan, as well.
Laura: Can you dodge, Scanlan?
Sam: We'll see. Let's do this. I always loved that bear.
Laura: Right! You deserve it. He's doing it.
Matt: We'll say Trinket backs up a little bit to get enough room on it. Keyleth, swing an attack.
Marisha: Oh, to Trinket?
Matt: Yeah. Trinket has to get enough distance to actually build up momentum.
Marisha: Oh, I think that hits. 20 total?
Matt: 20 total is exactly the AC. Roll damage for Trinket.
Marisha: It's okay. It's not a lot. Nine?
Matt: Trinket takes nine points of bludgeoning damage from the staff.
Laura: Halved?
Matt: Right, yeah, because it's bludgeoning, so five points. Trinket then rolls forward, (thudding noises). Roll attacks on Grog, Scanlan, and Keyleth.
Marisha: Trinket bowling.
Laura: Eight plus 16 is 24.
Matt: For who? Keyleth, Scanlan, and Grog.
Laura: Okay, so Keyleth is 24.
Marisha: Hits.
Laura: Scanlan is 18.
Sam: Hits.
Laura: And Grog is 18.
Travis: Misses.
Laura: No, Grog is 20.
Travis: Hits.
Matt: All three hit? All right, so no attacks of opportunity against Trinket. Roll damage, and everyone takes that damage.
Laura: I don't know what to roll for cannonball damage because I've never actually gotten to hit.
Matt: Oh, I know. I have this. It's 2d6 plus four.
Laura: Okay. For each person?
Matt: Yep.
Laura: Oh, okay, so ten for Keyleth.
Matt: Ten points of bludgeoning damage.
Laura: Seven plus four is 11 for Scanlan.
Sam: Okay.
Laura: Oh, less for Grog. Eight.
Matt: Eight points of damage for Grog.
Laura: And while he's doing-- I don't get to shoot an arrow. Yes, I do! I get to shoot an arrow.
Matt: Bonus.
Laura: I'm going to shoot an arrow as Trinket is hitting Grog.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Oh god. 14 doesn't hit him.
Matt: Nope. It hits the shoulder and gleans off and carves a little wound across his chest, but not enough to do any damage. That ends your turn. Grog.
Laura: And now Trinket is close to me, then. Did he go through them and get back to me?
Matt: Trinket, due to the line, slams into Grog at the end of it, so he is now between the three others.
Laura: Shit.
Matt: Grog. As a ghost, you just got shot and slammed by a bear. I want you to roll one d20.
Marisha: Oh, he's going to see if he raged.
Travis: 15.
Matt: 15. Your attention goes to Vex, as opposed to Trinket. You move out of the way.
Sam: And he takes 3d8.
Matt: That's true.
Sam: Eight plus nine is 17.
Matt: Well, the creature has to make a wisdom save. Fails, so yeah, takes 3d8. Yep.
Sam: 17.
Matt: 17.
Travis: 17 to hit?
Sam: No, I just hit you with 17 points of damage.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: All right. You're feeling the ghostly form-- you take the damage as soon as the form inside; you're feeling this dissipation. All right, so you make your two attacks against Vex.
Laura: Shit.
Travis: Oh, that's not awesome. That's 17.
Laura: Doesn't hit.
Travis: That does. 24.
Matt: Yeah. Go ahead and roll damage. The first hammer swing you're ready for. Swing backward. It goes long.
Laura: Grog! Grog, no. No!
Travis: 20 on the first.
Matt: 20 points of damage. (impact noise) First one didn't hit, did it?
Laura: The first one didn't hit, so you only get the 20.
Travis: Oh, just the 20!
Matt: Just 20, so as the first one misses, you pull back, trying to stop him, but the hammer still slams you in the side; you don't have time to move out of the way, and it pushes you up against the wall. You land on your feet, and you can feel the pulsing of the blood broken beneath the skin. That ends Grog's go. Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: (gasps, sighs) "Hi!" I saw what just happened, right?
Matt: Yeah.
Taliesin: I'm going to try to fix my gun.
Matt: Go for it.
Taliesin: That fixes.
Matt: All righty.
Taliesin: (sighs) Are you better? Good, then let's deal with this. I'm going to start diving around the columns to get away from the wraith.
Matt: Around here?
Taliesin: Yeah, because I don't have a shot this round.
Matt: Okay, so you move around that way.
Taliesin: Yeah, cool.
Matt: All right. That ends your turn?
Taliesin: That ends my turn.
Matt: It's now their turn. This one currently loses interest in you and drifts two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight-- it (whoosh) passes through the stone. Moves through and appears on the other side. I need you to make a charisma saving throw.
Taliesin: I have advantage on charisma saving throws right now, do I not?
Laura: Oh, yeah, because she cast--
Marisha: It's not there anymore. Sorry.
Matt: Yeah. She dropped it when she picked up the concentration spell.
Travis: Roll high, golden snitch.
Matt: And that was ability checks, not saving throws.
Taliesin: Oh, then never mind. What's my charisma saving-- oh boy. Nope. I rolled a natural one. You did this! This is the third natural one. You touched it.
Laura: That's why I'm superstitious about my dice.
Marisha: I touched it.
Laura: He also touched mine, and I rolled a three.
Taliesin: I'll come back to you after Thanksgiving, baby.
Matt: And with that, it goes dark and a spiritual intent takes over your body. You feel like you're being puppeted, and you have no control over yourself. You're hidden, captured within your own form. All right, that ends his turn. Vax, you're up.
Liam: Okay.
Matt: You still feel the residual warmth in your glove pulsing.
Liam: All right. I'm going to click my boots together. I'm going to move towards him.
Matt: Towards Percy?
Liam: Towards Percy. Shit. I'm going to take the keen dagger and stick it into his gut, and I'm going to take the glove with the symbol of Sarenrae and punch him in the nose.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: I like that you're violent instead of just going, "Healing hand."
Marisha: Yeah!
Laura: You go, "fuck you!"
Sam: Can I just say, this is Percy beating up Percy right now. (laughter)
Matt: Yeah. You're being attacked and stabbed by yourself. It's weird.
Liam: 20 for the dagger.
Taliesin: I'm not reading too much into this.
Matt: That hits.
Liam: The punch is just strength modifier, right?
Taliesin: This is not a metaphor!
Liam: 17 for the punch.
Matt: All right. Roll damage for the dagger. What's your AC?
Taliesin: 18.
Matt: 18. Okay.
Liam: Nine.
Matt: You take nine points of piercing damage as the dagger stabs into your stomach. As you swing to haul the punch off, the body ducks out of the way.
Marisha: Take the punch!
Matt: All right. That ends your turn.
Liam: Wait. How far did I go?
Matt: You were there, so that's 15 feet.
Liam: I want to spring back and run as far as I can in the other direction, around the corner towards the rest.
Matt: All right. That brings us to Scanlan.
Sam: I walk between Grog and Keyleth, maintaining my 15-foot distance. Even more between.
Matt: There?
Sam: Yeah, and I'll Thunderwave them both. Oh no, and I hit Trinket. (laughter)
Matt: All right. Constitution saving throw from Grog and Keyleth and Trinket.
Travis: Do we roll something?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: What did you roll?
Marisha: 12.
Matt: (thud) Grog?
Travis: I rolled an 18.
Matt: What's your DC?
Sam: 19.
Matt: All right, so roll damage. What's Trinket's?
Laura: You have a constitution saving throw of eight.
Travis: Oh. 26.
Matt: Okay, so you take half damage.
Laura: Trinket rolled an 11.
Matt: Okay. (thud)
Sam: Eight points of damage.
Matt: Okay, so you take eight points of damage. Grog takes four. Trinket takes eight.
Sam: Are we trying to kill our friends, here?
Travis: Yeah, get us.
Laura: Get them unconscious so they come out. But then if they're unconscious, the ghosts come out and they could possess us.
Sam: That's great.
Marisha: But they take radiant damage.
Matt: Keyleth, top of the turn, roll--
Marisha: Did I get radiant damage from that push?
Sam: No.
Matt: You take 3d8 points of radiant damage.
Marisha: Oh, I do.
Sam: From the spirit guardians. Oh, and I'll also inspire Vax. (sings) Rip out someone's tongue and I'll know you. Cure someone dead and I'll show you've got those moves with dagger. You've got those moves with dagger. You've got those--
All: (sings) Moves like dagger.
Sam: Okay. 13.
Matt: All right, so 13 points of radiant damage to you and to... okay.
Marisha: 62 hit points.
Matt: All right. Scanlan, that's your turn. Keyleth.
Marisha: Yeah?
Matt: You turn around as you see Vax rush up with a look of fear and intensity on his face. You see her turn around with this twisted grin on her face, and she brings her staff up and swings it towards your head. Roll an attack.
Marisha: (whoosh) Baseball. 17.
Matt: What's your AC?
Liam: It is 18.
Matt: 18. As she swings, you duck, and her staff (impact noise) smacks against the stone wall of the mausoleum. That ends your turn, bringing us to Vex.
Laura: And I'm in a fight with Grog.
Matt: Correct.
Laura: Okay. This is totally awesome.
Sam: Wait! We have Cass. Does she get a turn?
Laura: She's not doing anything.
Matt: I forgot to add her to the initiative. That's my own fault.
Laura: I just thought she was being a bitch.
Matt: I'll give her a couple of rounds here in a second. Anyway, finish up.
Laura: Trinket runs forward and tries to pull Grog's focus so that I can back away.
Matt: Okay, so Trinket moves up to there.
Laura: He tries to grapple him, or something. Can he do anything to make Grog not be able to attack me if I run away? Can he try to knock him down, or something? Jump up on his back and knock him over.
Matt: Use an action to make a trip attack. Sure, why not. Roll an athletics check.
Laura: Okay. Yeah, no problem.
Taliesin: I'm imagining a bear doing mild calisthenics.
Laura: An athletics check for me?
Matt: No, for Trinket.
Laura: Okay. 12?
Matt: Make a strength saving throw, Grog.
Travis: That's a 26.
Matt: Yeah, Trinket rushes over and tries to knock you off your feet, and you just (thud) no effect. You still have a bonus action and your movement, if you want to.
Laura: I'm going to try to roll out of the way. I'm going to try to duck down and roll out of the way to make him less likely to hit me.
Sam: Yeah! The old "less likely" trick.
Matt: Make an acrobatics check.
Laura: Okay. Oh, my dice suck tonight!
Sam: You're inspired.
Marisha: He's sucking up all the good energy.
Laura: That's good! Acrobatics. 28.
Matt: 28? Grog, roll an attack with disadvantage, just for the hell of it.
Travis: 23.
Matt: Okay, roll damage against Vex as she pulls away from you.
Travis: The first one was a natural 20.
Matt: Be glad it was disadvantage.
Travis: 21.
Matt: You take 21 points of bludgeoning damage. As you pull away, Grog (whack) backhands you with his hammer. Now you can take your bonus action, if you want to.
Laura: As my bonus action, I'm going to cast--
Travis: Kill Goliath.
Laura: Right? I don't want to use any of my shit!
Travis: Can you conjure a keg of beer?
Sam: That would distract you.
Laura: I can't, but that's a really good idea. For my bonus action, I'm going to go, help!
Sam: You can use your bonus action to throw me the gun!
Laura: Oh. No.
Matt: All right, that ends your turn. Cassandra is going to rush up angrily with her shortsword out. Rushing up behind Grog, she's going to make a strike. That is going to be 18. What's your armor class?
Travis: 19.
Matt: 19. She goes to strike and whiffs, unfortunately. She's going to attack with her dagger she pulls out in her off hand. Rolls a three. Yeah. I'm giving her a second round because I missed the one. She's going to angrily pull up again and attempt to strike with both a second time. That will be a 20.
Travis: That hits.
Matt: All righty. Because Trinket is adjacent, she gets sneak attack damage.
Laura: Yay! Oh, she's a rogue.
Liam: Rogue.
Matt: So you take 27 points of piercing damage. Well, it's slashing damage from the shortsword. The offhand attack is another three. Going to miss.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: All righty. That brings us to Grog. Roll another d20.
Travis: 11.
Matt: 11. Your attention switches to Cassandra. Roll two attacks.
Sam: Do I get my radiant damage on him?
Matt: At the top of his turn, you do, yeah. Actually, before that happens, roll radiant damage.
Sam: 21.
Travis: 21 points?
Matt: With that, as you're reeling up your hammer to strike Cassandra, a burst of radiant energy disintegrates the ghostly presence within your body, and you find your mind come to you as you're about to go into a downswing to smash Cassandra's head in. You catch yourself.
Sam: Do it anyway, Grog! (laughter)
Marisha: Don't!
Sam: She's one of us.
Matt: You have your turn now.
Travis: Oh, I have my turn?
Matt: Yes.
Sam: Grog, I know you don't know what's going on right now, but kill Keyleth!
Travis: Okay. I turn and walk over to Keyleth.
Matt: Over Cassandra.
Taliesin: Poor Cass.
Travis: I'm going to swing my hammer at the middle of her chest.
Sam: Oh, you're scary. She's so cute.
Travis: 15.
Matt: What's your AC, Keyleth?
Marisha: 18.
Matt: She ducks out of the way with this preternatural speed.
Travis: Wow. 16.
Marisha: (cackles)
Matt: Keyleth's ghostly form is too fast for you. The confusion of the whole sequence caused you to not be able to think straight in the moment, and you miss twice. That ends your turn, Grog. Percy.
Laura: Oh, right. Percy's still--
Sam: Jesus. And he's got guns.
Matt: Your gun was just fixed, correct?
Taliesin: Yeah. (laughter)
Taliesin: Would he use the gun or the sword in phantom mode?
Matt: You just finished fixing this, and you have a gun before you. It's going to use it. Make three attacks against Vex-- Vax. I mean Vax.
Taliesin: I'm going to use this die, because it's been--
Marisha: Failing? Yeah, I touched it. Use the one that I touched.
Taliesin: That's-- I can't talk. 21.
Liam: That hits, but what's applicable? Uncanny Dodge or Evasion for a gunshot?
Matt: Whatever reduces the damage to half. It's not a saving throw, so it would be-- which one reduces the damage by half?
Liam: That's Uncanny Dodge.
Matt: Then it would be Uncanny Dodge. All right, so attack two more times.
Taliesin: 21.
Matt: Hits. And?
Taliesin: 26.
Matt: All right, so roll damage three times. The first one is halved.
Taliesin: All right. 13.
Matt: So you take seven damage.
Taliesin: Fuck me. 15.
Matt: 15 piercing damage.
Taliesin: And 11.
Matt: Okay. (three gunshots)
Sam: We are so strong! We should never fight ourselves.
Matt: All right. That ends Percy's turn there. Vax, you're up.
Liam: Am I able to slide around Keyleth closer to you, into that little alcove, or am I too pressed against the wall? The other way.
Matt: Currently, it's just enemies, so you can't move past them.
Liam: Okay.
Matt: I could make you roll an acrobatics check, if you wanted.
Liam: That's all right. I flip the daggers over, and I start to whale on the back of Keyleth's head.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Pommels of the daggers.
Sam: Kiss or kill.
Liam: 18.
Matt: Are you doing sneak attack on this? She's adjacent to Grog, so yeah.
Liam: Definitely.
Matt: 18 hits.
Liam: Second one is 20.
Marisha: Hits.
Matt: They both hit, so roll damage on both.
Liam: And then 32 on the last.
Matt: Oh, that's right. So three hits, with sneak attack.
Marisha: Oh, sneak attack is going to take me down.
Liam: Three. Plus seven is ten. And the ten gets doubled? Or everything?
Marisha: Dice rolls get doubled.
Liam: Ten, 16, 20, 21, 22, 23, 25, 50.
Sam: 50?
Liam: 50 for the first hit.
Marisha: (laughs) I'm still alive.
Matt: Was it doubled because you rolled a critical?
Marisha: Sneak Attack.
Matt: Sneak Attack, you just roll the dice.
Liam: Well, then no. 25.
Matt: 25.
Liam: Thank you.
Matt: No worries.
Liam: Plus nine, plus nine.
Matt: Okay, so 25 plus 18...
Liam: 38.
Marisha: 38? Okay.
Matt: 25 plus 18 is 43.
Marisha: 43?
Matt: Yep.
Marisha: What was I at just now?
Sam: 62. So you're at 19.
Marisha: 19 hit points.
Liam: I'm going to use-- I don't care. I'm going to slide around Grog, to the side. Towards Scanlan. Right there, yeah.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: What's up, brother?
Matt: All right, that ends your turn. Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: I'm up again?
Matt: Yep.
Sam: I feel like I just went. All right. We're trying to kill our friends, right?
Liam: Yes.
Sam: Okay. Thank you for moving, Vax. I'm going to blast them both with lightning. Straight shot through, 100 feet.
Matt: Through those two? Yeah. Okay.
Sam: Yeah. What do I do? 8d6?
Matt: 8d6, and I need Keyleth and Percy to both make dexterity saving throws.
Marisha: Just the two of us? I actually have disadvantage on dexterity stuff because of corruption. 20 for me.
Taliesin: 21.
Matt: You both take half damage.
Sam: 24.
Matt: You both take 12 points of lightning damage. The bolt strikes through, hitting both of you in the chest, but you both manage to pull out of the way just in time to reduce the impact of the spell.
Sam: And as a bonus action, I'll do a Healing Word on Vex. Right? You're injured badly?
Laura: I mean, not badly, but--
Sam: Oh, well then fuck it. Oh, you're injured badly? Would I know that?
Matt: You could glance over and look at him as he pulls up to you, and see him (pants).
Liam: I've got gunshots in my back.
Sam: Okay. Yeah, so I'll Healing Word.
Matt: Roll the healing points for that.
Sam: What is it? Shit. It's right here  d4 plus five. That's it?! So lame. Seven points.
Matt: All right. That ends your turn. Keyleth, at the top of your turn, roll 3d8 radiant damage.
Sam: Ooh, yes. Oh, this is going to knock you out.
Marisha: Hopefully.
Sam: That's nine already.
Marisha: Yeah, I'm down.
Sam: Six more is 15.
Matt: Keyleth falls unconscious to the ground as this blast of radiant energy bursts around her as this spiritual radiant form that's been surrounding the area and stalking the various individuals. It slams into her form. As she collapses, the ghost is jettisoned from her body and looks like it's been taking the radiant damage and is having a hard time keeping its corporeal form. All right, that ends Keyleth's turn. Keyleth, I need you to roll a death saving throw.
Marisha: Nope. Six.
Matt: You take one death saving throw failure. All right. Vex, you're up.
Laura: I see the ghost come out of her? Okay, I'm going to shoot it with my Blazing Bowstring.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: 16?
Matt: 16 hits.
Laura: 17. I want a good one. 17. 25.
Matt: 25. As you pull back the arrow and you see the flames ignite around the shaft, you release it. It slams into the ghost, and you see its form (raspy cry) disperse from the impact, the arrow hitting the wall behind it and shattering against the stone. Ghost destroyed.
Laura: For my second attack, I'm going to attack Percy. Can I see him?
Matt: Yep, right over there.
Laura: All right, I'm going to do it. 21.
Matt: 21 hits.
Taliesin: (ghost noises)
Laura: 16.
Matt: 16 points of damage to you, Percy.
Taliesin: 16?
Matt: Yep.
Taliesin: Cool.
Laura: That was also through my Blazing Bowstring.
Matt: So you're using both Blazing Bowstring abilities right now?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. A flaming arrow (impact noise) sticks into the shoulder, and you can feel the flames burning into your body--
Laura: Plus another five. That was another five burning damage.
Travis: 21.
Taliesin: 21?
Matt: There you go.
Taliesin: I'm still doing fine.
Marisha: I hate these things.
Matt: It's now Cass's turn. Cass, who's having a weird time with the whole process of seeing a bunch of herselves and her brothers stabbing each other and getting possessed.
Laura: How do we even know who's who?
Marisha: Stop hitting yourself!
Taliesin: Thank you for that. I was almost going there.
Matt: She's right there, and she brings herself around the way. She's not able to do any actions, so she sees another of her brothers possessed but clutching the gun in the hand, and is steeling her blade for the moment and doesn't do anything with her turn. Grog, you're up.
Travis: "Percy!" And I run towards him.
Taliesin: (creepy voice) I'll swallow your soul!
Travis: 25.
Taliesin: Is no one a Sam Raimi fan? Never mind.
Sam: That was Donald Duck, right?
Travis: 18?
Matt: What's your armor class?
Taliesin: 18.
Matt: Yeah, hits. Damage on both.
Travis: 17 for the first one. 19 for the second one.
Matt: Okay, so 36 points of damage. (two impacts) You're thrown up against the wall and almost pushed over off your feet from the sheer weight of the impact.
Taliesin: It has to be magic damage, though.
Laura: It was. It's a magic war hammer.
Taliesin: Okay, so it's taking damage, too. That's good. Maybe.
Marisha: They have to be spells.
Travis: There was fire damage.
Matt: Yeah. It seems that the radiant damage from the Spirit Guardian spell you're doing has been doing the bulk of damage to them while they're inside the form. Most everything else is going straight to the individual.
Travis: Oh shit!
Sam: Oh shit!
Sam: We've just been killing our friends for no reason?
Laura: Good times.
Travis: Let's pass our--
Sam: Hold our wrath.
Matt: Percy. You have three more shots with this gun, two of which are magical.
Taliesin: I do.
Matt: So you pull up the gun, you take a step back.
Taliesin: Does he get an attack of opportunity?
Matt: You do. Attack of opportunity against Percy, if you want to take it.
Marisha: Come on, take him down.
Laura: Oh no!
Travis: That's a natural 20.
Taliesin: Yes!
Matt: Roll damage.
Travis: That's actually the first time I've critted on this show.
Matt: You get additional dice.
Travis: It does additional damage.
Matt: It's the first time you've critically hit on this show?
Travis: I think so, because I've never doubled my dice.
Matt: That's absurd.
Travis: I know. 14.
Taliesin: 14? I'm already out.
Matt: Roll damage. I want to know what it is.
Taliesin: Yeah, go ahead, but I'm out.
Travis: 18, so-- what was the first one? 18 and?
Marisha: You said 14.
Matt: Okay. You are out. Percy falls to the ground, unconscious. The spirit is jettisoned out the side. That ends your turn entirely. The ghost is going to shift over. It does not get its possession back.
Taliesin: It was just a crit. It wasn't hit twice.
Marisha: It wasn't when he was down.
Matt: Percy, I need you to make a death saving throw, by the way.
Taliesin: Yay!
Matt: Okay. The ghost gets pushed out of the body. With you on the ground and its possession not returned, it reaches down and strikes at you with its withering touch.
Taliesin: Oh, for the love of--
Marisha: With its withering touch?
Matt: You take two death saving throw losses.
Taliesin: Whoa!
Laura: He rolled a crit?
Matt: It's an auto-crit because he's unconscious.
Laura: Oh, jeez Louise!
Marisha: But you passed your first one.
Taliesin: I passed my first one.
Marisha: So you have two failures on you?
Taliesin: I have two failures and one success. So guys? Heal me. Heal me now.
Matt: Vax, you're up.
Liam: I start sprinting around that open hallway near Cassandra. I stop by Cassandra and dagger, dagger, dagger.
Matt: Do it.
Liam: First one is 30. Second one is 15. Third is 28.
Matt: All three hit.
Liam: They all hit? Good. Ten plus seven is 17. 27 total.
Matt: 27 damage, total?
Liam: All magic.
Matt: All righty, so all daggers strike through its form. You see it tearing through its ethereal physicality, but it's still holding its form together. It looks damaged, but it's still holding its form on this plane. Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: I vault over Keyleth--
Liam: Wait. I ran 20 feet? 30 feet?
Matt: You were here, so 35.
Liam: 35? Can I run the "west" of the way--
Laura: The "west" of the way?
Liam: The "west" of the way through it in front of Percy. Yeah.
Matt: There? You can, yeah.
Liam: That's what I want to do.
Matt: All right. Scanlan?
Sam: I vault over Keyleth's body, using the right part of a buttcheek to launch off. Grab a little feel as I go.
Matt: Creepy gnome.
Sam: I try to get within 15 feet of the thing.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: And as my first thing, I will Healing Word Mr. Taliesin Jaffe. Percival de Rolo de Monico de Chico...
Taliesin: (sings) It's delightful, it's de-lovely.
Sam: Just at normal level, so that's nine points.
Taliesin: Thank you!
Matt: Your death saving throws are fine.
Taliesin: Nine. Nine points! Ah-ah-ah.
Sam: Jesus. I don't want to burn another fucking thing on this guy.
Taliesin: Your aura thingy with 15 feet should do it.
Sam: I know, but that's when he moves, not when I move, so I will mock him! I will say, you're not even corporeal. You have no substance. You're a nothing. You're a nobody! You won't amount to nothing in this world! (laughter)
Matt: Okay.
Travis: (laughing) You're a nothing. You're a nobody!
Matt: What's the DC on that?
Sam: 19.
Matt: It fails its save. Roll 3d4.
Marisha: Kill it, Scanlan. Kill it.
Sam: Six.
Matt: (laughing) How do you want to do this? (cheers and laughter)
Travis: A mocking kill!
Sam: (giggles) I would like it to cry. That's all.
Matt: (laughs) As you're shouting this, you can see its ghostly form. Its face suddenly shifts into the face of a person.
Sam: You were nothing in life, and now you're nothing in death!
Matt: It recalls its memories. You can see its physical form become that of a young adult wearing robes that hold the symbol of the de Rolo crest. You see it look at its hands, and you see it look at you and look at Percy on the ground, unconscious, and it moans out in horror as it suddenly dissipates.
Sam: I'm sorry, I didn't mean it!
Taliesin: Which one of my ancestors did you just shame to death? Again?
Sam: The one who possessed you!
Taliesin: Okay, fair.
Marisha: Again! (laughs)
Taliesin: You're going to say it, aren't you?
Liam: I double back to Keyleth and start trying to administer some sort of aid.
Marisha: Hi, I'm dead.
Liam: Medicine check? Is that it?
Matt: You can make a medicine check to try to stabilize her, yeah.
Liam: 18.
Matt: 18, yeah. You stabilize the bleeding. She's no longer making death saving throws. She is still unconscious. You all reconvene. Take a breath.
Sam: Wait, is Keyleth alive?
Marisha: Nope.
Sam: Oh Jesus! Keyleth, I'm sorry.
Marisha: I'm stabilized.
Liam: She needs help. Scanlan, come here.
Taliesin: Let's pull ourselves together.
Sam: I will sing a song of rest, which will give us 1d8 for everybody.
Matt: For hit dice spent, or just for the rest?
Sam: I don't know. It just says 1d8. It's my song of rest.
Matt: Song of rest.
Travis: I've got a lot of health potions.
Marisha: You do?
Travis: Yeah.
Marisha: That's good.
Taliesin: I've got three.
Travis: Would you like one?
Taliesin: Probably.
Laura: What if we take a short rest?
Matt: At the end of the short rest, everyone gains an additional 1d8. It's nice. Doesn't hurt.
Marisha: I come to consciousness by Scanlan's singing?
Sam: (singing) You're down with more HP. Yeah, you know me!
Taliesin: That's nice.
Marisha: What?
Travis: Hit dice?
Laura: Yeah, we can roll some hit dice.
Matt: You guys take a short rest here to roll some hit dice.
Marisha: (groans) Wait, how much did you heal us, Scanlan?
Sam: Just one extra d8. Do I roll that, or do they?
Matt: Everyone rolls it on their own. It's fine.
Sam: Holy ba-Jesus, guys.
Laura: That was insane.
Sam: Can we never do that again?
Laura: Well, we're about to, I think.
Liam: Who feels like making camp?
Sam: Making camp?
Liam: Yes.
Sam: We're in a tomb with ghosts. We have to continue on.
Liam: I'm exhausted.
Taliesin: We'll heal, but I think we need to continue down.
Laura: We need to keep going.
Matt: Cassandra looks about the rest of you, still seeing a group of herself and her brothers. She shakes her head for a second. "We can rest a moment, but I don't think we can stay here much longer. The more time we spend here, the more chance they have of returning. If they get the jump on us, we're done."
Travis: Let's go.
Laura: We need to press on.
Sam: Yeah, aye.
Marisha: Yeah.
Sam: Let's continue.
Travis: Yeah.
Sam: Into the tunnel. Into the dark.
Matt: She sheathes her sword and her dagger. (sighs) "Let's do this." As you all climb into the beginning of the excavation tunnel leading to the south, slowly making your way towards--
Sam: Wait! Sorry. Percival, any point in looting?
Taliesin: Don't loot my family's crypt!
Sam: Sorry! Forget I mentioned it. Let's go kick some ass.
Matt: Making your way towards the tunnels beneath the city of Whitestone, towards whatever this ziggurat construction project has been, we will pick this up the week after Thanksgiving.
Laura: Oh man! We're taking a whole week off from this.
Matt: Yeah. We went a little late tonight to try and give a little extra since we're not going to be here next week, but that's it for the evening.
Marisha: We almost got our ass kicked by ghosts!
Sam: No, by each other.
Laura: We really need a cleric.
Matt: There were some really bad-- everyone rolled poorly on those saving throws. That sucked. Oh, yes!
Laura: Oh, man. Right. Giveaways.
Zac: We've got to do a giveaway, so I am opening the floodgates.
Taliesin: Welcome, all!
Laura: The whole time.
Taliesin: This is Twitch. Holy cow.
Marisha: I might need to burn a Cure Wounds or something.
Taliesin: I'm not at a hundred, but I'm okay.
Marisha: I burned almost all of my hit dice to bring me back up.
Taliesin: Ashley is getting home right now, in case we need her.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: We're good.
Travis: Are we?
Taliesin: Can she come in for 30 seconds and heal us?
Matt: (laughs) It doesn't work that way.
Taliesin: I know.
Marisha: Guys, I got a little bit of a connection! And gone. That's all.
Zac: We also got up to $6,000 total so far, raised.
Laura: Oh wow, that's great!
Matt: Incredible!
Zac: So we will continue that throughout the weekend, all the way up to Monday.
Matt: Thank you all so much for helping out.
Taliesin: Holy cow.
Matt: You're helping a lot of wonderful people do a lot of amazing things in places that need it.
Zac: So the floodgates are open. We're going to let that build up for a little bit and then do the giveaway.
Matt: Oh! Chat room explode!
Zac: Oh shoot, that's true. The next episode is Critmas, as well, isn't it?
Laura: No.
Taliesin: No.
Zac: Is there not? There's one before it?
Laura: No, there's another one before.
Zac: Are you sure?
Taliesin: No.
Marisha: No, we're doing the Christmas Critmas a little bit earlier, so we're going to do the next one before we go on Christmas break, right?
Matt: No, the 3rd is the next Critmas. Because the 17th, our last show, is also the opening night of the new Star Wars movie, we can't go late that night because everyone's going to be gone.
Laura: Oh. So yeah, we can't do Critmas next week.
Zac: Next week's Thanksgiving.
Laura: I mean, on the 3rd.
Zac: And we've already told everyone the first week of the month is--
Sam: So the Christmas Critmas is going to be the 3rd.
Matt: It's going to be the 3rd.
Laura: December 3rd?
Zac: Yes.
Taliesin: Yeah, that will be the Crit--
Zac: Math is hard, guys.
Matt: Welcome to our late-night meetings. (all laugh)
Zac: All right, pull in a winner.
Matt: We've got a winner coming in.
Laura: Can't we just do it the second week? It's going to be a long episode. We'll have to cut it super short.
Marisha: That's what I was thinking. Can we move it to the second week?
Taliesin: Move it to the 10th.
Marisha: Christmas Critmas is going to be the 10th.
Zac: Before we officially say that, let me check the schedule, because we've already told everyone the first week, so before we say that officially, let me check the schedule and make sure that's okay.
Laura: It's going to be really hard to do it on the 3rd.
Zac: Okay.
Taliesin: I'm literally leaving the studio on the 17th for a road trip.
Zac: IEShoemaker is the winner.
Matt: IEShoemaker, congratulations!
Zac: We're sending you a message right now. Send back with your address and we'll send you all sorts of great shit. Tune in tomorrow, guys, for Group Hug. Hector's bringing a couple of comedian friends of his, and they are playing all of the Jessica Jones Alias characters tomorrow, and nobody wanted to play Purple Man.
Matt: Understandably so.
Taliesin: Creepiest character in the Marvel universe.
Zac: How do we do this?
Taliesin: He is the creepiest creep.
Zac: Whoever plays him has to know you're going to get your ass kicked.
Matt: That's Tennant, right?
Taliesin: That's Tennant. That's also who I dressed up as at the superhero party. I painted myself purple.
Zac: You did Purple Man? Why would you do that?!
Taliesin: There's an amazing photo of a friend of ours dressed as Luke Cage, just beating the shit out of me. It's amazing.
Zac: Well, that's good.
Marisha: He also sang Gogol Bordello's--
Marisha: "Start Wearing Purple."
Taliesin: "Start Wearing Purple."
Matt: It was good.
Taliesin: It was creepy.
Matt: I'm just excited to see all the Doctor Who Tennant fans watch the series for Tennant and then be like, "Oh no, no, no!"
Zac: Yeah. Sorry, guys. No bueno.
Taliesin: It's just going to be bad.
Zac: Sweet. That's it for tonight, guys.
Matt: Thank you guys so much.
Marisha: See you in two weeks!
Matt: For the next episode. See you guys in two weeks.
Taliesin: Happy Thanksgiving!
Marisha: There will still be a new comic next week to hold you guys over. And playlists. Guess whose playlist is next.
Travis: Oh, is it mine?
Marisha: You're the last one, right?
Travis: Oh, I'm the Thanksgiving playlist.
Sam: Does the DM get a playlist?
Matt: I get one.
Marisha: He does, but he'll go last. Because you always go last.
Matt: All right, guys. Thank you so much. Have a wonderful evening. We'll see you in a couple of weeks.
Marisha: Bye!
Sam: Happy Thanksgiving.
Taliesin: Happy Thanksgiving!

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello, everyone, and welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play Dungeons & Dragons. Hate you, Liam. (laughter)
Travis: That was good! Really nice. Some good flavor on it.
Matt: You'll never know. So anyway! Welcome new folks. People who aren't new folks, welcome back. We have some announcements to get to real fast, then we'll jump into the actual story proper here. But, yeah! So, first and foremost, I wanted to give a big thanks and shout-out to Syrinscape, I mentioned them in last week's game, I put together my gaming playlists on their platform, and I'm going to be trying them out tonight to make sure everything works out cool, but their setup is fantastic and I'm really excited about being able to overlap audio, and things fade in and out. If you haven't checked it out, and you want to really amp up your tabletop gaming, it's phenomenal. But they're not paying for this, I'm really excited about it. So that's that, Syrinscape's awesome. Marisha, you want to talk about Signal Boost?
Marisha: Yeah! The first epil-- episode.
Laura: Epilsode!
Marisha: The first epil, of--
Taliesin: Epilay!
Marisha: Epil, epilay, epilogue. The first episode of Signal Boost went live on Tuesday. Go check it out on GeekandSundry.com. Go watch it, it's good fun. And you should go watch it so we don't get cancelled, and we'll keep making more episodes.
Liam: Is that how it works?
Marisha: Apparently!
Matt: Yeah, it's the weirdest thing.
Marisha: It's crazy.
Laura: They care about that?
Marisha: Yeah. And I talk about Rat Queens, in it, and--
Laura: Yes! I saw! It's so good, Marisha. It's really funny.
Taliesin: It's like ten minutes of your-- you have more minutes than two minutes, spend a couple of minutes.
Marisha: And I tell you about cool things that I like. That I picked out myself. My favorite things. Done.
Matt: Watch it. It's good. All right. Next thing I wanted to announce for you guys, tonight's donations, and all donations for the week, are going to be going, as opposed to 826 overall, are going to go to 826Seattle specifically, to Fearless Ideas, is what it's called there, their section up there, you can go to FearlessIdeas.org. This past week there was a terrible gas explosion in Seattle, you may have seen on the news, and it did a lot of damage to that vicinity, including Fearless Ideas, and they've had to cancel a bunch of their stuff, and they're trying to get things repaired and going. So all of our donations this evening will be going towards them and helping them get that effort taken care of. So think good thoughts and help out if you can. Let's see.
Travis: Love you, Seattle!
Marisha: Love you, Seattle!
Matt: 826. We've, next Friday, in Anaheim, at WonderCon, Friday night, we'll be doing a Critical Role panel, from 7:00 to 8:00pm, in Room 515A.
Laura: Wait, are we supposed to be at that?
Matt: Next Friday. Next Friday. But most of us will be there for that panel. We'll be doing a Q&A, answering questions, talking about the show, for all the folks that are local or coming to that convention in the Anaheim area of southern California. So, look forward to seeing you there, next Friday.
Laura: Yes, that's when we-- I can't say. I'll talk to you guys afterwards.
Matt: (laughs) Okay. We'll go over that. Mystery-- secret, I like it.
Laura: Secret, secret.
Matt: Wanted to give another shout-out to Dwarven Forge again, I mentioned them last week. You got to get a glimpse of some of the map stuff they gave us here at Critical Role to help improve our battle mats and scenarios on occasion. Their new Castle Builder Kickstarter is phenomenal, and if you're looking to do big structures and cool castle-based ramparts and parapets and everything, go check it out, it might be right up your alley.
Travis: So pretty.
Matt: So pretty. It's so pretty. Also, Laura, if you want to announce, we have some new merch up in the store!
Laura: Go check GeekandSundry.com, go to their store, right now, because they're up, and it's so awesome, and I can't wait for you guys to see, we have a Gilmore's Glorious Goods t-shirt. (cheering)
Laura: And I've been so excited about this shirt coming out, I can't wait to wear it, why aren't we wearing it right now?
Matt: (Gilmore voice) "Don't worry. Trust me, it's a fabulous shirt. Some would even say it's quite glorious."
Travis: Oh my god, oh my god.
Laura: As well as the Gilmore's Glorious Goods t-shirts, we also have exclusive Critical Role d20 rings, spinny rings. Those are limited, so if you get them, then snag them fast, because they're going to be gone.
Travis: We get one of those before they disappear, right?
Laura: I think they said they were going to set us aside some, they'd better.
Travis: They are. They're bitchin'. You spin it, the 20 is the Critical Role logo.
Laura: Why don't we have them right now?! At intermission, maybe we can grab them at intermission.
Travis: They're sick.
Matt: For those who don't know what those are, the d20 spin rings, or spin rings in general, they're actually two separate moving pieces with ball bearings on the inside, and you have all numbers one through 20 on the actual ring, and you can spin it with your finger, and it acts like a die roll!
Laura: And the d20, when you crit succeed, it's a Critical Role logo. Just putting that out there.
Travis: You can do all your life decisions based off a ring.
Matt: What could possibly go wrong?
Liam: You still can die from them, though, just to be clear.
Taliesin: Roll a one.
Marisha: And we are not held responsible if that happens.
Travis: You go straight to Craven Edge.
Liam: It's appropriately called a "die."
Laura: Whatever.
Matt: Liam!
Liam: Yeah?
Matt: You wanted to--
Liam: Sure, I could talk about a couple of things. Hey, a quick shout-out for our neighbor, Ivan van Norman's Kickstarter, The ABCs of RPGs, has three days left. I backed it immediately, because I like D&D and I have kids, and you put those two things together and good things happen. So that's good, three days left. Also, hey, if you like to put your dice in boxes, I tell you what. Wyrmwood Gaming make beautiful boxes, and if you go over to their site and you use the code critrole.
All: Crit. Role.
Liam: There it is. You get free shipping, they're beautiful, they have all different kinds of woods to put your dice inside. Is there anything else? Oh, yeah! Oh, okay. Yeah, hey, some of us, not all of us, are going to be going up to San Fran later this month to make appearances on GameSpot's show The Lobby for a couple of segments, and then, also then hopping over to hang with the guys at Kinda Funny to play D&D.
Laura: Those guys are stupid.
Matt: Which, a few of us will be running a quick little one-shot game I'll be running with the aid of one of their local gentlemen. And it should be a ridiculously ridiculous time! And it'll be a lot of fun.
Liam: And I'm curious to see, because there's going to be two DMs, in sort of a Batman and Robin-type relationship kind of thing?
Matt: Oh yeah. We got plans. I've co-DM'd before, it can be very interesting. And very chaotic. I'm excited.
Travis: Going to kill everybody.
Matt: Probably.
Laura: This has nothing to do with announcements, but I want to only roll green dice tonight. For Saint Patrick's Day.
Marisha: That's a good idea, I've got a set of green dice. I'll get them out. Sure.
Travis: That's stupid. I have gray-ass dice and a blue one.
Marisha: Got to get them all out.
Matt: This is technically light green, guys, by the way, just so you're aware. Cool. Just making sure we're all cool on that.
Travis: Plus the underwear you're wearing.
Matt: Shh, that's just for you.
Liam: Travis and I are wearing green snake shirts, because (Irish accent) Saint Patrick drove the snakes out of Ireland, into Burbank.
Matt: Drove the Slytherin from Ireland. He got rid of them all.
Travis: Yeah. I took the Floo network.
Marisha: And I got this in Ireland, so it counts.
Laura: It kind of counts, Marisha.
Marisha: It counts.
Liam: (Irish accent) It's fucking Irish wool!
Marisha: And this is green.
Travis: Yeah, made from real Irish cats.
Matt: They are the best, aren't they? Last but not least, unless anyone else has any other announcements to make, anything else?
Taliesin: Oh! I got a quick one, Book of Murder came out today, so you can hear me do a very weird accent, it's great. So. Yes. Very weird accent.
Matt: And last, next week, we'll have a special guest joining us for an episode, a new guest, the intrepid Nerdist himself, Chris Hardwick, will be coming in for a game next week. (cheering)
Matt: Oh, I'm excited! We made his character this past Monday, and it should be a lot of fun. He's actually fun to game with. We've played D&D a couple times, and he'll be a good addition to the team for his brief stop by. So next week, come check him out on our show!
Travis: Uh-oh, what does that mean?
Matt: So thanks for coming, Chris. I don't know, it'll be fun.
Taliesin: Cleric, is what it means.
Matt: Hoping every guest is a cleric. Just in case.
Travis: Save us! From ourselves.
Matt: All right, then. Without further ado, unless you guys have anything else, we'll go ahead and hop into a quick synopsis of where we are in Critical Role.
Liam: Shit. Help. Help. Help. Help.
Matt: Sam will be here shortly, guys, don't freak out. He's dealing with children and traffic.
Taliesin: Not at the same time.
Marisha: Damn it, you beat me to it. I was going to say those two aren't mutually exclusive. Children and traffic.
Matt: So. Where we left off. The party of Vox Machina, having to deal with the current terrible danger of the Chroma Conclave, a collection of very dangerous dragons that have torn through the entire Tal'Dorei countryside, have then gone on this quest to collect allies, and find these items called the Vestiges of Divergence, these artifacts of ancient wars that carry great power and seem to be the best way you could prepare yourselves for going up against these terrifyingly powerful entities. In searching for this, you went and made your way to Vasselheim, where you reacquired and reestablished friendships with Zahra and Kashaw, two allies from previous instalments of our wondrous adventure, as well as getting Lady Kima on loan from the Platinum Sanctuary of Bahamut, and you all went to seek the first bit of information you discovered about one of these vestiges, not too far from Vasselheim. The champion of the Raven Queen's armor that had been entombed within this temple that had sunken beneath a lake. After traveling to this lake, finding your way through this subterranean, watery location, you found the location of the tomb, upon which, a series of fish creatures, called kuo-toa, had seemingly been worshiping another denizen of this temple, a rather strange slime-covered beholder, that then surprised the party. The battle hard-fought, you came out victorious, and upon going to retrieve your spoils, a trap was set off in the tomb, dodged by one, survived by a bear, and claimed the life of our beloved Vex'ahlia. After a resurrection ritual attempted by Kashaw, the party helping, they were successful in bringing her soul back from the other side, restoring her to life, and the party then, figuring out what their next step in their journey was, took their new allies, via Keyleth's Teleportation via Plants spell, back to Whitestone, which seems to be building as this defensive bastion, this currently not on the radar of the Conclave location that needs defenses, and a good place to keep your allies at the time. And that was where we left off, as you guys had just stepped back into Whitestone.
Laura: We haven't actually slept yet, then.
Matt: Nope!
Laura: It's late.
Marisha: What time is it here?
Matt: I'd say through the evening's travels-- Well, you guys slept all night the night before you went to the temple, the temple's probably been--
Marisha: That's true, we did sleep, actually, we camped out.
Laura: We did?
Marisha: Remember? You talked to Zahra, and I talked to Kash? Then we slept.
Matt: Yeah, you guys did camp out.
Laura: Oh. I didn't know if we camped, I thought we talked.
Matt: You talked.
Marisha: We at least chilled. I don't know.
Matt: Regardless. You found your way to Whitestone. We'll say for the sake of the current setting, you've come in in a rather overcast mid-afternoon in Whitestone, you may have spent some time there gathering yourselves as your allies scope out their new surroundings, the people of Whitestone accepting you as you arrive, you can always see people walking by and catching a glance at the group of heroes known as Vox Machina that helped liberate them from the oppressive Briarwoods not long ago.
Taliesin: Keep crawling out of trees.
Marisha: It's always weird. Not crawling out of trees, that people like us.
Travis: Should we inspect our spoils?
Taliesin: I was going to say, we should take the armor and the necklace to the castle and have it inspected.
Laura: Is Lady Allura here?
Matt: Kima, who is with you, is like, "Is she?"
Laura: No. Well, she was on her way to Westruun, and we haven't heard from her yet.
Taliesin: No.
Matt: "Haven't heard from her since-- You say Westruun was under attack as well?"
Laura: Yes, but she knew it. She was going in secret.
Matt: "That prideful woman." She slings her hammer off her shoulder and slams it to the ground and says, "Well. If she doesn't arrive in the next few hours, I'm going to gather a party and we're going to go to Westruun and find her."
Travis: Yeah!
Marisha: Kima-- Wait, what? Why?
Laura: Wait, there's a dragon there, Kima, a very large one, and she was being very, very stealthy--
Matt: Her hammer slams into her metallic armor, and she goes, "I've a much bigger dragon backing me up." And she looks up to the sky for a second and grins.
Travis: Lady Kima don't give a fuck.
Laura: We'll wait, Kima.
Matt: (frustrated sigh)
Laura: Going in loud will only cause more trouble.
Matt: "I'll wait a few days."
Laura: She should be here by then.
Marisha: I can always attempt to scry, and see if I can check in on her.
Matt: "Okay. Not a bad idea."
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: "Okay. I need a drink."
Marisha: Let's get somewhere safe.
Matt: She charges off, looking for the nearest tavern.
Marisha: Here, I guess. I don't know. I forget it's not overrun by vampires, I'm sorry. Sorry, I forgot; it's all right now.
Laura: Maybe somewhere safe, like right here--
Marisha: Like right here, sorry, there's a lot going on.
Matt: Zahra and Kashaw looking around expectantly as you continue this conversation. Kash crosses his arms, goes, "Great place. There's a lot of white." Of which Zahra comes and steps over and is like, "Don't worry, darling. (laughter) So, sleeping arrangements, I hope?"
Laura: Yes, the castle.
Taliesin: We'll be putting you up in the castle.
Matt: "That's what I like to hear. All right. To the castle, Kash?" "Sure. It's better than, well, it's better than anything. Let's go for the castle." And they both make their way towards Whitestone Castle, to find a comfortable place to get themselves situated in their new surroundings.
Laura: So we're healed up, we are healed, we are not running the risk of dying at any moment, because we've been healed.
Matt: What is that? What is that blur of green?
Travis: It's a fucking leprechaun, get it!
Sam: Sorry, sorry, sorry.
Liam: You should be.
Marisha: Your shirt, is that new? Because I love it so much.
Sam: Thanks! But I'm also wearing a tie because it's a special night.
Laura: Right. It's a special occasion.
Sam: (sighs) So, is Allura dead? (laughter)
Travis: Kima just left, so--
Laura: She's on her way to a tavern. Kima's drinking it up. Grog! Kima's drinking it up.
Marisha: Are we heading to a tavern?
Taliesin: We're heading to the castle. We're going to talk to friends, we're going to take a look at--
Travis: Corpse armor, hello.
Marisha: Oh, corpse armor.
Travis: Yeah. You know, the thing that almost killed our friend over here?
Laura: It did kill me. According to you.
Taliesin: It-- yes.
Travis: Yeah, but, I mean, you're here, so you didn't die. But you did. But you didn't. But you did. And then you didn't.
Laura: Thanks, Grog.
Travis: Yep.
Matt: All right, so. You guys all heading to the castle?
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: You head to the castle. Cassandra isn't there at the moment, but Keeper Yennen is currently there with a few other members of the makeshift council you guys put together towards the end. One of the heads of the entire farming establishment here in Whitestone is with them, and they're having a conversation. As Zahra and Kashaw burst in first, he's like, "I'm sorry, we're not currently taking visitors, could you-- Oh. Friends of yours, I presume?"
Taliesin: Good friends.
Laura: Helpers, actually. They're going to be here for a while. Hopefully.
Matt: "Gracious. Oh, I see you yourself carry the vestments of a man of the cloth. Who brings your power this day?" Kashaw gives him a look and goes, "You don't even want to know, buddy." Walks past him.
Taliesin: That was a really good Kashaw.
Matt: "Very well! I assume they're staying here as well."
Taliesin: Yes. We appreciate it greatly.
Matt: "They'll be taken care of, Percival."
Taliesin: They will be well worth your time. We also have something that needs a bit of study. We found something. We found two objects of power that we think may help us turn the table against the dragons.
Laura: Two objects?
Matt: "This is good news."
Taliesin: Two objects.
Laura: What was the second?
Taliesin: There was a necklace.
Laura: There was?
Taliesin: There was.
Sam: You were dead.
Laura: Oh. I must have missed it because I was dead. That's right.
Matt: "Dead?!"
Taliesin: It's been a very long day.
Sam: Mostly dead.
Marisha: Be very careful when handling this armor, is what we're trying to say.
Travis: Or don't handle it, and we'll take care of it.
Matt: "So, the armor is what killed you?"
Laura: No, actually, a trap that Percival set off is what killed me.
Taliesin: Yes, the--
Liam: What?
Taliesin: -- trap was a bit-- it was a bit, ah-- there was a trap. And it was well-protected.
Liam: What?
Laura: What, what, what? What?
Taliesin: Yes, what.
Laura: What?
Travis: (mutters) He didn't know that.
Laura: What? So these Vestiges.
Matt: "Vestiges."
Laura: These leathers, these things.
Matt: "Um--" And he puts a couple of small, armored, like, studded-leather gloves on and has to carefully reach out for the vestments as you hand them. And he grabs them. "Give me a bit of time with them, perhaps, I need to clarify what this enchantment may be. Do you mind staying around, just in case?"
Taliesin: Not at all.
Matt: "Don't feel strange that I don't trust this, but, based on your history with it, I would like a little backup." So, he carries you off down the far hallway, you didn't get this far into Whitestone when you initially came through, but towards the back there was a small study area converted into a research establishment largely set up for the ziggurat beneath the city. He clears off an area of the table and sets this down. And he takes some time working with the vestments before he eventually, and it's this awkward quiet of hearing him mutter to himself and bring out a symbol and bring over a minor enchantment to reveal information, that tearing into the divinity, the divine magic that is granted to him, before he says, "This carries the mark of the Raven Queen, a very strong mark. I've not seen power like this in but an object."
Laura: It was worn by one of her champions. The great Purvan.
Matt: "That's a strange name."
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: "Regardless, it appears that this armor does help fortify one's defenses from any sort of physical damage, as well as give you a chance of surviving even the most dangerous of near-death experiences. It also grants a fluid resistance to the elements. Here." And he hands it over, and-- who would like to take this? Item card to--
Travis: Well, you died for it, you--
Laura: I think I like it, but I'll just look at it.
Marisha: It's leather?
Laura: It's leather.
Matt: So, to give you the specifics on it, it's plus two to AC. Magical on top of the studded leather armor. Plus two enchantment, beyond just the studded leather armor. It does give you advantage on death saving throws.
Sam: You'll need that.
Matt: As it is called the Deathwalker's Ward, and once per short rest, you can set it to be resistant to one of the five types of damage.
Laura: You choose which one.
Matt: You choose. You can change it. You can leave it all on one, but if you want to change it during a short rest, you can shift it from fire or cold, or lightning--
Travis: Acid, or necrotic.
Sam: You're, like, indestructible now!
Marisha: Do you have fancy leather armor right now? What does your armor do right now? Anything?
Liam: It's acid-resistant.
Laura: My armor's acid-resistant, I sort of stole it from my brother. Do you want your acid-resistant armor back, then?
Liam: Whatever you want, Vex'ahlia.
Laura: He's in such a sour mood lately.
Travis: Well, yeah. Well, what about the necklace?
Matt: "The necklace as well?"
Taliesin: I hand it over.
Matt: He takes it, and he goes, "Well, the chain on this necklace is not actually part of the enchantment, it's merely to hold the crystal itself. The crystal is the item of particular interest here, this-- oh, wait a minute." He takes it and he scans over the table and pulls up a jeweler's eyepiece and inspects it closely. "There's something inside this gem."
Travis: Uh-oh.
Marisha: (groans) Not again.
Laura: What is it?
Marisha: Why do things like living in gems? It can't be comfortable.
Travis: It might be a worm.
Laura: It's like tequila.
Matt: "I can't actually ascertain the nature of whatever being is encased within this, but--"
Laura: There's a being, it's a being?
Marisha: Encased.
Laura: Is it a soul gem?
Marisha: Like something put it in there.
Matt: He takes a moment and concentrates on his holy symbol of Pelor, and you can see as he puts aside the eyepiece, his eyes glaze over with a grayish, frosted white color, at which point he inspects the gem very closely, and there's this slight vibration in the air around him. As soon as it fades about a minute later, he pulls back and goes, "This is referred to as the Raven's Slumber. It's actually a small gateway to a tiny pocket-plane."
Sam: A pocket-plane?
Marisha: Ooh.
Matt: "It can contain one creature. You have to contact whatever it was, and it can't be too big, but it can essentially contain something indefinitely within this."
Laura: But something's already in there?
Matt: "Something is already in this."
Travis: Awesome.
Sam: Something that we can summon?
Marisha: Any way we can find out what it possibly is before we summon it?
Matt: "Unfortunately, I do not have that capability."
Laura: It was buried with--
Sam: I'll take that.
Laura: Oh, that's really smart to give to Scanlan.
Travis: Well, like, you said "not too big" though, right?
Matt: "The confines of the space, at least, as part of the enchantment, seem rather small. A bit larger than you, maybe, but not much more than that."
Travis: Right, right, okay.
Matt: "Here."
Travis: Please.
Marisha: Well, does it change size?
Laura: This is maybe the worst thing that Scanlan's ever held outside of that gun that you had, Percy.
Travis: What are you talking about? Can we take it in the woods, open it up, and if it sucks we kill it, and if not, we've got a new pet.
Marisha: We don't even know how to open it up! Do we know how to open it up?
Travis: Oh, we will find a way.
Laura: It was buried with the Raven Queen's champion, I mean, it could be incredibly dangerous. Or it could be incredibly good, and he trapped it, and they're bad, right?
Liam: The same could be said about your new pajamas.
Laura: They are so beautiful. I do like feathers.
Travis: What do they smell like?
Laura: (sniffs) Like (sniffs) must and mold. And birds, really.
Travis: (laughing) And birds? Eesh.
Matt: "So, is that all you require of me?"
Travis: I require Percy to tell us what the fuck's up with the necklace he's reading about.
Taliesin: Just what he said.
Laura: Yeah, he already told us about it.
Sam: Once we release whatever is inside of it, we can use this necklace as a weapon, to--
Taliesin: It's a cage.
Sam: To trap people.
Marisha: Hang on, okay. Let's think about this. What do we remember from the great Purvan's story?
Laura: Well, let me look at my book?
Marisha: What did he fight?
Sam: I just remember that Purvan's story touched me. Touched me in inappropriate ways.
Travis: (laughing) No, no, no.
Laura: You know what I like about this particular piece of paper is that you made it on cardstock so it's extra special instead of the regular paper.
Matt: It's legendary.
Taliesin: Legendary cardstock.
Marisha: Can we get purple cardstock up in here?
Laura: I'm talking to Matt, bitches. Okay. I forgot what I was going to say-- Oh, my book! My 30-gold book! Does it say anything about what Purvan fought?
Matt: All right! You read through. There were many, many things throughout the war that were fought: entities from the Nine Hells, there was a faction of the Abyss that came in as a third bit of evil in this whole conflict; and while not in alliance against the other forces of chaos, there were many forces of chaos lashing out at what was nearby. So the Champion's-- there was no specific entity that was his chosen, or at least, what you can ascertain to be a specific being of hatred, although it does speak of Purvan, the Champion of the Raven Queen, keeping with him an ally.
Laura: Like Trinket.
Matt: It doesn't say the nature of the ally, it just says the dangerous and respected Galdric.
Laura: (gasps) Galdric.
Taliesin: Well, there are some options here.
Laura: What?
Taliesin: No, that won't work, damn it.
Travis: Well, say it, come on.
Taliesin: Well, I was thinking we could find a safe place, surround it, let it out, and if it's dangerous, take care of it. We could even take it down into the pits beneath the castle so that if it's a magical creature, it would be harmless. Except I don't know if we could actually release it down there. I don't know--
Laura: Yeah, what if it touches the thing, and it--
Sam: There's also magic resistance down there.
Taliesin: Yeah, which means it wouldn't work in the first place.
Marisha: What if he's friendly? I mean, he talks about being an ally.
Taliesin: It might be an ally.
Marisha: Well then, wouldn't we want to save it?
Laura: An ally of Purvan! An ally of Purvan's!
Taliesin: Yes.
Laura: Is Purvan a good guy?
Taliesin: Yes.
Laura: I thought the Raven Queen was not good!
Taliesin: No, the Raven Queen--
Marisha: She's like-- neutral.
Taliesin: Can I make a roll for this?
Matt: Make a religion check.
Taliesin: Okay, thank you. Nope, nope, it's St. Patty's Day.
Travis: Don't kill anybody.
Laura: Yeah, with these green dice.
Taliesin: Religion or history?
Matt: Religion.
Travis: Religion.
Taliesin: 11.
Matt: 11. The general essence of the Raven Queen she is both loved and feared in equal parts. She does not lord over the afterlife, the underworld, whatever you may call it-- she lords over the moment and the transition of death, which is largely considered neither a good nor evil, just a natural force. It could be accepted either way. Many men fear it, and fear her for that reason, and there are those that instead embrace it as the inevitable. As to the true nature of her intent, no one really knows. It's part of her mystique.
Travis: So, like, even if we let out the glorious Ball-lick or whatever his name is, like, if he's bad, we can't really put him back in, right?
Taliesin: No, we actually can. Actually, we can put him back in.
Travis: What, we touch him with it and he goes back in?
Sam: Correct.
Matt: After a saving throw.
Marisha: Maybe we should save him and release him when he'll be valuable to us?
Taliesin: So would a trap. We could also trap other creatures--
Laura: It's like a Pok Ball! Right? It's like a Pokmon?
Taliesin: Yes, it's exactly like a Pok Ball.
Marisha: Who knows if he'll go back in willingly?
Taliesin: You don't have to go in willingly, that's sort of the point.
Matt: I guess you could technically use it that way, yeah.
Marisha: But wouldn't we rather be friendly with him than him be angry at us the next time we release him?
Taliesin: I'm more excited about the idea of carrying around an empty trap.
Marisha: But we could win both. But we could have a trap and a friend.
Liam: I think Percy is right that we should let it out now because it's a question mark, no matter what. Whatever, it's all theories. We don't know what we're getting into, and better that it pop out now, on its own, and not while we're facing a fucking beholder.
Laura: I think we should do it in the forest outside of Vasselheim.
Taliesin: Or the forest outside of Whitestone.
Sam: Vasselheim? We're here.
Marisha: Why don't we try and do a little bit more research on Galdric first?
Sam: That would be too careful.
Travis: Yeah, come on. Come on.
Sam: Vex! Just open it!
Liam: Percival. Are there any libraries here?
Taliesin: Not really, anymore.
Liam: What about a personal collection in your family?
Taliesin: Didn't they ravage most of our collection?
Matt: Elements have been ravaged. Elements of family history have been destroyed so that there couldn't be large connections, or the end of the bloodline itself being too prominently displayed within the castle itself. There is still a library there, though from your knowledge-- and you've read through most of those books growing up-- a lot of them are loose history books; a lot of them are more encyclopedia-like, general knowledge--
Taliesin: She wasn't a revered deity in this part of the world, we don't have a lot--
Laura: All right, yeah, let's do it. Woods!
Travis: Woods! Woods! Woods!
Taliesin: Woods, or Vasselheim, that's actually not a bad idea to get far away from Whitestone.
Travis: No, because then somebody else'll come along and kill it.
Sam: Plus they don't like magic.
Taliesin: This is sort of our secret, and we should perhaps keep this--
Laura: Okay.
Taliesin: Well, we were going to go take a look at--
Marisha: (muffled) What if--
Travis: You got shit in your mouth.
Marisha: We g-- mm, sorry. Little bit of saliva.
Liam: Goodberries?
Marisha: Snacks. We go to those goliath caves, right outside of Whitestone, that were abandoned.
Travis: Stone giant caves?
Marisha: Those!
Travis: Shit. Made me feel like I had to poop for a second, there. Goliath caves, fuck.
Marisha: Sorry! I just remembered you recognized them. They were empty, and abandoned, we could go there.
Travis: Yeah!
Laura: Is that close to your family?
Travis: Nope.
Marisha: No, we saw it on the way into Whitestone.
Taliesin: It's just a couple hours away, correct?
Laura: Oh.
Matt: It's, I'd say roughly three, three and a half hours northwest of here.
Laura: Let's do it!
Matt: Yeah, it's where the forest of the Alabaster Sierras ends and the actual Alabaster Sierra mountain range begins, is where that transitions.
Taliesin: We can take a day and do this.
Laura: All right, sure. Let's do it. All right. What do you think? Good idea? Good idea?
Liam: Sure, yes, yes, yes, Keyleth had a good idea, yes.
Matt: All right. So.
Laura: We're healed, yes?
Taliesin: Yes.
Marisha: We're healed, right? Did we sleep? Do we need to sleep?
Liam: I thought we rested before we went down under the water, though--
Laura: No, we did, we didn't rest since then.
Liam: I don't remember resting afterwards. And I was there.
Travis: I don't either. I remember I peed on a lake, and then we went under it.
Matt: Yeah, I think you guys decided instead of resting to come to rest here in Whitestone.
Laura: Yeah, we need to sleep, y'all!
Taliesin: Let's take a sleep, and we'll do it in the morning.
Travis: What time is it, about?
Matt: I'd say by now, with as much time as you spent in the temple, from waking up in the morning, it's getting four in the afternoon, five in the afternoon. The sun's starting to come down, so.
Laura: I'm going to cast Cure Wounds on myself.
Sam: Aren't we going to sleep?
Laura: But it's four in the afternoon! There's other things to do today.
Marisha: Like drink?
Laura: Like find out how Gilmore's doing and see Pike.
Marisha: And I should probably scry and check in on Allura, right?
Taliesin: I've got some work to do.
Matt: It's up to you guys. Yeah, and you're starting to push towards the bottom of your ammunition stack anyway, Percy.
Taliesin: I need to, yeah, to do a little-- and I've got a little thing I want to work on.
Matt: Cool. All right, so, who's doing what first?
Taliesin: I'm going to take Vax aside very quickly.
Travis: Let's do that first!
Taliesin: I had a careless moment, and I apologize. And you're the first apology I'm putting forward. I don't know if I would have done anything different, but I hope you know that I would've never forgiven myself.
Liam: What're you talking about?
Taliesin: I rushed in and triggered the trap that almost killed your sister.
Liam: That killed my sister.
Taliesin: I can't say that.
Liam: What do you mean?
Taliesin: I was careless.
Liam: Well, what happened, Percival?
Taliesin: I felt the danger had passed, and I moved too quickly, and opened the casket without thinking. That's all. I just didn't think.
Liam: You just opened it? Just like that?
Taliesin: I was tired, wasn't thinking. Sometimes we move too quickly. But I want you to know that it would've-- I'm very glad that she's alive, because I don't think I could have lived with myself.
Liam: All right. Could you do me a favor?
Taliesin: Yes.
Liam: In the future-- If there is anything that your little heart desires inside of a box-- In the future, could you check with my sister or myself first?
Taliesin: That's the hope, yes. That was more of a lesson than I was hoping for. Thankfully not too much of one.
Liam: Well--
Taliesin: And none of us are beyond mistakes, but... that is a mistake that I am going to be thinking about for a very long time. We are going into dangerous territory, and we all have to think a little bit more. And she especially, I-- I couldn't--
Liam: Well listen, Percy. We are not playing a game.
Taliesin: No.
Liam: And we will all make mistakes, and I wager I will make my fair share. I've little doubt. And Percival, I want to apologize. I'm sorry. But-- And I punch him in his know-it-all fucking mouth.
Matt: Do you attempt to move out of the way, or take it?
Taliesin: Yeah, let's take it.
Matt: All right. (impact sound) Decks you square in the-- for as hefty as a punch it was? Doesn't hurt quite as much as you expected. But it's not the physical pain that hurts, more than the action and the knowledge that there are more repercussions to your rash decision than even you initially anticipated.
Liam: Goodnight, Percival.
Taliesin: Goodnight, Vax.
Sam: It's four in the afternoon! (laughter)
Taliesin: I'm going to work. I'm going into my studio.
Matt: All right, who else wants to do something?
Marisha: Where'd Kima go?
Matt: Kima is actually-- she's begun day-drinking into the night! So yeah, she's currently by herself in one of the few functional taverns in Whitestone. It's fairly empty at the moment, especially at this hour as the sun slowly sets. She's not heavy drinking but she's definitely nursing a tankard and quietly contemplating as she sits at the edge of the bar with her hands around the tankard. She's staring at her reflection as she spins it slowly on the wood. You can hear it (scuffing) on the woodgrain.
Marisha: Anyone else want to go to the--
Laura: I'm going with you, yeah.
Matt: There's like a few other random patrons, but no one catches your eye. No one specifically.
Sam: I'll come, too. Well, actually, wait. Grog, what're you doing?
Travis: Nothing yet.
Sam: I'm with Grog.
Matt: Okay. So the two of you, into the tavern-- she doesn't notice you guys.
Marisha: I go up and put my hand on her shoulder.
Matt: "Keyleth!"
Marisha: Hey! How's it going?
Matt: "Better."
Marisha: Yeah.
Laura: I lean up against the bar, next to you guys.
Marisha: Want to check in on Allura?
Matt: "Let's do it."
Marisha: Is there an empty room around here?
Matt: She looks over to the barkeep. You all stare over and the barkeep is currently there like wiping down the bar section. "For how long?"
Laura: For a couple hours.
Marisha: Doesn't need to be that long.
Matt: "Two silver?"
Laura: We saved your life? And the entire town.
Matt: "You are fine to use it as you please for the remainder of the afternoon. Just don't mess it up, please."
Marisha: Sure. We'll try really hard to find better things to do with our time. Okay.
Matt: All right, you make your way up and the place is fairly vacant, there are a couple of rooms that are currently partially-- the doors are ajar and you hear voices in there, and you recognize it's a couple of the refugees that you guys brought over from your keep, currently holed up in this tavern. An inn floor on the second floor. But there are a number of open rooms right now that you could go ahead and step into for use.
Marisha: Just pick one.
Matt: Okay. So. Do you want to go ahead and attempt a Scry ritual?
Marisha: Yes!
Matt: Focusing on...?
Marisha: The flower that I gave her before we left.
Laura: Ooh, good call.
Matt: All right, so. As you all sit down, Kima sitting across from you, arms closed. She looks at you intensely with this really direct glare, waiting for some sort of sign of an answer or information. As you complete the ritual preparation of the scrying, your vision transcends your form, jettisoned through the ceiling and into the clouds. Clouds rush past, you can feel the wind pushing across your face, your hair, and as the clouds part you see, below, you see Westruun. And from Westruun you can see most of the city, as you recall, and a large portion of it currently looks toppled-over and pushed into ruin. There are no longer burning black clouds, but white smoke, long after a fire or some sort of an impact, lazily drifting off some of those ruins. It focuses even closer, and you see very little populace in the streets. Most everyone's either indoors or not visible at the moment. Your vision clicks in once again, and you can see currently some sort of dark room hidden in Westruun. You see, for a brief instant, a flicker of light, and you see Drake Thunderbrand and Allura both gathering a few small books under their arms, silently waiting, quietly. You hear (impact sounds) some heavy footfalls above. They both just stay quiet, stay quiet. Allura stays still for a moment. She looks over at Drake. They both take hands and then (whoosh) convert into that same energy form you saw that jettisoned out of Greyskull Keep, that echoes down a long hallway that you previously didn't see was attached to this room. It leads to a stone spiral staircase that goes upward before these two dual sparks travel through the small crack between where the edge of a trap door and a wooden floor is as the sparks course upward into the now-setting sun. You can see amongst the sparks the mostly collapsed rubble of the Cobalt Reserve, the large library in the center of Westruun. You can see dozens of corpses that have been largely dissolved. You can see what remnants of their bodies have been eaten away by some sort of caustic material, their arms and fingers tightened up as the muscles pull into this horrible, gnarled visage of what once were the living residents of Westruun. You do see, as the spark comes to a stop for a second in its movement, and you hear briefly overhead (wingbeats) and you see rush overhead, wings fully spread, the black dragon that you had briefly encountered in Emon streak upward, roaring loudly, towards Gatshadow, the tall, dark spire mountain just north of Westruun. (whoosh) And as it heads up there, the sparks (electric sound) continue their trek through the streets, and at that point the ritual fades, its vision unable to maintain its focus. Your vision is pulled back up into the clouds and then thrust back into your current position and with a shock you find yourself back in the tavern.
Laura: What did you see? Is she all right?
Marisha: She's alive, her and Drake both are alive.
Matt: "Good. Where are they going?"
Marisha: They're at the Cobalt Reserve, which is in ruins, as well as the rest of Westruun.
Laura: Did you see the dragon?
Marisha: Yes, the black dragon is there. Looks like he's taken up residence in the black spire-- tower. What was it called?
Laura: Gatshadow?
Marisha: That one.
Marisha: Gatshadow. Allura--
Laura: Could you communicate with her when you scry? I don't know how it works.
Marisha: No, I can just look in and see.
Laura: All right.
Marisha: She was grabbing the last few important tomes, remnants left from the Cobalt Library, I mean, Reserve.
Matt: "They staying in Westruun?"
Marisha: It didn't look like it.
Matt: "Where are they going?"
Marisha: I don't know, I didn't see.
Matt: "Did you talk about where you--"
Laura: We left word. And told her we were coming here.
Matt: "Here to Whitestone?"
Laura: Yes. If you wait, she'll be here.
Matt: "Who else is coming?"
Laura: Drake.
Matt: "Drake. Anybody else on the Council coming?"
Sam: We brought some Council members, right? Were any among our--
Matt: You're not there, you're with Grog.
Sam: Oh, that's right, I'm sorry, oh, I'm not there! (laughter)
Sam: So, Grog! Want to play some bocce ball? (laughter)
Marisha: I don't know who all's coming.
Laura: Uriel.
Matt: "Dead? Well, that's great. That's fantastic. What about the rest?"
Marisha: His wife and children are here.
Matt: "Here, okay."
Marisha: As well as Gilmore.
Laura: Gilmore's Glorious Goods.
Matt: "Right, right."
Laura: Wonderful place to buy all sorts of products, if it were still... standing.
Matt: "Huh. I've only heard things, I've not met this 'Gilmore'."
Marisha: You haven't met Gilmore!? Man, I just assume everyone knows each other.
Matt: "Anybody else? Tofor?"
Laura: Yes, maybe...? Yes, Tofor...?
Marisha: He might have... been... slain...?
Laura: Which one is Tofor?
Marisha: She's the dragonborn--
Laura: Yes, Tofor-- they did, I think Tofor is-- definitely maybe here.
Matt: Last you heard, two Council members that were confirmed still alive by Gilmore when you found him-- or, confirmed by Uriel's wife and family-- thank you, sorry, were Tofor and Asum.
Laura: Yes.
Matt: So both were two of the ones that were saved by Gilmore, and then once he was too wounded to continue, they left to seek for survivors in Emon. That was the last you heard of them.
Laura: Oh. They're not actually here, then. Yes. They're looking for other survivors, Tofor and Asum.
Matt: "In the place where this-- and what's this dragon you keep talking about?"
Laura: Oh, shit, you don't know anything. Thordak! Big. Terrible. Red.
Matt: As you say the name again, you can see her eyes resonate with a clarity, and where once was this very intense expression and air of demanding information suddenly recedes into this look of sudden fear, and she's briefly lost in thought.
Laura: Yes, you defeated him once. He escaped the Fire Realm.
Marisha: Not only did he escape, he tore a giant tear in the rifts between the Fire Realm and ours.
Matt: (sighs deeply) "Thordak." And you can see, she's starting to hyperventilate suddenly, like, for all of her strong exterior, this is the first time, aside from the brief hit of the beholder's ray earlier, you see fear in her eyes, and she starts standing up. (pants) "I need to get some air."
Marisha: Kima, Kima, it'll be--
Matt: "I need to--"
Marisha: Sit here, you want to sit down?
Matt: "I need to get s-- I need to get some air." And she storms out of the room.
Marisha: Let's go outside.
Laura: Actually, Keyleth--
Marisha: What?
Laura: I shut the door behind Kima.
Marisha: Okay.
Laura: I want to talk to you.
Marisha: Yeah.
Laura: I would ask my brother, but, knowing him, he would walk away. What happened?
Marisha: Keyleth has a hard time looking her in the eye.
Laura: Look at me, Keyleth! Be strong! You're royalty. Tell me what happened.
Marisha: Vex, I don't want to ever see you like that again. I don't want to ever see anybody like that again.
Laura: I grab both sides of her face and force her to look at me. I'm all right. I'm still here. Okay? I need you to tell me what happened. Because between us? Vax is off. Something's wrong. And I need to know what it is.
Marisha: We all watched you die.
Laura: Yes.
Marisha: It's like--
Laura: How did I get back? Who brought me back? Kashaw, Zahra, my brother. Anyone else?
Marisha: I guess... you could say, probably an unseen entity, an unseen force. Oh, I'm lightheaded.
Laura: Sit down.
Marisha: Okay.
Laura: There's a bed. Sit down.
Marisha: Percy--
Laura: Percy helped.
Marisha: Let's skip that. When we brought you back, Kashaw performed a resurrection ritual.
Laura: Like we did with Pike.
Marisha: Yes. And he called upon a deity and at first he was afraid that it was Vesh. Which he was quite terrified about.
Laura: His wife.
Marisha: Yes. That, I don't believe, is the presence that answered his call.
Laura: Okay. Fluttery words here, darling. Get to the point.
Marisha: I thought I was going to lose you both. I thought I was going to lose you and Vax.
Laura: Why Vax? Did he get hurt as well? No. What did he do?
Marisha: He-- I don't know. I don't know what he did. He said to take him instead, is what he told the entity. He offered his life for yours. And my biggest fear was that neither of you were going to come back. He offered his life for you. And for all we know, that offer was accepted.
Laura: Right.
Marisha: If I had to guess, it was probably the Raven Queen herself.
Laura: Well. It's rather suiting, isn't it?
Marisha: He seems to do that quite a lot.
Laura: Yes. Keyleth? Thank you, dear. And I leave.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: I stay behind and burst into tears.
Matt: Okay. Grog and Scanlan! What're you guys doing? (relieved laughter)
Liam: (Grog voice) Go fish.
Travis: So-- what do you want to do?
Sam: I don't know. I hadn't really thought about it. Do you have any games with you?
Travis: No.
Sam: Anything in the Bag of Holding?
Travis: I think there's some orc parts in there that've been in for a couple months.
Sam: Doesn't sound very fun.
Travis: Right. I got all nervous when they mentioned a goliath's cave, so I need to go boom-boom.
Sam: Should I play a song so no one can hear it?
Travis: Might help. Like, stand guard outside the door.
Sam: Yeah, yeah. A little muzak.
Travis: Would you mind?
Sam: It's what I'm here for.
Travis: Can I go drop some ordnance?
Matt: And as you find one of the few local ramshackle outhouses-- none are quite goliath-sized, and it's an uncomfortable experience, but thank God you brought a bard along or you would have woken up half the populace just going to bed, as Scanlan, I--
Sam: Nothing to see here, everybody! (plays random chords on the harmonica) Nothing to see here!
Travis: (coughs, then farts) Oh!
Laura: Okay, okay, okay, okay. (laughter)
Travis: Now, the music's playing, right?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: It's just a stall, just me?
Matt: Yeah, yeah.
Travis: All right, can I take out Craven Edge?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: All right.
Marisha: In the outhouse? Sorry, keep going!
Travis: It's the palace, this is where all the best thoughts and conversations happen! I don't know how it is at your house.
Liam: Keep in mind how confined it is, okay?
Travis: Yeah!
Liam: And go. (laughter)
Matt: Yes. (grunting)
Sam: Sounds like a rough one in there, buddy!
Matt: As you (chuckles) as you see one of the wood boards splinter out the side for a second--
Sam: Ah, yup, that's tacos!
Travis: You might want to play a bit louder and maybe take a few steps away, it's about to get violent.
Sam: No problem!
Travis: Yep.
Matt: At that moment you focus, and as you can feel the blade itself grow cold in your fingertips, you can see what little bit of light that filters through the bright orangish-red color that's coming from the sunset, you can see a reflection in the obsidian blade as a voice comes to your ear and says, "You fed me well."
Travis: Yeah, I did, right? I mean, we are really doing well. Question: so, when we were fighting that big Earthbreaker Groot-looking guy, he called you a 'dark weapon'. Does that-- do you have feelings, and did that hurt them?
Matt: There's a brief pause before you hear this long, drawn-out, (heavy sigh).
Travis: Right, hold on! No, no, listen. And I take my thumb and I run it against the blade real quick.
Matt: Okay. As you do, all of a sudden the voice goes, (gasp, contented exhale).
Travis: Right, yep, sorry, listen. So, my question is, as much as I love opening up people to feed you, I want to know, like-- what's in it for you?
Sam: Grog, are you talking to your shit?
Travis: Yeah, no, you got to let it know who's boss!
Sam: Okay.
Matt: The voice creeps in again, this time. "There is no feeling more terrifying than hunger. And I hunger forever. You help satiate that hunger. That is our arrangement. I give you the strength of those you cut down, and I feed upon them. If this is unsatisfactory, I can and have found others who are more willing to be part of this arrangement--"
Travis: No, no, no, I'm a big fan, really, I mean, I am yoked out when I'm using you, it's fucking amazing. I mean, people are flying apart, it's like a dream. But listen, can you ever be... full?
Matt: "I have never been full before. Perhaps you're the one to find out."
Travis: I'll bet I am, actually, you're really lucky you found me and not these other blokes, not even half the man I am. But listen, so, there's no, like, endgame, just to be clear, you just want to drink and drink, 'cause I've seen the blood, right? And usually I wipe it off, but you, like, suck it in, and that's a little unsettling, not going to lie.
Matt: "My hunger grows, but the air tarnishes my blade. Perhaps we can continue this conversation elsewhere."
Travis: (farts) Right, yeah, right. Not even a problem. Well, look, I like the way you cut people open, so we'll continue this another time. And I sheathe him.
Matt: All right. As you sheathe, the last thing he says is, "Don't forget: I hunger always."
Travis: I kick the door open, and I'm like, if you're within 200 feet, back up!
Sam: No one's out here, Grog.
Travis: Oh.
Sam: Just me. Are you all right?
Travis: Yeah.
Sam: I heard you say something about blood.
Travis: Yeah, no, am I sweating? It was a real workout, that one.
Sam: At some point you said, "Are you full?" Are you talking about-- did you fill it all the way up?
Travis: Yeah, the privy, you know, it was starting to give my bum a tickle.
Sam: Wow!
Travis: Yeah.
Sam: You topped it off!
Travis: Yeah. Because, you know, you don't want to, like, dip in the muck, it's, you know--
Laura: Foul.
Sam: Not at all.
Travis: Did you want to--
Sam: I think I'm good.
Travis: Are you sure? I warmed it up for you, it's, like, ready to go.
Sam: I love a good deuce, but not today, I think.
Travis: All right. Fair enough. But I'm feeling so, like, vacated--
Sam: We should go get a bite.
Travis: I think you're right!
Sam: (laughs) All right, let's go.
Travis: (laughing) Okay.
Matt: Okay. You guys are getting a bite. Percival, if you want to go ahead and make a tinkering check with dexterity modifier to create more ammunition.
Taliesin: Tinkering check with dexterity modifier?
Matt: Yes.
Taliesin: Okay.
Matt: Should be plus 11.
Taliesin: 16.
Matt: 16, okay. We'll say, in the time that you've had here, with the materials you purchased, and Whitestone's pretty open to supplying you--
Taliesin: I've got a thing.
Matt: Yeah, I'd say you're able to create roughly 40 or so simple bullets in the time that you have.
Taliesin: Do I have time to poke at a modification to the explosive arrow? I want to try and build a rock breaker. I'm curious to try and build an arrow for taking down walls or taking down doors.
Matt: Like a siege arrow?
Taliesin: A light form of siege arrow. Basically, I want to have a tip that actually manages to breach stone and then an explosion that goes outwards, so it's a shattering arrow.
Matt: All right, this'll take the remainder of your evening. You're not going to be able to do much else after this.
Taliesin: I have nothing else to do.
Matt: All right. Go ahead and make a tinkering check with your intelligence modifier.
Taliesin: Okay. So... That's 23.
Matt: 23, okay. At the cost of roughly 150 gold pieces, as you have to go through a few different attempts to finally get the design right, and the metalworking you have here is not perfected. You're not at your workshop back at the keep, unfortunately, so you have to work with whatever you have here, and nothing here is designed for the--
Taliesin: No, I've got an okay workshop here.
Matt: Yeah. The one that you used before, previously, but that's from mostly discarded and-- in the time that you've been gone, it's been cannibalized for a lot of different uses. But it's makeshift. You manage to complete what you think could function. You're not entirely certain as to what the final effect will be, but it all seems to be in place.
Taliesin: All right.
Matt: So you can write down 'Explosive Siege Arrow'.
Taliesin: Siege arrow.
Matt: And we shall find out in time what it does.
Marisha: Siege arrow. That's fun.
Taliesin: A few things I've been working on, and that's one of them.
Matt: So. Are you guys resting for the evening? Anything else you wish to accomplish?
Laura: That would probably be smart. I'm pretty tired after dying, so I'm going to go to sleep.
Matt: Okay. Vax, anything you want to accomplish before you--
Taliesin: God, the guilt. Okay. Yeah.
Sam: Can I buy a torch somewhere? Just a torch?
Matt: Sure! Yeah, torches are relatively easy to find. You want to try one?
Sam: Three.
Matt: Three torches. That's three copper.
Laura: I bring Trinket into the castle with me, just so you know.
Matt: After all this has happened, Trinket has been, like, almost locked to you. Even you going upstairs into the tavern, Trinket was like, (plaintive bear noises) stayed out front, 'cause Trinket's learned at this point, you can't really go into all the taverns.
Laura: It's hard, it's hard.
Matt: It's rough, being a bear.
Sam: And wherever we're eating, does it happen to be near Jameson the painter's workshop?
Matt: No, but it's about a 20-minute walk, if you wanted to go find him.
Sam: Be nice to check in with him. Grog, do you mind walking with me?
Travis: Absolutely not.
Sam: All right, so we'll truck on over to Jameson's.
Matt: Okay. You head up to it, and this gentleman is a painter as well as a stablehand, so you find your way to the facility, knock on it, and immediately as the door opens, the smell of fresh manure hits your nose and Jameson steps out. "Can I-- you!"
Sam: Yes! Hi!
Matt: "Hi!"
Sam: I've come back.
Matt: "I meant to deliver, but they told me not to, because apparently it's not there anymore?"
Sam: The town, you mean.
Matt: "Town, yeah, where I was supposed to deliver it to you."
Sam: It was wise of you to keep this precious artifact here, because it would've surely been destroyed en route or when it arrived--
Matt: "It's just the canvas, I don't have a-- It's a bit too large for my specifications of framing, but--"
Sam: I'm sure it's huge. Did you finish it?
Matt: "Yes, yes! Come, come!"
Sam: Can I look?
Travis: Oh please, oh please!
Sam: (laughing) Okay, let's go look!
Matt: He takes one of the hooded lanterns and turns up the oil wick on it, and as he turns away he brings you into the back stable area where it's been sectioned off, and you can see there's paints that have been dropped all across the ground and the hay, it's this multicolored spattering, this rainbow vomit across this section of hay floor, and there in all of its glory, stretched across and nailed at the corners to this far, far wall, you see a fantastical landscape of rolling hills and treelines rising up at the edges. You can see a mountainscape in the distance. The lighting he uses is magnificent. You can see why many people in the city specifically requested that you go to this gentleman. There atop this fantastic green hilltop, you see on this fine white and grey steed as it raises up, hooves in the air, is yourself, shirt open, chest slightly fuzzy and muscular. As you look off, your hair blowing in the breeze--
Sam: How's the face? How's the face?
Matt: The face is pretty damn spot-on.
Sam: Yes! (laughter)
Matt: The best likeness you can find for somebody who only had a brief reference, as he sketched you quickly before he left, and there behind, clutching you, from the side you can see Pike wearing these long greyish-silver and blue robes that are also flowing behind, a long train-- longer than it needs to be, stylistically it was a choice in the artistics point of this-- it is everything you hoped it would be. You paid good money for this piece.
Sam: I'm going to request-- Grog, I need a minute here.
Travis: Oh, yeah. I understand, take--
Sam: Just to weep.
Travis: Take all the time you need.
Sam: So I regard it for a few minutes, taking in the beauty and the wonder of all I've accomplished--
Marisha: I have a question. Would Keyleth and Scanlan be crying in rooms at the same time?
Matt: Right now? Yes. For different reasons entirely.
Sam: (singing) Somewhere out there...
Taliesin: (singing) Somewhere out there...
Travis: Look at the air, look at the air high-five. There it is.
Sam: (singing) Beneath the pale moonlight
Taliesin: (singing) Beneath the pale moonlight
Marisha: (singing) Beneath the pale moonlight
Travis: So white. That was the whitest of white high fives ever.
Taliesin: I'm imagining this as a canvas of Lisa Frank majesty, by the way. Like, the greatest Lisa Frank Trapper Keeper cover in all the land.
Matt: Oh, man. (laughter)
Sam: After I weep for a few minutes, I thank Jameson again and how much did I pay him for this thing? You've gone above and beyond, Jameson, and I know that you're a humble man and you don't want me to spread word of your accomplishments, but please allow me to write you an epic poem or a song and tell of your artistic gifts and talents, please.
Matt: "That would be a fine tip, sir. Please, yes, do so."
Sam: I'll get right on it.
Matt: "Send them back to Whitestone, please, ask for Jameson. The more I work this, hopefully I can make my way out of this dunghole."
Sam: Don't worry, you'll have lots of commissions after this, I promise you.
Matt: "Great."
Sam: And I'm going to give him an extra 50 gold.
Matt: "I, um--"
Liam: That's more than the price of a book.
Matt: "Sir, I-- thank you. Thank you, thank you."
Sam: For art supplies to get your shop up and running.
Matt: "Of course." He looks down and he's gotten a little bit of paint on the coins, he's like, (muttering and stammering). He puts it aside somewhere. "Thank you--" Wipes his hands off on a nearby rag. "Thank you." And takes your hand and shakes it vigorously.
Sam: So, can it be--
Matt: Yeah, he goes in and he takes his little claw hammer down, starts pulling the nails out from the sides and gingerly rolls up the canvas. It takes a good, like, three minutes to roll the thing up, and it's quite heavy as he hands it over to you-- (heavy grunt) In your hand, yeah, it almost takes you off your feet.
Sam: Grog! Grog!
Travis: What?
Sam: Can you hold this for me?
Travis: No, it's you, I mean, you're so magnificent in it--
Sam: No, I can't do it.
Travis: I don't know it-- I really--
Sam: Grog! I watched you shit for an hour!
Travis: Hey, all right, I'll pick it up.
Matt: All right. You guys find your way out. At this point night has taken; you can hear the crickets starting to spread throughout the city. As the rest of the blue night sky takes on-- Evening is ready, do you guys have anything else to accomplish before the evening comes to a close?
Liam: Wait 'til it's quiet. And I leave the room that I've been given at Whitestone. And I find my sister's door. And I stand outside it, and I stare at it for a minute--
Laura: Vax? Is that you?
Liam: And I stealth away.
Laura: I open the door.
Matt: Roll a stealth check, roll a perception check.
Laura: Shit.
Liam: 25.
Laura: 22. Damn it.
Matt: Nothing to be seen. Must have been your imagination, Vex.
Travis: He's good.
Liam: And I wait for the door to close. And then I walk to Keyleth's door. And I knock.
Matt: You hear a knock at your door.
Laura: And horses.
Matt: The clomping of horse hooves in the distance, apparently.
Marisha: I open it. Hey. Hi. You okay?
Liam: I don't know.
Marisha: Come in. Sit down.
Liam: I go in.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: How do you feel?
Liam: I don't know. All I know is... that I felt her. I don't know magic, I don't know anything. I open doors, and only when the wind is blowing in the right direction, sometimes, I think. I don't know what happened, but I felt her.
Marisha: Do you still feel her?
Matt: Make a perception check, Vax.
Liam: 22.
Matt: As you're sitting there, looking down at the ground, as she asks this question, you notice the symbol of Sarenrae that you have stitched into the back of your glove, what was once a very vibrant, goldish-brass color has actually very heavily tarnished, and the metal itself seems to have cracked in three places. It was not this way a day before.
Liam: Yeah. I don't know if I did anything in there, and I wouldn't take it back if I did, but I don't know what I'm doing.
Marisha: I don't know if it was very noble or very stupid, to be honest. Probably a little bit of both. I can attempt a Greater Restoration spell, and see if I can sense anything.
Liam: I don't know anything about any of that. I'll let you.
Marisha: Can I?
Matt: Yeah. So as you prepare your mindset for the cleansing ritual that is the Greater Restoration--
Marisha: Just lay back.
Matt: As soon as the dull green energy begins to course across your fingertips, and as you touch the edge of his shoulder to impart his body with the cleansing energy, it courses through his shoulders, the spell completes. You sense no difference in your current physicality, mindset, and there's this pause, this silence, of no realization, that is suddenly shattered by the sound of a (caws). You look over and at the stone edge of the window you guys are staying in, you see stepping there a single dark raven, (clicks, rapid flapping) and it takes off and flies into the night.
Marisha: I think this goes beyond any natural realm that I have any bearing over. And I hug him. I thought I was going to lose you. And I'm terrified I'm still going to.
Liam: Keyleth, I love you.
Marisha: And I think I love you. I just don't know if I can allow myself to. I'm terrified to allow myself to. You do realize that, if by some crazy chance, we all somehow make it through this domination alive, with the Chroma Conclave, and I complete my Aramente, I'll still watch all of you die. Everything could go phenomenally well. And by becoming Headmaster, we enter a bit of a realm of immortality where I could live for a very, very long time. I'm afraid every time I look at one of your faces that it's going to be the last, and I feel like deep down I know that day is coming. So because of that I'm afraid to let myself feel anything deeper than I already do.
Liam: I quickly leave her room.
Matt: The door closes behind Vax.
Marisha: And for the second time today Keyleth bursts into tears. Why do people keep leaving me in rooms alone?
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: Stop it, you're wasting water.
Marisha: We're in a drought, god damn it!
Laura: When was the last time you showered, Keyleth?
Marisha: It's been a while.
Taliesin: Makeup's runny.
Liam: Go water elemental.
Matt: It's the only way. All right, as you all find yourself coming to rest for the evening, some of you easier than others, eventually you get your full rest. Those who heal up to, say, full hit points for a good night's rest here, get your hit dice back, so not a whole lot were spent.
Travis: I lose my strength bonuses.
Matt: Morning comes to you all, and-- yes?
Liam: Sorry, just one detail. From there, I went and fell asleep in this idiot's doorway.
Matt: Okay. All right. We will go ahead and take a quick break, we will see you guys back here shortly to see what is in store for Vox Machina. So we'll be back here in a minute. [break]
Liam: Matt, shit on my face.
Matt: Welcome back, everybody!
Sam: It's too close!
Laura: They caught it, that one caught it.
Matt: That was pretty close.
Liam: All they heard was "ace."
Matt: It's all good. Welcome back, guys. We're going to go ahead and jump back in. So as you all, after that, for some, emotional evening, whether that be conversational emotion or, you know, having to go drop an emotional deuce. You know, that's important. You find yourselves waking up to a fresh morning in Whitestone, hints of blue sky breaking through the cloud coverage, and that's rare for this area because it's the northern portion of the continent, you know that, especially being so close to the ocean, a lot of the cloud, heavy precipitation makes its way in the direction of your town, so it's nice to have a little break in that. Nonetheless, as you guys come to consciousness and gather yourselves, your things, and your plans for the day, what do you wish to do?
Taliesin: We are a city of seasonal affectation disorder, so.
Laura: Well, I open my door and find my brother falling through it.
Liam: I'm awake.
Laura: Oh, good morning.
Liam: Hi.
Laura: Comfortable bed, I see.
Liam: Yeah. Sorry, I couldn't find my room.
Laura: Yeah, it's confusing, all these, all these doors.
Liam: What time's it?
Laura: I have no idea. My nature check tells me it's roughly, I dunno, eight? Nine? Something like that. Seven? Maybe seven.
Liam: Come here, you shithead. Don't fucking do that again.
Laura: It's not like I did it on--
Liam: Don't fucking do that again, all right? Just don't fucking do it again.
Laura: All right.
Liam: Fuck.
Laura: I can't breathe. You're about to kill me again.
Liam: You'll live, you'll live. Jesus. Whoever that is.
Laura: So-- (laughs) I heard a rumor that you sort of saved my life in a really creepy sort of way. I talk to people. I talk to so many people. I find out things. Secrets aren't safe when Vex is around.
Liam: Is there any coffee in this fucking castle?
Laura: Wait, wait, wait, I have a present for you, because I feel like you're going to really like it. Would you like it?
Liam: That's random. All right.
Laura: I have this armor that I think would be really great on you. Do you want it? It's really expensive. If you don't take it quickly, I might change my mi--
Liam: I don't want it.
Laura: Oh, that was expensive cardstock. (laughter)
Liam: I'll give you the leather armor after I have a chance to change.
Laura: All right. I love you.
Liam: (softly) I know. I know.
Laura: Let's get breakfast.
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: From that point, the smell of coffee begins to fill the air from the inside of the Whitestone castle halls. The servants have prepared breakfast, and a meal is ready for you. Grog jumping to attention as the scent reaches your nose. The rest of you all slowly find your way back down. You eat--
Marisha: Do we come out and see Vax in the armor?
Matt: Are you putting on the armor?
Liam: I'm just looking at it in the hallway.
Marisha: So I guess I step out and see him looking at it in the hallway.
Liam: Still pretty tired, to be honest. Didn't sleep a lot in the doorway.
Matt: Yeah. Some of you guys step out, and you see Vax standing in the hallway, clutching in his hands, looking over all the various, like, pushed-in, engraved runes across the leatherwork, the raven feathers that adorn the bottom of the mantle.
Laura: Careful, it smells a lot like must and mold and birds.
Marisha: I walk by and... briefly lock eyes and keep going without saying anything.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Oh shit, you got the armor now?
Laura: He stole it, what can I say? He is a really sneaky, stealthy kind of guy.
Travis: Nice.
Laura: Yeah. Fair and square.
Liam: I just took it for fashion purposes, I suppose.
Travis: Oh, you need all the help you can get.
Liam: Yeah.
Sam: Should we go out in the woods and unleash an undead beast that will kill us all?
Travis: Yes! Christmas morning! Who has that, by the way?
Sam: I do.
Travis: Oh! Yeah!
Sam: Don't worry, it's safe.
Travis: Where d'you keep it?
Sam: Oh! Hold on-- Got a pouch or some-- you know what? It's back in my room.
Matt: All right. You go retrieve it.
Sam: Got it!
Travis: Where's Percy?
Laura: Where's Pike? We should bring her with us. Can we bring Pike with us? I know she's taking care of Gilmore, but.
Sam: Mm, that's possibly more important. I think this thing'll be fine!
Laura: We need some sort of somebody that can heal, I think we've learned this for ourselves.
Sam: I can heal!
Travis: Yeah, we got potions, we're fine. It's probably, like, a big Saint Bernard. What's the big deal?
Laura: (sighs) Okay. We learn nothing, carry on.
Travis: Where's Percy?
Taliesin: I'm right here.
Travis: Oh! Shit, you were quiet. Hello.
Taliesin: (coughs) Hello. Good morning.
Travis: Need any coffee? An enema?
Taliesin: What?
Marisha: A coffee enema?
Taliesin: What!? No. I'm fine. Good morning.
Liam: I'm going to walk off with this shit.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: And we go outside with the necklace.
Sam: Yeah, where're we headed?
Travis: The woods!
Laura: No. The caves. I thought we were going to the--
Marisha: Going to the caves on the edge of the woods.
Matt: Yeah. It's the caves that are--
Marisha: Going to go through the woods.
Liam: (sings) Into the woods!
Matt: So. You all gather together and make your way northwest of Whitestone, towards where you found the stone giant fortress and the series of caves that are in the mountain behind it. You get there; it's still seemingly abandoned. You case the area for a while. No noticeable movement other than a few woodland entities that exist in that vicinity.
Laura: Primeval Awareness! (radar sounds)
Matt: Okay. That is now the sound it makes every time you do it.
Laura: I like it.
Matt: Yeah, so hold onto that one. I'll make that a new ringtone sound for you guys. What are you looking for?
Laura: Oh, there's so many things I could sense!
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: What about sirens?
Laura: Sirens?
Travis: Wait, what are those things called? The things that took our horses the last time we were here?
Matt: Harpies?
Travis: Yeah, yeah, whatever.
Laura: Sure! Harpies.
Matt: For how many miles is it?
Laura: Six miles!
Matt: Six miles? Yeah, there's a few blips on the far, far western side of here. You get the essence way off in the mountains, there's maybe a small nest. Nothing that's immediately dangerous.
Laura: What about if I sit for one more minute and I think if I can sense any giants.
Matt: You do, to the far, far north. You get the sense that there is some sort of giant-based lifeform maybe two, three miles north of you.
Laura: Okay.
Travis: How's it look?
Laura: Well, I mean, clear of the things I checked for. No giants.
Travis: Sweet! Let's go! Up to the cave!
Matt: All right. So the fortress or the caves behind it?
Travis: Fortress or cave?
Laura: Were they both empty? I don't remember.
Taliesin: Everything was empty, if I recall.
Travis: Yeah. Small space.
Taliesin: Let's do the caves.
Laura: All right, sure. Cave.
Travis: Yeah. Cave.
Matt: All right.
Laura: Oh, if we stick to the woods, it's my favored terrain. If we go into a cave, not as much.
Sam: The caves would contain it. It can't fly away or anything.
Travis: So is it like, cave-fortress, are they same level? I can't remember.
Matt: It's a pathway that leads up into a small ravine in the mountain pass where you guys originally walked down into Whitestone. Up against the north side of where the mountain meets that ravine, there's a big stone fortress that is built into the side of the mountain, and then around that are a series of smaller caves.
Liam: (singing) Anything can happen in the woods.
Travis: Yeah, let's go to this fortress, then we got more room to move in case it does suck.
Sam: All right, fine, fortress.
Matt: You guys find your way inside, the cold morning air still has encompassed the stone floor itself, you can see there are still the scattered and slowly decomposing bits of meat and flesh in the far corner, you still see the splatters of blood that have turned black and cracked as it dried. No corpses here, as the corpses were retooled by the Briarwoods while they were in control. The fortress other than that is still empty, and seemingly untouched since you last left it.
Sam: All right, well, I'm just going to do it then!
Laura: Wait wait wait!
Marisha: Wait wait wait!
Marisha: Wait, there's doors open to the cave, right?
Sam: We're in a fortress.
Taliesin: We're in a fortress.
Marisha: Fortress. Whatever.
Matt: (laughs) Coffee's just starting to kick in for you guys.
Laura: Just barely! Do we have any buff spells or some shit that we should cast, to make us cooler?
Marisha: Should I throw a wall up?
Sam: A wall for what?
Marisha: Do I need to bar the entrance? Or are there doors?
Taliesin: Vex, by the way--
Matt: There are doors, but they're partially ajar where you left them.
Laura: Aww, put it on, it's useful!
Liam: No. We're not having this conversation.
Taliesin: Vex, by the way, I've got something for you.
Laura: What? Yes, dear?
Taliesin: And I pull out the arrow.
Laura: What is this?
Taliesin: This is an evening of unbridled guilt. Come here, let me show you. In theory, this is a siege arrow.
Laura: Okay.
Taliesin: Shattering stone, shattering doors, breaking things that should not be broken.
Laura: Breaking hearts left and right?
Taliesin: If that is what you're after. It should work! Never forget you're my favorite, and I'm so sorry.
Laura: I kiss him on the cheek. Thank you, Percy.
Taliesin: That was much nicer than your brother.
Laura: Is that a black eye?
Taliesin: (stammering) I didn't sleep.
Laura: Huh. This is lovely, I can't wait to use it.
Taliesin: There'll be more.
Sam: All right, in three, two--
Travis: Wait hold on, hold on hold on!
Taliesin: In a circle! Aim it into the center of the circle.
Liam: And is it three-two-one, three-two-one-do it, or three-two-one and go,
Sam: On the one. On one.
Taliesin: It's Jenga, one one-thousand two one-thousand three one-thousand four one-thousand.
Sam: Should one of us leave the room in case it comes out and paralyzes all of us? Just going to throw that out there.
Travis: Oh yeah, we should, what do you call it, spread out?
Laura: Yeah, definitely, let's all surround it and make sure we're not all clumped up.
Taliesin: If only someone had armor that could make them immune to paralysis.
Liam: That's not a bad idea, you get controlled by things. Maybe you could wait just a little bit further back?
Laura: This was somebody's pet, all right? It's probably not smart enough to take control of our minds.
Liam: That's a big if.
Travis: I don't mind stepping out, but I would like to be able to see.
Laura: Yeah yeah yeah!
Liam: Yeah! We won't shut the door, I just want you outside of any potential blast radius.
Taliesin: Let's spread out in a circle; we'll let it loose in the center, that way it can't even see all of us.
Laura: All right, I like it. It only gets to see Scanlan.
Sam: It can see me.
Laura: I'm going to stealth.
Sam: Well, when a thing is born, it latches on to the first thing it sees, like its mama.
Liam: Yes, we're going to hide.
Matt: All right, stealth check from both of you guys?
Marisha: So we're going to try and talk to it?
Laura: Yeah, Scanlan's going to talk to it.
Marisha: Scanlan? You prepared?
Laura: Natural 20!
Taliesin: You just teleport, there's like a phase effect.
Matt: The two of you back off and find the nearby shaded corners, where some of the haphazardly tossed hides and furs are in the corner, you vanish behind the alcoves keeping a watch.
Laura: Trinket, don't stand next to me, it gives it away. Go stand next to Keyleth!
Travis: Is there a doorway in the fortress?
Matt: Yeah, there's the main doorway you guys entered, which is two--
Travis: Can I stand in that, then?
Matt: Sure, you stand there, in the entranceway that's pushed open, which is wide enough for a giant to push through. You got a little bit of room to each side, but you're there.
Travis: Vax, is this g-- Vax?
Taliesin: It's fine, you're fine.
Sam: Here we go, guys.
Marisha: So, those two are stealthed-- I'm at Scanlan's left shoulder, back a bit.
Laura: And Trinket's next to you!
Marisha: And Trinket's next to me. I'm rolling with Trinket.
Taliesin: I've got a little bit of distance, yes, that's good.
Matt: All righty, and there's Percy here, and Travis is off this way. Good to know.
Sam: I don't know how to use this thing.
Marisha: Yeah, we don't know how to use it.
Sam: By the power of Raven's Slumber, I command thee: (yells) awaken! Beast! Cruel or otherwise! Face your new master, and know his name is Scanlan! (laughter)
Travis: (laughing) Oh, holy shit! Never could've been better.
Matt: As you spend your bonus action to release the gate hold on the crystal, you guys see as he thrusts his hands forward, there's a burst of shadow energy that, almost like someone throwing a big pot of water, this blackness goes out of it, and then as it hits the ground, it spills into smoke on the ground, and as that dark form stops, it is in the form of an about waist-to-lower-torso-height creature. As the form coalesces into its normal self, you can see before you, shaking its head, a rather large, dark grey and black wolf. (growls, snarls)
Sam: Easy, easy.
Travis: Told you it was a dog.
Sam: Garlic? Galdric, Galdric, easy, Galdric. Easy. We're friends. Here.
Matt: He's backing up a little bit, snarling. You see Trinket starts growling, (growls).
Laura: Trinket, be nice-- oh!
Matt: As you say that (snarls) it looks over at you in the far corner.
Laura: (whispers) I'm natural 20! That still didn't see me!
Marisha: I pet Trinket, like, 'Chill, chill, be cool'.
Matt: Trinket backs up a little bit, but still locking eyes. You can see this wolf now, its gums and teeth are bared, its fur is all puffed up, its tail is-- it's definitely holding its ground and trying to make itself look as intimidating as possible.
Sam: Is it a small beast?
Matt: This would be, technically, borderline medium. This'd be medium, technically.
Sam: I can only speak with small beasts.
Marisha: Wait, use Speak with Animals?
Liam: (laughs) She swatted me and said, 'Put your armor on,' so I'm doing it.
Matt: Okay. That'll take you about 15 minutes.
Laura: Aw.
Liam: 15 minutes! Well, guess I'm doing it.
Matt: All right. You don't just slip on leather armor. (chuckles)
Liam: No, I get that, I get that, I would've guessed two minutes.
Travis: Can somebody check to see if it's actually a wolf or just looks like one? Like, check it?
Laura: Can I use my perception?
Matt: You're a bit far away from it right now. You can try to get closer if you want.
Laura: Can I sneak?
Matt: Yeah, make another stealth check.
Laura: I do get advantage, because of my cloak. Sweet.
Liam: You should yell out, 'I'm stealthing'.
Laura: I'm stealthing! Damn it. 19?
Matt: Okay. As you begin making your way forward, it doesn't seem to notice you.
Laura: Hey, it doesn't?
Matt: No.
Laura: Can I see it better now to perceive it?
Matt: Looking right at it, and from your experience in the wild as well, and Keyleth, you're getting it, this does not appear to be anything beyond a large wolf.
Taliesin: I'm going to get on my knees and put out my hand and call it. Galdric, Galdric.
Matt: Go ahead and make an animal handling check.
Sam: Animal handling! We've never done that before!
Laura: If I help my brother get on the armor, will it happen faster?
Matt: Probably.
Laura: I help him put on the armor.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: (whispering) Ow ow ow! That's too tight!
Laura: Well, you're not the same size as the other guy!
Taliesin: Yeah, it's a little bit better. Ten.
Matt: Ten. As you put out your hand, Galdric snarls, and as you say, "Here, boy." (growls and snaps) It lashes out at your hand. That is going to be-- That's a 21 to hit?
Taliesin: I'll take it.
Travis: Keyleth, can't you talk to, like, plants and shit?
Matt: You take six points of piercing damage as its jaws clench down on your hand, and you tear your hand away. You can feel the warmth flowing under the glove.
Taliesin: Gently, I'm gentle with it.
Marisha: I cast Speak with Animals.
Liam: I click my Boots of Haste!
Matt: You do?
Sam: Aren't you getting dressed?
Laura: He can dress faster!
Travis: Speed change.
Matt: All right.
Travis: Quick change.
Sam: Seven-and-a-half minutes! (laughter)
Matt: You guys all become immediately aware of the creaking of leather in the distance as the two siblings are in the process of fast-changing one of the other.
Laura: The rustle of feathers.
Marisha: Okay, I cast Speak with Animals. And I crouch down to the ground. And bow down a little bit, and I say: are you the one they call Galdric?
Matt: Looks over at you for a second. The growl stops, and its posture changes a little bit. It raises its nose. (sniffs)
Marisha: Was Purvan your master?
Matt: Looking at you as you guys hear Keyleth making this series of growling sounds.
Laura: Trinket totally understands you, no?
Matt: Strangely enough, Trinket does, Trinket's like, (confused bear noise).
Taliesin: Trinket is Scooby-Doo, apparently.
Travis: Shitballs! Taint! You going that way?
Marisha: Oh my god, I get a secret!
Sam: There are several items that are sold out at the store! If you'd like to go on and see what items have already sold out, check it out. (laughs)
Laura: We need to get more t-shirts in stock.
Sam: Yeah, we know that. We know that, guys. We know.
Laura: That needs to happen. But there is still the Critical Role logo t-shirt available. What is happening? What is he--
Sam: Is there a ring or something?
Laura: Is the ring still available?
Sam: I don't know.
Laura: If the ring is still available, check out our ring!
Marisha: I can respond back, right? Your master died a great champion for the Raven Queen. He has been paid a great honor, and now the Raven Queen has chosen a new master.
Laura: I push Vax forward.
Matt: You've gotten maybe part of the tunic on. (laughter)
Sam: Is he Donald-Duck-ing it right now?
Matt: Practically. There are undergarments, but not much. It's, like, bare legs and knees, part of an arm. Yeah, he got thrust out of the changing room about 20 seconds into it.
Sam: Nice.
Liam: I still walk toward the wolf.
Taliesin: Waddle.
Liam: No no no, I did the top, I did the top, c'mon!
Matt: The wolf turns his head a little bit curiously.
Marisha: I continue to speak to the wolf.
Liam: And I kneel. And bow my head.
Marisha: A great darkness has fallen upon our lands. Upon Othanzia. We could use all of the assistance that we can achieve. Would you be willing to find a new purpose? Join Vax'ildan--
Liam: Keyleth?
Marisha: Yes?
Liam: Tell him to come forward and look into my eyes.
Laura: (whispers) That's a bad idea for dogs.
Liam: Tell him.
Laura: (whispers) It's gonna bite your face off.
Marisha: Galdric. Please. Approach your new master and look into his eyes.
Laura: Give him some chocolate, man!
Matt: The wolf looks towards you, looks towards the loosely half-dressed half-elf.
Marisha: Look into his eyes. I said look into his eyes. And see the touch of the Raven Queen inside of him.
Matt: Wolf slowly stalks towards you across the stone floor. You can hear the claws of the wolf clattering against the stonework. As you can see it's partially, like, digging into the stonework with each step. It has purpose with each stride.
Liam: As it's coming, I'm taking daggers out and throwing 'em on the ground.
Matt: The wolf stops and looks up at you. Turns around and walks towards the doorway where you are.
Sam: Where who is?
Matt: Where Grog is. Grog, who's now at the door, at the exit.
Laura: (whispers) What's his name?
Taliesin: Galdric.
Marisha: Galdric.
Marisha: Galdric!
Matt: Keeps walking.
Laura: Galdric!
Sam: Going to stop him, Grog?
Travis: Well, I'm in the doorway.
Marisha: Grog, don't move. Don't move. Look at the dog. Don't move, and don't hurt the dog. Please just look at the dog.
Laura: I pull out one of my treats I have for Trinket.
Matt: Okay. Trinket starts lumbering up towards you (thudding).
Laura: Wait, wait, Trinket-- This is for your buddy Galdric. Galdric!
Matt: Just keeps walking, doesn't even look at you in the face, walks--
Laura: I throw the treat and say, hey!
Matt: It scatters across the stone. Walks between your legs and exits out.
Travis: I pivot on my back foot. I take out Craven Edge--
Taliesin: No!
Travis: No, I do, I take out Craven Edge and I sink it into the earth right beside his head. And I say, (shouts) heel!
Matt: Make an animal handling check.
Laura: Whoa, is it good, is it good?
Travis: 20.
Matt: As the sword (crack) into the rock outside of this fortress, it probably embeds itself a good foot and a half into the mountain. You guys all hear Grog's shout echo through the inside of the fortress itself, causing little bits of dust and small pebbles to dislodge from the roof, slowly fall down. The wolf has stopped and spun in its place and reached out and lashed the blade with its jaws and (cling) as it releases it.
Travis: Stay.
Matt: He sits.
Travis: That went well! (laughter)
Sam: Dog whisperer!
Travis: Good pup.
Sam: Are you its master now?
Travis: No, no, I don't think it has a master. This is a very powerful beast. But it needs a firm hand. And I think it needs a job. So. What do we plan to do with Galdric? Said his name right?
Sam: Yeah.
Laura: We plan on having him help us kill some dragons?
Taliesin: I think he's a wolf. I think perhaps something a little less ambitious.
Laura: Trinket hides very well when dragons are around.
Taliesin: I think, perhaps, joining the Whitestone conclave might be a-- Having him guard Whitestone, perhaps.
Laura: Good, yeah! I like it!
Travis: I reach into the Bag of Holding and I pull out one thing of dry food rations, and a probably pretty rotten chunk of dark elf brain.
Liam: Where did we get that?
Travis: Oh, there's a veritable Walmart of shit in this bag. (laughter)
Travis: And I, like a hamburger patty, smash it all together.
Matt: The only reason you even know this was at one point dark elf brain matter is because that's what you willed to reach in and find. It does not at all visually match your memory of its--
Travis: Does it have a little bit of a viscous-y ooze, mostly?
Matt: Oh yeah, no, it's--
Travis: It'll soften up the dry food.
Liam: Gray Chicken McNuggets.
Matt: It'll soften up a lot of things. It's pretty terrifying.
Laura: It'll make the wolf vomit.
Travis: So I throw that on the ground, and I pour a little ale on top of it. (laughter)
Sam: Wolves love getting drunk.
Matt: Very good. It leans forward and smells it.
Travis: Yeah, no, it wasn't the best, I can do better. Okay.
Laura: Trinket goes up and starts eating it.
Travis: He's going to barf that all over the carpet later.
Liam: Forget the chocolate.
Travis: I need to carry beef in this bitch.
Taliesin: It goes bad.
Liam: We have Dork! We've got nothing of Dork left?
Laura: Oh, you know what I have, by the way? I still have, like, a cooler Bag of Holding. That we got from the Slayer's Take.
Travis: Oh! That's really good to know.
Travis: I pour into a little chalice some ale.
Laura: Like, it keeps things cold. Yeah, it's like a little bitty one, but it keeps parts from going bad.
Matt: It's nowhere near as large as a Bag of Holding, but it has a slow stasis for organic goods.
Sam: We should keep some food on hand next time!
Laura: Totally!
Travis: I offer him some ale, just to see if he even likes it. Some dogs like beer, some others don't.
Matt: Mm. Wolf doesn't seem to be interested.
Travis: Yeah, all right. Then I chug it.
Sam: So are we telling this wolf something or commanding it to come with us as we return to town?
Taliesin: I think he would be helpful to guard the town, at this point.
Laura: Well, he'll follow Grog, I suppose.
Sam: Let's go back to town and bring him with us.
Travis: All right.
Matt: You guys return to Whitestone. It's another, like, three-hour trek to find your way back down to the city. Stalks up next to you. Definitely seems to be attentive to your commands. Doesn't appear to be a bond per se, but of everyone that it's encountered so far, you're the only one that really gathered its respect.
Laura: I threw a treat at it. I don't understand.
Travis: That's a great thing to throw at a giant 400-pound bull mastiff.
Marisha: I spoke words at it. Apparently that's not good enough. Communicating.
Travis: Right, so we're walking back to town. We've got a giant fuck-off wolf with us. Vax looks like Edward Scissorhands.
Liam: I'm peeling that off as we walk.
Laura: What?
Travis: What?
Travis: No!
Laura: Leave it the fuck on!
Liam: I'm peeling it off.
Laura: It's really expensive. What, do you want to damage it?
Liam: I'm peeling it off.
Laura: (quietly) Fuck, he doesn't appreciate presents.
Matt: All right, so you take what little bit of the armor you had on, off, and are you putting your other armor back on?
Laura: He doesn't have any other armor. I took his armor.
Liam: I have regular fucking armor that I grew up in with you, you fucking shit.
Sam: Do you want to trade with me, Vax? I've got some armor you could take.
Travis: Yeah.
Liam: You're a funny man.
Matt: All right, so you're back in town and you have a wolf.
Travis: Do we find a holding pen for the wolf?
Taliesin: I don't think we need to. I think we can communicate to him--
Laura: No. Tell him not to attack villagers.
Taliesin: Ask him if he'll be willing to keep the town safe.
Laura: Do it in a really aggressive way, though, Keyleth. Stern.
Marisha: Very aggressive? Okay. Okay.
Sam: We should find some food for the thing, too.
Marisha: If I turned into a dog. If I turned into a wolf, do you think he'd respect me more?
Laura: No, he'll probably attack you.
Travis: He'll mount you.
Laura: Or he'll bone you.
Taliesin: I'm not ready for that game.
Sam: Do it.
Travis: Let's be clear. (laughter)
Laura: Matt's like, "mm-mm."
Liam: Oh, you soured the DM. (laughter)
Taliesin: To be fair, that's happened before.
Laura: Yeah, I remember.
Taliesin: With the troll.
Travis: With the troll. It was so good. That was you, wasn't it?
Taliesin: No, it wasn't me. Was it you?
Sam: I don't know.
Travis: Who was getting humped on?
Taliesin: I don't remember.
Sam: Finalize this wolf so we can go kill something.
Marisha: I take my staff and I say, Galdric! I'm being assertive.
Liam: Yes.
Sam: She's the alpha.
Laura: (whispering) Grog, go stand behind her.
Marisha: You want a task? I'll give you one.
Matt: All right. How long does Speak With--
Marisha: I don't know.
Matt: It lasts for ten minutes, so you can cast it again. It's first level.
Marisha: Oh, has it not been ten minutes?
Matt: It has been more than ten minutes. It took you three hours to return.
Marisha: Okay, we walked back? Okay, I'll cast it again.
Matt: All righty.
Marisha: Can I cast Speak With Animals on other people? I can't, right? No.
Matt: All right, so as you shout, go ahead and make an animal handling check, with advantage because of your ability to speak.
Marisha: With advantage?
Matt: Yes.
Marisha: I'll take the-- what is that, 16? Plus a six, so 22.
Matt: Okay. Galdric turns to you and essentially leans towards you and you get the essence, the idea of a message across, and to keep me from having to walk behind now, at this point, as you guys have managed to make seeming amends at the moment, employs the idea of, "I'll listen if you give me a task."
Marisha: He talked back.
Laura: Have him guard the village.
Marisha: Okay. (louder) Galdric. Only a beast of your great fortitude--
Laura: Just fucking tell him to do it!
Marisha: Right, okay. Sorry. Would you like to guard--
Sam: It's a command.
Marisha: -- the town, Whitestone? (shouting) Guard this town, dog.
Travis: Keyleth, repeat after me.
Marisha: Yes.
Travis: In exchange for food, protect these lands.
Marisha: Galdric. In exchange for food, shelter, and a cozy fire every once in awhile--
Travis: I didn't say that shit. I didn't say that. He's a wolf. He doesn't need those.
Marisha: Patrol these lands.
Laura: Protect these lands.
Marisha: Protect these lands.
Travis: (quietly) Holy shit.
Matt: "For how long?"
Laura: (laughs) He already asked that.
Marisha: Why does he want details? Why does the dog want--
Laura: As long as we need you to.
Travis: No, no. A great danger approaches.
Taliesin: Until the danger has passed.
Travis: You'll know it when it comes.
Marisha: (clears throat) A great danger--
Laura: Approaches!
Marisha: Approaches! A great danger approaches. Your service is required until that danger--
Taliesin: Has passed.
Marisha: Has passed! Is no longer in effect. You'll know. You'll know, because they're fucking dragons, man. You'll know. Protect--
Travis: I walk over and put my hand over Keyleth's mouth. You stay. We feed you. Is there a tavern or a butcher shop or something nearby?
Matt: There is a butcher. As you're having this thought, however, Galdric turns back over to you and says, "I can feed myself."
Laura: Yeah, you can.
Matt: "But I will watch until this danger has passed."
Laura: Awesome.
Matt: "Then am I free to go?"
Marisha: Then you are free to go.
Matt: "Very well. I grow tired of service. I wait too long." And the wolf looks at you, gives you like an acknowledgement, and then walks off into the woods.
Laura: Bye, buddy!
Marisha: Thanks, Galdric. Appreciate it, man.
Laura: Man, that's a cool-looking wolf.
Marisha: I look at Grog. How was that? Did that sound okay?
Travis: That was the dumbest thing I've ever heard. (laughter)
Taliesin: You did good, you did good.
Sam: I thought she did very well.
Marisha: Thank you. It really liked you. You should learn how to talk to animals.
Laura: What is that? What is that you have? What is that?
Taliesin: I'm holding onto the Raven's Slumber jewel at the moment.
Sam: The thing that can capture evil.
Taliesin: It's empty now, and do you know what I bet would fit in it very nicely?
Travis: Me.
Laura: And we can carry him around and then pop him out. Wait, okay, wait. Is it going to hurt him? Does it hurt him? Is it like, it's bad?
Sam: Not only does it not hurt him, he does not age or feel any pain.
Travis: A willing creature need not make a saving throw.
Taliesin: It's automatic, and no time passes.
Laura: Okay, I'm going to try it, and I'm going to try it, and just to see how he likes it. If he's okay with it.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Hey, buddy, come here.
Matt: As you turn around and look, you see there's a small puddle on the ground where Trinket has vomited up. He's pushing dirt over it.
Travis: Yeah, you got to teach him to quit rummaging, that is really foul.
Laura: What was that? Trinket, what did you eat? Don't eat the puke. Do not eat the puke. Come here.
Matt: Trinket's like scraping dirt over it.
Travis: Got a carrot on your chin.
Laura: Trinket. Do you want to go for a ride? You like rides? Yeah? You want to go for one? All right, sit still. This'll be fun. I don't know how to use it.
Taliesin: Just point, yep.
Laura: I point to him with the--
Sam: You should probably say something cool.
Laura: By the power vested in me, I now pronounce you my Pokemon. (laughter)
Matt: Words be damned. It takes you an action or so to activate the crystal, but as you do, Trinket gives a confused look before Trinket's shadow seems to crawl up his legs until it forms into this circle, this dark core, roughly half the size of Trinket's form, before it shoots into the crystal.
Laura: Is he about this size, but I don't like that one, is he about this size?
Matt: A little larger than that before he goes into the crystal, but once he's in the crystal, it's small.
Laura: Oh, it's a little crystal?
Liam: Trinkachu, I choose you.
Laura: (gasps) Oh my gosh. That's really fun. Okay. How do I let him go?
Marisha: I think you-- yeah.
Laura: I release you.
Matt: Okay. As you do that, once again the same dark energy you saw earlier spills out and hits the ground in front of you, and from that dark shadow area Trinket's form emerges, standing there looking really confused.
Laura: How was it? Did it hurt? Can you talk to him? You can still talk to him. Talk to him. Ask him if it hurt.
Matt: (vomiting noises) Vomits a little bit more on the ground.
Laura: Well, that's not good.
Marisha: You know, sometimes the teleportation makes you lose your lunch.
Laura: Ask him how he's doing.
Marisha: Trinket? You all right buddy? You all right, there?
Matt: "Feeling sick."
Laura: Ask him how the little car ride was, ask him if he liked the ride.
Marisha: How was the ride? Did you feel all right? How was--?
Matt: "Yeah?"
Laura: Okay, would you mind, ask him if he'd mind doing that on occasion, you know, whenever I need him to.
Marisha: What was it like in there? Was it--?
Matt: "I don't remember."
Marisha: Okay, that's good, that's good. Would you mind--
Laura: Ask him if he cares if I do it again, ask him if he cares.
Marisha: Would you mind doing that, you know, frequently? On occasion. MATT "If she wants me to, okay."
Laura: What did he say, what did he say? He looked really cute when he said something.
Marisha: You have a lot of men who will do anything for you.
Laura: Oh, buddy! I go and hug him really tight and scratch his ears.
Matt: You do, and avoid the little bit of--
Laura: --vomit on, I don't even care! Oh my gosh, thank you! This is the best, this is the best and we can travel with him, we can climb with him, we can sneak around.
Sam: Hey, and if Trinket isn't in it, you can also use it to capture baddies.
Laura: I know, it's great!
Taliesin: And because of the way that the projection works, you could also in theory capture a baddie and then let them loose off a cliff and watch them drop.
Laura: Oh my god.
Marisha: Oh my god, you're right.
Taliesin: It's very convenient.
Laura: Oh my gosh. Okay.
Matt: So. You have a crystal, you've set a wolf on a path.
Sam: Where are we going next?
Matt: Where are you going now?
Taliesin: Your home, I imagine.
Laura: Don't we need to--oh, yeah.
Sam: What's our to-do list?
Marisha: We don't have to worry about it. We can, it's fine.
Taliesin: Fire Ashari it is.
Sam: Wait, wait, wait. What are the things that we need to do?
Laura: We need to check in on Keyleth's family.
Sam: Cobalt Reserve, Ashari.
Laura: Grog's family.
Sam: Did we already take care of Osysa's mate, Frostweald?
Laura: No, but that's down--
Taliesin: That's far.
Marisha: That's the other Vestige, correct?
Laura: Yes, that's over by Grog's family.
Matt: That's information about the Vestiges.
Sam: We need to steal an airship.
Taliesin: I agree, that's still very important.
Travis: I can't remember where, what--
Laura: They were by Kraghammer.
Travis: Thank you. I'm having terrible hiccups.
Sam: What about, we need to find Kaylie at some point. We also need to, who's gone, where's Allu-- where's Ki-- where's people?
Laura: Allura should be here in like a day. She should be here very soon.
Travis: What's close to here? (hiccups)
Taliesin: Nothing's close, we're specifically far away from everything.
Marisha: But we can go wherever we want as long as we've been there before.
Travis: Well, we should definitely go to the Fire Ashari.
Taliesin: Fire Ashari is the next--
Laura: We should go to the Fire Ashari.
Marisha: Oh god, I'm immediately nauseous.
Matt: (bear noises)
Liam: That's two of us.
Marisha: Oh, Trinket, buddy. What time is it?
Laura: (laughs) Do you need some water?
Matt: It's still, with the travel to and from, it's middle afternoon, like one o'clock in the afternoon.
Taliesin: Take it.
Sam: If we're going to go, do we need anything before we leave? We got everything we need? Potions and stuff? Want to buy some meat for your cooler?
Laura: Yeah, let's get some meat.
Matt: It's pretty easy to go ahead and procure it, five gold of meat will fill that thing.
Laura: Yeah!
Matt: So go ahead and mark five gold off your paper.
Sam: How much, could I buy a medical kit somewhere?
Matt: Yeah, you could find a general store and purchase a medical kit.
Sam: How much is that?
Matt: I'm going to look that up right now.
Sam: All right, whatever, I've got it.
Taliesin: It's nifty that you have a book that tells you how much something like that costs.
Matt: Imagine that. It's like it's a handbook of some kind, it's crazy.
Marisha: Does anyone have any fire-resistant items?
Laura: He does.
Liam: I do.
Laura: Put it on.
Marisha: I might pick up some fire resistant potions as well.
Travis: I have this black iron plate that I haven't used ever. 'While wearing this heavy plate 'armor, the bearer gains resistance to any fire damage.'
Matt: Five gold for an herbalist's kit for you.
Laura: Oh, plate armor, none of us can wear it but Pike.
Matt: An herbalist's kit, like five gold.
Sam: Can that stabilize people?
Matt: If used with a medicine check, yeah.
Laura: Okay, I have this, which I can't wear.
Taliesin: What is that?
Laura: It's a purple and black robe. It was Lady Briarwood's robes.
Taliesin: What does it do?
Laura: Clings to nearby darkness as you walk. While wearing this robe, you gain resistance to piercing damage. Anybody need pierce resistance that can wear robes?
Taliesin: I'm pretty reasonable.
Sam: Do I wear robes?
Matt: Robes would be worn instead of your armor.
Sam: No thanks.
Laura: What about Gloves of Missile Snaring? That appeal to anyone?
Sam: Missile snaring? What does that do?
Laura: These gloves seem to almost meld into your hands when you don them, and when a ranged weapon attack hits you, you can use your reaction to reduce the damage by 1d10 plus your dexterity modifier provided that you have a free hand. If you reduce the damage to zero, you can catch the missile if it's small enough to hold in that hand.
Taliesin: Does it require attuning?
Marisha: They're pretty sleek.
Laura: It requires two, no it just requires one free hand.
Taliesin: Yes, but does it require attuning?
Laura: Yes it does, it requires attuning.
Taliesin: I might be attuned out at this point.
Laura: Anybody? I feel like that could be cool for you, Scanlan.
Sam: I think I can take it?
Taliesin: What's your dex? Your dexterity is not very-- actually, it might work out well for me, weirdly enough.
Marisha: Are you fully attuned?
Taliesin: I can undo something that I'm not using.
Marisha: Percy, you have access here in Whitestone to alchemy supplies, correct?
Taliesin: Matt, I have access to alchemy supplies here in Whitestone, correct?
Matt: (laughs) I mean, there are elements of your initial workshop I guess, that a lot of supplies have been cannibalized but a few things can be pieced together. Plus there was a lot of alchemical elements and tools that were utilized in the subterranean tunnels as part of the refinement process for the whitestone residuum, the large vats of acid that were distilled by the Briarwoods while they were here, and there are other elements of their own tinkering in the alchemical arts that remain scattered throughout the castle. So yeah, you can definitely find enough to tinker with if you want.
Marisha: I mean, we could take the rest of the evening and I can attempt to make some fire resist potions.
Sam: Eh.
Travis: All right, here's what I'm thinking, right? I mean, if we go after my herd, we're in for a fight. A big one. If we go to your Fire Ashari, we're doing recon and hopefully learning something, right?
Marisha: Well, we're going to be in for a fight at the Fire Ashari as well because there's a giant sunder in the fire plane, and last time I checked there were fire imps and elementals pouring through there.
Travis: Are those bad?
Taliesin: Eh.
Marisha: They're annoying
Taliesin: As long as we're quick we can go about it.
Marisha: Well.
Sam: What's our mission?
Travis: You really want to get the rest of the testicles of--
Marisha: I mean, we could theoretically see if there are survivors and I can attempt to close the tear in the plane. I don't know if I can do that. However, I don't know anyone else particularly more qualified to attempt it.
Travis: Allura or that bearded dude.
Marisha: We're talking about the Fire Ashari and possibly what to do there.
Laura: Oh.
Marisha: We can go and look for survivors--
Laura: And bring them here.
Marisha: And someone should probably close the tear in the fire plane.
Laura: Should we wait for Allura then, before we go?
Travis: Well, if there are survivors, they might not be that way for very long if we don't go.
Laura: They've been there for a while already.
Marisha: If there are survivors--
Laura: Then they're surviving.
Marisha: They've survived. I agree. It's not going to be pretty.
Taliesin: I know you don't want to go.
Marisha: I really don't.
Taliesin: But we need to go. I say we take the rest of the day. You make your potions, we leave first thing in the morning.
Laura: Wait for Allura, hopefully she'll be here by then.
Taliesin: Maybe Allura will join us by tomorrow morning. If not, we teleport over.
Matt: Okay, you guys are going to rest for the evening?
Travis: Wait, hold on, is there like a house of entertainment in Whitestone? I know it's just getting back on its feet but you know.
Matt: That would be a question more for Percival.
Travis: Percy? I'm having a bit of a soul struggle and I'm wondering if I might bend your ear for a moment.
Taliesin: Sure.
Travis: Yeah, could I speak to you over here?
Taliesin: Yes, of course.
Travis: Right, so, like, I want to get my freak on.
Taliesin: I don't feel that way about you. (laughter)
Travis: Yeah, no, I, I'm sorry.
Taliesin: I mean, you're very attractive.
Travis: That was very unclear. So I know this is like your home and stuff and you might not have been aware of it, but they have these houses where like....
Taliesin: Oh, where you get your freak on!
Travis: Yes.
Taliesin: Yes. Yes, we have them.
Travis: Oh good, do you think they're still in order?
Taliesin: Oh, I imagine so.
Travis: Could you point me in that direction?
Taliesin: No, I have no idea where they are. I do know that they exist. I actually had things to do here. I didn't have time for these.
Travis: Oh yeah, me too, important things. I was thinking for Scanlan in case he gets bored, you know, you've got to keep him focused.
Taliesin: I wouldn't actually know where any of these places were, would I?
Matt: No, and those that did exist in this town have not been...
Taliesin: I figured as much. I'm just fucking with him. Okay. No.
Travis: Oh, okay, well, I'll let Scanlan know. Just keep it between you and me 'cause he's very sensitive about these things.
Taliesin: Your secret is safe with my indifference. That's fine.
Travis: Well, my, my, indifference
Taliesin: I know you do.
Travis: Yep.
Taliesin: You're wonderful.
Marisha: Can I start telling that to people in real life?
Taliesin: Yes you can. I do it all the time.
Marisha: Yes. Your secret is safe with my indifference.
Travis: Okay. I'm going to rest.
Sam: Before we set off on this, is there anything closer or more pressing? I don't actually know why we're going to her place, but I'm fine with it.
Marisha: To look for survivors and close the giant tear in the fire plane that evil, well not evil, fiery entities are pouring through.
Taliesin: It's a hellmouth, it's basically a hellmouth.
Travis: It's either that or we go goliath hunting.
Laura: That's next.
Taliesin: But this is quick, this is something that we can knock off the list.
Sam: All right, let's knock it off.
Travis: Yeah, right, let's just check it off.
Liam: As we're walking through town, do I see any weaponsmiths?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Liam: Okay.
Taliesin: I'll help you make the potions.
Liam: 21.
Matt: Okay, that'll help cut down on the time. 21? There are two functional smiths left in the town. There were two more than that overall, that were more like blacksmithy, but they both unfortunately lost their lives in the insurrection. But there are two functional blacksmiths in this, yeah.
Liam: And one's nearby, to pass through?
Matt: About a ten-minute diversion.
Liam: I'm splitting off from the group.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: We've got to get out of here.
Liam: One's in front of me now?
Matt: Well, you find your way to-- it's a small blacksmith, and most of it's outside. Though the day is growing late, you do see an older gentleman, long, tattered grey hair pulled into a very tight bun in the back and a beard that is actually tied off to the side. Otherwise it would be hanging down into his work. He's wearing soot-covered clothes, big leather apron, leather gloves, and he's currently in the process of (ping ping) turning over and hammering out a piece of orange glowing steel.
Liam: Excuse me, sorry to interrupt, I have a very simple request.
Matt: He doesn't stop. He seems to, he acknowledges your presence but he's still working as he's listening. (smithing sounds)
Liam: I have six gold burning a hole in my pocket. I'm not looking for anything simple. Do you have a short sword? A regular old shortsword.
Matt: (ting) He looks over at you. "If that's what you're looking for, on that wall over there we've got two shortswords." (ting)
Liam: What's the difference between the two that I can see?
Matt: (smithing sounds) That you can see? Make a perception check.
Liam: 22.
Matt: Looking over them both, from this distance, they're both made with different hilt designs and different pommel designs, the grips are a little different but other than that the blades are pretty much identical.
Liam: I grab one off the wall. I slap down six gold, which I know is way too much and say, thank you sir. Pelor lives here. And I walk away.
Matt: Okay, as you start walking away he goes, "Hey."
Liam: Yeah?
Matt: "You're going to pay proper for that shortsword."
Liam: Oh, I'm sorry. How much does it cost?
Matt: "12 gold pieces."
Liam: My apologies. 12?
Matt: "12 gold pieces, friend."
Liam: So I put down six. I put down another 14. I really apologize. I was just confused.
Matt: "It's all right. No harm no foul." Takes the gold and scoops it and puts it into his pouch. "Have a good day."
Liam: I walk down the street going like-- it's big.
Matt: It's much bigger than you're used to, but it's got a fine balance to it and it's well-made. All right, so as you guys have all--
Laura: I've got an opal dagger you could have used.
Liam: I don't need your dagger.
Taliesin: We're going to make our potions?
Matt: Yes, yes. All right, so.
Marisha: I have another question.
Matt: What is your other question?
Marisha: Before we all go to bed tonight can we get like a fuckton of the green stone under Whitestone?
Taliesin: There's really not a lot of it.
Marisha: Say like $1,000 worth and maybe have like a real nice Heroes' Feast before tomorrow?
Liam: Wise as fuck.
Laura: Or in the morning.
Liam: Heroes' Breakfast.
Marisha: I've got to do it at night, because I have to Tree Stride in the morning.
Matt: You can choose either to create the potion or to mine the residuum for the evening. You cannot do both. Both are time, like, to pull that material from the-- because most of it that remains has been already embedded within the ziggurat beneath. You would actually have to physically chip it from the structure.
Laura: I have a plan, Keyleth.
Marisha: Yes?
Laura: We will cover the 1,000 gold from our own party funds and have someone here mine some shit for us and give it to us later.
Marisha: I like that plan, yeah. Sounds good to me.
Sam: How about the wolf?
Taliesin: So potions.
Laura: Percival, do you have people here who can mine? Looking for work, people--?
Marisha: Yeah, sure, why not?
Taliesin: I'll let them know that they should start trying to pull the residuum out of the wall, but it's dangerous down there.
Laura: Yeah, it is.
Taliesin: And tampering with it is definitely...
Travis: Necessary.
Taliesin: Should be ginger. It would, I'm trying to keep everything ginger down there.
Laura: So maybe we should take 1,000 gold just from your family stores then, huh? That might be smarter.
Taliesin: We currently have 1,000 gold from my family stores that are in the group treasury at the moment.
Laura: Oh, we do. No, that's 500. That was just 500. Just so you know.
Taliesin: I feel like it was more than that.
Laura: No, it was just 500.
Liam: Hey, de Rolo, do you remember what happened yesterday?
Taliesin: He's not there.
Laura: Isn't he, though?
Taliesin: I was going to do such a nice thing for you, but never mind now.
Laura: (laughs) No, no, no, do something really nice for me.
Liam: Where did I go? Oh, I went to buy a shortsword.
Taliesin: No, never mind. You went to buy a shortsword.
Laura: Dear, dear, dear, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Do nice things. All right?
Taliesin: I'm trying to be gentle with my family right now. They're taking on an awful lot.
Laura: You're right. They're taking on so many people.
Taliesin: And we'll see what we can do.
Liam: I'd like to think you hear me in your mind.
Taliesin: Always fucking hear you in my mind.
Laura: Let's just use the damned party funds for the time being. It's fine, Keyleth. This is a really important feast.
Taliesin: We're busy making potions.
Laura: All right.
Matt: So you prepare a Heroes' Feast before you begin this potion-creation process? Is that what I understand or not?
Laura: What?
Marisha: Can I make some potions and then, like, I make dinner for us before we go to bed?
Matt: It's going to take you about the length of a day to create the potion, with his help it takes it to about half, so it'll be about 12 hours of creating. Eight to 12 hours. So.
Travis: Pick one.
Taliesin: Pick one.
Marisha: I'll do a damn feast.
Taliesin: No potion?
Matt: You can do the potion as well. The feast only takes a moment to cast.
Marisha: All right, okay. Yeah.
Matt: I'm just saying, be aware that you guys will probably have, if you want to get a full rest after that potion creation process, you're going to have to wait until like this time tomorrow, like late in the day to make your journey. Which is fine, if you're willing to be patient about it.
Travis: Sure.
Matt: Yes, no?
Travis: Say one, just say one.
Marisha: Yeah, let's do it, let's do it. Let's go in prepared and then we can always rest on that side.
Matt: Cool. For a fine, fine dinner.
Laura: Just want to make sure we feast right before we leave so that it's most useful.
Matt: All right, so. You, everyone else goes to sleep while you and Percy work tirelessly through the night. If I could have you--
Liam: Fuck!
Matt: (laughs) Just for the sake of it, I want you to go ahead and make an arcana check.
Marisha: Aw, an arcana? Do I get advantage because of my little skill in alchemy? I'm skilled in alchemy.
Matt: Yeah. Oh, that's right you are, never mind, go ahead and do that.
Matt: Proficiency bonus, are you proficient in alchemy?
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: So proficiency bonus, and for this, use intellect modifier.
Marisha: Okay. Intellect, which makes it plus seven. Do I have advan-- ooh, I rolled a natural 19.
Matt: Okay. We'll say, for the fair cost of, reduced due to the roll, 450 gold pieces, you create a potion of resistance of your choice of resistance.
Marisha: Just one?
Matt: Just one.
Marisha: Fire.
Matt: It takes a long time, man.
Marisha: Fire!
Matt: Fire, all right. You create a potion of fire resistance. The materials cost you 450 gold to create, you finish it by about sunrise the next day. Everyone else begins slowly waking up after the night's rest as you guys both, bags under your eyes.
Laura: Oh, that was a good night's sleep, I tell you what.
Travis: Seriously.
Sam: Keyleth, could you--
Marisha: What? Oh, god, you snuck up on me.
Sam: Could you make me some tea real quick?
Marisha: Scanlan.
Sam: What?
Marisha: Go fuck yourself.
Sam: What, you were up before me, I thought--
Taliesin: All right. All right, this is fine.
Marisha: This is fine.
Taliesin: This is good.
Marisha: This is great.
Matt: You're doing a Heroes' Feast for breakfast, then? Is that how it's working?
Marisha: I'll take a nap. I'll cook breakfast, guys, good morning. Good morning!
Laura: Oh hey, good morning, Keyleth!
Sam: Why don't you sleep during the day, we'll all take our feast, and then blast off at night time?
Marisha: Because I have to teleport and cooking this feast are both 6th-level spells and I can only do one of those a day.
Travis: Man, it's hard being a druid.
Laura: Can anybody else make a feast? That's here?
Marisha: Pike. Pike. Pike?
Sam: She's with Gilmore.
Travis: She's not here.
Laura: (sighs) I miss Pike.
Liam: We all miss Pike.
Marisha: I'll cook breakfast, guys.
Laura: No, I'll cook breakfast. No, I won't cook breakfast.
Liam: That's a good idea, for you to not cook breakfast.
Matt: What's the plan?
Marisha: I'm cooking breakfast!
Matt: Are you cooking breakfast or are you summoning breakfast? That's my question.
Laura: Are you summoning breakfast and then you're sleeping and then we're leaving?
Marisha: I'm summoning-- yes, I'm summoning breakfast and then I'm sleeping.
Laura: And then you're sleeping and then we're leaving as soon as you wake up.
Matt: Okay, that's what I was wondering. We got the answer, okay, cool. Hoo, today's been a slog. All right, so you go ahead and you use Heroes' Feast, summoning forth a fantastical breakfast meal filled with coffee and eggs and everything you would hope for, the finest materials.
Laura: Froot Loops!
Matt: (laughs) Sure, Froot Loops is on the menu, why not?
Taliesin: Lucky Charms.
Matt: No Lucky Charms, sorry, those aren't available on Tal'Dorei. But yes, all you guys take an hour to finish devouring this, you finish your meal, all you guys get a 2d10 hit point maximum increase to your hit points.
Laura: Ooh, ooh, greens, greens!
Matt: And immune to poison, frightened, and all wisdom saving throws have advantage.
Travis: Damn!
Sam: Advantage on wisdom.
Matt: Yes, the usual.
Travis: Almost broke.
Marisha: And wisdom.
Laura: And you're immune to fear, right?
Marisha: Immune to fear, poison, and what else?
Matt: And you get advantage on wisdom saving throws.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: After which, Percy and Keyleth pretty much fall asleep at the table as it vanishes and they both collapse to the ground, eggs out of the corner of their mouth. Eventually they make themselves back up to sleep and the rest of you guys peter around for the remainder of the day while they get their full rest. It now comes to, at the end of that eight-hour period of time, I'd say about three, four in the afternoon before they finally wake up. You've restored your spells.
Marisha: Yay!
Matt: And the rest of you are ready to go about your business.
Laura: Let's go, let's go, let's go.
Liam: Wait! While they're sleeping, right--
Matt: Mm-hmm?
Liam: I take Scanlan aside.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Oi.
Liam: Hey, buddy.
Sam: Hey, friendo.
Liam: Yeah.
Sam: What's up?
Liam: We don't talk a lot.
Sam: Well, we start to and then you leave the room, usually. (laughter)
Liam: I don't handle personal emotional confrontation very well.
Sam: It's okay. I walk away. (laughter)
Marisha: Oh, shit!
Sam: Then I come back, I feel bad.
Taliesin: No, no, that was perfect.
Liam: Where did you go?
Sam: Just kidding, just kidding.
Liam: Pull up a chair, sit down, I want to ask you something.
Sam: I'm already as low as I can go.
Liam: You're right. How do you do it?
Sam: How do I do what?
Liam: How do you do it? You're risking your life as much as anyone in this group, you're almost dying every day. You're fucking smiling all the time. How do you do it? I'm kind of asking as Liam to Sam as well, but mostly as Vax to Scanlan. How do you do it? You almost died yesterday as well. Or two days ago, fuck. Why do you do it?
Sam: Well, Vax. I don't know, I mean, I like you people, okay? Everything before this was not as good. This is better. That's why. It's very simple. You had a shitty childhood, didn't you? You and the sister?
Liam: Yeah.
Sam: I think Grog had some troubles. We've all had our share of shit before we all met. Now we're together, we're a family, this is better. That's how I smile. It's better than it was before. That's it.
Liam: We're probably going to die in the next month.
Sam: Yes, but it's fun while it lasts.
Liam: All right. Thought I might--
Sam: Glean some wisdom?
Liam: Yeah, but I'm just as confused as before.
Sam: Listen, I'm older than you.
Liam: How much older?
Sam: A bit. I've seen more than you have. And it's all shitty, so it just depends on how you look at it. You can dwell on the shit, or you can just leave it behind in people's beds and keep going.
Marisha: Oh god, that works on too many levels.
Taliesin: Oh god, that's too deep.
Marisha: Too deep.
Liam: You did that. Water under the bridge.
Sam: I walk away.
Liam: That little motherfucker shit in my bed.
Matt: All right. As you regather your will, path chosen; Keyleth, do you wish to prepare the transportation spell?
Marisha: Yeah.
Taliesin: Let's do this.
Matt: All right. All of you gather and find your way down to the Sun Tree in the center of the town. At this point, it's later afternoon, you've been growing accustomed these past few days of taking action right around dusk, and as the sky turns from a blue to a bit of an orangish hue, you all find yourselves ready to transition back over to the continent of Issylra.
Marisha: Let's go. To the Sun Tree.
Matt: Keyleth steps forward, touches her hand to the Sun Tree, completes her mental incantation, and you watch the trunk once again tear open into the somewhat oval walkway into the tree itself. On the opposite side, what's your destination?
Marisha: Oh, god. As close as I can get to the Fire Ashari, I guess.
Matt: Okay. You recall, passing through, there were a number of trees towards the base of the mountain that were starting to grow petrified from the proximity to the ash that constantly falls from the sky. They died a long time ago and are slowly beginning to petrify. As the portal opens up on the opposite side, you can see beyond that the dark rock that formulates that mountain range. At the same time, you can see a dull orange glow, and you all begin to step through in rapid succession, Trinket racing up after Vex. All of you find yourself stepping out the other side, at which point you look up and you can see the pathway that you took towards the top of the mountain where the Fire Ashari called Pyrah, where they maintained their ever-vigilant watch on the tear into the fire elemental plane. What you do notice immediately is that the path that you took initially is no longer a simple walkway. Against the now very dark sky, this side of the realm itself, night is, actually, no, sorry. At this point, you've actually beaten the sun.
Marisha: Oh, do we gain a few hours?
Matt: Yeah, you guys have gained a few hours, technically.
Marisha: Awesome.
Matt: So it's still light in the sky from other parts in the distance, however, there is a perpetual dark cloud of smoke and actual storm cloud gathering across this mountain range. As you recall the first time you were here, that's the nature of Pyrah, it's always under this thick, heavy, soot-and-ash-filled cloud cover. The pathway that winds up the mountain, though, is instead a glowing orange mass of slowly dribbling molten rock that has filled that entire walkway, and it has come to rest at the base of the mountain where it has gathered and begun to cool. You guys are hundreds of feet off from this point as you step out of the tree. However, where you see the molten rock has reached the base of the mountain, you-- it's cooled and formed into solid rock at its base, and you start seeing flashes of the orange turning dark, then another section turns dark from the opposite side. And then a few moments pass and you can see the orange of the next section, up in like ten-foot segments, it's going dark and hardening on its own. You get the sense that your arrival did not trigger this more than it has been happening since before you arrived.
Marisha: Can I do a nature check to figure out what's up?
Matt: Sure. Actually, this would be a perception check to see if you can ascertain.
Marisha: 16.
Matt: 16. It's difficult to make out at this distance, but you can see, along portions of the jagged mountainside, a collection of small figures that are making their way up the mountain, and their slow ascent is met with the lava flow cooling in sections.
Marisha: Do they look like people, like humanoids?
Matt: It's hard to tell from this distance, they look human-ish, humanoid-ish.
Taliesin: I attempt to use the optics on my gun to get a better look at them.
Matt: Sure, go ahead and make a perception check.
Taliesin: 18.
Matt: 18. A little bit of a clearer look through, they do appear to be humanoid. You do see two arms, two legs. You can't gauge size comparison from this distance.
Sam: How far?
Matt: At this point, they're probably a good 800 feet up the mountain.
Marisha: 800 feet?
Taliesin: Are they dressed like the Ashari that I've met?
Matt: From what you can make out, their color palette shifts, there are reds and browns, some stand out as an aquamarine white. The Ashari you saw were a pretty consistent color palette. This is a little more varied.
Taliesin: I don't know who these people are.
Marisha: They could still be Ashari. Just in their elemental forms. Are there any birds around? I look up, do I see birds in the sky?
Matt: There are no birds in the sky. Unfortunately, because of the nature of this area, especially as the oppressive fumes and dust continue to pour off from the top of the caldera of this mountain range, it has made it not fitting for any sort of aerial life that you're used to seeing. You glance around for about a minute or two and you don't see any sort of bird life in the air.
Travis: Did the ground cool where they were walking? Could we follow them up?
Taliesin: We should.
Marisha: Let's stay far behind. Let's go quietly.
Laura: Let's walk. Stealth? I cast Pass Without a Trace on all of us.
Matt: Okay. Everyone make a stealth check, including Trinket.
Travis: You don't want to put him in the thing?
Sam: You could.
Laura: (gasps) Okay.
Liam: Try it out.
Laura: I put it on a string so I could put it around my neck because it's a necklace because it's cooler that way.
Matt: Well, it has a chain on it that it came with.
Laura: It's got a chain on it, so it's around my neck.
Matt: All right, so you take it, you put--
Sam: It has a chain and a string now.
Matt: Chain and string.
Marisha: The string's so you don't forget.
Matt: Exactly. You trigger the necklace, pointing it in the direction of Trinket, and once again Trinket is absorbed into the crystal, vanishing within the inside. All right.
Travis: 17.
Matt: 17.
Sam: Pass Without a Trace is--?
Travis: Plus ten. I rolled shitty.
Laura: 30.
Liam: 35.
Marisha: 32.
Taliesin: 29.
Sam: 25.
Matt: Okay. You guys begin making your trek up. How are you going up the mountain? Are you scaling the cooled flow?
Marisha: Yeah.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: That's probably the safest route given the fact that most of the other side of the mountain range itself is pretty jagged, and elements of it, because of the formation of this giant volcanic caldera, there are portions of broken stone and obsidian glass that sticks out the side.
Marisha: As we're walking up, I fall behind and I slip Vax the potion of fire protection.
Matt: All right. You guys continue in pace with this, eventually, and make another perception check?
Marisha: Much better, that's a natural 19. 30.
Matt: 30. Okay. Looking up, as this cluster of individuals makes their way towards the very top of the mountain, seemingly not taking sight of your traveling group, you're beginning to see the nature of each section of this flow cooling. And what you're seeing is the group will move up a bit, stop, and there appears to be a burst of-- sometimes it looks like very strong wind, sometimes it looks like a very localized sleet storm that is brought against the side of the mountain and is actually forcefully cooling the flow down temporarily, at least in those sections, before it begins to spill over and continue its slow molten descent, but they're doing their best to continue to force it back up the mountain and--
Laura: Those are druids.
Marisha: Those are druids.
Marisha: I cast Skywrite in the clouds above us, in the smoke.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: And I write--
Laura: "So, how are you guys doing up there?"
Taliesin: "Hi."
Marisha: "Hi. Hey you guys." I write, in druidic symbols, "Keyleth, Kaitiaki."
Sam: What's that? Is that her?
Matt: Okay. You notice the pace in which this group has ascended comes to a halt at the very, very top of the mountain range where it ends, and there's a slight pause before the clouds shift a second time and it says, from what you understand, "Kaitiaki. Survivors remain, Keyleth."
Marisha: And I respond with, "Help has arrived."
Sam: You guys are texting?
Marisha: (laughs) Yeah.
Matt: Druid texting.
Laura: What are you saying?
Taliesin: Stop looking at your phone.
Laura: What do they say?
Sam: Why don't we go over there and talk to them?
Marisha: They're survivors.
Travis: Well, let's go.
Laura: Are they nice?
Marisha: They're survivors. What does it matter?
Travis: And we go.
Marisha: Let's go. And I tell them, you know, "Arriving. Stand down. Here we come."
Taliesin: "Lol."
Marisha: "Lol. Winky-face."
Liam: As we travel, because I was too out of it to respond and she's way ahead, I take the potion that Keyleth gave to me, because she didn't have to, I've got the David Bowie armor on now.
Matt: You did don it. Okay.
Liam: Yes, yeah. Before going to bed.
Marisha: Oh you did, okay.
Liam: And I press it into Vex's hand.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Hey, I took your, all right, I'm going to take it.
Matt: What was your choice of resistance? I assume it was fire. Okay. All right. As you guys progress up, and it is, though it is a safe route, it is still a relatively steep incline and you're all having to work together to find handholds, and it is very arduous physically getting up there. I would like everyone to go ahead and make a constitution saving throw.
Sam: Oh, shit.
Laura: A constitution?
Matt: Yes.
Laura: Oh, do we get advantage because of the feast?
Travis: No, that's only wisdom.
Laura: Shit.
Liam: Come on, Colville meteorite die.
Travis: 17.
Liam: I'm so weak.
Laura: Come on, jade.
Liam: Natural 20!
Laura: You motherfucker!
Liam: Thank you, Matthew Colville.
Laura: I'm rolling my giant jade dice, because it's green.
Travis: Way to announce it.
Laura: Womp-womp. Oh, that's a six.
Travis: (laughs) You're fucked.
Marisha: 20.
Taliesin: 13.
Sam: Five.
Matt: Okay. As you guys begin to get partially up the mountain, the proximity of the heat from the-- because the exterior of the rock has cooled, but it's still molten beneath and there are parts of that are still cracking open, and bits of the heat are still pouring through, plus the general physical exertion from the not-very-hardy physiques of both Vex and Scanlan, you both suffer one level of exhaustion from the ascent up the side of this mountain.
Laura: Oh, Trinket's in his thing, he's not worried at all.
Taliesin: I don't actually know what one level of exhaustion is.
Matt: You guys have disadvantage on ability checks. All your skill checks right now, until your next long rest, are at disadvantage.
Travis: Levels of exhaustion suck.
Sam: Not saving.
Matt: However, as you guys are approaching towards the top, you can see now the humanoids that were at the top of this mountain crest have been since keeping the flow at bay and each time it begins to crest over again and continue its flow, it's blasted again from the side and cools and it's building this very, very slow gradual outcropping--
Marisha: I use my cantrip Gust and cool areas alongside as we ascend.
Matt: Okay. You glance up and you now have a better view of this group, and what you do see ahead of you, specifically Keyleth, appears to be a cluster of about eight or so Fire Ashari-dressed individuals. You can't make out their physical details yet. Along with five other entities that are dressed in the colors and vestments of those from Zephrah.
Marisha: Oh shit!
Travis: From who? From what?
Liam: What's the matter?
Laura: What's up? What's happening?
Marisha: I run up.
Matt: Keyleth goes running up.
Marisha: You said seven or eight from Zephrah?
Matt: There are five from Zephrah.
Laura: Are we going to, we're going to follow?
Liam: Yeah, I'm breaking out of stealth and running.
Taliesin: Ah. Yeah. No. We're running now.
Laura: I walk. I'm pretty tired. You and me. Let's just walk.
Sam: Yeah. You can carry me.
Taliesin: Cardio. God.
Matt: Okay, it takes a while to get up there. As you guys begin to approach, a little bit behind Keyleth, and you look, you see the only two notable Fire Ashari that you see there are Nastoen, which is a human female that you saw was one of the four that first greeted you as you approached Pyrah when you got to the mountaintop. She looks a little rough, but she's definitely in one piece. The other one that greets you, and immediately you recognize as Flamespeaker Cerkonos, who currently does not have his right arm. It is charred and is, through some semblance of flame, cauterized to where he no longer has a shoulder and part of his torso is a black mass of burnt skin, probably intentionally, but as you approach he puts his hand out and goes, "Hail, Keyleth."
Marisha: Hail, Cerkonos. And I run up and give him a hug.
Matt: He pats you on the back and there's a coldness to his look, his expression. You can see in a brief instant, though there is strength and determination, there is a moment as he looks into your face that you can see the sorrow of losing most of his people.
Marisha: And I look back at him and I say  I'm so sorry.
Matt: "This is not your fault. We had this coming. We are the able-bodied few you see."
Marisha: Are these all that have survived?
Matt: "We are 25 living. The rest reside at the base of the mountain, to be watched, or are the watchers. But our attrition is of our own making. We helped outsiders too long ago."
Marisha: What? What do you mean, like, how long ago? 12, 15 years?
Matt: "We helped seal a drake in this rift."
Laura: Thordak.
Matt: "That is the name they call him. We helped bring and bind the beast to this rift, sealing within it the heart of a primordial flame, one of the few pure essence crystals of our plane. Such a binding will not allow it to leave. It is a punishment for the most terrible of evils that the Ashari take under their order. We carved from the crystal in bind. This beast was too strong and took the entire crystal, but it seemed enough. It seemed enough."
Marisha: Cerkonos, it's not your fault. There are greater forces at work here, beyond us. That's something that I am desperately trying to reassure myself of every day.
Matt: And a voice comes up from over the mountain range, raspy, older, and with a casual importance to it, and it says, "So, are you claiming some semblance of dealing with this?" And as it steps over, the face looks down with recognition. "My god. Keyleth."
Marisha: Who are you?
Matt: You guys look up and you see long, silver-haired half-elf in later years dressed in the blue and white robes of the Air Ashari. You see before you Korren, your father. "You live."
Marisha: Dad!
Matt: He steps forward and goes in, as he steps away from Cerkonos, takes you in his arms and holds you extremely tight against him.
Marisha: I'm sorry I didn't check in sooner. I didn't want you to be disappointed.
Matt: "Shh." He puts his finger up to your lips, holds you back and looks you over and with a smile on his face, you can see the hardness of his expression fade. "Keyleth, you've grown."
Marisha: A lot's happened.
Matt: "You look just like her."
Marisha: I haven't found Mom.
Matt: "Her path was her own. I'm just glad that you have maintained yours." He wipes the tear from your face and says, "How goes the Aramente?"
Marisha: Well.
Laura: She's kicking ass.
Matt: "Good. Good." And he places his thumb at the corner of his eye. "We were called naught but a day ago by the surviving Pyrah. Told of the angry mountain and the terrible drake that sundered the rift. I helmed the team while the majority of our people stayed to keep Zephrah cloaked and safe from the marauding beast. We've only just made our way up the mountain. Your arrival is quite fortuitous, as we need all the help we can get."
Sam: How can we be of assistance?
Matt: "Come. See what remains of Pyrah." He turns around and walks back over towards the top of the mountain.
Marisha: Daddy.
Matt: He stops. Looks over his shoulder towards you. "Yes?"
Marisha: It's good to see you again, father.
Matt: "It's good to see you as well, daughter. Now come. Show me what you've learned." Goes back to walking. The rest of the Fire Ashari stand up, acknowledge and recognize those of you that stand here before, visiting once before. Cerkonos looks about. "You show strength and honor by coming here in our time of need. This will not be forgotten. Now come." As you follow them up over the top of the mountain, you see once again before you the caldera of this once-volcanic mountain has been blown apart in areas. You can see sections of large black stone that are now pushed up into jagged obelisks where once was a relatively smooth blackened shale countryside. You can see there are pits of molten rock that have been punched through the floor and have gathered into these pools where the air above is slowly shifting and warped by the heat that is now released above the mountaintop. The flow of lava that descends down the side of this mountain continues and swells and heads inward towards the Cindergrove. The Cindergrove, from what you can see from this distance, is but a fraction of what was once there, most of the trees now torn apart and scattered amongst the top of this mountain. You can see bits and pieces of the various petrified trees thrown hundreds of feet from the center. There are still standing, defiant trees amongst what once was the Cindergrove, but they are very sparse, many of them now blackened by what you can see in the very distance beyond the broken huts and homes that once held the Pyrah, you can see in the distance moving, glowing dots of various elemental energies spiraling outward from a very large central red rift that sits there pulsing and pulsing with bright, almost sunlight energy. It's like staring into the sun at the very zenith of its movement. You have to avert your eyes even staring towards this rift, now a good 30, 40 feet taller than it was when you last returned here. What was once the portal in the ground has now ruptured and is emerging, slowly piercing out of the top of this mountain. Undaunted, your father and the other Ashari continue walking forward with no words.
Laura: I rush forward a little bit to talk to him. Question. Your majesty? I want to help, we all want to help as much as possible, but I don't know any magic. Most of us don't. Are we going to be able to do anything?
Matt: "Well, I certainly hope so. If you've survived this long with my daughter, you've picked up a few tricks."
Laura: Well, that I have.
Marisha: Father, I wouldn't be here if it wasn't for these people. They are the most capable that I know.
Matt: "This is good. Because that's who we need right now."
Marisha: However, since we're druids, we're a little bit more, you know. Geared. Prepared to deal with the fire. I can cast Protection from Energy on a couple of these people, if you wouldn't mind maybe grabbing the other two?
Matt: "I will do what I can."
Marisha: And I cast Protection from Fire on Percy, you have it, you have it, do you have it?
Travis: Well, I really don't even know what I'm going to do here.
Marisha: Well, it's going to protect you from fire.
Travis: Okay.
Marisha: Scanlan?
Sam: Hit me, babe.
Marisha: I'll do Percy and Scanlan. Father, can you--?
Matt: It's a concentration spell, so you can only really have one person going, and that's your concentration.
Marisha: Can only have one person going.
Matt: Yep.
Travis: Well, good.
Marisha: I could cast it at higher levels. Can I cast it at higher levels?
Travis: I'll take a mulligan on this one.
Marisha: Can't do that with this one? Fuck.
Laura: Do Scanlan. Do Scanlan.
Sam: No, I'm fine, don't worry about me.
Marisha: Well, I'm going to cast it on myself, for starters. Because I want it.
Laura: All right.
Marisha: So I'm going to cast Protection from Fire on myself.
Laura: What does a potion of fire resistance do?
Liam: Halves.
Laura: The same thing?
Laura: Halves all fire damage?
Marisha: Halves all fire damage?
Laura: Okay.
Matt: All right. As the cluster of you begin stepping deeper into the caldera, you begin to approach the outskirts of the remnants of the Pyrah tribe's homestead. You can see where most of it has been either completely burnt to a cinder or lies tattered by some great force, shattered. And you start, as you're walking through, you can see where the landscape itself, all the jagged bits of black obsidian glass are shooting up out of the ground and there's broken pieces of the dark rock and volcanic material, and it isn't until your eyes begin to focus that you realize that elements of this rock is not rock at all but the twisted and charred remains of the Pyrah that didn't escape in time, blending in with the ground and landscape surrounding. The rest of the Ashari continue pushing forward, not taking notice, focused, as before you, you can see the rift, still blinking ever-bright, in the center of the remains of the Cindergrove. You steel yourselves.
Marisha: I turn and I look at them and nod and follow in my people's footsteps.
Matt: And that's where we'll end tonight's session.
Travis: Oh shit.
Laura: Oh shit.
Travis: Okay. We're cooking with gas now.
Laura: As Marisha collapses in a pool of tears.
Taliesin: Cry more, cry more!
Matt: You knew this was coming.
Laura: Yeah, man. You're going to have a headache tomorrow, dude.
Marisha: I'm so tired. I'm tired.
Laura: Aw, we've got exhaustion, Sam. That's balls.
Sam: Yeah, that's not great.
Liam: Thanks for tuning in to Therapy Thursday, everyone.
Travis: Where we take shits and talk to swords.
Laura: There you go.
Matt: Got a little bit of column A, little bit of column B, we got some drama, we got some personal issues, we got some reunions, we got some hardships, we got--
Taliesin: Wild animals.
Laura: Yeah, so many things!
Matt: And a travel method for Trinket.
Laura: Oh my god, I'm so excited about it!
Matt: I wasn't sure how you guys were going to use that one, as soon as you mentioned it I was like, all right, that's what they're doing. That's a way to do it. Yeah. Well cool, guys, we'll be back next week Thursday with Chris Hardwick, who will be joining us as a guest.
Laura: Yay!
Marisha: How is he going to be here?
Taliesin: As himself. He's going to be playing himself, it's going to be very exciting.
Travis: Guys, I'm a human. Usually.
Liam: I'm super busy, I'm super busy.
Taliesin: Out of the rift suddenly comes Chris Hardwick.
Marisha: Super busy, but I'm super successful.
Liam: I'll help save the world, but I got like 50 things on my schedule.
Matt: Yeah, so we'll be back then. I think April 21st is going to be our 50th episode. We're going to be doing a fun little evening there. We'll have Critmas coming up, probably end up being that night, maybe another night that week, we'll have details coming up soon, we're trying to figure out the schedule on that. This'll be our big 50th anniversary Critmas blowout, and then we're going to scale it back to like an annual-type event it looks like, both to save the people who work this channel Thursday nights and stay super later to get here, to save the length of the episodes, and to help all of us who have to then go to work sometimes very early the next morning.
Liam: We love you, but I need to sleep. It's as simple as that. We love you, and we love Critmas, but it's a health thing.
Matt: So what we'll be doing is this will be our big blowout Critmas, we'll still do it probably for the holidays, and we really implore you guys to give to charities, send us stuff, we still read them, we'll still do Periscopes, those of us who get gifts, some of us will open them on Periscope for you, so we'll still have the interaction, we'll have to do it on our own time and not at 11, midnight.
Travis: 12, 12 30.
Liam: 12 37.
Taliesin: On a 7AM call.
Matt: So this'll be our big general blowout. So if you're planning something for the next Critmas, this'll be the one to get it in for. But yeah, you can check out the guide to Critmas on Geek & Sundry, it has a list of all our supported charities if you want to give there. It's highly recommended. Thank you guys so much for those who donated to 826 tonight so we can go ahead and help out the Seattle branch.
Marisha: 826 Seattle! We love you.
Matt: And yeah. Do we have anything else?
All: Happy St. Patty's Day.
Laura: You guys are hopefully sitting at home being very good.
Liam: For fuck's sake, take an Uber.
Matt: All right, guys. Well, have a wonderful night, and is it Thursday yet? Bye!

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello, everyone! And welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors play Dungeons and Dragons, and occasionally curse at me before the stream. You ass. Every time. You guys have caught him a few times. Anyway, welcome to tonight's game. Ashley Johnson unfortunately cannot join us this evening. She's finishing up stuff at Blindspot, but we hope to have her back next week.
Travis: Yeah! Ashley Johnson! Blindspot!
Liam: Come back, Shane!
Matt: Fingers crossed on that one. Sam Riegel also will be here a little late-- more than usual late. Travis will be taking over Scanlan until he arrives.
Laura: What if you kill him? What if he dies while you're--
Matt: I know you were kidding, but now you have to.
Travis: There are better ways to go. Worse ways. Whatever.
Matt: We'll see what transpires by the time he gets here. Hopefully he'll have a character left.
Taliesin: You can do a limerick. It'll be exciting.
Travis: Nope.
Matt: All right, so before we get started, we're going to go ahead and run through our announcements, so we can hop right in. We've got a fun game ready for you guys tonight. First and foremost, next Monday, at 7:00pm, here on Geek and Sundry's Twitch stream, taking over the spot for No Survivors, we'll be running a Critical Role one shot. I'll be running a game of Pathfinder, where our campaign actually started. A one-shot evening with a host of great players. Taliesin and Marisha will be joining us on that-- (cheering)
Matt: Way to prove me wrong!
Laura: What happened?
Liam: No singing Travis?
Travis: He must have heard on Twitch and came running.
Sam: Yeah, that can't happen. No way.
Matt: That's amazing. All right. Well, welcome!
Travis: (laughs) Man, I didn't get to masturbate in public.
Matt: Oh, night's still young, Travis.
Laura: There's always tomorrow, darling.
Liam: You think Grog is above that?
Matt: Remember, Twitch is live. That's not going to happen. So yeah!
Sam: Oh shit, it's in my car.
Matt: What happened?
Taliesin: What do you need, what do you need?
Sam: It's okay. I'm good.
Liam: You're going to wing it? You remember your numbers? Yeah, go get it, we're doing announcements.
Sam: It's literally in my other car.
Matt: I can text you your character sheet.
Sam: But I have my PDF.
Matt: You have your PDF, you're good. Okay, so. I think--
Taliesin: Pathfinder!
Matt: Actually, if I recall, I think I may have left that behind as well. I made an extra copy of your character.
Taliesin: I've made an extra copy of your character.
Matt: There you go. He got this. Perfect. Next Monday, 7:00pm-10:00pm, possibly a little over that, we'll see. You know how these sessions go. I'll be running a game of Pathfinder. Taliesin and Marisha will be playing, as well as Ivan Van Norman, as he is allowing us to take his spot for No Survivors, he will be a player in that game, as well as two special guests. We'll have Ashly Burch, the wonderful, talented, amazing Ashly Burch will be playing, as well as the incredible Phil Lamarr. That'll be our troop of five players.
Travis: Justice League, Futurama, Pulp Fiction.
Laura: Tales from the Borderlands?
Matt: Yup. Ashly Burch, who's currently up for a BAFTA as well. 'Cause apparently if your name's Ashley, you get nominated for a BAFTA.
Laura: The BAFTAs already happened. She didn't.
Matt: But she was nominated!
Taliesin: BAFTA nominee Ashly Burch.
Matt: Exactly.
Liam: She's also a delightful knucklehead, so BAFTA aside.
Matt: She's awesome people. Love her to death and we're excited to have her on. But yeah, so that'll be next Monday, 7:00pm Pacific here. Come watch, it'll be fun! It'll be a little different than the usual stuff here. Let's see. Next up, if my phone would listen, there we go. Next week, next Thursday is our 50th episode. Crazy.
Travis: Explosion. Brain matter everywhere.
Matt: It's been crazy that we've gotten to a 50th episode point, so it'll be a loose celebration. We'll have a game, couple surprises, and we'll be finishing it off with a grand Critmas finale for this year until we get in the holidays.
Laura: It's all happening that night?
Matt: We don't have a choice.
Laura: Longest night ever!
Marisha: Longest night ever!
Matt: Longest night ever!
Matt: We were going to try and find another night maybe to do Critmas, but their scheduling won't allow it.
Liam: Cheers to a seven-hour stream.
Taliesin: Oh god, I'm going to die.
Matt: They're prepping to try and make it transition as fast as possible so we aren't here until 4:00am.
Marisha: And by they're you mean us?
Matt: Yes. Come next week for an awesome spectacular! It'll be great! You'll enjoy it.
Laura: Spectacular, spectacular.
Matt: Good. Marisha, you want to talk about Hector's thing?
Marisha: Hector Navarro, aka @Hectorisfunny on Twitter, is the next host up for Signal Boost, and his first episode happened this Tuesday and he's fucking hilarious. You have to watch him.
Travis: He is, it's great.
Marisha: He's really funny. And this coming up episode might be one of my favorite ones.
Matt: Yeah, the opening joke for this next episode made me laugh out loud on the ground for five minutes.
Marisha: Yes, that's a true story.
Laura: Don't build it up too much. Now they'll be expecting it, Matt.
Matt: It's the best thing you've ever seen. You will die it's so funny!
Marisha: Anyway, give him love. Go watch it. It's funny. It's very funny. And he has great things that he boosts.
Matt: Exactly. Let's see. Also, if you guys haven't seen it, we did a fun one-shot game with Kinda Funny, with Greg Miller and their crew up in San Francisco and the episodes have been going up this week, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, finishing with today, so if you want to go check it out, it's a ridiculous two-hour game we played, broken up over four episodes. I think the full episode goes up standalone tomorrow, but it's a lot of fun. We had Travis, Laura and Marisha all playing in that game and--
Laura: Different characters. We weren't our regular characters, but equally fun, I thought.
Matt: Yeah. Who'd you play?
Laura: I played Jester, a tiefling cleric.
Matt: Yes, it was delightful. Marisha, what'd you play?
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: What was my character's name?
Travis: Wow!
Laura: You were a dwarf paladin.
Marisha: I know, but what was my character's name?
Travis: Holy shit.
Laura: I don't remember.
Matt: I think it was Scottish McSweedsen. Accent McDialect.
Laura: Ooh, hello!
Marisha: Look, a lot's happened in a couple weeks, okay? I've moved, I've had a change of scenery--
Matt: It's true. But yeah, that's fun. Travis, you got to play an Order of the Lycan Blood Hunter.
Travis: I did. McLaren von Tosscobble. Oh, it was fun. He has secrets. And bourbon. He had lots of bourbon.
Matt: So much bourbon. We may have been drinking during that game, I don't know. But go check it out if you haven't. It was a lot of fun. Sam, you had an announcement you wanted to make?
Sam: I play Zedd in the Ratchet and Clank game that just came out.
Liam: It's a good game.
Sam: It's a good game, it's getting good reviews! I haven't seen what I did in it, but I assume it's nerdy.
Matt: Good man. Fantastical. Liam--
Liam: Hey man, I know you guys all love Wyrmwood Gaming, but like this free-- the shipping is killing me. Well the good news is, if you use the code "critrole" you don't have to pay the shipping, you just pay the cost for the box and they send it to you.
Laura: Oh. These glorious boxes?
Liam: These boxes by Wyrmwood Gaming. The code again is "critrole". Not only that, but they have a Kickstarter going on. They are now selling, or they're kickstarting their Sentinel deck box, which looks like this.
Marisha: Oh wait, I haven't seen this yet!
Laura: So wait, this is a regular Sentinel deck box.
Liam: This is a regular. Now, for fans of the show, you can get our logo etched into any of the boxes at any tier.
Laura: This is another box. This one has our logo etched into it.
Taliesin: What does it say at the bottom there?
Travis: You can do a rubbing on the front.
Laura: It says "How do you want to do this?"
Liam: But again, if you want to go full Gilmore, we have the Masterworks box, which is freaking gorgeous. The dice go in here, the Bluetooth is hidden in there.
Sam: Bluetooth?!
Liam: You'll never lose your shit. And then all your cards go there.
Sam: Put your weed in there.
Taliesin: You're not supposed to just come out and say it.
Travis: Can I do a sleight of hand roll?
Liam: Lastly, if you go over to their Facebook page right now for Wyrmwood Gaming, they're doing a contest. They're giving away one of these mofos. So all the rules for how the contest works are there. And you can get one of these for looking at their Facebook page.
Laura: Sweet.
Liam: Critrole!
Laura: Crit. Role!
Matt: And last but not least, as the subscriber count continues, we're going to be doing giveaways. We actually got a great gift from Midnight Syndicate, who, those of you who may have paid attention, created a lot of the music that I use during our games. They're a phenomenal group that has incredible tabletop gaming-centric music for all sorts: fantasy, horror, Lovecraft-- they have an incredible array of tracks and they sent us a bunch of CDs to give out to you guys. So we are now folding these delightful Midnight Syndicate CDs in as part of the giveaway as well. What's the milestone we're hitting for subscribers?
Crew: I think it's 16,800?
Matt: So 16,800. When we hit that tonight, we'll be giving away the next giveaway, which will include this as well as art posters, and all the other good stuff we give away as part of our subscriber giveaways, so that's cool. Thank you, Midnight Syndicate, you guys are awesome. Check out their stuff on the internet for your own home games. It's brilliant stuff. All righty! So, without further ado, let's get back into the realm of Exandria.
Taliesin: When we last left off, we were in a cardboard box.
Matt: Yes. In Hobotown, USA.
Marisha: I knew this day would come.
Matt: So last we left off, Vox Machina, having traversed many places in the world in hopes of finding a way to expel or destroy the Chroma Conclave, a collective of four chromatic dragons that together managed to destroy large bastions of society on the continent of Tal'Dorei and beyond in Wildemount. Thordak, the Cinder King, the seeming leader of their group, currently sits in the center of the partially destroyed city of Emon. The other dragons have scattered about and claimed their own territories. From this, the party has discovered the existence of these legendary magical items, referred to as the Vestiges of Divergence, that existed from wars long past. They were carried on from generation to generation that contain power that may be sufficient to defeat these creatures. You were sent to seek out the nameless sphinx that exists somewhere near the Frostweald. Weeld-weld. It's pronounced so many different ways--
Sam: Which is it? Which is it?
Matt: It can be any of them, it's a magical world. The Frostweald.
Laura: Oh, it's right in between it.
Matt: It's in that weird place.
Taliesin: Frost Wilfred Brimley
Matt: Frost Brimley. Frost Brimley is the most dangerous of forests, by the way. Everyone gets diabetes. Sorry. Somewhere the sphinx exists in the Frostweald, which the nameless mate to Osysa, the gynosphinx you met in Vasselheim, sent you to go seek out this information. Upon going to the town of Westruun to the north, it had been partially destroyed by the black dragon Umbrasyl, and in its absence had been taken over by what seems to be Grog's roving barbarian herd.
Travis: Dicks.
Laura: Total dicks.
Matt: They currently sit on the throne of the town of Westruun and have made some sort of accord with the dragon where they can both simultaneously rule that area as long as they continually provide goods, gold, and whatever they can procure from those who live within the city still. Deciding to continue south, the party made their way into the ever-frozen forest of the Frostweald. You stumbled upon a small hive of basilisks that surrounded an obelisk of Ioun, which gave you your first clue as to the location where this sphinx could be found. You battled the basilisks, destroyed their underground hive, or at least the exit from it, via Fireballs and other such stone wall endeavors. Found amongst the stone ruins of previous victims of the basilisks, you found most of Tyriok Gadsworth, the wandering cartographer, now missing a portion of his right arm. However, he is restored and alive, which is much better than how he was before and is currently leading you guys towards a camp of orcs, supposedly nearby, as some of the survivors of Westruun's destruction were camping far south and some were being captured by this roving orc camp. So you guys have just stepped away from the obelisk and the remains of these basilisks you've slaughtered. As Tyriok leads you guys from where he last saw-- at least where he saw some roving orcs before he found himself turned to stone in that previous area. As you travel along, the cold midday air of this forest, there's no wind. It's very still and very quiet, which is unsettling in a place that's so out and open in nature. Your boots are crunching through the snow, step after step, but you're still being as careful and as quiet as you can, moving along. Tyriok is shivering in the cold and one of you manages to pull out one of your extra blankets you have in the Bag of Holding to keep him from going into hypothermia. You guys press on for about ten minutes or so, and he's trying to look around and look at the placement of the sun, look at different areas that he'd seen within the forest and he's thinking to himself. "All right, so I recognize that mountain spire, time of the day, that way is north, west. Follow me!" And he continues to lead you in that direction.
Laura: And all of that with just a stump.
Matt: Yes. You're terrible.
Travis: Tyriok, do you have a weapon on you?
Matt: "The best weapon I have is right here."
Travis: Yeah, right, on your way, lad. (whispers) He's going to die first.
Matt: He's trouncing through the snow, little bit ahead, stopping, looking about, before you realize that he's a huge target, he's making a lot of noise.
Marisha: Didn't we discuss sending him home?
Laura: No, he had to show us where the orcs were.
Travis: Yeah, I said he shouldn't come, but no--
Laura: Did I cast Pass Without a Trace on us before we headed out?
Matt: You cast it before the battle. I don't recall if you cast it afterwards.
Laura: Then I'll cast it again so that he's incorporated in it and I think we should try to stealth it.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: You going to tell him?
Laura: Hey. Hey, Wonderbrain.
Matt: "Yes?"
Laura: I think it would be smart if we moved as quietly as possible.
Matt: "Why, that's what I was doing. Perhaps I should stand in the back, then, if you guys want to go... Loosely that way, about 300 paces to the right of the second stone you see with the large outcropping that looks like a gorilla's face, and then continue. I'll guide you from back here."
Travis: Yeah, that sounds legit.
Matt: He steps to the back.
Laura: You know, keep a distance. When you hear no more fighting, it's probably safe. Probably.
Matt: "Okay, okay."
Liam: I walk up alongside him and say, listen, I know you're not used to weaponry, but take this, please. It's a loaner. And I take my Keen Dagger and I stick it in his hand.
Laura: What? No, don't-- I take it back and I give another dagger to him.
Liam: I give him the Keen Dagger and say, hold this. It's a loner. It's very sharp. Be careful with it, all right? If you get caught on your own, stab. That's all you got to do, is stab.
Taliesin: Stab the other person, not yourself.
Matt: His eyes don't leave the blade and he goes, "Okay."
Laura: Don't accidentally stab yourself because I think it sucks your life energy out of you.
Liam: That is not what that does.
Laura: Yes it does, it definitely sucks your life.
Matt: Make a deception check.
Liam: At a disadvantage since I contradicted her?
Laura: 25.
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Liam: That's another knife I have.
Travis: Oh really?
Liam: Yes.
Laura: Oh!
Travis: That's a giant die.
Laura: It's not above 25.
Liam: 15. It's 15.
Matt: He goes, "Perhaps this is best suited for someone who knows how to wield such dark powers."
Laura: I think you are so right. And I'll take that from you. And in exchange, I will give you this wonderful opal dagger that I have on my person.
Matt: "Oh. This is more my speed."
Laura: Still very sharp.
Travis: You know what that one does? It makes you infertile.
Liam: Give me this, you fucking hoarder. What's the matter with you? What are you--
Travis: Yeah, can you feel it in your little bits rumbling? They're all going to sleep forever.
Matt: "Perhaps you have a third or fourth dagger I can try."
Laura: What? What did he just tell you? I wasn't paying attention.
Travis: Look, I'm a man of the truth.
Laura: He's lying. He always lies, don't pay any attention to him. You're safe with that.
Liam: I push him off, ten feet away from the group, and I pull out the same Keen Dagger--
Laura: Jesus!
Liam: Here's a different one. This is a normal dagger.
Matt: "How about I take no dagger and I stay away from this? You guys are starting to be a little weird." And he hands you the secondary dagger and he puts his one hand up.
Liam: I just don't want what happened to you before to happen again, all right? You can even put it in your belt, just have it. All right? It's a normal dagger, it's fine. My sister is intimidating.
Matt: "To say the least. All right."
Marisha: Vax, just because he's holding a dagger doesn't mean he's going to be successful at using it.
Liam: What?
Marisha: You're wasting your time-- never mind.
Liam: Hold on to it.
Matt: "Okay." As you guys start walking, his eyes don't leave the blade as he takes each step and (whoosh).
Laura: And then as he walks away, it poofs back into his fucking belt.
Liam: No, it doesn't.
Travis: All right, so we head towards the outcropping that looks like a gorilla's face.
Matt: Okay, so I'll have you guys all roll a perception check, if you could.
Travis: Perception check. First one!
Marisha: Heh, natural 19.
Laura: I don't see anything at all.
Travis: Ten.
Laura: One.
Liam: 22.
Marisha: 29.
Taliesin: 26.
Sam: Three.
Laura: Off to the races.
Marisha: No, I'm sorry, 30. 30.
Travis: What?!
Marisha: I rolled a 19, my Perception's 11.
Taliesin: I think you notice things and have an epiphany at that point.
Matt: As you guys are walking, Keyleth shoots her arms out in a stop motion, and you look off and you can see past the clump of trees, maybe 60 feet ahead of you guys, two hulking-looking humanoids tromping through the snow, dragging something behind them. You hear the distant crunch of the snow and there's shape, but it's darker in the area where they are in the distance. Can't really make out a form, but you figure these are probably orcish in nature based on their gait and their outline.
Laura: (whispers) What is it?
Marisha: I look at the group and I go--
Travis: Two deer. Santa Claus.
Laura: Hello, salute, running away.
Sam: Milking a cow.
Liam: Cha-cha slide.
Laura: Use your words, Keyleth. Talk.
Marisha: Okay, okay. it looked like there were two orcs and they were carrying a body.
Laura: Are they headed this way?
Marisha: No, they're headed away from us, correct? Away, they're going away?
Matt: Eh, parallel, a little bit away.
Laura: So I cast Pass Without a Trace on us, so should we stealth?
Matt: Have you guys all roll stealth now.
Travis: Still flat grassland, or are there some trees?
Matt: Well, you guys are in the center of the Frostweald. So it's relatively thick trees, relative canopy.
Taliesin: Rolling stealth plus ten.
Marisha: Thank goodness. 22.
Taliesin: 26.
Sam: 15.
Liam: 45.
Laura: 29. What?!
Travis: 26.
Marisha: You got a natural 20?
Travis: 45, holy shit.
Taliesin: You don't know where you are anymore at that point.
Liam: I am one-dimensional.
Matt: So what are you guys going to do?
Laura: He's a dot.
Travis: From our previous time in the Frostweald, we don't recognize any of this terrain right?
Matt: I mean, you recognize the terrain. It's a large forest.
Travis: No landmarks, no lakes?
Matt: Not nearby, none that you've seen at least. If you want to go look for that, you could, but--
Travis: Are there any paths in front of us, or is it just trees and intermittent terrain?
Matt: If there are paths, they're under so much snow and relatively fresh snow that's perpetually piled on this region, they're not visible at the moment. You can occasional hoofprints in the snow from some wildlife that might live in the vicinity of the forest.
Travis: Don't you like this terrain?
Laura: I do.
Travis: Well, so what should we do?
Liam: We're looking for orcs. They're what we're looking for. Aren't they going where we want to go?
Taliesin: Let's pace and slowly approach.
Laura: I like it. Can I search the ground and see if there are a lot of tracks around? Or is this like a roaming party?
Matt: From what you can see around, you don't see any tracks from them specifically in front of you, from where they're travelling, it appears to just be the two of them right now. They're either scouts or hunters, and the closer you guys, as you slowly approach, to get a better view, they're both dragging what look to be like two boars that were killed, are currently being dragged by their legs over their shoulders, leaving a trail of crimson in the snow behind them.
Laura: I think we should take them out before they get back to their group.
Sam: Wait. What is our overall goal here? Are we to slay a bunch of orcs or are we to follow them somewhere?
Laura: We're supposed to slay them and stop them from--
Travis: Number two and then number one. Follow them and then kill the rest.
Liam: We want to get rid of all of them, so follow these guys back to the bee's nest and we can take care of the hive.
Sam: Okay, well let's follow silently.
Liam: Why don't I go a little bit ahead, you follow behind by about 50 paces and the rest of the group behind you?
Laura: But what if we kill them now, we won't have to fight them--
Sam: Then we won't know where the camp is.
Laura: But I can follow tracks.
Sam: Oh. Can you?
Marisha: There won't be tracks if they're dead.
Liam: They're not coming from where they're from, they're going.
Sam: They were just hunting.
Laura: Fine! Fuck it!
Sam: Let's follow them.
Matt: So you guys--
Travis: We follow them.
Matt: Okay, you don't catch up, you follow.
Travis: At a safe distance.
Matt: Okay. So you guys continue moving forward, watching them as they go, at a far enough distance. Pike's doing her best to walk behind in the snow, but it's okay! She's barely moving her upper body to make sure it's minimal amount of movement.
Liam: I'm not far ahead, but I'm ahead. I'm like 30 yards ahead.
Matt: Yeah. Listening out, you can hear the occasional laughter, too far away to hear any sort of language, not that I think you understand or know the language Orcish, but eventually they come over a hill, and down, and you see it first as you crest over. You can see there is a small clearing in the forest of this area, where there are two tents, what looks to be relatively filth-stained tents, like they've been used for an extended period of time, covered in dirt and mud and other things. You can see a small pile of skinned bodies to a side of one of the tents.
Laura: (whispers) Oh! They're definitely bad.
Sam: (whispers) I don't know.
Matt: There's a large stump next to it, with a trail of blood that leads up to it. You can see there are two small fires that are set in the center of this area, where they're keeping warm to themselves. And these bundled-up orcs are sitting around the fires, drinking. You can see some of them have random silver mugs or cups, some have steins, some have carved pieces of bark that are used as a means of drinking. You can see outside of these tents what appear to be large barrels or casks of wine or liquor that have been probably raided from the camp they found outside of the lake. You can see a couple of them are much larger than the other orcs. One of them is sitting down by the fire and is chuckling with the rest. You see to the back of the camp, there is one that's taking javelins and chucking them up in the air, and they're arcing through. And every time he chucks one, you hear a (scared noise), and as soon as you move to the edge of it, you look over and there is a young man who's strung up by his torso from one of the trees and it looks like a few of the orcs are making target practice. They've already hit him twice. There's one that's sticking out of his thigh and another one that's embedded itself in his shoulder, and little trails of blood streaking down, but he is currently strung up like a piata and they're having fun with him. You take a moment as the rest of the group catches up to you on the edge and you can see there are a few other people being kept inside the tents right now. One large orc musters out, adorned in thicker armor than the rest of them. He has a band across his head with a big old rough, uncut gem on the front. He starts barking out orders to a few of them. One of the larger ones stands up, and he's probably a good foot taller than the other orcs, lumbers to the back of the two tents and you can see there are two bears that are currently chained up to the back. He reaches over and grabs one of the skinned bodies from the side of the tent and throws it to the two bears and they immediately start tearing it apart and eating it. At this point the rest of the party catches up to you.
Liam: Okay, so I saw that.
Matt: Yes.
Liam: Okay. But they're still a ways off, right?
Matt: In fact, I could probably show you now. Since you have--
Sam: Whoa! It's a cozy camp.
Laura: Oh my god, look at that camp!
Sam: There's fire, there's bears.
Laura: Where are the wine barrels?
Matt: The barrels are right there, right there, and right there.
Sam: Oh, there's the guy hanging up in the tree!
Marisha: Where, where, where? Can you point out those barrels one more time?
Matt: There, there, and there.
Laura: So next to the tents that the prisoners are being kept in.
Matt: Yes.
Sam: Okay. We have options, people.
Matt: They haven't noticed you.
Liam: How far back are we?
Matt: You are probably back here, a good 60 feet outside of the outskirts of the camp. They don't seem to have noticed your approach and this is entirely however you guys want to approach this.
Liam: All right, well, I turn back to the group.
Laura: What time of day is it?
Matt: It's mid-afternoon.
Sam: Can we rest? Are we rested? Yeah, we had a night in the-- wait, no. We just killed those--
Matt: No, you haven't rested since the basilisks.
Sam: Okay, so we're down a couple spells, or whatever.
Marisha: Yeah, but I'm full on hit points. Is anyone hurt?
Laura: Well, I'm a little hurt.
Matt: It was a bump in the road, the basilisks.
Sam: Yeah. Okay. Hey, oi! So do I create a distraction while you go around back? Do we go in guns blazing? What's the plan? I can distract.
Laura: I think it would be good to create a distraction. We go in, save the prisoners and then take out the camp.
Sam: So a distraction that would get everyone to run towards me and ignore you?
Laura: And then we can stealth down--
Liam: Can we go around the sides--
Marisha: Flank them?
Liam: Flank them ahead of time. Scanlan, you create a distraction--
Marisha: As they're running--
Liam: -- closer to here?
Sam: Sure.
Liam: You want to get that guy down to the treeline and get the people out.
Sam: Sure. I'll draw them away from the tents.
Laura: Okay. And then, once everyone's clear, we bring them back and kill them all? Or what?
Liam: Well, this may be it for orcs? This could be all of them, or it could be just a forward camp, so we need to keep one alive.
Laura: And find out.
Liam: And find out if this is the end of it, or if there's more.
Taliesin: That's fair.
Travis: Good thinking.
Laura: How do we get all the prisoners out very quickly?
Taliesin: You have knives. You could cut your way through the back of the tent.
Laura: Scanlan, could you potentially put all the people in the door?
Sam: No. That is for my recreational use only. Also takes a minute to cast.
Marisha: Well, Scanlan can create a distraction, I can possibly take a few people out with my ranged spells along the way.
Laura: I'm saying get the prisoners safe so that nobody's running blindly into the forest.
Liam: I've lost track of all you've done in the past 24 hours. Could you send everybody through a tree, even back to where their people are?
Marisha: Not today.
Laura: What if you spent some time, a minute, creating your mansion, you have a little door here. Once you've created a distraction, we can all run up and put them in the door and then we fight. And then we get the people out of the mansion.
Liam: Yes, that's good. That's good.
Sam: Interesting idea. It's an interesting idea.
Travis: I kind of like it.
Sam: I like it too.
Liam: They can go down to the workout room, so they don't soil the other chambers.
Sam: It's not concentration. I mean, it's concentration for a minute, but then after it's cast, it's okay.
Matt: Once it's cast, it's 24 hours that door stays there.
Travis: Yeah, all your little Mr. Meeseeks will take care of them.
Sam: But we still have to get them out of the camp and into the door, unless I make the door in the camp.
Taliesin: Make the door, make the door at the back of the camp. And that way, we can run them out the back of the tents.
Laura: Not near the bears.
Liam: You need to go full Burt Reynolds out in front of that camp and get the bulk of them running towards you.
Sam: I can't do both.
Taliesin: Make the door first.
Travis: No, no, hey look. I'm good for a distraction.
Liam: Blow your shawm.
Sam: I'm fine with distractions, but I can't go to the back of the camp and set a door and to the front of the camp and draw them out.
Marisha: Let Scanlan handle-- I almost called him Scandal, which is still appropriate. Let Scanlan handle the door, I can handle the distraction.
Laura: Okay.
Liam: All right
Taliesin: All right
Laura: All right, so we sneak around to the back.
Sam: I'm really good at distractions.
Marisha: You are, you're incredibly good at distractions.
Liam: But you're the only one who can make a Hefner mansion out of thin air.
Sam: So I'm to sneak in and make a door and await further instructions?
Liam: We'll all go together.
Laura: We'll make the door far enough away.
Liam: Wait, Keyleth does the distraction. As soon as she goes, you go. So once those guys start running towards her--
Sam: How far away are we?
Matt: You guys are probably about 60 feet away from the far outside of the campline, so around this ring here, just outside of where the table edges are.
Sam: But we're talking like 150 feet? 200 feet?
Matt: You're probably closer to about 60 feet away right now, you can move for--
Sam: Okay, well, we're fine. I can make the door from 300 feet away. So we're fine. So I can make the door right now before we do anything.
Laura: Do it, make the door!
Sam: Except there's going to be a glowing door in their camp.
Laura: Make the door behind one of those trees.
Sam: All right. Okay, I'm going to go ahead and do it.
Travis: Yeah, fuck it, just do it.
Laura: Get ready to do a distraction right fucking now.
Liam: But you know what you're doing, right? Wait! Let's get in position! You and I can do a lot more hurt to these guys if we're closer to the position we have to go?
Sam: All right, flank around, flank around. It's going to take me a minute to cast the spell. You have a minute to get into position.
Matt: So who all's flanking around? All right, so the twins and Percy, where are you guys going?
Liam: I'll take the long way around, this way.
Matt: Over here?
Travis: Far side?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Okay, so.
Liam: With an eye for the shithead who's tormenting that guy in the tree.
Matt: All right, are you going with him?
Laura: No, I'm staying on the other side.
Matt: Okay, Percy, you're going with Vax?
Taliesin: I'm going to go, actually, right over here. I'm going to hide over here and I'm going to try and get a bead on the guy on the tree.
Matt: Okay, easy enough. You get a bead on him, in the outskirts there.
Travis: Pike and I will go with Vax.
Sam: Oh, she's not a good sneaker.
Travis: Oh no, you're right, she should stay put. You're right.
Matt: You're going to be right there.
Laura: Charge in after the distraction.
Matt: So Grog, where are you going?
Travis: I'll go with Vax.
Matt: Vax? All right, so you make your way around. Keeping your guys' existing stealth checks, which were okay.
Travis: Yeah, I was a 25.
Liam: 45.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Oh, Pike did come? We said Pike could stay, because she's not stealthy.
Matt: Not stealthy. Okay then. She stays there. So Pike's going to go-- Scanlan, you're moving back? Where are you going?
Sam: I'm staying next to Keyleth because I can do this from a range.
Matt: Where do you guys want to go-- Keyleth, for this distraction?
Marisha: Where's Scanlan?
Sam: Wait, don't do the distraction yet! I haven't set the--
Matt: Where do you guys want to set up for the distraction?
Marisha: Where did you go, Scanlan?
Sam: I'm right next to you. We want to do it--
Marisha: Yeah, we want to do it towards us.
Sam: We want to distract around here.
Laura: And then run the other direction.
Marisha: Yes.
Matt: All right, so you guys are set up right about there.
Marisha: No, that's where we wanted-- Put us more--
Sam: No, he knows. We're back right now, but that's where we will end up.
Matt: You're further back. I can only put you so far away from the table edge.
Marisha: No, that's good, that's good, that's good.
Matt: All right, Pike's going to stay up with you, since you have the bead right now and if worse comes to worst, she can help rush in and try and help at that point. All right, so who's doing what?
Sam: I'm going to start casting the door.
Matt: All right.
Sam: And I'm going to do it back behind camp, on the treeline or whatever.
Matt: Okay, back far this way?
Sam: You know, just out of eyeshot of them.
Matt: Okay, I'll put this little dice on the corner to represent where the door is.
Laura: Yeah, that's good, that's good.
Liam: I turn to Grog.
Travis: Yeah?
Liam: I'm moving a little closer, just a bit, stay there.
Travis: Come with you?
Liam: The opposite of that.
Travis: Go away from you?
Liam: This is your spot, this is your spot! And I creep towards the trees, a tree closest to me, so I can get closer. Which is the orc that's throwing the javelins on that map?
Matt: These two right here are taking turns.
Liam: Okay.
Matt: At this point, you hear another (grunt, scream), and then some (condescending laughter). Oh, moving up to here?
Liam: The other tree closer to you.
Matt: Right there?
Liam: Yeah, and I'll hold there.
Matt: All right. Who's up next? Who's doing what?
Taliesin: Waiting for the distraction.
Sam: Do you want me to go in and you can cast something? I'll get their attention and you can cast something?
Marisha: Sure.
Sam: Okay.
Marisha: Can I have a Monster Manual?
Matt: For what?
Marisha: Conjure Woodland Beings?
Liam: Do you want the app?
Marisha: Maybe.
Sam: There's not many that you can conjure. It's pixies and little things.
Laura: Yeah, that's little creatures.
Sam: It's okay, she knows what she's doing. No, she doesn't.
Marisha: Well, I can conjure a bunch of little creatures.
Liam: You can search. Search!
Travis: If you make a bunch of David the Gnomes--
Laura: Seriously, like a giant scorpion would be probably pretty cool.
Liam: Fire elemental? Big, bright fire elemental?
Marisha: Yeah, but then it wouldn't be me. It'd be something else that's not me that I can control?
Matt: Percy's taking the bead, waiting for the distraction.
Taliesin: Just do it!
Marisha: Okay, I'm going to say Conjure Woodland Beings.
Matt: What are you conjuring?
Marisha: I don't know.
Matt: You have to know what you're doing.
Marisha: Well, that's what I'm trying to figure out. You know, there's not a list of what you can conjure in the book.
Sam: No, there's not.
Marisha: And it's very unfortunate. And it's some kind of fey creature. So what's a fey creature that's a challenge rating of two that would make sense? That's really scary?
Laura: Fairies?
Marisha: Or I can also summon like eight fairies if they're a low enough, you know--
Matt: I hate conjuration spells, by the way guys, so you all know. The worst spells in the whole game.
Sam: I will say this, to be fair to Marisha, the spell does say, your DM will have a list of the creatures. (laughter)
Matt: Does it really?
Sam: It does, at the end of the spell.
Matt: Fuck that spell. (laughter)
Marisha: Yeah it says the DM will have the statistics.
Sam: It says the DM will have the creatures.
Matt: Fuck that spell. Conjuration needs to die. No, conjuration's great, when you're not the DM.
Travis: You don't know me, you don't know what lists I have.
Matt: How about some dryads?
Marisha: Dryads?
Matt: We'll go see what their challenge rating is.
Marisha: That sounds cool.
Matt: Past the devils.
Liam: I'll give you level-two challenge rating.
Matt: And no, we're not doing the whole pixies Polymorph. That's so dumb. Not even going to lie.
Marisha: Challenge rating of two.
Matt: Challenge rating of one.
Marisha: It's got to be a fey. Oh, it only has a challenge rating of one?
Laura: Centaur!
Liam: Centaur!
Marisha: What are centaurs?
Sam: Centaurs are not fey, are they?
Marisha: Apparently.
Laura: They are!
Liam: Green dragon wyrmling!
Travis: I'm getting bored.
Matt: I don't think centaurs are fey.
Marisha: Okay. Well then, let's do two dryads.
Matt: Two dryads. You can do up to two challenge rating--
Taliesin: (sings) Five gold rings!
Marisha: Two triads. Dryads. I don't know what it is.
Liam: Will o' the wisp!
Marisha: Two dryads.
Matt: We will say here, two dryads. Where are they going?
Marisha: Right in where--
Sam: Front and center.
Marisha: Thank you. Yep, here. Ish.
Sam: See this, Matt?
Marisha: Here. No, there.
Matt: Right there?
Marisha: Yeah that's a little out. And Scanlan and I are far back.
Matt: Now, suddenly the dryads pop into being and these two humanoid green nature entities that look humanoid but are covered with leaves and their skin has the texture of bark in places. Beautiful, wistful, both appear, summoned out of the ether and land on the snow.
Liam: Crunch.
Matt: The ground gives out from under them, they both go, (screams) and fall into a pit here.
Sam: Oh shit!
Marisha: See, aren't you glad that wasn't me?
Sam: Yeah. Good job.
Liam: Couldn't have gone with the will o' the wisp.
Travis: A pit?
Liam: They would have floated right above it.
Matt: This whole section here has now crumpled below. The dryads, however, have to make a save.
Laura: Oh my god.
Matt: One of them saves.
Liam: But that wasn't us!
Marisha: That wasn't us!
Matt: That wasn't you guys. Like right there? Okay!
Marisha: Wasn't me! It's all I care about!
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: This is the most Douglas Adams beginning of a fight ever.
Matt: One dryad dies a horrible screaming death. (screams) And the other one you hear is breathing heavily from the inside right now.
Marisha: Keyleth is standing at the edge of the forest going--
Matt: At which point, a bunch of the orcs turn around. I need both of you guys to-- let's see, because they're making active perception. What was your stealth check, Sam?
Sam: 15, but it doesn't matter. I'm walking forward.
Matt: (chuckles) Okay.
Sam: I'm going to cast the Resilient Sphere on myself. And I'm going to roll into camp. Hamster-style.
Marisha: Wait, can I go with you a little bit?
Sam: Don't.
Marisha: Can I do a thing with him?
Travis: If he says don't, then--
Laura: Then probably don't.
Liam: No, let him do his thing. It's marble madness, everybody.
Sam: I'm going to start singing to get their attention. (sings 'Tro-lo-lo')
Marisha: Just avoid the pit!
Matt: All right. All 60 feet, you avoid the pit, you roll around, all the orcs look over. "Huh? Stupid gnome!"
Sam: Very stupid.
Matt: Initiative has now kicked in; I need everyone to roll initiative. (laughs)
Travis: Holy shit.
Matt: Jesus Christ.
Marisha: Oh, that's a good roll!
Matt: All right, so--
Taliesin: Oh, hell yes.
Marisha: Spent all that time figuring out what I was going to do and then they fell in a crack.
Sam: You did great! You exposed the trap! You saved--
Laura: It's true!
Taliesin: If you'd conjured a will-o'-wisp, it would have been you in that hole.
Sam: If I had just gone out, I would have fallen in the hole!
Liam: It's all right, Wendy will draw some dryads falling into the spikes--
Matt: Initiative orders. 25 to 20?
Liam: 25.
Taliesin: 24.
Matt: Whoa.
Marisha: 21.
Matt: All right, 25. So we have Vax. 24, Percy.
Marisha: 21.
Travis: And 20.
Matt: Keyleth and Grog. Oh man.
Matt: All right, 20 to 15.
Laura: 16.
Matt: 16. Vex. And then Pike, right after you!
Sam: 11.
Matt: 11. Tyriok is hidden away. As you guys begin to approach the camp, he's like, "I'm going to stay back here." So he's way out of the field now. Scanlan bringing up the rear. As he would want to. All right. So that brings us to the top of the combat round. All the orcs now have stood up, grabbed their weapons, and they see this giant hamster wheel of a gnome rolling into the camp. They all look really confused but have their weapons ready to go. Vax, you're up first.
Liam: Poo.
Marisha: The door's already summoned, yeah?
Liam: What are we doing, are we waiting, are we going? I-- I'm going to sling a dagger. I'm going to click my Boots of Haste. I did? Then I'm going to sling a dagger.
Matt: You used them on the basilisk fight.
Liam: Great, thank you. I'm going to sling a dagger at the orc right in front of those two bears.
Matt: Right there?
Liam: There. Yeah.
Matt: All right, go for it.
Liam: All right. So advantage.
Sam: We're still trying to draw them out, right?
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: I got a 21.
Matt: 21 hits.
Liam: Okay. All right. So I'm going to roll for damage. So this is Assassin. It is not surprise?
Matt: Not surprise. They have been made aware that there is a threat, as Scanlan rolled in. You do have advantage because he doesn't see you. So it would sneak attack.
Travis: In his gerbil ball.
Liam: Here comes the sneak attack damage, Two, four, that was the worst sneak attack damage ever. (counting) 29.
Matt: 29 points of piercing damage. The giant creature, as the dagger (whoosh) through the air, doesn't even notice it. It's looking over where Scanlan is and is grabbing the chains and breaking them from where the bears are currently bound.
Sam: Oh shit.
Matt: Hasn't broken them yet, he's going in for the pull as the dagger (impacts) the back of its neck and it's looking over in the direction where it came from. What are you doing?
Liam: I would like to use my bonus action to hide.
Matt: Okay, go ahead and go for it. Roll for stealth.
Liam: 30.
Matt: 30? He glances over in your direction, looks up, looks in the other direction, reaches up and goes to pull the dagger out, but it's already gone.
Laura: That's so sneaky.
Matt: (roars) And angrily yells out into nothing. Has no idea where you are.
Liam: And then I'm going to use my movement to squish down into the snow a bit, up to here, feathers sticking out a little bit.
Matt: Awesome. Ends Vax's turn. Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: Amazingly, I've got a bead on that guy who's trying to let the bears out of their chains.
Matt: You do, actually. Yes.
Taliesin: I'm going to take Bad News and I'm going to sit and take a nice calm breath, and I'm going to squeeze off a shot and knock him on his ass, so this is a trick shot, leg hit.
Matt: Go for it.
Taliesin: Wait, before I do anything, I still can use Hex because the last creature to have Hex on them died, so I can use it as a bonus action to cast Hex again, can't I?
Matt: Correct. How long does it last, though?
Taliesin: Couple hours, I believe.
Matt: I will check.
Taliesin: Might have been too long.
Matt: It's been about an hour or so since that last encounter as you were travelling through the forest, so with Hex, up to an hour. Yeah, unfortunately.
Taliesin: Oh, fuck it. And it's a full day's rest? It's a long rest.
Matt: For you, yeah. 'Cause it's the feat as opposed to an actual class feature. All right, taking your aim.
Taliesin: That's fine! Taking that shot.
Matt: Sharpshooter or not?
Taliesin: No, not Sharpshooter. That's 24 to hit.
Matt: 24 hits! Heavy plate armor covered orc-like creature. Bigger than a regular orc that you've seen before.
Taliesin: He has a strength saving throw?
Matt: Yes, he does.
Travis: Which one is he?
Matt: That is going to be a nine, 'cause he rolled really bad.
Taliesin: Yeah, no, he's prone.
Matt: So with that (impact).
Taliesin: He also takes 15 points of piercing damage.
Matt: 15 points of piercing damage. As you (gunshot) rockets off, the sound cracks through the air. All the orcs now glance over in your direction, as the bullet streaks past them, tickling the bottom of the feet of the guy who's strung up, and slamming into the chest of the armored orc. Lands straight on his back on the ground right there.
Taliesin: Cool.
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: All right. I'm going to move to my right six spaces and I'm going to take another shot at the guy who's right ahead of us, in front of the pit.
Matt: Right there?
Taliesin: Yeah, right there. I'm going to take a Sharpshooter shot.
Matt: Go for it. You reload and then the third attack for the shot.
Taliesin: Yep. Whoa, that's nice. 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23. 27. That hits. That's ridiculous.
Matt: Is that even with Sharpshooter?
Taliesin: Yeah. I rolled an 18.
Matt: (chuckle) All righty.
Taliesin: So that's a better roll? A better roll. That was a pretty good roll. 16, 17, 17, 27-- 33 points of damage.
Matt: 33 points of damage. You blow that orc's head clear off its shoulder. Spray of mist comes out the top of his form, as he slumps down into the fire in front of him. Two other orcs look over at you, who are now clearly visible. (grunts)
Taliesin: I put down the gun and I breathe.
Matt: (chuckles) All right, that ends your turn. Brings us to Keyleth.
Marisha: Okay, you mentioned that a few were coming over and looking over at the edge of the pit. Are there still a few more at the edge of the pit?
Matt: They weren't coming and looking at the edge of the pit, they all looked over in the direction of where Scanlan was rolling in, around the center. They're all still in place watching this giant gnome roll in, but some of them have looked over at Percy, who's firing a very loud weapon in their vicinity.
Taliesin: I figured I would be part of the distraction.
Marisha: Sure. How far away is that guy from the pit?
Matt: He's about 15 feet.
Marisha: Okay, here's what I want to do. I'm going to go earth elemental, but I want to, like, do it like a badass, you know? So I see Scanlan--
Matt: Did you use your scorpion form?
Marisha: Fuck! I did use scorpion. Fuck, damn it, we haven't taken a short rest.
Matt: You haven't taken a short rest. Yeah, so you can't--
Marisha: Then I don't do any of that. Instead, where's Scanlan?
Matt: Scanlan is right here.
Taliesin: I thought we had taken a short rest, just not a long rest.
Matt: Between?
Taliesin: Yeah. 'Cause we stopped and we healed.
Matt: You know what? You may have, yeah! If you want to do that, I'll let you do it.
Marisha: Did we? Are you sure?
Sam: We healed up each other.
Marisha: All right, fine!
Matt: We'll say we allowed a short rest, that way you were reviving Tyriok and everything. That's fine.
Marisha: Okay, so I walk and I sink into the ground as I'm walking off, and I want to pop up next to this guy.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: And I want to throw his ass in the pit. (cheering)
Marisha: (yelling) This. Is. Vox Machina! ...Town.
Matt: All right, go ahead and make an athletics check.
Marisha: ...Territory. Strength check?
Matt: You know what, this would be strength. Yeah, we'll make it strength.
Marisha: 17.
Matt: 17? Okay. The orc looks as you (explosion) out of the snow and rock being thrown out of the area, and, "Huh?" looks over his shoulder at you with confused look, goes to wring the edge of this giant club it's holding to come towards you as you grab both shoulders, gives you this look of utter, sheer fear, as you lift him up and lob him over the side into the pit.
Taliesin: That dryad can help kill him now.
Matt: Yeah, he does not make his save.
Sam: Oh no, is he going to crush the dryad?
Marisha: He's going to get crushed. He's going to crush the dryad.
Matt: 28 points of damage. Yeah, you hear a (pained grunt).
Sam: He died?
Matt: You don't know.
Laura: Do we also hear a little dryad voice?
Matt: (high-pitched grunt) (laughter)
Matt: As it gets sandwiched.
Liam: Pushed it through.
Matt: The dryad was almost out of the pit, climbing her way out (heavy landing). All right, so Keyleth, does that end your turn?
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: All right, Grog, you're up.
Travis: I'm going to hold my turn until all of our party has gone.
Matt: So I'll let you go to the back of the initiative order.
Travis: Okay, yeah, sure.
Matt: All righty. Vex? What you got?
Laura: I'm going to run forward. Well, actually, I'm going to stay hidden. Okay. I'm going to--
Sam: Those seem like opposite commands.
Laura: I know, I know, I know. Can I stealth forward?
Matt: I mean, no one seems to have noticed you at the moment.
Laura: Okay, good, then I stealth forward, towards the camp, towards the tent, away, staying away from people. Yeah. Is that as far as I can go in, towards the tent?
Matt: Six spaces, yeah, 'cause you don't have any additional movement from there.
Laura: Then I'm going to stealthily--
Matt: You can keep moving if you use the rest of your action to move again.
Laura: I'll be able to get to it on my next turn? To the tent?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: Okay. Then I'll shoot one of the guys.
Matt: All right, which one do you want to shoot?
Laura: That--
Matt: The one right there?
Laura: Yeah. That's really hard to hold steady. Yeah, I'm going to shoot him.
Matt: Okay, go for it. Both attacks?
Laura: Yeah. 18 on the first.
Matt: 18 just barely hits.
Laura: And 30 on the second?
Matt: That hits. Roll damage twice on that.
Laura: Okay. 15, 16, 17. And that's sneak attack?
Matt: Yes, on the first one. So roll an additional--
Laura: Five is 22?
Matt: 22 points of damage for the first arrow. Nice. Second attack?
Laura: Second attack is five, seven, 13, no 14. 12? I can add. 13, 14. Oh no, I don't get sneak attack on the second.
Matt: No, just the first one.
Laura: 14 on the second attack.
Matt: 14. Nice. You pull two arrows out and release them both at once. As you duck behind the tree, the guy who's pulled out this giant greataxe and is now starting to lumber in the direction of Keyleth, this giant earth elemental that burst out of the ground. Both arrows sink in.
Laura: I use my bonus action to hide.
Matt: Go ahead and roll stealth again. As both arrows sink into the back of the armor, piercing through, and embedding themselves a few inches or more into the back of this, this creature looks over its shoulder towards you. What'd you roll?
Laura: 36.
Matt: 36? Glances back over. Doesn't seem to have any idea where the arrows came from, but is grimacing in the pain. End your turn? All right, Pike, now, is going to--
Laura: Oh, Pike!
Matt: As everyone's scattered about, Pike is going to move forward. Let's see here. Yeah, going to do what Pike would do.
Travis: Guiding Bolt.
Matt: Guiding Bolt! (laughter)
Travis: Yes!
Liam: Yeah!
Laura: Yeah!
Travis: Yeah!
Laura: But she's really strong now, with the Guiding Bolt. Yeah!
Marisha: WWPD. What would Pike do?
Matt: So Pike is going aim it at one of the guys, one of the guys with the javelins that was throwing at the guy, to prevent that from happening. Guiding Bolt on that. Ranged spell attack-- oh yeah, that'll hit. That's a 15 plus six. Yeah, that hits.
Liam: Come on, Trickfoot!
Matt: All righty, that's 4d6 radiant damage to that guy.
Liam: Dag, yo!
Travis: 4d6?
Matt: 4d6. 15 radiant damage.
All: Oh.
Travis: You roll her really well.
Matt: 15 points of radiant damage, the next attack against that guy has advantage, as he's now a giant beacon, as the blast streaks forward from her extended hand, smashes into the front of this orc, drops the javelin in his hand, spins around, looking in the direction she came from and you can now see there's this glow pulsing off the front of his armor. That's going to go ahead and end her turn, bringing us down to their turn. Now, this guy is going to try and get back up. He's going to bring down his greataxe onto the chains he was setting up, he was going to try and break them. Now he's going to smash it down. Breaks both of the chains and both of the bears are now free.
Taliesin: He's prone, though, can he do that?
Sam: He just got up.
Matt: He got up. He can still only move three more squares, there. That's going to finish his turn. This guy here is going to lurch forward in the front of you, Keyleth, and take two swings with his greataxe towards you. That is a 17 to hit?
Marisha: 17 is my natural armor.
Matt: All right, so that hits. And then that is an 18. 17 and 18 both hit you. You take 24 points of slashing damage, as each smash of the greataxe streaks across the front of the stony armor that you wear, breaking off chunks here and there, but there's plenty more where that came from as an earth elemental. That ends his turn. Let's see. This guy's going to rush up, this guy's going to rush up, this guy here is going to attempt to climb out. He gets partway up, starts cresting over the edge, he's not up because he was knocked prone as he fell, so he's over the side. Percy, you see one orcish arm come up and start to pull itself out the side of the pit. This guy here is going to move up, grabbing another javelin. This guy is going to pick up his javelin from the ground, move over this way, seeing that the earth elemental is being taken care of, and they're both going to throw javelins at you. Let's see, that is a 24 to hit.
Taliesin: Can I do a Gloves of Missile Snaring?
Matt: Yes, you can. Go ahead and roll.
Laura: Are those the ones I gave you?
Taliesin: Yeah, so that's 24 to hit?
Matt: Well, what does it say on the gloves?
Taliesin: It's actually-- I can reduce damage, I can't change whether or not it hit.
Matt: Yes, exactly, so it is eight points of piercing damage.
Taliesin: Eight? Eight points of piercing damage? Okay, so I'm going to try and catch it. And yeah, I reduce the damage to zero and I actually can catch it in midair.
Matt: As it chucks the javelin, you catch it and stop it in midair.
Taliesin: Stab it into the ground.
Matt: Stab it into the ground. As you're thinking how awesome that was, the other one rolled a natural 20. (groaning)
Liam: Oh, look at that smile.
Matt: However! Still rolled pretty low on the damage. That's going to be nine points of piercing damage for the second one.
Taliesin: Can I use it again or no?
Matt: What does it say on the glove? It's a reaction. You only get one reaction per round, so no, you cannot.
Taliesin: What did they roll to hit, though?
Matt: That one was a 20, a natural 20.
Taliesin: A natural 20, so it hits no matter what.
Matt: Yeah. So yeah, you take nine points of piercing damage as the other javelin streaks past you, it cuts past the shoulder, nothing too bad, but didn't quite take away from the moment that you just got to enjoy.
Taliesin: I took eight points of damage?
Matt: Nine points of piercing damage. All right, that ends that orc's turn. This one, the one that seems more decorated with the gem-encrusted headband runs out and starts shouting orders.
Sam: Did the two that were on me attack?
Matt: He's going to come forward and begin to attempt to attack your orb as well. All three strike at the orb, trying to cut through.
Sam: Can I act like they're hurting me?
Matt: If you want to.
Sam: Ugh! Ah! Ooh! Oh!
Matt: Make a deception check.
Sam: Deception?
Matt: Deception, yes.
Sam: 27.
Liam: Okay, Sam, I'm going to need five small pain reactions and five large pain reactions.
Sam: (sounds of pain)
Taliesin: Can I get some closed-mouth ones?
Sam: (sounds of pain)
Taliesin: Okay, now breathier.
Matt: As they're all striking at this sphere, sparks of arcane energy shooting off with each blade attack against the outside, they're all getting winded. You can see sweat dripping off their brow, as they're not seemingly making an impact. However, with each pained cry you give out, you see their grins widen. And they realize, no, this is working. And all three of them keep hacking at it, as the one war chief is like, (yelling in Orcish) and they keep slamming at the sides of this in hopes of cutting through it.
Taliesin: Cats with a catnip toy.
Matt: This one, two javelins there, that's good there, that's good there. I don't think they have one, in there-- nope! So that is going to be the end of their turn. Now the bears are going to go. The two bears are going to go tromping forward 40 feet. 35, 40.
Marisha: Remember the love in your heart!
Matt: This one's going to go ahead and run past to there. Since they can't attack anything, this one's going to keep moving around. He uses his movement to get behind there and starts biting at the back of the ball. This one will get over to the earth elemental, as it is the biggest and most visible target. All right, that's going to go ahead and end their turn. Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: Yeah, it's my turn.
Travis: Wait, are we at the top of the round?
Sam: No, no, it's bottom of the round. I'm the last guy and then you. Oh shit, do I keep them here, or do I go to work?
Laura: Get them out.
Sam: Okay, I'm going to very quickly drop the orb and Dimension Door into one of the tents.
Matt: Okay. The orb vanishes, and with a flick of your wrist, a goodbye wave, you vanish entirely from sight. Which tent do you want to appear in?
Sam: I had wanted to go to not the one that Laura was saying, the other one. That's the one I was going to go to, because it's closer to the door.
Matt: So you appear inside this tent. And on the inside you can see there are two people that are currently within. Just to mark where the tent is.
Sam: Are they human? Or are they dancer?
Matt: They are human and they're pretty brutalized. One of them you see is this relatively well-dressed nobleman, his clothing filthy. Part of his face is swollen and bruised from what looks like he's been beaten within an inch of his life. The other one is a woman and you can see, one arm appears to be broken and she's cradling it in her hand. And they're both recoiling and holding to the back, like the corners of the tent, and when you appear, they both gasp and begin naturally scrambling away before they realize you're not an orc.
Sam: I say, come with me if you want to live. And do I have any movement? Can I try to unbind them?
Matt: Yeah, you don't have movement. You can start to move over to start unbinding them if you want to.
Sam: Okay, that's what I'll do.
Matt: Okay, so you go to the rope bonds and start helping them try and release themselves. Okay. That's the end of Scanlan's turn. Grog, you're up.
Travis: Watching everybody run forward, forming this delicious mosh pit right there in the middle, can I go into a frenzied rage? Can I book ass towards all these bastards and see if I can get close to this little prick?
Matt: 30, 35, 40--
Travis: I have 50.
Matt: 45-- (cheering)
Travis: I'm good!
Matt: We'll say, go ahead and make an acrobatics check to try and move between those two guys.
Travis: 20.
Matt: 20. Okay! You manage to, in a rage, as you're rushing through, yelling. They're all confused by the moment of the disappearing hamster ball of a gnome, look over their shoulder, and you dive into a shoulder roll, like a bowling ball, slamming into two of them, finding your feet on the other side, swing around, and the two that you pushed past, knocked on their shoulder, didn't fall off their feet, but you manage to push your way through, land in place, spin around. You can take the rest of your turn, if you want.
Travis: Can I turn and say, all right, amateurs, time to go pro! And I would like to use Reckless Attack and with my frenzied rage, I take all three attacks at the crystal-bearing piece of shit. I can't hit him with my thing.
Matt: Right there? He's just out of range.
Travis: He's just out of range? Whoever's the closest except for the bear.
Matt: Okay. It'll be either one of those two guys.
Travis: Oh yeah, he'll take it.
Matt: All right, go for it.
Travis: He'll take all of it. So I have advantage on these and advantage on attacks.
Matt: I'd say, go for each attack, just in case, individually, just in case you manage to kill one, you can move on to the next.
Travis: So do all the attacks first?
Matt: Yeah. Well no, do the first attack.
Liam: Attack and damage, attack and damage.
Travis: Attack and damage, okay. 15 for the first one.
Matt: 15 for the first one hits!
Travis: Yay! Oh god, nine. 18! 18 points of damage.
Matt: 18 points of damage, all right.
Travis: And there's a constitution--
Matt: Does fail its save.
Travis: Yay! Give me your shit. Okay, second one is a 24.
Matt: 24 points of damage?
Travis: No, 24 to hit.
Matt: 24 to hit? 24 hits.
Travis: Yep. That's crap, nine. That's also 18 points of damage on the second one.
Matt: 18. The first hack cleaves into the side of his shoulders, the second one you bring across his midsection and his whole innards spill out onto the snow. Crumples into the ground before you.
Travis: And when I kill someone, I get an additional attack.
Matt: As a bonus action. But you're already using your bonus action as a frenzied rage.
Travis: Right, thank you.
Matt: Yeah, so you can do that outside of a frenzied rage, if you kill something.
Travis: So this is the last one and there's a bear there, right?
Matt: He also did fail his save on that, so you got another bonus to strength.
Travis: Hell, upgrades all around, bitches. Last one.
Matt: What's your strength at now?
Travis: 24. It's a plus three on top of everything else.
Matt: Plus three on top of that?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: Nice. All right, what was the attack?
Travis: No, it's a plus one because we took a short rest, right?
Sam: We did.
Matt: When you take a short rest, yeah.
Travis: That wipes it. Right? Or a long rest wipes it.
Matt: Yeah. I believe for Craven Edge--
Travis: Craven Edge. Strength loss/gain from this feature lasts until your next short rest.
Matt: Short rest, yeah.
Travis: So it's just plus one.
Matt: But you can say you don't have to take a short rest if you don't want to. It's up to you.
Travis: I didn't want to! I'm not hit. I was fine! I was literally untouched.
Matt: Yeah, if you wanted to keep it, you would have been able to walk around aggressively and maintain it. That's fine.
Travis: Yeah. Aggressively.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: (laughs) Walk around aggressively.
Travis: 27 on the third one.
Matt: 27 hits.
Travis: That's the damage.
Matt: Oh, that's the damage, all right.
Travis: Can I use it against the bear?
Sam: Ooh.
Travis: Or just the person, is he the only other one in range?
Matt: Well, if you're rolling to hit, right? Whoever you're attacking, the AC differs. So what was your attack roll on that one?
Travis: It was a 24.
Matt: Yeah, no, that hits the bear. So go for it. Damage the bear.
Travis: That was the damage, was 27.
Matt: 27 points against the bear, got you.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: All right, so after completely gutting the first guy, you turn around and slam the axe into the hide of the bear. Up close, you can see, the bear, unlike Trinket, edges of its shoulders and parts of its spine, you can see bone protruding out in points and juts. It's different, a little more dangerous than a regular bear you've encountered at the get-go. However, your blade does sink a good four to five inches into its hide, cleaving a giant wound in its side. It howls and seems very pissed off. But so are you.
Travis: Does he have to make a constitution--
Matt: He did make his save at 15.
Travis: Son of a bitch.
Matt: That end your turn?
Travis: That does.
Matt: That ends your turn! All right, back up to the top. Vax, you're up.
Liam: All right, I'm still hidden, so I'm going to move along the side of the tent behind those barrels. And I want to throw two daggers at the magic-using orc.
Matt: Magic-using orc?
Liam: Didn't you say one of them was with a circlet?
Matt: Oh. That one?
Liam: That one.
Matt: Oh yeah, right there.
Liam: Yeah, and I'm going to use my Sharpshooter ability to do negative five to the attack roll, plus ten to damage.
Matt: To the damage? Go for it.
Liam: I'm going to use Luck. Same exact roll. First one--
Laura: You should roll in your box.
Liam: Okay. I need Wyrmwood! Critrole. 17 from the first.
Matt: 17 hits.
Liam: 17 hits. And the second one is 15.
Matt: 15 misses, unfortunately.
Liam: Misses, but the sneak attack damage travels on the first dagger.
Matt: Yes it does.
Liam: Yes it does. So here it comes. (counting) 33. 33 plus six! 39.
Matt: 39, is that with the plus ten? Sharpshooter?
Liam: Oh. No, it's not!
Matt: So 49.
Liam: 49.
Matt: 49 points of damage, as you dart up along the side of the tent, getting behind the barrels. It sinks right into the back, between the shoulder blades of the chief orc of this group. You see his whole body tenses up from the severe amount of pain and he tries to reach at from the back and spins around, looking straight at you.
Liam: Hey, go fuck yourself. I stare him down.
Matt: All right, okay. Ending your turn there. Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: Okay, I'm going to grab the javelin really quick. I'm going to walk over to the guy who's just starting to crawl out of the pit.
Marisha: Yeah, yeah, yeah. (laughter)
Taliesin: I'm going to look him in the eye. Javelin goes right in the face.
Matt: Roll for an attack.
Taliesin: I'm using it as a stabbing weapon. I'm not letting go until he drops.
Matt: Right, no. I understand. I do not believe the javelin is finesse. So this may be a strength-based attack. Let me double-check.
Liam: But it's already happened.
Taliesin: That's fine. It wasn't about the strength!
Matt: So it's your strength bonus plus five.
Taliesin: Strength bonus plus five?
Travis: With advantage because he's hanging over a--?
Matt: What's your strength modifier?
Taliesin: One.
Matt: So plus six for this roll.
Taliesin: Plus six?
Matt: Technically, you get advantage because he's there, technically prone as he's getting up out of the--
Taliesin: Six, seven, eight, nine, 11.
Matt: 11. Your first attack you whiff. He ducks out of the way, actually pulling down into the pit and it misses his head, and he gets up again and extends a hand to reach out towards your ankle.
Taliesin: Throw it away, pull out the gun and shoot. (laughter)
Liam: What a Raiders moment!
Travis: Yes! Totally.
Marisha: Yes, totally Indy-ed it!
Taliesin: First shot to the face. That's still better. 17 to hit?
Matt: That hits.
Taliesin: Okay. That's 15 points of piercing damage.
Matt: As soon as he reaches out for your ankle, you pull a pistol out and he looks up at you. The front of his head detonates and he slumps backward, falling into the pit silently.
Marisha: Silently. Oh no.
Taliesin: I'm going to look up to see if anybody has noticed that this has happened.
Matt: The two guys that were throwing javelins at you have watched this happen. They seem unaffected, they're just really pissed off at you. Orcs aren't-- they're used to seeing their friends die, they keep coming at you, so these two are like, (growls).
Taliesin: All right, I'm going to pick one of them and take another shot. The one on the left, I'm going to take a-- yeah, let's do a sharpshooter shot on him.
Matt: Your left, okay.
Taliesin: Yeah, our left.
Matt: Okay, go for it.
Sam: Stage right.
Taliesin: Yeah, that'll hit. 26.
Matt: 26 hits.
Taliesin: That's 17 points of damage.
Matt: 17 points of damage, got it. This one is a gut shot, hits him on the side of the stomach and you can see part of the back of the armor blow out, and he grabs it for a second and keeps looking towards you, seemingly un-fully phased by the impact of the blow. Going to stay where you are?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. Use that pit to your advantage. Good. Ending Percy's turn, Keyleth, you're up. Vex, you're on deck.
Marisha: Okay, I'm going to take the two dudes who are in front of me, you can tell me if I can do this twice or not, I want to do my multi-slam attack, my multi-attack slam, and I want to go, in as dictated in Common as I can as an earth elemental, knock. Knock. And I want to take their heads and go, boof-boof.
Matt: (laughs) Okay, so you'll move one, two to get into combat range with two of them. Go ahead and make a slam attack against each of them.
Marisha: Against each of them?
Matt: Yes.
Marisha: Okay. Natural 19 on the first one.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: And a natural 18 on the second.
Matt: I'm going to say those both hit. Go ahead and roll slam damage.
Liam: (rock voice) Knock-knock.
Marisha: (rock voice) Knock-knock. (normal voice) First attack is 13 plus-- 18 points. Second, not as good, ten points.
Matt: Ten points. So you take the larger orc who's coming at you with full plate armor and this greataxe that it's bearing towards you, hacked at you twice last round, and the one that just got shot in its gut by Percy. You stumble in the front of them and they both look up at you for a second, snarl before you go, "Knock-knock." (whack) Crack their heads together. The one that Percy shot pulls back, its nose is smashed and it's a smear of blood on the front of its face, it's still standing but it stumbles back a bit. The other orc, however, as you pull back in your hand you look down, most of its face is completely caved in, you hear a slight gurgle and a little blub of blood come out of what used to be its mouth before its body goes limp in your grasp.
Marisha: Can I take his body and chuck it in the hole?
Matt: Sure, you take it and throw it over your head. It arcs right in front of you, Percy, down into the pit. You hear a (yelp) as the final remnants of the dryad are crushed by the fall.
Laura: Oh no!
Marisha: It served its purpose.
Matt: All righty. That finishes your turn, Keyleth.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: Vex, you're up.
Laura: Oh, me? I thought Travis was after--
Travis: I'm at the bottom of the round.
Laura: Oh, every time?
Matt: Yeah, he changed his initiative.
Laura: Oh, okay. I want to shoot Trinket out into a Cannonball from--
Matt: Okay, this'll be your action to do this.
Laura: Okay. I'm going to move up to where I'm lined up with all of that row, so this whole shebang right here.
Matt: Over here?
Laura: Yeah. All of these guys.
Travis: Yeah, please me too.
Laura: And you too, because you practiced it with him.
Travis: Yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah.
Laura: Take out the thing and say, Trinket! Cannonball! And shoot him out and try to roll into all those guys there.
Matt: Okay, so using your action and Trinket's bonus action as part of the attack here.
Laura: Right.
Matt: Trinket all of a sudden leaps out of the necklace, slamming into the larger bear in front. For 30 feet, that's five, ten, 15, 20, 25, 30. What's Trinket's movement?
Laura: His move is 40.
Matt: 40. You have 40, landing right there. Go ahead and roll three attacks.
Laura: Three attacks.
Travis: Good boy.
Laura: Oh god, really? He gets advantage because he's awesome.
Matt: No.
Laura: No.
Laura: He rolled pretty fricking bad. 12?
Matt: 12 hits the bear. It's a big bear. What's the second attack?
Laura: 15?
Matt: 15 just hits the orc. And the third one?
Laura: One!
Matt: Miss.
Laura: Miss.
Matt: All right, so go ahead and roll the Cannonball damage on those two.
Laura: What is that?
Matt: It should be on Trinket's sheet as one of the attacks.
Laura: Cannonball, exclamation point. Cannonball.
Matt: If you don't have it written down, I have it in my--
Liam: Yeah, go for that.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. (laughs)
Laura: You know what, you sent it to me forever ago, it's in my email somewhere, Matt.
Matt: That's okay. I have it here in my pdf, it's fine. As part of your beastmaster--
Laura: Can you tell me what magical beasts I can conjure while you're at it, because--
Matt: I will fight you. All right, 2d6 plus eight bludgeoning damage.
Laura: 2d6 plus eight, okay.
Matt: However, the one that missed does get an opportunity attack against Trinket.
Sam: Oh, snap.
Laura: I suck. 2d6 plus eight.
Liam: Hey, that's not bad.
Laura: 12 on the first.
Matt: Okay, 12 on the first. As the bear slams into the larger bear, like rolling over the top, and then comes down onto the second, the other target, the orc, smashing into him. The orc almost gets knocked off his feet and then the third one sidesteps and swings at Trinket, so go ahead and roll damage for the second orc.
Travis: Nice.
Laura: That's better. 17 on the second.
Matt: 17. Trinket crushes the other orc who'd already been softened up from the blow from Keyleth's earth elemental.
Laura: Yes, good job Trinket!
Matt: As Trinket rolls past, you can see this crushed form of the orc on the ground in the snow, crushed in place.
Laura: Good job, buddy!
Matt: Most of the bones broken and turned to dust. The third one, however, sidesteps and is going to go ahead and take a swing at Trinket. That is going to be a 19 to hit.
Laura: 20!
Matt: 20. Right across the top of Trinket's armor, no effect.
Taliesin: Can't even hit a bear.
Laura: Really dizzy though.
Matt: That's going to be your turn, though.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: All right. That brings us to Pike. Pike--
Laura: Can I use my bonus, though? Do I have a bonus action on top of that?
Matt: Sure.
Laura: Hide?
Matt: You did not start your round hidden, unfortunately. Or did you? Oh no, you did, you did! You totally did, yes, so you can hide. Roll stealth. You'll have to move back over here--
Laura: Natural 20!
Marisha: Hey!
Matt: So you move back behind the tree so you can find a place to hide. And then you go ahead and vanish. Cartoon-style, like run behind the tree and don't come out the other side.
Liam: Does she paddle the canoe down?
Matt: Pike's going to go ahead and, one, two, three, four, five. With the view there is going to go ahead--
Liam: Come on, golden child. I want the Pike.
Matt: Pike's going to go ahead and continue to run over here, because she sees that the guy who's hanging up there who has three javelins stuck in him now is like passed out and bleeding.
Laura: Oh no.
Matt: She's making her way around to try and heal him.
Liam: Such an Ashley thing to do.
Matt: All right. Their turn now.
Sam: Oh boy.
Matt: This guy here is going to go ahead and converge, well no, locked in with Trinket, he's not going to take the attack of opportunity from him. This guy's going to move here, that orc's going to move around to--
Laura: Look at how teeny Trinket is compared to the other bears!
Matt: I know. This bear's going to go ahead and move in on you, Marisha. Big old dire-bear-looking creature bearing down on you.
Marisha: I brace.
Matt: All right, so. The war chief begins to scream out, (yelling in Orcish), pointing at you, Grog. And you see the other orc on the other side goes, (yells) and seems to be energized by the rousing cry that it's given, so advantage on attack rolls for all within earshot.
Travis: Come on, give us a tickle.
Laura: You can do that?
Matt: This guy's actually going to move--
Sam: Well, maybe it's another spell or something, yeah.
Marisha: Paladin or some shit like that.
Taliesin: Yeah, it's a very paladin thing.
Laura: Man, that's a good thing to have.
Matt: All right. So since I moved him up last round because he was hiding behind a tree there, so the other larger orc, the one that was tending the bears rushes up alongside with you as well, Keyleth. All right, so the war chief is going to make one attack as a bonus action, it can do that against you, Grog, with advantage. That's going to be a 22 to hit.
Travis: That'll hit.
Matt: All right. You take 16 points of slashing damage, reduced to eight, because you're raging, so eight points of slashing damage as the war chief comes down with its greataxe. It sinks a few inches into your shoulder and it carves it down, almost matching the scar you have across your chest, and grinning at you the whole time. As you grin back at it, his friend is going to come up with its greataxe and is going to come down, this is with advantage as well. That's going to be a 17 to hit?
Travis: Misses.
Matt: That misses. As it comes up overhead to try and swing down to go towards the top of the nape of your neck and head area, you notice out of the corner of your eye, bring up your sword and deflect it down into the snow behind you, looking over your shoulder at it. The bear is now going to come up alongside and is going to make a bite and a claw attack against you.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: That is going to be a 19 to hit?
Travis: That's 19, my armor class.
Matt: And that's going to be a 21 to hit.
Travis: Yep, both hit.
Matt: So you take nine points of piercing damage as it bites you, reduced to four. We'll say four, I'm trying to round down consistently going forward. So you take four points of piercing damage from that, and then you take 12, reduced to six slashing damage.
Travis: Okay. Ten total?
Matt: Total of 11 points of damage. Or ten, you're right. From the bear. Bear attacking you, actually no, first the orc attacking Trinket now.
Laura: No!
Matt: With advantage.
Laura: No!
Matt: Oh man, that's a 16 even with advantage.
Laura: Ha!
Matt: Just slamming a greataxe over Trinket's armor, Trinket--
Laura: Trinket's yawning.
Matt: Bear against you, Keyleth, that's going to be a natural 20 with the bite.
Marisha: Ouch.
Matt: And natural 20 with the claws. Two natural 20s in a row, that bear wanted a piece of you.
Marisha: Keyleth was like, aw, cute. (screams)
Matt: 18, 24. We're looking at 30, no, 42 points of damage on you in your elemental form from the bear.
Marisha: Damn.
Matt: Bear bites into you and takes a mouthful of stone and tears a chunk out of the front of your sternum area and then with its claw swipes across your face, ripping part of your elemental jaw, exposing a little bit of soft earth beneath.
Laura: Soft earth.
Liam: That was your good jaw.
Matt: The other large orc, the larger one with its axe is going to take two attacks with its greataxe against you. That is a 21 to hit and an 18 to hit.
Marisha: Wait, I'm getting attacked by someone else, too?
Matt: Yeah, the other large orc there.
Marisha: Yeah, both of those hit.
Matt: All right. You take 24 points of slashing damage as both of the greataxe blows come on from the other side, you're being--
Marisha: 24?
Matt: --chiseled down now. Yes. That's going to end their turn. That brings us to Scanlan.
Sam: Have I freed them from their shackles?
Matt: We'll say as your action this turn, you will have been able to get them both out of their rope-binds, including the one that has the broken arm.
Sam: Okay. The construction of the tent, can I lift up the back and shuttle them out that way, or do I have to cut through it or anything?
Matt: It's not-- the back flap is currently hit into the ground with a stake. It shouldn't be too hard to lift it up if you want to try.
Sam: I don't want to waste too much time in there. You know what, I'll walk them out the front door, point them towards the mansion. And say: run, do not walk, to my beautiful, beautiful house.
Matt: Which way do you want to go?
Sam: To the right, stage right when I get out?
Matt: So right there? Okay.
Sam: Just enough to get them around the tent, yeah, and on their way.
Matt: They come out, seeing all the action happening, looking really nervous. Give you a nod, and the woman says, "Thank you." And they both turn, and if you point out the shimmering light, they (running) and bolt off spending the entirety of their round--
Sam: And I yell to them, wipe your feet before you go in! (laughter)
Matt: Okay, they won't quite reach the door, but they're on their way out.
Sam: That's pretty much all I can move, you think?
Matt: From there, yeah. Tiny gnome feet.
Sam: Okay. Do I have a bonus action?
Matt: You do.
Sam: All right. I will-- I can only really see Keyleth around, right? Everyone else is hiding?
Matt: You don't see-- well, you see Pike, because you're running behind. Pike is not making any tink-tink-tink. Behind you, you can see Grog in a frenzy.
Taliesin: I'm hidden by Keyleth.
Matt: Yeah, you can't see Percy.
Sam: I will inspire Keyleth as my bonus action, I will sing to her, (singing) her blood runs cold, her memory has just been sold, my druid is a centerfold, druid is a centerfold. I don't know. (laughter)
Matt: If you've ever seen an earth elemental go, huh? But you take your d10 inspiration die because it was a catchy tune, seems familiar. All right. That's going to end your turn, Scanlan?
Sam: That's it.
Matt: Grog, you're up.
Travis: All this love for me, I'm flattered. And I would like to use all three of my frenzied rage attacks against the bear.
Matt: Go for it. First attack?
Travis: First one, reckless, all three reckless, the first two normal, maybe the third Great Weapon Master, we'll see. 21.
Matt: 21 hits. Roll damage.
Travis: Yes. Awesome. Six, 11, 20, that's 20.
Matt: 20. With that, you take the axe and you swing it in a wide arc across the front of the bear's body. As you hit the edge of the bone, it splinters at the impact, and its shoulder-joint is knocked out. The sword continues and cuts right halfway into its throat and actually manages to cut through a very main artery and the bear begins to bleed out on the spot, onto the ground.
Travis: Is that an automatic failed constitution save?
Matt: With the constitution of the bear, no, it makes it. 14.
Travis: But he's dead, right?
Matt: It is dead, the bear is no longer of the realm of the living.
Travis: So I killed somebody, so I get an extra attack, correct?
Matt: You still get, it's your bonus action--
Travis: Oh, it's the bonus.
Matt: Right. So unless-- it's only helpful when you're not frenzying.
Travis: Beautiful.
Matt: When you're frenzying you get it every turn.
Travis: Yeah, I get it all the time!
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: So can I turn to my right--
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: To the next bloke.
Matt: Regular one or the war chief?
Travis: The war chief, let's try the war chief.
Matt: Sure, all right. Regular attack or Great Weapon Master?
Travis: Regular, because I've just got two left so we'll see how regular does.
Matt: Go for it.
Travis: 22.
Matt: 22 hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
Travis: 18.
Matt: 18. Makes his constitution save. So already still wounded and bleeding from the dagger that Vax left in him earlier, you manage to take the blade down, sweeping across the front of its armor, cutting and actually destroying and causing this jagged edge to the front of its armored breastplate. Make your next attack.
Travis: The third one, let's do Great Weapon Master.
Matt: Okay, go for it. With advantage.
Travis: Natural 20.
Liam: Orc down, orc down!
Laura: Yes!
Matt: Okay. So roll damage.
Travis: 32.
Matt: So you multiply that by two. Right? Before the modifier.
Travis: Before the modifier, it was--
Matt: 2d6, which you rolled what?
Travis: I rolled a 12. Or no, it was seven plus five and then my rage modifier.
Matt: Right, so it's seven times two, so 14 plus your modifier and your rage.
Travis: Wow, which is ten now. And Great Weapon Master is ten.
Matt: Right. So that's plus 20 is what you're looking at on top of that.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: So 14 plus 20, 34, and then roll 4d6 on top of that, Brutal Critical.
Laura: What!
Travis: Ten. No. 11.
Laura: 12.
Travis: Not 11, 12.
Sam: 47.
Matt: How do you want to do this? (cheering)
Matt: (laughs) Jesus.
Travis: I would like to stick the hilt of Craven Edge into the snow and reach forward and grab his shoulders and pull him onto the point of the sword.
Matt: So you throw the blade down, handle-first, it falls a little bit forward. You reach forward and grab the war chief and pull him down onto the blade. He looks up at you, staring into your face the entire time as you pull him over each jagged inch of the blade.
Travis: Yeah, let's see the light leave those eyes.
Matt: The life expires as it falls forward on the blade. Let me go ahead and make a constitution save. That is 18, makes it.
Travis: That's it, that's my turn.
Laura: That was a good turn.
Matt: But he is done, that war chief is done. Well done. That brings us to Vax.
Liam: All right, I'm going to curve around to the front of the tent I'm at and start aiming at the larger orc who's whacking on Keyleth there.
Matt: All right, glancing at the tent by the way, you do see there are a few people in there that are still bound and shaking and trying to look out and see what's happening.
Liam: I see them, I note them, and I'm throwing two daggers at the person attacking Keyleth, the thing.
Matt: All right.
Liam: First one is, and I'm using-- I'm going to use Luck. That's a point, straight up in the air.
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: Fuck, okay, the first one probably misses. 16, and I was using the minus five, so the first one probably misses, 11.
Matt: Yes, that guy right there?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Yeah, that misses unfortunately.
Liam: All right, second one.
Matt: Or it doesn't miss, it hits him but it hits the armor plates of his full plate, it's too, or the plate of the armor it's wearing is too strong and the blade can't pierce it.
Liam: Second one is a 26.
Matt: That does hit.
Liam: Which hits, and since he's up against Keyleth I get sneak attack damage.
Matt: Correct.
Liam: So here comes the damage. (counting) 25.
Matt: 25. With that, the first one hits the armor and streaks off and vanishes into the snow. The guy turns around and looks over and looks at you directly, grins, shrugging off the earth elemental to his side, grabs his greataxe and begins to move forward in a direction towards you angrily. However, as you let loose the second dagger, it catches him right in the center of the face, embedding itself between his eyes, and one wanders off as the momentum carries it forward three or four steps. (thudding) And grinds its face into the ground right before reaching you, into the fire. The body catches flame as soon as it lands, collapsing into one of the campfires and it begins to burn.
Liam: Sorry, sweetheart. And I feel the dagger go--
Matt: Yep, to the side of your Blinkback Belt. All right, do you want to stay right there? You have more movement if you want to use it.
Liam: How much left? Like five or ten?
Matt: Three more squares, 15 feet.
Liam: I'm going to walk up right up next to Keyleth in front of the bear. One, can I go diagonally?
Matt: Through the fire, you can if you want to.
Liam: Yeah, yeah.
Matt: Make an acrobatics check, go for it.
Liam: 27.
Matt: Okay, yeah, you basically run and leap up over the body of the guy you just killed, using him as a stepping stone, and you see ash and embers (whoosh) out the side as the pressure pushes him further into the fireplace. You leap in the air, land next to the one orc that's attacking Trinket and right next to where Keyleth is currently standing as the earth elemental.
Laura: Not unlike a raven taking flight.
Liam: Aren't you far away?
Taliesin: (uncannily good crow noises)
Matt: Percy, you're up. That was way too good.
Taliesin: I've been paid good money for that.
Matt: Your turn.
Taliesin: I can emote as a bird.
Marisha: Whose? His.
Matt: Percy's turn, yeah.
Taliesin: My turn. Look at that, is there only one guy standing now?
Matt: There are two guys standing right now, and a bear.
Taliesin: Okay, I'll look at that guy who's right in front of me--
Marisha: Two guys and a bear with Charlie Sheen, new to CBS.
Matt: Oh, disadvantage on your next roll.
Liam: For the rest of the arc.
Matt: Percy, what've you got?
Taliesin: I'm going to take a push shot, I haven't tried a push shot before, I'm going to do a push shot on that guy in front of me.
Matt: Okay. Go for it.
Taliesin: That's 29.
Matt: 29 hits.
Taliesin: All right, that's 13 points of damage and he pushes directly away from me ten feet.
Matt: He does. Into the fire.
Taliesin: Yep.
Matt: So it does 13 damage, runs back, falls onto the body of the other orc that's currently now engulfed in flames and catches fire himself. He takes six points of fire damage on top of that. and is currently in danger of catching fire.
Taliesin: That's good. And then, let's see, the bear is a still a problem, isn't he?
Matt: Yes.
Taliesin: I'll sneak another shot at the bear.
Matt: Go for it.
Taliesin: This is going to be a sharpshooter and a trick shot, I can't take both at the same time, can I, it's one or the other?
Matt: No, sharpshooter is your feat. Trick shot, you can't take multiple trick shots, but you can sharpshooter and--
Taliesin: And trick shot. I'm going to sharpshooter and trick shot.
Matt: Made a mistake once, we learned.
Taliesin: And that's 23?
Matt: 23 hits. Big bear. It's not that hard to hit.
Taliesin: Not that hard to hit? Has to take a constitution saving throw.
Matt: That is 11.
Taliesin: No, he has disadvantage on attacks until the end of his next turn.
Matt: Headshot?
Taliesin: Yep.
Matt: All right, so you go ahead and roll damage for that.
Marisha: Is this against the bear?
Taliesin: Yeah. 25 points of damage.
Matt: 25 points of damage. You-- after you fire, the one orc stumbling back and catching flames, you turn around and look at the bear. Fire again, it strikes the front of its bony ridge on its head, where the brow line is, shattering part of the bone and causing it to rear back. Looks very disoriented. It's still angry and ready to swipe, but it doesn't really know where it's standing at the moment.
Taliesin: I'm going to burn through my action surge really quickly and reload and take two more shots. Two more sharpshooter shots, nothing fancy.
Matt: Go for it. Against?
Taliesin: The bear.
Matt: The bear? Go for it.
Liam: Don't be a happy bear, be a sad bear.
Taliesin: 23.
Matt: Hits.
Taliesin: That's 20 points of damage.
Travis: Holy shit.
Matt: That actually, with that shot, you aim for the other part of the brow, release it, and with that it shatters part of the bear's face. You hit a part of the bone ridge that causes the front of the skull to break, and you can see part of its face collapses a bit as the bear, in a pile on the ground.
Laura: No!
Taliesin: So I have one last shot.
Matt: You do.
Taliesin: Can I spend a grit to try and shoot the rope that's holding that guy in the tree?
Matt: Yeah. You have disadvantage if you do.
Taliesin: Disadvantage. Grit or no grit?
Matt: Oh, oh sorry, to use a grit point...
Taliesin: I can actually technically get advantage on the shot.
Matt: I was going to say, you could, yeah. So if you want to do that, go for it.
Taliesin: Yeah, so I'll spend a grit point on that. Natural 20.
Travis: Ah! The golden snitch.
Matt: With that, you aim, take a moment, fire the bullet. You catch it in a way where it doesn't completely cut the rope, it's one of those rare perfect shots where it takes two of the three threads that holds the rope together, as they untether, it causes his body to (creaks) and it causes him to begin to sway a little bit. As the counter-sway comes back, it snaps, and it manages to catch him to hit the edge of the tree, fall into a few branches that break his fall, and he tumbles out.
Sam: Ow!
Matt: Only taking one point of damage.
Taliesin: Can't even kill a kitten with that.
Marisha: Can't even kill a kitten.
Matt: That was a one in a million shot right there.
Taliesin: No, it was a one in 20 shot.
Matt: One in 20 for you, yeah. One in a million for anybody else. But you're Percival.
Taliesin: I'm cool.
Matt: Okay, cool. That brings us to Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: Who's left alive?
Matt: There are two orcs, one that's currently on fire and down in the flame trying to pull itself up. The other is currently whaling on Grog out of anger, but is starting to look around and notice it's not a very good situation.
Travis: No no, stay, we've got party favors.
Matt: Keyleth, what have you got?
Marisha: Are we still trying to keep one alive?
Sam: Sure we are.
Marisha: Sure. All right.
Taliesin: I assume the one that isn't on fire, but you know, that's my opinion.
Marisha: Yeah, sure. I want to earth glide underneath and pop up underneath of him.
Matt: This guy here?
Marisha: The fire guy, yeah.
Matt: The fire guy. He's actually on top of another larger orc, so you burst through, the fire is destroyed and you see a bunch of the stone is thrown aside, what was the campfire has now been detonated in a burst of snow and earth. You burst out. Are you catching him?
Marisha: Yeah. That's cool.
Matt: So you burst up, the bigger orc body then rolls off onto the ground and keeps smoldering. You catch the guy who's on fire, currently holding him above you. What are you going to do?
Marisha: First, I want to stamp him out in the fire, in the snow, sorry. Stamp out his fire in the snow.
Matt: You're clutching him. He's flailing about in your grip. Fire's out.
Marisha: And then I'm going to, I want to grapple onto him. I want to start dragging him over to this nearby tree.
Matt: So make a grapple check, it's an athletics.
Marisha: Athletics?
Matt: Yep.
Marisha: I've only got basic stats here.
Matt: Roll a d20, add your strength modifier.
Marisha: Oh. 19. 20, 20.
Matt: He rolled a one. Yep. Through the flames and the chaos, he can't even resist, and you have him in a full grapple. He's not restrained, he can still attack, but he's at disadvantage on all his attacks, but he can't move, his movement is zero and you're currently holding him in place.
Marisha: Okay. Can I start dragging him over so--
Matt: At half-speed, yeah, you've already done 20 feet to get there, so you can move him ten feet.
Marisha: Okay. I'll slowly start dragging him to this tree over here. So we can tie him up.
Matt: One, two. That's as far as you can drag him there.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: As you're pulling him back, and he's like, (struggling noises).
Marisha: Come on.
Matt: All right, that ends your turn. Vex, you're up.
Laura: All right, I'm going to turn Trinket around, he's going to attack that dude that got a hit on him. The one behind him.
Matt: Right here? Oh, the one behind him is the one that currently is being dragged away after being set on fire.
Laura: Oh shit.
Travis: There's one on me.
Laura: Okay, he runs up to the one on Grog. But he moves out of the way so that I can get a clean shot on him.
Matt: Okay. Moves around.
Laura: And he bites him and he claws him!
Matt: Go for it!
Laura: Okay.
Matt: This is your bonus action?
Laura: Huh?
Matt: You're giving him the attack on the bonus action?
Laura: I still get a bonus action, he gets to attack and I get to attack.
Matt: Okay, so yeah, so you get one attack and he gets both attacks. Go for it.
Laura: Yeah, he gets two attacks because of Bestial Fury. Gosh darn it! That one's good, okay. He bites the shit out of him.
Matt: All right, go ahead and roll damage on that.
Travis: (laughs) "Gosh darn it!"
Laura: What is that, 13? No, 12.
Matt: 12, all right.
Laura: And then I'm going to shoot him from my hiding spot.
Matt: Okay. So you dart out from behind the tree and release an arrow, go for it.
Laura: All right.
Liam: Get it, girl.
Sam: Don't hit me.
Liam: That's all right.
Laura: 20.
Matt: 20 hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
Laura: Great. 16 plus sneak attack. 19.
Matt: 19 points of damage. This arrow strikes him in the side of the throat, he gurgles and falls on the ground. As he's trying to grab, Trinket uses that and pounces on top and rips out, tears its throat out.
Laura: Yeah!
Travis: Yeah!
Matt: That orc is done. Currently, at this moment, the camp is cleared out except for the one that Keyleth's currently grappling, and you guys all turn around and you can see now, there is the other tent still filled with people. The other two here disappear into the mansion's doorway.
Marisha: (rock voice) Grog.
Travis: Oh, sweet, yeah, hold on. You hold one end, I'll hold the other. Wait. No, that might be something-- never mind. And I take out Craven Edge. I walk up to the orc that she's holding.
Marisha: And I put him in a nice little sleeper hold.
Travis: Yeah, look, mate. So unless you want to bleed or lose the head that's attached to your body, are there more of you around these parts?
Matt: Make an intimidation check.
Sam: I don't think he can understand you, Grog.
Travis: He speaks fear.
Sam: Oh.
Travis: I get advantage on those because I--
Matt: Because of Craven Edge, yeah.
Travis: 25.
Matt: The orc's looking at you, and while it was putting on a brave face, as soon as you approach, holding out Craven Edge, your muscles rippling with the arcane strength of the blade that his fallen friends have imbued you with, as each step happens the shadows that drift off the blade begin to drift up your arm and off your shoulder, and from his perspective the whole world goes dark around you as you take each step. And that grimace on the orc's face falls into fight-or-flight fear. He says, "No. We are the only ones. I am the only one."
Travis: Have you had any dealings with the goliaths that are in Westruun?
Matt: "We don't deal with goliaths." Spits blood, but it can only get, with what little bit of strength it has left, only dribbles down the chin in a not-very-aggressive way.
Travis: Anything else?
Sam: Yeah, we need to know, wait. Does he know anything else? Is there another camp, is there anything?
Taliesin: No.
Sam: They just had some prisoners?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Travis: Yeah, is there any reason why I should leave you alive? (laughs) I love this question.
Matt: He goes, "No. I should go to whoever made us. I will die here with my brethren. I will not run a coward."
Liam: Has he seen a cave with a sphinx in it?
Sam: Yeah, sphinx?
Travis: Before I dispatch you to your maker, have you seen a sphinx or a cave of magical origin around these parts?
Matt: "Rot in Kord's prison, half-giant."
Travis: And I take Craven Edge and I grab both of his ankles, and I pull them apart and I shove the blade up under his grundle, and then rip one of his legs off.
Matt: It's a horrific display. Even the earth elemental takes a step back.
Taliesin: Cool.
Matt: Fails the constitution saving throw.
Travis: Yes!
Laura: While that was going on, I wanted to run forward and work on the guy that fell from the tree. I wasn't paying attention to that.
Matt: Yeah, Pike has gone over to help, and he's pretty messed up, but Pike's already gotten to him at this point while this is happening. You come over and aid and manage to keep him from dying. He's unconscious, still, and he slowly comes to consciousness--
Laura: Does he look like the description that we got?
Matt: Yeah, it's Cyrus. Bloodied, horribly brutalized, but alive. What's your strength at now?
Travis: Plus four to attack and plus 11 for damage.
Matt: What's your strength score at?
Travis: Oh, score. It is now 21.
Matt: 21, nice. Fuck, dude.
Laura: You're stronger than Pike again.
Travis: Yeah, only for a little bit.
Matt: All righty.
Marisha: Are there any other prisoners still tied up?
Sam: Yeah, I'm in the other tent untying them.
Matt: Yeah, there's three more in this side over here, you guys were--
Sam: Calming them down, looking for loot.
Travis: 20.
Marisha: I was going to say, before I drop my earth elemental form I start busting open some of these crates for quick lootage.
Matt: You should have a higher strength than 20 if you kept it from the last basilisk fight. Because you're 17, you got how many bonuses from that combat?
Travis: Seven from-- without the short rest, so it's been seven?
Matt: You've got seven bonus benefits.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: So you're 24 then, aren't you?
Travis: No, only 21, because it takes two to go up the thing, right?
Laura: No--
Taliesin: Oh boy.
Matt: Okay. So. Every time they fail a saving throw, your strength goes up by one. Every two strength, you get a bonus.
Travis: Oh.
Matt: That's how it works.
Travis: Oh. I'm at 24.
Matt: So your strength is 24.
Marisha: (laughs) That's awesome!
Matt: Which means your overall strength bonus should be plus seven.
Liam: Juicing, man, he's juicing.
Travis: I'm going to turn that plus four to a plus seven.
Matt: Because your strength modifier normally is plus three, correct?
Travis: Correct.
Matt: At 17. With every even number it goes up, and it goes up one point by each time you steal a strength. Every two that you, every time it hits an even number, 18, 20, 22, 24, the modifier goes up by one. So yeah, if you're strength's at 24 right now, your overall strength modifier is plus seven. So it would be a plus four on top of whatever your normal attacking damage was already.
Laura: Wow.
Taliesin: So your strength saving throw goes up by one.
Travis: So plus four is correct. I had plus four down. Okay, got it. Got it, got it, got it.
Matt: Plus four on top of what you had normally, yes.
Travis: On what I had normally.
Liam: Let's get this camp cleared and get these people inside Scanlan's love shack.
Matt: As you're untying them, they're all, "Thank you, thank you so much, they took us in the night, we didn't know, we thought we were dead." And some of them start breaking down into tears. There's a little girl in there that amongst everyone is probably the most stalwart, and is trying to calm one of the men that's sobbing, she's like, "It's okay, it's okay." And is patting him on the shoulder.
Marisha: It's always the kids, man. It's always the kids.
Laura: Are you survivors of Westruun?
Matt: "Yes. We were up by the base and they came in the night and they killed my wife and they took me. They took everything."
Laura: You're safe now.
Matt: "Thank you."
Laura: As is your camp.
Matt: "Thank you."
Travis: If I could ask, have you seen-- fuck, Wilhand?
Sam: Wilhand?
Travis: Yeah, Wilhand. Yeah.
Laura: Small, older, gnomish fellow?
Matt: The little girl pipes up and goes, "Yeah, yeah, Wilhand. He was as tall as me."
Travis: I drop down to my knees. You seem very brave. Do you know where Wilhand has gone?
Matt: "I haven't seen him since we left town."
Laura: So he stayed in the town.
Matt: "I haven't seen him outside of it."
Sam: Oh, the town. We were in the camp. Okay.
Laura: What's your name, darling?
Matt: "Vanessa."
Laura: Vanessa. You're very strong, Vanessa.
Matt: "Thank you. You're very strong too."
Laura: Oh, well, thank you. Do you like bears? Not those scary ones but really nice ones?
Matt: And you see she's a little-- bears are a rough subject for her, she's probably seen them eat a few people she knew.
Laura: Trinket sits back. He's friendly.
Travis: He's super cuddly. And I run over and I put Trinket in a headlock and give him a noogie. See? Totally nice.
Matt: Trinket breaks free and licks you right across the face, your beard up to the side again.
Travis: Here we go again.
Matt: She chuckles.
Marisha: I drop elemental form and start helping Pike heal whoever needs healing.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: I go for that circlet that was on the war chief.
Travis: Oh, good call.
Liam: Grog.
Travis: Yeah?
Laura: I inspect it first.
Liam: We should bury the dead. There's piles of dead, we should bury them.
Laura: Was it human bodies or animal bodies?
Matt: They were human bodies.
Travis: Yeah, of course, you're right.
Liam: We'll put them in the pit and then we'll cover it up. Gimme a hand.
Travis: Yeah. Whatever you need.
Matt: The rest of the people, while you guys are doing this, have been escorted into the mansion. They're all in there being cleaned up, the servants are tending to them, and I mean, they'll be shat out of there in 24 hours, but--
Sam: It's fine. They'll have a good night's sleep.
Matt: At this point you hear a voice in the distance say, "Hey! Is everything all right?"
Laura: Oh, quite, come on over!
Matt: Walking out from behind a tree, a one-armed man. He comes running over. "I heard a lot of craziness going on. Those-- you did good, saw a little bit of it."
Sam: Did you have to use your dagger at all?
Matt: "No, but I kept it there just in case." And he's still clutching it in his hand.
Travis: There's one standing behind you right now.
Matt: (yelps) Spins around and swings it, loses his grip of it, and it (dagger flying) into the tree, and he's like, runs over, grabs it.
Travis: Nobody saw that. Totally cool.
Matt: "Okay, thank you." So you guys begin taking the bodies over and putting them into the pit on top of the orc that you blew most of the forehead off of.
Taliesin: Two orcs, what did we, two--
Marisha: Two dryads.
Taliesin: Two dryads, two orcs.
Laura: The circlet?
Matt: Well, the dryads have vanished by now at this point, the magic. You inspect the circlet, the circlet is more of adornment, looks like it was a symbol of power, does not appear to have anything magical about it, but the uncut gem in the center appears to be a raw ruby, probably worth about 150 gold in its current form. You also find on their bodies overall, from the ones that you have access to, an additional 230 gold pieces. And amongst the goods that have been gathered here, if you should wish to return them or keep them for yourself, there is roughly 700 gold pieces amongst the other bits of dried food, starting-to-rot vegetables.
Sam: There's a couple boars, right?
Matt: There are a couple boars that were dragged in, that have been killed.
Taliesin: Let's eat the food that won't last and return, cook the boar and return.
Matt: There is one unspoiled fire.
Marisha: Yeah, can we take a short rest?
Taliesin: We can also bring the food into the mansion and let the help cook it.
Sam: That's true. How about the casks, what's in the casks?
Matt: There are four casks of varying size, there are two large, large casks, there's one giant grain barrel, there's one barrel that appears to be of a standard ale, and there are two smaller wine barrels. Only one of them appears to be labeled, or at least hasn't been fully rubbed off. They're nothing special, these are probably grabbed by whoever ran a tavern in Westruun and took what they could during the chaos.
Travis: All ale and wine is special.
Matt: Fair enough.
Sam: We should take that, and wait, this meat, don't we have a cold bag? Don't we have a cooler?
Travis: We do!
Sam: Let's keep some meat.
Travis: That nothing is in!
Laura: No, we do have some stuff in it.
Travis: Some stuff is in it!
Sam: Keep some grain and meat or something.
Laura: All right, yeah, I'm keeping some boar meat.
Marisha: But seriously, I eat some because I'm-- Keyleth's a little hungry.
Laura: I thought you were a vegetarian.
Marisha: No, never said that.
Travis: Can I try and roughly butcher this boar?
Matt: You've done it pretty well. You butcher the boar, there's already a stump set up for you, previously used for not quite as humane reasons, but you manage to prepare the boar, cook it over the area here. As the sun slowly begins to set, you guys take your short rest. Is everyone taking a short rest?
Travis: Not me, not me.
Matt: Okay, so you maintain your damage, you still maintain your--
Sam: Wait, the sun is setting, are we taking a short rest or a long rest? Are we spending the night?
Liam: Can't we go in your house?
Sam: Of course we can, yeah. Are we going to spend the night? What time is it?
Matt: It's about five o'clock in the afternoon.
Sam: Oh, little early.
Liam: Let's pack it in early. Who knows what'll happen tomorrow?
Sam: Are we going up to the mountain?
Liam: Yeah, tomorrow morning.
Sam: All right. Do we need to scout up? How far to the mountaintop?
Taliesin: We're not going to the mountaintop.
Sam: Or the glowing place.
Matt: Where the beacon is? Keyleth would be the one that knows, since she's the one who marked it. It's probably about an hour and a half's travel on foot to get there.
Sam: We should go check it out before we go to bed, swing by on a broom or something.
Laura: I like it. I'll hop on the broom.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Wait, check it out and then? Your door is stationary, though, right?
Matt: The door is stationary, the door is on the outside of this camp.
Travis: But everybody inside's safe.
Laura: Yeah.
Travis: Do it.
Laura: Can I stealth in the air?
Matt: Not really.
Laura: Can I wrap myself in like my--
Travis: What? Aluminum foil?
Matt: I mean, you will make a stealth check.
Liam: You'll figure this broom out eventually.
Matt: I'm going to put it at disadvantage because you are, it's possible, but you're also a giant rocketing half-elf in the sky.
Laura: I'm not that giant, okay?
Travis: Wow. Wow.
Matt: Roll disadvantage.
Laura: So I usually get advantage, so I'll just roll regular.
Travis: I love your broom rolls so much.
Laura: Oh! Oh! You know what, I still have Pass Without a Trace, because I never cast Hunter's Mark to break that concentration.
Liam: You nerd.
Travis: I would not remember that shit.
Laura: 23.
Matt: 23. All right. Cool. Don't forget your point of exhaustion, Grog. From the end of the frenzied rage.
Travis: Yes, thank you.
Sam: I'm going to go with her. You're going on the broom? Yeah, I'm going to turn into a mangy crow that looks like it would be with a witch.
Laura: I like it. (cackles)
Sam: I'll Polymorph.
Matt: Polymorph. You follow her as a crow.
Sam: And I perch on her shoulder. (crow sounds)
Taliesin: (unnervingly realistic crow noises)
Sam: Thank you!
Matt: That's so creepy.
Taliesin: (unnervingly realistic crow noises)
Matt: Perfect.
Sam: Wow. Thank you.
Matt: So as you continue cresting over the top of the tree ridge, heading towards the direction that Keyleth points out to you, you guys swoop down. As the treeline comes to an end, the snow begins to subside and you reach the base of the Stormpeak. There, make a perception check, both of you, actually.
Sam: Mine sucks. Natural one.
Laura: I'm so scared of all my dice right now.
Matt: What you got?
Laura: 17.
Matt: 17? Okay.
Laura: Oh wait! Favored terrain.
Matt: Mountains?
Sam: You're in the air, though.
Laura: Forest at the edge of the mountain.
Matt: Does not pertain to the forest, more of it's the mountain.
Laura: Okay. 17.
Matt: 17, okay. As the sun finally hits the edge of the mountain range and begins to set, and the light's starting to diminish, you're having a hard time picking out details. You know the general vicinity that Keyleth pointed at you, it takes longer than you anticipated, but eventually you come-- and there are a few small caves and entrances to the side of this mountain, but after you sweep past once or twice, doing a couple loops, one catches your eye. You look at it from this vantage point. It looks like a small inlet, like a cavern. As you get closer, unlike the other rough entrances, this one seems intentionally carved in the mountainside in a triangle. Directly about 30 feet to its peak, there is a triangular entrance to the very very base of this mountain that is recessed into the mountain rock itself.
Laura: I don't think we should land on the ground, we should just stay above.
Sam: (crow sounds)
Taliesin: (realistic crow sounds)
Laura: You can't talk when you're a bird?
Matt: He cannot.
Laura: Oh. This is really smart, you coming, because we can't do anything. Do you want to pop out of that, can you pop back in? One caw for yes, two caws for no. You can't even understand me right now? This is ridiculous.
Sam: I don't know, can I understand her?
Matt: You can understand her, yeah.
Sam: I'm just fucking with her, then. (laughter)
Matt: But she doesn't know if you understand.
Laura: I float down gracefully on the broom and give it a little bit of a closer look.
Matt: Okay. As you pull down to the edge of the tunnel, the cavern entrance, you can see the relatively worn, through time and weathering, the structure of the tunnel, even though it is intentional, it has been there for a long time, and you can see the effect that time has had on it, from what was once a very pristine entrance. Looking inside, it goes dark about 25 feet in. Do you want to step further into the cavern?
Laura: No no no, I'm still in the air, I'm not on the ground.
Matt: Okay, so yeah, looking inside about 25 feet past, what little bit of daylight that still exists disappears into the shadow of the cavern, you don't know anything beyond that.
Laura: What do you think, Scanlan? Back up a little bit and shoot a flaming arrow into that?
Sam: (caws)
Laura: Sweet. I back up a little, far distance away, and shoot a flaming arrow into it.
Matt: Okay, so you pull out your arrow, the shaft ignites as you release it. It arcs forward and it lights up a little bit of the tunnel around it, tunnel continues--
Liam: Good aim from the broom?
Matt: Decent aim.
Liam: Okay.
Matt: I mean, it's not a wide target, she's shooting it into an open 30-foot space.
Laura: And it's not moving, it's not fucking moving right now.
Liam: I've watched Harry Potter, they always have two hands on the broom.
Laura: Why are you trying to do this to me right now? Why you got to be a player hater?
Liam: Because it's fun.
Matt: From the narrative standpoint, it's fine. She could take another shot and it would make it there anyway. You can see it go through, and it arcs and then disappears. You see what looks like an edge, and it vanishes past it.
Laura: Well. That looks deep. I don't think we should check this out on our own.
Sam: Might be fun.
Laura: You're a bird, you could probably fly in and fly back out.
Sam: Sure. (caws) Okay, I'll fly in.
Matt: Okay. You head down, coasting into the darkness. Does your form have--
Sam: I have darkvision, I don't know what crows have.
Matt: If you have darkvision. But you, crows--
Sam: I don't know what a crow has.
Matt: I will look it up real fast.
Taliesin: I don't think a crow has darkvision.
Matt: Hold on, hold on.
Travis: They're dark as night, man, of course they do.
Sam: Are they daytime birds? They're daytime birds. They're not owls.
Taliesin: They're not owls.
Sam: Shit.
Laura: Should've been a fucking owl.
Taliesin: (owl sounds)
Sam: You can do that too? Quick, do a nightingale.
Matt: No, you do not have darkvision as a--
Sam: So I'm just flying around in the dark knocking into things.
Matt: Yeah. Essentially, you coast into the shadow, hitting a couple things. You eventually hit ceiling.
Sam: Ow!
Matt: And coast down and you land harshly, taking three points of damage in your crow form as you hit and land and tumble down a few stairs.
Sam: Ooh, stairs.
Matt: At that point, you're in complete darkness right now, you can see a faint distant bit of light that's barely creeping in from the entrance you came from. Around you, though, nothing.
Sam: I'll break form and come back as Scanlan.
Matt: Okay. You come back as a gnome. Now your darkvision kicks in and indeed you can see there is a smoothly carved tunnel overhead that descends down a long flight of stairs. Make a perception check.
Sam: Natural 18. (laughter)
Matt: And you have 60-foot darkvision? As a gnome?
Sam: It just says darkvision. I didn't write down the distance.
Matt: Okay, I'm going to look this up real fast. Because this is important to know for this circumstance.
Liam: By the way, blackbird has a hit point of one, so technically you popped back into gnome form the second you hit the ground.
Matt: Does it actually have one hit point?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Then yeah.
Marisha: Darkvision is 60 feet, I wrote it down.
Sam: 60 feet. I'll write it down for the future.
Matt: There you go. So yeah, your vision just hits the edge of the staircase, which stops, and then continues forward. The darkness beyond there is obscured, or a hint of blue light that slightly shifts and glimmers beyond your vision. It seems like the tunnel ceiling ends as the path continues beyond that, and your vision is cut off beyond that. You cannot see, but you do see a very very faint blue shimmer coming from the tunnel beyond.
Laura: I float up to the edge of the mouth of the cave and say, (whispers) Scanlan?
Matt: (echoes) Scanlan, Scanlan, Scanlan.
Sam: Wow, I've always wanted that to happen.
Matt: (echoes) Happen, happen--
Laura: (whispers) Are you alive?
Sam: Can I see down the blue thing?
Matt: You can go down further if you want to.
Sam: I don't want to go to where the blue is, I just want to see if I can peek down there?
Matt: You'd have to descend the stairs to. Because the actual tunnel continues down along with the roof and then as it continues past, it levels off.
Sam: I'm going to die. I'm going to shoot one single Magic Missile into the space.
Matt: (laughs) Okay.
Laura: What if that's his face?
Matt: All right, so you take the wand, and the Magic Missile, which gives a very faint candlelight glow around it as it is a burst of arcane energy, arcs down and slams into the stonework and filters out. The little flash you see at the base of the stairway, the stonework there is like a tiled square stonework, it looks like the further you descend, the more and more there is a constructed architecture to this place, however, the missile dashes against the stone tile floor at the bottom of the stairway. No other seeming reaction, that same blue glimmer unchanged.
Sam: Okay. I quickly pee a little on the side of the wall, just a little bit, okay. Zip up, turn into an owl and get outta there. At level five, because I'm out of level four.
Matt: Okay, so. (hooting) An owl ascends quickly and spooks you.
Laura: I stay at the mouth of the cave and say, (whispers) Scanlan, are you alive?
Matt: (echoing) Alive, alive, alive.
Laura: (whispers) Scanlan?
Matt: (echoing) Scanlan, Scanlan.
Laura: Wait. Scanlan! Is that you? You were a crow.
Sam: (confused hooting)
Laura: Okay. That's you. Should we go?
Taliesin: You're just turning your head 180 degrees back and forth, aren't you?
Sam: Oh yeah.
Laura: We should go back. One hoo for-- I start flying back.
Matt: Vex takes off on the broom. All right. You guys head back to the camp, make your way into the mansion, and rest for the evening. You don't rest for the evening?
Travis: No.
Sam: What?
Laura: You're exhausted.
Travis: I have one level of exhaustion, I'm okay.
Taliesin: I'm going to spend a little time tinkering before I sleep, working on the broom.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: I never stopped digging, can I assume that everybody's buried?
Matt: At this point in time, yeah. By the time they've been gone, everyone's been buried, everyone's been taken care of, and you make your way back, waiting at the door for your sister to return.
Travis: What's the second level of exhaustion?
Matt: Yeah, so yeah, for not taking your evening's rest you get a second level of exhaustion and your speed is halved.
Travis: Okay. I want to see how far this can go. I want to push this.
Taliesin: I've tried this experiment in real life. It never ends well. (laughter)
Travis: I'm willing to learn.
Matt: Okay. So we'll go ahead and take a break as the party is resting for the evening, we'll be back here in a few minutes, guys, to continue this next chapter of Vox Machina's adventure. All right, see you in a little bit. [break]
Matt: Hey guys, welcome back. So. Kicking into high gear to return to the game as it's going. You guys go through your restful evening, except for Grog, resting up and getting prepared for whatever comes your way, except for Grog. As you spend the night fending off sleep, staring at Craven Edge there on your lap, feeling the cold blade against your fingertips and considering and still feeling the strength that it's imbued upon you pulsing through your veins.
Travis: Yeah, could I ask it one question?
Matt: Yeah, yeah.
Travis: Right, it was a good day, right? Like, superb.
Matt: "Yes."
Travis: Do you remember your former owners?
Matt: "I do."
Travis: Do you remember Lord Briarwood?
Matt: "I do."
Travis: How was he?
Matt: "He was a stalwart champion. He kept me fed. Mostly."
Travis: Did he give you a goal? You know, before we put him into different pieces, he was, like, trying to build up this god called Vecna. You don't know anything about a god called Vecna, do you?
Matt: "Doesn't interest me."
Travis: No?
Matt: "No."
Travis: Just the blood.
Matt: "Just the hunger."
Travis: Right, the hunger.
Matt: "It's all there is, is the hunger."
Travis: But look, we did really good today. So I'm not going to go to sleep, I'm going to carry this over the next day, I want to see how hard we can push this.
Matt: "So close to being full."
Travis: You're close to being full? Hold on, how many more lives do you need?
Matt: "I'm close."
Travis: Do you know, do you know what happens when you get full? Like, do you get bigger? Do I get stronger?
Matt: "Feed me and you'll find out."
Marisha: Oh boy.
Travis: You've got it. Can I insight check the sword?
Matt: Yeah.
Liam: Yes please! (laughter)
Taliesin: I've never been so happy.
Travis: (clears throat) Two. (laughter)
Matt: It's hard to read the blade, but the disposition doesn't seem to have changed any of your previous conversations, so seems hard to read. It's a sword.
Travis: Outstanding. I tell you what, if you get full, we'll celebrate this upcoming day as your birthday.
Matt: "If you insist, Grog Strongjaw."
Travis: And that'll do me for the night.
Matt: All right. You all come to, rallying your breakfast, your chicken-filled breakfast.
Laura: And some boar!
Matt: And some boar, freshly cooked by Grog, who has some dark circles under the eyes from a night of unrestful consciousness.
Laura: How you doing there, Grog? And I slap him across the face a few times.
Travis: Really good.
Laura: Yeah?
Travis: Yeah, I slept really hard.
Laura: That's good.
Travis: Lots of dreams.
Taliesin: All right. Let's send our friends on their way and make our way to the cavern that you found.
Travis: Yeah, we send them back towards the camp zone, right?
Sam: Yes, and they have a mapmaker with them, so they'll find it without a problem.
Laura: They'll know how to get back.
Matt: Tyriok's like, "Yes, I can actually find our way back quite easily from this position, as we've already traveled this way and I have a good memory for these types of things. I have to."
Laura: Yes. Will you and Cyrus inform everyone else that it's safe for them-- oh shit, we're not back, they can't go there. We'll be back, and we're going to send you to Whitestone, where you'll be safe.
Sam: Eventually. But right now, just go to your--
Taliesin: Well, they were fine rolling around, we already sent the wounded and the young to Whitestone, they're fine.
Laura: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Matt: "All right, then, that can be done, and can I take my satchel with me in case I can find some way to recover it?"
Laura: Of course, it's yours, darling.
Matt: "All right." And he takes the stone arm-slash-satchel and tucks it under his arm. "All right. Rest of you." And Cyrus steps forward. "All right, well, lead the way." And they all give you guys a thank-you, the little girl runs up, Vanessa, and hugs you and hugs Keyleth, and Cyrus and them pull a couple of the orcish weapons that were left behind and arm themselves. Cyrus actually takes a couple of javelins and is like, (sighs) "I think the proper way to make vengeance with these. All right, you guys stay safe."
Laura: You too.
Matt: "Really appreciate it."
Liam: Tyriok!
Matt: "Yes?"
Liam: Could I have my loaner back, please?
Matt: (laughs) "Oh, right, right, yeah, certainly." He pulls it out and hands it to you.
Liam: I'll take that carefully. Thank you.
Laura: You can keep the opal dagger I gave you.
Matt: "Oh, thank you thank you thank you so much!"
Travis: (under his breath) Infertility.
Matt: Puts it back away. "I appreciate that. All right, so we'll be off?" The rest of the people nod, they take some of the supplies from the wagons, they begin making their way back on the already treaded path you guys made that Tyriok knows is safe to get out of the Frostweald.
Laura: Scanlan, did you see how generous I was just then?
Sam: Nope, missed it.
Laura: What's wrong, Grog?
Travis: What?
Sam: Did you have trouble sleeping?
Travis: Yeah, no, look, the sand pit was, I think I need to comb it after you use it.
Sam: Sand pit? I have a bedroom for you.
Travis: What? There's a training area downstairs just for me.
Sam: Oh Grog, you have your own bedroom upstairs. It's got a giant-sized bed in it.
Travis: I haven't been using it.
Sam: Oh, for crying-- I spent minutes thinking about conjuring that.
Marisha: Grog, you did sleep last night, right?
Travis: Yep. Yeah, I mean, like, I had my way with a few of those imaginary friends, because, man. No. It was good. Good sleep. Real, a little sore in my back.
Liam: I'm going to make an insight check on Grog.
Matt: Insight check, go for it.
Liam: Yeah. 16.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Whispers!
Laura: Whispers about Grog?
Liam: I've never had a whisper before!
Laura: You've never had a whisper?
Liam: On the show.
Taliesin: It's warm in your ear.
Sam: I don't know what products we're selling currently, but I assume there are some.
Taliesin: We do know that Gilmore's Glorious Goods shirts will be shipping out next week.
Sam: Oh wow! The preorder shirts?
Taliesin: Gilmore's Glorious Goods shirt, the preorder shirt will be shipping out next week. We'll be using this time to ignore what's happening over here while the Gilmore's Glorious Goods shirts ship out next week.
Marisha: And of course don't forget to tune in next week for our 50th episode.
Taliesin: 50th episode. Not anniversary.
Sam: 50th episode. There's going to be special giveaways. I don't know. Is that true? I don't know.
Laura: What, no, there's not.
Matt: So. What do you want to do?
Marisha: Shall we? Up the mountain!
Laura: Wait. So did we already tell everyone what we saw?
Marisha: I'm assuming you told us when you got back.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: You guys informed the party of what you saw.
Sam: There's a triangle, seems to be Ioun-based.
Laura: Blue light.
Sam: Smells of urine inside, it's very weird.
Liam: Scanlan, maybe not black birds for a while. All right? It's a touchy subject.
Sam: Ooh, sorry. I forgot. Well actually, no, I don't know what you're talking about.
Liam: Stay away from black birds for a while.
Sam: Okay.
Liam: Thanks, buddy.
Sam: Sure, no problem.
Matt: All right. You guys make your way southward to the Frostweald.
Sam: The Frostweald.
Matt: Frostweald? Frostwold?
Taliesin: Frost-vield. What is wrong with-- Frost-vield.
Marisha: Frost-Willem Dafoe.
Sam: Sig-il.
Matt: I will smite you.
Marisha: Jif.
Taliesin: Jif. God damn it, you beat me to it.
Matt: All right. You guys continue to head south, eventually following the path that you lead along with Keyleth's directional--
Laura: I keep an eye out for any enemies along the way.
Matt: Indeed you do, make a perception check, being the scout person for this.
Laura: I'm going to do that with advantage because I'm in the woods.
Matt: You're in the forest, yeah, that is true.
Laura: 25.
Matt: 25. With that, you manage to skirt the outside of what appears to be another localized basilisk nest. You catch it early enough and guide the party around it to avoid that on your way.
Laura: Let's go this way and then circle back.
Matt: You eventually make your way to the outskirts of the forest, the trees begin to thin out, the snow begins to melt, the temperature begins to rise somewhat. It's still cold-ish, but it's less freezing.
Travis: Oh right, the Frost-weald.
Matt: Yeah, there's been a long-term enchantment over this forest that has kept it the way it is, you're not certain as to what the actual reasons are for it. Eventually, as the sun reaches not quite zenith but later morning, you find your way to the outside of this tunnel that you and Scanlan had found the evening before. There before you, you guys see the 30-foot-tall triangular entrance to this passageway deeper into the mountain itself.
Laura: So this is the place. Technically, Scanlan flew in, so I don't think he had to check for traps.
Sam: I did not check for traps, I just flew in, but perhaps we should this time.
Liam: Lead me in as far as you went.
Sam: If you'll check for traps.
Liam: Yeah. Where you flew over, yeah.
Sam: Yes, let's do it.
Liam: In the entrance and down those stairs.
Matt: All right. So go ahead and make an investigation check.
Liam: 20. No, 17.
Matt: 17.
Sam: I will also check for traps.
Matt: Okay. Make an investigation check.
Sam: 22.
Liam: Checking for traps, I should know this, but is that separate from perception for me?
Matt: Perception is to notice various details in here, if you're actually actively searching for trap mechanisms like that, investigation is generally more used. Yeah.
Sam: 22.
Matt: I mean, they're both pretty similar in some ways and it depends on the circumstances.
Liam: But is it a different roll? Traps? Or is it just perception and investigation?
Matt: Perception and investigation, depending on the circumstance, one or the other. For the most part, perception would be like if you notice something wrong about the room, you'd be like, that stone seems different, then you would do investigation to try to find out what type of trap it is per se, or if you were actively searching for traps, that would be more of an investigation, like knowing where you've seen around, and seeing the terrain to possibly facilitate something like that.
Liam: It's only my third year doing this.
Matt: I know, it's all good. What did you have again?
Sam: 22.
Matt: 22. All right. As you guys slowly descend the steps, as you get about 25, 30 feet into the tunnel before it lowers into these stone steps, and they're rather large steps. Each spread of your gait is wider than the common step, and these have been around for a very long time. You can see where the corners are, they're rounded. Looks like at points in time there may have been flooding in this area that has caused that type of softening of the stonework at the tip, though the little bit of moisture that's in this area seems to be from blown-in snow possibly or another source you don't currently see. It is pitch-dark in here, if anyone would like to--
Travis: I have darkvision.
Matt: He has darkvision. Darkvision, darkvision. Darkvision, darkvision. Absolutely blind.
Liam: I'm pulling out Flametongue dagger.
Marisha: Then I'll light up my hands a little bit.
Matt: Okay, so you guys have a low candlelight, so it gives you a little bit of vision, but it's still very, very dim. You guys make your way down the stairway, step to step, and you can hear each footstep echoes as you continue downward. It progresses deeper and deeper and you begin to see this gentle blue flickering light at the very bottom of the staircase as it begins to approach, and your eyes have adjusted to the darkness at this point in time.
Laura: Does it look like water reflection?
Matt: It looks like it could be some sort of water-like movement, and as you hit the bottom of the stairway and it evens out into these square stone tiles across the way, you see ahead of you what looks to be a singular circular room with no exits from what you can tell at this point. Just a circular room that loops around, and in the center there is a ten-foot pool of a still, somewhat still surface of water. There is a little bit of movement because there is some sort of a cold breeze that was ejecting out of the tunnel, but there is no real source of the wind that you can pick up at the moment.
Laura: Can I investigate the walls? Did you already check for traps in this room?
Liam: I did an investigation check.
Matt: As you entered this room?
Liam: Yeah, I'll do it again here.
Matt: That was when you guys were going down the stairway, go ahead and make the roll.
Liam: I'm going to use Luck.
Sam: I got a 24.
Matt: 24, okay.
Liam: 18.
Matt: 18, okay. The two of you, there is a very, very faint blue glow that is emanating from below the surface of the water that is giving this very, very tiny bit of light to the room. Thankfully because most of you are darkvision-based, it doesn't impede you from seeing all the details in the room. Percy, you'll still not be able to make out the fine details.
Taliesin: That's why I'm in the back.
Matt: But between the two of you inspecting the edges, there are no seams, there are no doors, there are no other passages. You do, however, see script across the opposite side of the room that is chiseled into the stonework itself in Elvish script.
Marisha: Oh, Elvish.
Matt: Oh sorry, this is not Elvish, Elvish was the obelisk. What languages do you--
Liam: Common, Elvish, and Abyssal.
Matt: What languages do you know?
Sam: Gnome and Common.
Matt: It is a language neither of you know.
Taliesin: Can I take a look at it?
Sam: You can't see nothing.
Liam: I walk up with my dagger and hold it underneath.
Matt: Run it across?
Taliesin: Celestial?
Matt: It is Celestial.
Taliesin: Well, there you go.
Matt: Are you the only one that knows Celestial?
Taliesin: I had not a lot of friends growing up, this was a lot of quiet time.
Matt: (laughs) That is okay. All right, so. Looking at this, it reads, and you read it out loud, the translation. The thing about Celestial, it's interesting, it's a beautiful-sounding language that even the translation to Common is built into rhyme. It says, "Knowledge dost billow, all realms are the shore. The sky a window, the water a door."
Marisha: Wait.
Laura: Wait. Start at the beginning?
Matt: "Knowledge dost billow, all realms are the shore. The sky a window, the water a door."
Travis: Yep. So in this room, it's a circle, what's the distance across the room?
Matt: It's about 30 feet across on a side.
Travis: Oh, so it's not that big.
Matt: And it's a ten-foot pool. No, it's a pretty tight space.
Travis: And there's solid flooring and then the pool in the middle.
Matt: Yeah, in the middle, so you move around. So a ten-foot walkway around it.
Laura: Can I get on the broom? And fly up above the pool of water and look down into it?
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and make a perception check.
Laura: 25.
Matt: 25. Looking down into it, you see no bottom. You see the glow continues downward and it's almost like there is a very soft, faint source of light in there, but the water obscures it too much to see a bottom. It doesn't disappear into darkness, which leads you to believe that it's not endless, but you can't make out any details of where it would end or how far that is from where you are. You do see what looks to be slow, shifting movement of aquatic plant life that is gathered on the edges about ten feet down and further.
Marisha: So Percy read this out loud, right?
Taliesin: Yes, I read it out loud.
Marisha: Would Keyleth know anything about this as possibly being a portal to the realm of water? Can I do like a check to see if this is something that might be a--
Matt: Make an intelligence check.
Marisha: Not my strong suit.
Taliesin: Good, oh!
Laura: Oh my gosh Keyleth, you're so smart!
Marisha: I'm so smart. Just straight intelligence?
Matt: Straight intelligence.
Marisha: 15.
Matt: 15. There is talk of elements here, very plainly in the translation. It's possible. However, usually doorways to the planes have a very prominent magical signature to them, one that is especially, you are pretty sensitive to, being an Ashari, and that is a large part of what your people's charge is. You do not get the feeling that this pool is a gateway to another plane, per se, just a very deep pool.
Laura: Keyleth! Use the thing to see magical runes!
Sam: Oh yeah, yeah. The chunk, the hunk.
Marisha: Okay, I pull out my Hunk of Quall. Hunk of Quall.
Matt: Hold it up and concentrate for a moment. Doesn't seem to spark, and there doesn't appear to be a reaction.
Laura: Really thought it was going to do something, I really, really did.
Travis: Can I take a single gold coin, make a wish, and flick it into the wishing well.
Laura: I watch it go down.
Matt: Drifts from side to side, drifts down, glimmers occasionally, drifts, and then is out of sight.
Liam: There's a fairly good chance we need to go down through this. Grog and Keyleth? You're probably the best suited for this, you because your fucking chest is so big and you because you can turn into water.
Travis: I also have two vials of breathing underwater.
Laura: Hey, that's a good thing.
Marisha: I also happened to pack Control Water in my bag of tricks today.
Travis: You did?
Marisha: I did.
Travis: Fricking awesome.
Marisha: When we go underground there tends to be water, so I tend to bring it.
Laura: Should we control it, or--
Marisha: Keyleth walks up and puts her hands in the pool.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Anything happen when I touch the water?
Matt: Your hand goes in the water. It is cold, it is in line with most subterranean pools that you've encountered. Not freezing, but very chilly. Reacts like any other water that you've encountered before. It's not particularly murky, either.
Marisha: I dive in.
Matt: Keyleth, (splash). You dive in, pulling yourself down.
Liam: Grog. Go with her.
Travis: You got it.
Matt: Sinking down, and you can see the tunnel around you, it goes from smoother stone to a little rougher and as you descend you can see the algae and various aquatic plant matter and life that is gathered around, until eventually you go down about 40 feet or so, your feet hit the bottom, and you can see it ends behind you but then before you there is a tunnel, there is a continued walkway underwater forward.
Travis: I come down behind her.
Matt: You feel the impact as Grog lands right behind you. Let me see here. What's your constitution modifier? Keyleth?
Marisha: Not great. Two. Plus two.
Matt: Two? Okay. Yours is five, right? For the constitution modifier?
Travis: Oh, sorry, no, I'm being a dickhole. It is five, yeah.
Matt: Yeah, so you can hold your breath for five minutes.
Sam: Five minutes!
Marisha: Is that however long your--
Matt: Yeah, one minute per constitution modifier. For you it's two.
Marisha: Interesting.
Matt: After you've landed here, you're about 30 seconds in, looking around, Grog's there.
Marisha: How far does the tunnel look?
Matt: Make a perception check, with disadvantage because of the water distortion.
Travis: Can I look everywhere except the tunnel with my darkvision?
Marisha: Bad and bad. 16.
Matt: With disadvantage.
Marisha: 16.
Travis: Don't worry about it, it's four.
Matt: (laughs) It's not hard to see. The tunnel continues, begins to curve upward about 60 to 80 feet ahead of you. It is choked with that heavy algae slowly drifting there, but there is a path you can see to swim through where it wouldn't really stop or halt your progress. But it curves upward.
Marisha: You want to keep going?
Marisha: (underwater blubbing conversation sounds)
Travis: (underwater blubbing conversation sounds)
Matt: You're halfway through your breath, by the way. You're now at one minute.
Travis: I'll swim forward. Just to where it starts to curve up.
Matt: I'll have both you guys make athletics checks.
Travis: That sucks dick.
Laura: At disadvantage.
Travis: At a disadvantage?
Matt: No, not athletics.
Marisha: 15.
Travis: 12.
Matt: Oh, no, you do, because you have exhaustion.
Travis: Oh, that's right. 12.
Matt: 12. What?
Marisha: 15.
Matt: 15. Okay. You guys aren't having a huge issue, you get forward, you can move about half your movement forward every six seconds or so, so you manage to make your way up into the center of where the plant matter begins to grow darker and more apparent. Grog, you start making your way through. I need you to go ahead and make a dexterity save at disadvantage.
Marisha: What? What the why? What the why?
Sam: Piranhas, that's why.
Matt: Dexterity at disadvantage because you're swimming underwater, in which movement is much harder as well.
Liam: Ninja sharks.
Travis: 11.
Matt: 11. All right.
Marisha: Dolphins with lasers.
Laura: It's going to be so bad.
Matt: You take eight points of psychic damage as suddenly, out of the greenish plant matter, you see these red tendrils, these red vines of algae that begin reaching out towards you. One of them brushes against your shoulder, and you feel this surge of shock energy almost travel through your nervous system to your head, and it's like you have an instantly pounding headache and you feel your muscles begin to tense up. Make a constitution saving throw.
Laura: Oh god!
Travis: That's a one. (gasping)
Matt: You feel your muscles lock up as paralysis takes over. You watch as Grog suddenly tenses up, and the air that's in his lungs escapes in a big heave.
Marisha: Upon seeing this, I reach forward and I grab hold of him and I cast Control Water and jettison the both of us out of there.
Travis: If it's water.
Laura: It's got to be water.
Marisha: I kicked the camera, sorry.
Matt: So do you, you push yourself away, you jet? Okay.
Marisha: I take a jet, jetting us back out. Waterslide!
Matt: So you pull him back using Control Water to shove you guys. Yeah, the water's basically pushing you forward, like an ice man waterslide, and make your way to the other side. Grog, you, that's the first round to get you to the bottom there, your constitution modifier's five, you have five rounds before you're officially drowning.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: So she pulls you in, grabs you to the bottom. You look up. Using Control Water again to concentrate, this is going to take you two rounds to get to the top because you're carrying Grog's weight.
Laura: Can I see them coming up?
Matt: You do see the form begin, Keyleth's face begin rising to the surface. Eventually she breaks through the water, carrying Grog, who's too heavy for her, and then dips right back down in the water.
Marisha: Help!
Taliesin: Pull Grog.
Matt: You grab and pull Grog out and onto the edge, and he's locked in place, eyes wide.
Marisha: Can I take the Control Water to see if I can like waterbend it out of his lungs, if there's any water in his lungs?
Matt: Yeah. As you concentrate, you pull this single strain of water out of, it's the weirdest sensation you've ever had, as the water is pumped instantly from inside your lungs.
Travis: It's like a reverse beer bong.
Matt: (laughs) Yeah, it is. And the water scatters across the stonework on the side of the pool. It takes about 30 seconds before your muscles come back and all of a sudden you're--
Travis: (coughing and choking)
Laura: What the hell happened? What was down there?
Marisha: Really nasty plants. And I go over. I'm pretty sure my Control Water lasts for a minute, yeah?
Matt: Control Water lasts for up to ten minutes. Concentration.
Marisha: Dope. I'm going to go over, and can I start clearing the water out of this tunnel?
Matt: Where would you want it to go?
Marisha: Out?
Liam: Up the stairs. Behind us is stairs up.
Matt: You can't make water disappear. You can part it, you can do all kinds of things with it, the water still has to go somewhere.
Liam: Part it. An air tunnel for us.
Marisha: That's what I was thinking, making like an air tunnel.
Matt: Or you can redirect the flow. Up to you. What do you want to do? The abilities you have to choose from are part water, redirect flow, whirlpool, but that's not really in your realm, or flood.
Marisha: And how big was this tunnel?
Matt: All the way across, I'd say it's about 25, 20 feet across.
Marisha: That's a big tunnel. I'll part it.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: So you dive back down? When are you starting to part it?
Marisha: I yell to everybody else and I say, there's a tunnel through to the other side. Let's go. And I jump in and I'll sink and I'll start parting the water behind me.
Matt: All right. So.
Marisha: Or, let me see, let me sink to the bottom and then I'll part the water in the tunnel straight ahead.
Matt: Okay. Do you guys follow suit?
Taliesin: I follow.
Laura: Yeah.
Sam: Are we diving into water or parted water?
Matt: You're diving into water right now.
Marisha: And before I jump in, I say, don't touch the plants on the edge.
Liam: So we're going through water to get to air.
Marisha: Yeah, that's what I'm hoping for, yeah.
Laura: Is it a fast drop, or do we float down with that water?
Matt: You float down, because she didn't part the water of the top of the tunnel, you guys float down at a natural pace, eventually touching the bottom of the subterranean tunnel, holding your breath. Keyleth moves her hands this way and the water in the center of the tunnel actually parts almost like a bubble in front of you.
Laura: Nice!
Matt: You step into that open space now and you can breathe. You all catch yourself--
Marisha: Let's go fast while I still have this concentration.
Matt: There's still droplets dropping around you. As you're holding it at bay and you push it off to the side, elements, a lot of the water has been forced out of the top for the time being wherever you're going--
Marisha: Sure, displacement physics.
Matt: Yeah. However, the planet life that was currently drifting freely is all to the ground, and is this giant mass of plant matter on the ground that is soaking wet and there.
Marisha: Okay. Don't touch the plants, let's go.
Laura: Go where?
Marisha: Forward.
Liam: Is it covering like a rug all in front of us?
Matt: I mean, there is plant matter all over the entire surface. It's thicker on the edges, because a lot of it dropped down on itself.
Liam: So are we able to pick our way through?
Matt: Yeah, it looks like a bunch of wet fur on the sides. You guys begin walking, what's the marching order here? Who's going first?
Travis: I'll go first because I'm at disadvantage on everything, so.
Matt: Okay. Grog goes first.
Liam: I'll go behind Grog.
Matt: Okay. Who's after that?
Laura: I'll go next.
Sam: I'll take Pike and go after her.
Taliesin: I'll go behind them.
Marisha: Following up their rears.
Matt: And Keyleth's following up the rear. Okay. Has Trinket stepped back into your necklace, by the way?
Laura: Yes yes yes.
Matt: Okay. Just making sure.
Travis: Hold it up, show him.
Laura: He's in my necklace.
Matt: Grog, as you step past, and you're stepping with a squashing sound as your footfalls hit each of the sections of the dark brown-greenish plant matter. It's really soggy, and Keyleth, as you're concentrating, it's a lot of water to part, and you're basically creating this 20-foot tunnel. As you begin stepping across, you can see the red vines begin to pull their way out, but without the water there, they can't support the weight of the vine itself, so currently they're unable to really shift in your direction. You can see them trying, you can see the vines (slithering) in the matted mass, but they can't actually work towards--
Laura: Can't move quickly.
Marisha: They're assholes, don't touch them.
Matt: So as you dart across, you guys each individually make your way across the other side of the tunnel where the Control Water spell ends. You can see the curvature leading upward, there is still that barrier of water that's shimmering right there in front of you. You all eventually make it past that big central patch, and as it curves upward, you can look about 35 feet at a diagonal that way, you can see the surface of water that's where it breaks.
Laura: Oh. Swim up.
Marisha: Can I take the Control Water and jettison us all up like I did with Grog?
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: Hold on!
Matt: So you guys all take a breath as the water wall collapses behind you, rushes up, and like a water jet all of you get jettisoned out and have to catch yourself on your feet.
Marisha: Three-point landing.
Laura: I catch myself on the broom and I fly.
Travis: I definitely roll. How does Scanlan land?
Sam: Not well.
Matt: (laughs) Scanlan's more like a waterslide, he comes out the end and feet in the air. It's fun, but--
Sam: Slip-and-slide?
Matt: Yeah! But you hit the sprinkler head you didn't know was under there. (groaning)
Travis: The worst!
Sam: There's a rock.
Travis: We all know what you're talking about. You haven't lived.
Marisha: Those things are death traps, man. They're the best.
Laura: And when they're not wet enough.
Matt: So you guys all emerge outside of this pool now. You take a moment to look around as there is no light source in this room either. Those with darkvision, you look around and you see what appears to be a smooth, marble stone floor, very intricately carved, with four pillars surrounding the exit of the pool that you guys came out of. You can see on each of these pillars, facing inward, or not inward, sorry, facing outward of these pillars, what looks to be these stone lion heads. They each face outward. The chamber is also circular, but much larger, it's actually 60 feet across, from the 30 feet of the first chamber you came to.
Liam: Right where we are, I'm going to take my Flametongue dagger and go in a circle and detect traps. Detect some traps.
Matt: Okay. Make an investigation check.
Liam: 18.
Matt: 18, okay. As you glance around with the dagger, and now that you have light as opposed to the darkvision that was before, you can see now. The room is a very deep blue cobalt marble, and the edges of each of these intricately carved pillars, where the base hits the rest of the structure, and along the walls you can see what looks like gold and platinum filigree and trim. It's a very beautifully, very elegantly built room. You look around the walls. They themselves are smooth with, once again, no door, no exit, however, you look around the outside of the pool that you came out of, and there is a three-foot-wide gold loop around it, almost like there's a big circular gold plate that surrounds the pool, and inside it is carved a language that you can't understand. You recognize it again as Celestial.
Taliesin: Oh dear.
Marisha: What does it say?
Taliesin: Dagger again?
Matt: All right, this one translates to  "Betwixt the chaos, our order reigns, the ones who made us, refined the planes. As ages die--"
Marisha: Hang on. "The ones who made us--"
Matt: "Refined the planes. As ages die, their time an ember, the four endure, the four remember."
Sam: Aren't there four dragons?
Travis: That can't be what this is about.
Sam: Why not?
Marisha: Because we killed one of them.
Laura: It could be four sphinxes.
Taliesin: There's four lion heads in the room.
Matt: As you look up as well, as you glance at more of the scenery, and you put the dagger up, right above where the pool is, there is a beautiful circular mural, the size of the room itself, 60 feet across from end to end.
Laura: How high is the ceiling?
Matt: The ceiling is 40 feet tall.
Liam: If it's in Celestial and it says, "those who made us," I highly doubt that the dragons are the ones that made the architects of this structure.
Marisha: If you recall, there were also five dragons and we killed one of them already.
Laura: Yeah, it's four sphinxes.
Sam: Four somethings in the room.
Matt: Glancing up across the mural, this beautifully painted image shows flames twisting and writhing in an arced pattern that then twist into broken rock and soil and earth and mountains that then break once again, sinking into an angry ocean, and that ocean then begins to rise into clouds into the sky, those clouds then dissipating and turning into raw flame and continuing the loop.
Marisha: It's the water cycle.
Sam: Elements.
Matt: In the center of this loop, there is a single dark hole in the ceiling.
Laura: I'm flying, so I'm up near it. Can I investigate it?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Liam: Careful, please?
Laura: I'm not poking my head into it, I want to get a closer look.
Travis: That's what she said last time.
Matt: Scanlan, make an intelligence check.
Laura: Investigation or perception? You said perception?
Matt: What are you looking for?
Laura: I just want to get a closer look at the circle.
Matt: Make it perception. I'll say sure, why not.
Laura: 19?
Matt: Okay, glancing at the circle, I mean, it has a similar small gold band around the outside of it, but this mural is built around this central hole. It's about three feet across, it's not very big, and it goes straight up into darkness.
Laura: It said in the previous room, "the sky is a window." Does that pertain to this?
Taliesin: It might.
Marisha: It could. It said, "the water a door."
Laura: Which we came through.
Marisha: Wait, and the hole is right above the water, correct?
Matt: Correct.
Marisha: It lines up. It lines up.
Taliesin: Vax, double-check the gold floor, I'm not--
Laura: Are there any runes on the gold around that circle on the ceiling?
Matt: Looking around the gold itself, no, but you're looking at the actual mural itself this close up, there is a texture to the painting itself, and you can see embedded within elements of the actual brushwork and where the flames meet the rock, you can see hidden lines. With what appear to be very very faint runes.
Laura: Is it the same language that was around the--
Matt: It's a language you don't understand. This is not a spoken language. What languages do you know?
Laura: Abyssal, Draconic, Elvish--
Matt: These are rooted in Draconic. Very ancient, this is the basis of what most arcane runes are created from, as Draconic is the base root of arcane writing. None of them spell anything you understand with your knowledge of Draconic, however that is the base root of this writing, as ancient as it is.
Liam: Pike? Does this mean anything to you?
Sam: By the way, Matt, I rolled my second natural one of the night for my intelligence check.
Matt: Okay. You have no idea what this is about, yeah.
Sam: I'm trying to get water out of my ear.
Matt: Pike's looking up and says, "This is beyond me, this is very old."
Marisha: Does this harken back to anything that we remember about the telling of the Spark, or the Second Spark?
Matt: You know, I'm going to make a religion check with her. Not bad. She goes, "Best I can gather, these represent the elemental chaos, and the center is the prime, our world, that was crafted out of that chaos when the gods came, just like we were told at the Platinum Sanctuary. That's what you told me you found there."
Marisha: All of the elemental realms overlap, which create our realm. Which is why there's gateways.
Travis: Can I walk over to one of the pillars?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: Is it covered with anything?
Matt: They're all the same, and they all have that giant gold stone lion head facing outward from each of the pillars.
Travis: Is there writing or anything fancy on the pillar?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Laura: I grab the Hunk of Quall and I float it up to the ceiling.
Marisha: I gave Vex the Hunk of Quall.
Travis: Hey! 15 with a minus two.
Matt: Nothing really catches your attention.
Travis: Can I knock on it?
Matt: Solid. Cobalt marble.
Taliesin: The lion heads. Do they have open mouths or closed mouths?
Matt: The mouths are closed. You take the Quall--
Laura: I take the Hunk up to the ceiling.
Matt: All right. What are you doing with it?
Laura: How did you make this work, Keyleth?
Marisha: Just hold it out like you're searching for a signal.
Matt: Okay, you hold it up, and you see the bauble glows ever so faintly, and whenever you drift it over the mural, all the runes that are within a foot of it slightly glow as it passes over them, almost like a blacklight. It reveals them ever so faintly.
Laura: Does that mean these are magic? I can't remember what this thing does.
Marisha: Yeah, it means that there's magical essence, it finds magic.
Taliesin: I'm going to take some of the water from the pool, and I'm going to bring it to one of the columns and dash it on the column and see what happens.
Matt: Okay. You take the water--
Taliesin: On the, yeah, the water column.
Matt: You throw it on the column that matches the water overhead. You feel this slight grinding shift of stone.
Laura: Wind blows! Fire burns!
Taliesin: Really? Really? We had to bring it there? Really?
Matt: You glance around and the lion's mouth has opened.
Marisha: Good call, Percy!
Sam: Wait, what are the other elements? Fire, air?
Laura: Yeah, I go over to one of the other pillars and blow on it, the one under the air part.
Matt: Same crumbling sound of stone and the mouth of the lion is now open.
Travis: Ooh, ooh, fire, fire!
Liam: I use the Flametongue dagger.
Matt: As you brush it across the pillar, once again, the lion mouth opens on the outside of the pillar.
Laura: How do we do earth?
Sam: She's an earth elemental, or she can do earthy things.
Marisha: Well, I Druidcraft some earth and start wrapping it around the pillar.
Matt: Okay. You create this little burst of soil, this little knob of wet mud and clay, and you circle it, smear across the side of the pillar. The fourth mouth opens. There's a low rumble. Suddenly each mouth of the lion begins to pour a constant cavalcade of sand. The pool immediately fills up, you guys noticing, this room, as wide as it is, across the way other holes have opened up in the side and sand is pouring in.
Laura: Oh shit. I fly up into the hole in the ceiling--
Travis: Oh! A fucking hourglass? (yelling)
Laura: I fly up into the hole. I drop the endless rope down from the hole as I'm flying it up so there's a rope in the middle of the room; so that everybody can go for, I'm flying up--
Sam: If the sand fills up, we can ride the sand up to the hole.
Matt: So you ride up through the top, you go up about 60 feet to the very top before you get there. You have to take a second to go ahead and rummage and find the rope. The rope is on you at all times?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Not in the Bag of Holding?
Laura: No, it's on my cloak. Rope of Infinite Twine.
Matt: Right, it's a robe. It's--
Travis: It's a robe, it's not a rope. It's from the inside of a robe or jacket.
Matt: A pocket on the inside of the robe.
Laura: Oh.
Matt: So. You would have to get that from Grog first, it was probably in the Bag of Holding.
Laura: Fuck! All right, fine, I fly back down-- Gimme gimme gimme the rope.
Travis: I give it.
Matt: Okay, at this point the sand has now come up to your knees, waist area, and you're having to climb out and get on top.
Liam: Scanlan, grab your horn, call out, say that Osysa sent us.
Laura: I tell him to hold on to one end as I fly up.
Liam: Don't you have a cone?
Matt: The weight of both of you across it, especially with your weight, the broom (pff).
Laura: I let go, the rope should be coming out of the robe.
Matt: Right, okay. I thought you were trying to lift him up with you.
Laura: No no no, I'm trying to let the rope out as I'm flying up.
Matt: Okay. You pull up and you come off the top again into this chamber that leads into it. You can see with what your vision is a tunnel that leads ahead to a set of double metal doors.
Laura: Is there anything to tie rope off onto?
Matt: No.
Laura: What about the doors? Are there handles?
Matt: From what you can look over there, no. They are solid metal.
Laura: Shit.
Liam: Scanlan, can I borrow your horn? Your cone?
Sam: Yes, I can yell.
Matt: At this point, about half the room is filled now.
Taliesin: Okay.
Liam: I grab Scanlan's horn. Osysa sent us, can you hear us?
Matt: You hear that voice echo up through.
Marisha: Gather close next to me, who's close nearby? I do a Wall of Stone as a pillar and pillar us up towards the hole.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Elevator time.
Matt: It is a three-foot-wide hole. You'll be able to fit one person through there.
Marisha: Can I at least rise us up to where we're close and we can get there?
Matt: Okay, yeah, so.
Marisha: Where we're up and out.
Matt: So you get up out of the sand, now you guys have been climbing up best you can, but as the nature of sand you're still pulling in, as it's pouring in now, you see now, parts of the ceiling are starting to open.
Laura: Keyleth! Do you have the Immovable Rod?
Marisha: I do have the Immovable Rod.
Laura: I fly down and I grab the Immovable Rod.
Marisha: Here, catch, yeah, take it!
Matt: Okay, you grab the rod. You fly up, you take the rod and you set it in place there.
Laura: Tie the rope onto it.
Matt: Tie the rope onto it. All right. At this point now the sand's pushed up. You guys are on the last ten feet before it hits the ceiling.
Laura: Climb it, climb it.
Taliesin: Climbing, climbing the rope, climbing the rope.
Marisha: I'm going to go ahead and I'm going to go and turn into a bird.
Laura: Can I fly back down and grab Scanlan?
Sam: I'm okay.
Laura: Well I go down and I grab Pike then and I go up on the broom.
Matt: Okay. Pike goes, "Thank you!" You grab her and she holds onto the edge of the broom and you guys make it up that way. No, since the hole is just small enough where you pretty much have to go through single-file, so nobody else can climb while you're doing that. You guys go through, who's coming up first?
Marisha: I'm flying.
Matt: You fly up after them. Who's going up first?
Taliesin: I'll go up next.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and make an athletics check.
Taliesin: Athletics or acrobatics?
Matt: This would be athletics, because you're climbing a rope, a tiny--
Sam: The hole, is it triangular?
Matt: No, it's circular.
Taliesin: 19.
Matt: 19, okay. Making your way up. It's a long pull.
Taliesin: I'm going to Batman.
Matt: All right. Who's up next?
Liam: I'd like to use acrobatics to ignore the rope and use the sides of this little tunnel to do that going up.
Matt: Okay, okay, go ahead and do that.
Liam: That is 25.
Matt: 25, okay, that keeps you going. So you guys get up a third of the way, who's after you?
Sam: I guess I'm climbing the rope. There's a rope, yes? Climbing that rope.
Matt: Yep. Make an athletics check.
Sam: Okay. 17.
Matt: 17, okay. You guys are all making it up, you get about a third of the way up, I need the three of you to make your checks again, as it is a very tight space and it's a very, very heavy pull up. You're just like--
Liam: 25 again.
Matt: 25 again. Awesome.
Sam: 13.
Taliesin: 23.
Matt: 23. You guys make it up two-thirds of the pathway, now. You can see now the sand has reached the bottom, and at this point, you guys who made it up to the top, you look up as you notice part of the stonework above goes (fwsh) and sand begins to now fall directly on top of you guys, pushing past you. I need you guys to make one more check, with disadvantage because of the sand, because that was what the time limit was going to do.
Marisha: It's gone, it's gone!
Matt: As soon as the timer went out, that was when the top one went boom, and capped off the top.
Sam: This is an athletics check?
Matt: This is athletics, yeah.
Travis: No, not 27, 24.
Matt: 24. Right, this is you coming up from the bottom. So you make it up a third of the way now. What'd you roll with dis--?
Sam: 17.
Matt: 17 with disadvantage?
Taliesin: 13.
Liam: 25 acrobatics.
Matt: 25. You actually have to climb over Percy to get past, because Percy's being held up from the sand that is coming down. Grog, it's starting to catch up to you. You, I need Vax and Scanlan, you guys make it to the top and pull your weight out of the sand that's now pouring down in that tunnel.
Sam: The tunnel on top?
Matt: The top of the tunnel, yeah, you guys emerge from it and you're now inside a chamber along with Vex and Keyleth.
Marisha: So the only people that are left are Percy and Grog?
Matt: Percy and Grog.
Sam: Pike?
Matt: Pike was brought up by Vex.
Travis: Second roll was 11, 19 total.
Matt: 19 total?
Liam: I have a regular 50-foot rope and I'm tying a loop and I'm going to throw it down towards Grog and try to get it down so he can hold onto it and help pull while he does what he's doing.
Marisha: Can I cantrip a Gust against the sand to try and blow some of it?
Matt: It's a lot of sand, you might be able to help a little bit with your cantrip, it's more of a puff of wind than a strong force, and it's a lot of sand falling. It's not going to help tremendously on this circumstance, unfortunately, as a cantrip.
Laura: Can I use Pike's shield and try to direct it to where some of it isn't coming--?
Matt: Sure, go ahead and make a strength check.
Laura: Oh, maybe Pike should do it, because she's way stronger than me!
Matt: Okay. Pike's going to step forward.
Laura: She's got 19 strength now!
Sam: Don't do this, Pike, don't do this.
Matt: "I have to do it." She steps forward and puts her shield out. All right. She manages to direct some of the flow, which begins to spray onto the outside of the room, begins to fill up one side, however that does give a round of no disadvantage to Grog and Percy. Roll again.
Travis: Except I'm exhausted, right? So I have disadvantage anyway.
Matt: Yes, you do.
Taliesin: 17.
Travis: 21.
Matt: You manage to make it up the rest of the way. The rope, Percy comes out. Pull him up onto the side. Pike, unfortunately, it's too much and loses it. The sand comes rushing down on top of you. What'd you roll?
Travis: 21.
Liam: I grab Grog by the beard and pull.
Matt: He's almost to the top, because you made one check, that's your second check now. Need you to make one more check now as the sand's pouring down, it's now come up to you and it's starting to grab the lower part of your legs, and you're starting to feel yourself being buried.
Liam: I'm pulling on his beard, can I cancel his disadvantage?
Matt: The rope that came down-- Roll a perception check, Grog. With disadvantage. What did you roll?
Travis: Perception is four, but I rolled a 24 on my fourth--
Matt: With disadvantage?
Travis: Yeah.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Nice! So you don't even see the rope that Vax dropped. It keeps in the sand. But you, grabbing onto the one that's already up there, you hand-over-hand pull up. You guys watch as the sand eventually stops, and fills the entirety of the tunnel and stops. And then (thud, slam) Grog pulls himself outside, manages to brush the sand off, it's all in his beard.
Marisha: Grog!
Travis: How about a short rest? (laughter)
Travis: Anyone feel like a nap? Fucking hell.
Liam: I start shaking out his beard and getting all the crap out.
Travis: Yeah, thank you.
Liam: And it's like, fwang!
Marisha: I cantrip Gust, brush him off.
Laura: I thought we were doing what we were supposed to do down there.
Sam: I think we did do what we were supposed to do.
Laura: Jeez, it would've been better if we would've just gone up the hole.
Marisha: Yeah.
Travis: Fuck, I've never rolled that well in my life.
Matt: That was the time to do it, man. So you guys now see there is a long stone brick hallway before you. It's solid behind you, with a little bit of sand that's now coasted from the corner after Pike had diverted it briefly. Beyond the way, about 30 feet ahead of you, you see two metallic doors that are closed.
Liam: Traps, I'm looking for traps.
Matt: Investigation check.
Liam: Yeah, that's good. That is a 27.
Matt: You take a moment, scanning the floor as you approach, coming up to the actual doors, you take a minute to look them over. They are not locked, nor are they trapped.
Marisha: I never trust that. That's never been good.
Liam: I'm going stealth.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: 30 for stealth.
Marisha: What did that riddle say? Something about a name. A name must be earned?
Sam: We're in a room with two doors? Is that it?
Matt: Correct, a hallway with two doors.
Laura: A name is earned. Yes.
Marisha: So maybe this is us earning our name.
Laura: Or his name.
Travis: Wait, so we went through water, we went through sand.
Laura: Now there's fire.
Marisha: And wind.
Sam: We haven't gone through fire or wind yet.
Laura: That was really smart, Grog.
Liam: Deathwalker's Ward, I'll have resistance to fire.
Matt: Okay, that would take a short rest to go ahead and set that.
Travis: I'm okay with that.
Liam: Let's sit and let Grog catch a breath, shall we?
Matt: Okay. You taking a short rest or no? Up to you.
Travis: Yeah, I'll take it.
Laura: Does it cure exhaustion if he takes a short rest?
Matt: No, long rest cures exhaustion.
Travis: Oh, fuck that shit, I'm rolling through.
Matt: (laughs) All right, you guys take a short rest, you take a breather here, if you need to use any hit dice, now you can. All right, so. Finish the short rest, you've reset your armor to fire resistance.
Marisha: Is there any runes or anything around in this room that look like they would indicate--
Matt: In the short rest, in the time you've taken, while there were no traps in the door, you guys did notice that there is a very, very faint symbol in the metal. Very large, so at first it just seemed like it was part of the door's design, but as you step back and rest, you glance over at the door, Keyleth, looking at it from this distance, you can see the symbol--
Taliesin: Ooh, he's got paper.
Matt: --like this. This is the symbol of Ioun. This is the ancient original symbol of Ioun. This is what is a relief in each of the doors, ever so faintly, where only at a distance would you be able to really see it.
Sam: Is it the exact same in both doors?
Matt: Yes.
Sam: Not a mirror image, not one blue one green?
Matt: No, it is the exact same.
Sam: Okay. Should we open a door?
Marisha: Well, do you want to bust out those Ioun stones you have?
Sam: Maybe there's a clue in here.
Marisha: You also have your Ioun stones.
Sam: Yeah, but what's that going to do?
Travis: In the walls and in the floors and in the ceiling, is it just the same marble and stone, are there any porous openings or--?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Laura: What was that second line? "Knowledge dost billow--"
Sam: "All realms are the shore. The sky is a window, the water a door."
Travis: 16.
Matt: Okay. Looking about, the stonework is pretty consistent here. It's old, but unlike the weathered entrance, a lot of this has not seen the elements since it's fairly buried, and even at its seemingly ancient time that it's been here, it doesn't appear to be worn, looks fairly fresh. You don't see any weaknesses, you don't see missing stones.
Travis: It's stone, though, right?
Matt: It is stone, yes.
Travis: Like marble, or?
Matt: No, actually, this is more old, classic granite or other deep-earth stones that are used for various forms of construction. Doesn't have any special properties that you can recognize.
Taliesin: Well, if no one else is going to, I think it'll be funny.
Liam: Take 20 paces back.
Sam: And do what?
Liam: And wait for me to open the door and look in.
Taliesin: Well, why don't I open the door and look in?
Liam: All right. I'm a little better at being invisible, but go for it.
Sam: Which door?
Taliesin: Both of them.
Matt: Both doors (creak) open. You look into what appears to be a, from what you can see, because there is a very, very faint bit of light emanating from his dagger, but beyond that it is pitch darkness. Percy is the one who cannot see.
Travis: What do you see, Percy?
Taliesin: I see a door that I have conquered. (laughter)
Travis: That was good.
Liam: It was great. Do I need to make another stealth check at this point?
Matt: Nah, it maintains.
Liam: All right, so I'm going to-- Just stay back, there's no point in all of us getting with something. And I move 20 feet ahead of everybody.
Matt: You move 20 feet ahead. You enter the room and you can see this chamber is square in size, but it is divided, it seems to be in three halls. There's a path to the right, a path to the left, and a path ahead of you. You can't quite see all the way past, the hallway continues to the very edge of your visual range once you enter the chamber. However, what you can see is to the right and left of you parts of the wall have collapsed, like there's piles of rubbles and stone and earth. Make a perception check at this point.
Laura: I'm peeking through the door at this point.
Matt: Okay, she does as well.
Liam: Going to use my second Luck today because I rolled a one. That's better. Perception, you said? 22.
Matt: Looking to the edge of the two pathways you can see, there appears to be a little bit of a shimmer or bit of movement, like light silk, almost like threads shifting, entwined, it looks almost like a large, very, very faint web that is draped over one wall on the right and matching on the left side.
Liam: Does it remind me of anything I've seen in my dreams?
Matt: I mean, other than the idea of a glimmering thread, maybe, but it isn't glowing, it's not emanating light, and it's very thin, very wispy. And there are a few of them that you can see before the rest of your perspective on the two walls that break it into three passageways.
Liam: I don't hear any eight-legged friends around?
Matt: You don't see any currently at this position. Ahead of you, in the central chamber, you do see what looks to be a small pit, like a divot. Almost like a cauldron, about ten feet across. Similar in size and circular structure as the first water pool you guys dove into, except for it comes to a convex end with nothing visible in it. There's like stones built around the outside of it.
Liam: I could be grasping at straws, but I'm getting a bit of an arachnid vibe in here. I'm not sure. There's three passages, there's webbing of some kind to the left and to the right, and some sort of divot or bowl on the ground. I think you can all come in. Quietly.
Laura: I walk up next to him. Oh yeah, I see what you're talking about. Yeah.
Marisha: Upon hearing this, Keyleth drops to her knees and does a Locate Creature. Do I sense any spiders?
Matt: You actually do not sense any spiders.
Marisha: I think we're good on spiders.
Taliesin: This thread is silk, isn't it? It's actual material. I'm not going to touch it. Conscious of the creation of air currents, I'm going to gingerly put on my mask so that my breath does not move things, and examine.
Matt: Okay. Make an investigation check.
Laura: Smart. While he's doing that, I want to use Primeval Awareness to sense celestials.
Matt: And that is one of the entities that you can check with that? Okay. What'd you roll, Taliesin?
Taliesin: I rolled a two. So my investigation is five. Which is how old I'm turning. (laughter)
Matt: It is a thread and there are multiple-- as you get closer, you can see there are many threads that are partway through this 15, 20-foot wide hallway on the far right that you've gone to and inspected. This network of threads appear to be attaching at the halfway point and then draped against the wall, what looks like a spiderweb made of this thread all converges in the center. That's the best you can make of it. You do not sense any celestials.
Travis: The hell's a celestial?
Matt: But do mark off your spell slot for that use.
Laura: That's not a spell slot, it's just my-- Oh! Expend one ranger spell slot! I have never, ever done that.
Matt: I assumed you were keeping track of that.
Laura: I have never even looked at that bold--
Matt: Well, going forward--
Travis: It is in bold print.
Laura: Wow. I am sorry about that, Matt.
Matt: That's okay.
Sam: Is there any way to cross the room without touching the web?
Matt: Yeah. Essentially, it's a 15, 20-foot wide thing, the web only starts about partway and encompasses the side of it.
Marisha: And is there anything behind the webs? Just rubble?
Matt: Behind the webs, the hallway continues and then ends and then continues right. It's almost like it's a square room that has walls here that split it into three different passages and they all converge again on the opposite side.
Laura: Can we see all the way to the end?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Taliesin: It's very mini-golf.
Laura: 16.
Matt: 16? You notice at the end of the two hallways on the sides, beyond the spiderweb in the corner, there are two small five, six-foot-wide pools of water similar to the ones you dove into that are lined with stones and a little bit of gold trim similar to what you guys saw in the previous room.
Laura: Those doorways?
Matt: So you have the rubble's on the side, you have the spiderwebs, you have the pools at the end there, and you have the empty cauldron in the center piece, but you cannot see, unless you move further forward, you cannot see beyond where those hallways converge on the opposite side.
Travis: Is it just me, or does that one in the middle look like a fire pit?
Marisha: I agree. I think this looks like a convergence-of-the-elements type of a room.
Travis: We have some boar in the frozen bag.
Sam: You want to start cooking here?
Marisha: I can light a fire in that pit.
Laura: Is it far away? You can set my arrow on fire and send it down.
Matt: Nah. It's 25 feet from the doors you guys entered in
Laura: Oh. Just don't want to walk down there.
Travis: The last time we did that, shit went down.
Laura: Let's get in the doorway and then if something happens we shut the doors.
Travis: Well, can we walk over to the cauldron first and see what's above it?
Laura: If you want to walk in.
Matt: Vax. Okay, as you walk up, make a perception check.
Liam: 23.
Matt: As they're having this conversation, looking about and floating back, I know your passive as well, but even mid-conversation with him, as you kept an eye out, you see too that to the front of each of these walls that bisects the room, what you thought was just a wall, now as you've had time to study it in quiet as everybody else has been talking during these experiments-- Scanlan, you probably would've noticed this too-- the wall is, the separator's actually a giant obelisk on each side, just like the one that you saw in the Frostweald on the way in that the basilisks were around. You see they're much newer, they're not as weathered by the ages, and they're these two markers with the symbol of Ioun carved into them.
Liam: Shorthalt, come here.
Sam: Oi? Oi, yes.
Liam: Look at this thing. Look there and there. These are like the--
Sam: It's like the one that we saw before.
Liam: Yeah, do you still have the doohickus?
Sam: Of course I have my doohickus.
Liam: Do you want us to shove it in the hole?
Sam: You realize that I was born to shove things in holes.
Liam: That's why I called you over, man.
Sam: All right, so which one?
Liam: Eenie, meenie, miney, mo. Catch a druid by the toe. If she hollers, let her go, eenie, meenie, miney--
Marisha: You know, we've always found that very offensive. I just want to say that.
Sam: I'll choose the right one and I'll stick my Ioun stone in it.
Matt: Okay, looking at the base of it, you see there is the same triangular symbol there. You place the Ioun stone into the recess in the obelisk. As you do, it glows faintly, the obelisk itself tends to give off the same teal, greenish-blue glow, the other one also does the same. At which point the darkness across the room is immediately dissipated as two previously unseen braziers across the way burst into flame, lighting the opposite side of the room. You can see what looks to be a series of heavy steps that lead up to a higher platform on the opposite side of the room. You can see two pillars at the edge on the very top of this raised platform that meet the ceiling.
Sam: Well, let's go up there and check it out.
Laura: Oh my gosh.
Travis: I like it. You want a hand?
Liam: I push Scanlan a bit up ahead of me.
Marisha: So this is going over the firepit, past the wispy--
Matt: Yeah, there's all the stuff on the sides and the central room has that pit.
Laura: Hold your breath as you pass the wispy wisps, I don't trust them.
Liam: Get that silver tongue of yours ready, all right?
Sam: I don't think anything's going to want to talk to us down here.
Travis: Can we look at the ground for (laughs) for traps as we're walking? Any squares that might move?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Travis: Yup. Nine.
Matt: Nothing catches your attention.
Travis: No, we're good.
Liam: Would you like me to do that?
Matt: Are you guys all moving in the different ways, the same way? Which way are you taking?
Sam: If we go to the right or the left, we have to cross these webs? Or no?
Matt: You can move around the web on that, it only covers half the path, you still have about seven to ten feet of clearance between where the web starts and the wall.
Laura: Just open with a brazier at the end.
Matt: Mm-hmm.
Sam: Why don't we each take a direction?
Marisha: Yeah, I'll take the left.
Laura: I'll take the middle.
Taliesin: I'll take the right.
Matt: Okay. You guys all quietly move forward, stepping through these passages, stepping around, you can see, like I said, the crumbled walls in the far corner, you can see the webbing there, there are the small pools at the far end corners before they converge again into the central chamber where that giant platform is.
Taliesin: I have my gun in my hand, by the way. And my mask on.
Sam: Wait, I could just bamf over to the other side. Should I just do that?
Laura: Maybe you should do that.
Matt: You guys are partway across now. Are you stopping?
Marisha: No.
Taliesin: I'm going to continue not disturbing the air as best I can.
Marisha: Yeah, we're moving very slowly, not disturbing the air.
Matt: Okay, you guys keep walking carefully. Scanlan, are you doing anything?
Sam: Yeah, I'll Dimension Door to the platform on the other side.
Matt: Okay. You appear on the opposite side and you look around. What you didn't see from the shadow that was being cast past the braziers, to the right of you, Scanlan, you see a large form that is there, as a pile, a crumpled pile on the top of this platform. What catches your eyes, and you guys see this too as you begin to walk up as Scanlan appears and glances over, as you get closer you can see there is what looks to be a cold, blue marble that is right there, and you see it being turned and held by what looks to be a very faintly lit giant paw. You can see two eyes that glance up, and glance over at Scanlan amongst the shadows, the same color as that blue marble. As it glances at Scanlan, and it is massive in comparison to your tiny gnomish frame, the marble is then tucked deep into what looks like hair of some kind before it disappears, the eyes still glowing the blue color. Suddenly the form begins to move as two giant arms (impacts), and a voice comes billowing out of this entity. "I have watched you come." The creature now stands on all fours. A good 15, 20 feet taller than you, Scanlan. A body similar and lionlike to Osysa's, only thicker and rippling with muscle beneath the fur. The face is masculine and human-like, cheeks adorned with ceremonial marks, head wreathed in a thick mane of red-brown hair. Two enormous feathered wings stretch out from its back, with a giant whoosh, a whoosh of wind that tends to cause the braziers to shift in place. And it looks at you for a second, expectantly, then to the rest of the others.
Sam: Hello. Osysa sent us.
Matt: It mounts itself there, turns so it's facing both you and the rest of you as you all approach. "You, you seek power, glory, retribution. I know your quarry, and I know your goal. She has told me. I can show you. But all great knowledge should not be given. You must be proven. It must be earned. It must be EARNED." And as his voice roars, the room echoes and you can see wind begin to whip all around you. Glancing over your shoulder, you guys can see now the empty pit in the center of the hall behind you is now whipping into a whirlwind and what appears to be a small centralized cyclone that's now rising up, meeting the ceiling, staying stationary in place, arcing there. The braziers flame up even brighter now, the flames, you can feel the heat even from your distance at this point. You can see now the sphinx is baring its gleaming white teeth there at the top. "What. Is. My. Name?"
Sam: Fuck.
Matt: Roll initiative.
Marisha: We have no fucking clue!
Laura: Oh my god!
Taliesin: Okay, that just happened.
Laura: His name, what is his name?
Taliesin: I'm back, baby.
Marisha: The golden snitch lives!
Matt: All righty.
Marisha: I have the worst initiative rolls all the time except for earlier today.
Matt: All righty. So. Initiative roll. Ooh. Okay. All righty. So. 25 to 20.
Liam: 24.
Taliesin: 30.
Matt: (laughs) Damn.
Laura: Jeez Louise.
Matt: All right.
Laura: Any ideas?
Taliesin: Very, I, yes? Maybe? I don't know?
Matt: 20 to 15?
Laura: 19.
Matt: 19.
Sam: 17.
Matt: All right.
Laura: That map is awesome.
Travis: All the elements are there.
Liam: Look at the fire. (laughs)
Matt: Oh yeah, we got flickering braziers, guys.
Sam: Whoa, that's lit, it's lit up! How did you do that?
Matt: Dwarven Forge has cool stuff. Thank you guys.
Travis: Fucking Dwarven Forge, man.
Matt: All right, so that brings us to 15 to ten?
Travis: 14.
Matt: Grog. Anyone else?
Marisha: Seven.
Matt: Oh, and Pike is actually before Grog. All right. Percy, you're up first.
Sam: He hasn't attacked us.
Marisha: What is his name, Percy?
Sam: Atreyu.
Taliesin: I hate you. I'm going to pull back to the water pit to my right. Oh, to my left, sorry. I'm going to pull back to that water pit. I'm going to examine it.
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Taliesin: 21.
Matt: 21. As you rush over, you look down into the pool. The surface itself is disturbed by the wind that's blowing in this chamber. However, looking into it, below the surface you don't see-- it's darkness, you don't see a continuation, you don't see anything behind it. The water doesn't seem natural.
Taliesin: Okay. I'm going to scoop some of the water with my mask, pull the mask off, scoop water, and try and toss it at the flame that's right next to me. That's my move.
Matt: Okay. You put the mask in and your hand moves into it. Your hand gets extremely cold suddenly. You don't see it beneath the surface; it almost vanishes below the water. It's really unsettling. You pull it up and the water is there in your mask. You throw it and the water, it evaporates and the flames flicker slightly, but they's too strong and it doesn't seem to have much of an effect on the brazier.
Taliesin: Fascinating. All right. That's my move.
Matt: Yep. That's your move and your action. All right, that ends Percy's turn. Vax, you're up.
Liam: How are we supposed to know your name? Is it Osyso?
Matt: Teeth are bared and it's sitting there looking at all of you, waiting.
Liam: I'm going to click my Boots of Haste. Can I use a bonus action to hide and then hold? Any stuff?
Matt: You could, yeah, you can move and then hold your action to a trigger point if you want to.
Liam: Where am I in there?
Matt: You're right here.
Liam: So I'm going to hide. I'm going to move backward around the corner and hide.
Matt: Around this way?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Okay, you can move there. Go ahead and roll for hide.
Liam: Okay. 25.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: And I'm going to hold for the moment he attacks any of my friends.
Matt: Okay, got you. All right, at the end of your turn, the entire-- the wind that's blowing, there's grains of sand that are picked up into it, and you guys feel like there's something out of place, this whole area, like this sudden drift. You feel like the air in your lungs gets butterflies for a second and something, even though this place is stationary, it's almost like the whole place shifts. I need everybody to make a constitution saving throw.
Liam: Shit.
Travis: Fuck.
Taliesin: Damn, I'm back.
Marisha: Nice.
Taliesin: 26.
Sam: Four.
Marisha: Saving throw, correct?
Matt: Yes, constitution saving throw.
Marisha: 23. 22.
Liam: 17.
Travis: With disadvantage, 13.
Matt: Okay. While most of you guys manage to withstand it, Scanlan and Grog and Vex, the wind feels like it's knocked out of you, and like you were suddenly stretched thin and you can't understand it. You glance-- right now, it's hard to really tell. Scanlan lurches forward for a second. Grog and Vex, you're right next to each other, you both glance at each other and you can see, it's like Grog's skin has aged suddenly. His-- around his eyes it's grown a little more sunken, his muscles have sagged slightly. He looks, not ancient by any means, but it looks like he's seen about another 15 to 20 years of travels.
Taliesin: Oh shit.
Travis: What does that mean?
Sam: Me too?
Matt: You also have, although due to your gnome lineage it has less of an effect, and no one's noticed it at this distance, but if anyone gets a quick glance, you'll see a few grey hairs starting to sprout on the side of Scanlan's head.
Sam: I get rid of those.
Matt: All right. Vex, you're up.
Laura: Oh. Do I feel old?
Matt: You feel like you've been pulled through something, but it doesn't have a mighty effect, although, Grog, glancing at Vex you can see there is definitely a little bit more of a weathered look to her, crow's nests forming, deep-seated frown lines.
Laura: Oh, jeez. I shout out-- I run towards the other water portal.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: And I shout out, Pike, do you know the names of the four ancient gods? Is your name four? That's stupid.
Matt: There doesn't seem to be a reaction. Pike goes, "No, I mean, the gods that were at the beginning, there's--"
Laura: Yeah?
Matt: "There was Pelor and Melora and, I mean, they're the ones who cast away the elements, the chaos that this realm was first. I don't know!" And she seems-- she's bungled and unable to really formulate what you're asking.
Laura: I wouldn't have any religion, anything to base that off of?
Matt: Make a religion check if you want to.
Laura: Wow. Wow. Two! That's four ones in a night.
Matt: Wow. Wow. It's the reverse Percy tonight.
Laura: I've been cursed.
Matt: You try and think back to the conversation you had with Highbearer Vord in the Platinum Sanctuary, and your mind's a blank. You can't recall any of that conversation.
Laura: I have an advantage on anything having to do with dragons.
Matt: It has nothing to do with dragons.
Laura: Well, I was just checking.
Matt: This is the creation myth of all of existence. However, you still have your action if you want to do something. You're by the pool, it's right to your right, and there's this sphinx now rearing--
Laura: I saw Percy dip his hand into the water, so I do the same thing to see what it does.
Matt: You what? You put your--
Laura: I put my hand in the water.
Matt: You dip your hand in the water. The hand, once it breaks the surface, it vanishes into darkness below the water. You don't even see, there's no visual on it.
Laura: Does it hurt?
Matt: No, it doesn't hurt, it's cold, it's very cold.
Laura: Pull it back out.
Matt: Pull it back out. Your hand is wet and it drips and you shake it free.
Laura: Can I use a bonus action to try to hide? Is there anywhere to hide? Maybe against a wall or something?
Matt: You move one, two, three, four, five, six. You're not going to be able to get completely out of sight. (laughs) Unless you want to jump in the water.
Taliesin: So there's a whirlwind in the center of the room, there's two piles of rocks, there's two vats of water, there's two torches, and then there's two spiderwebs.
Matt: Correct.
Taliesin: And the spiderwebs are covering the walls.
Matt: Yeah. All right, so that ends Vex's turn. Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: I will face the sphinx and say  is your name Ioun?
Matt: The sphinx is still there growling at you. "She is beyond me... What is my name, little scrumptious one?"
Travis: Hit him!
Taliesin: Do you have your earpiece in, by the way?
Sam: Sure, we all do.
Taliesin: Okay. Good to know.
Sam: I mean, I'm not going to attack this thing if it hasn't attacked me yet, so I'm going to, eee.
Travis: There's spiderwebs, there's stones, there's fire, there's water--
Taliesin: Working on it!
Laura: I feel like we're so stupid, we should know this. "The four endure, the four remember."
Sam: Can I hold my attack until a trigger?
Matt: You can if you want to, yeah.
Sam: Or hold my action until a trigger?
Matt: Yeah, what do you want to hold it for?
Sam: If he makes a move towards me physically.
Matt: Okay. Remember, you guys who are holding your action, you can interrupt and release at anything if it doesn't happen, be aware of that. All right, so it now goes to the sphinx's turn.
Travis: Okay, this should be fun. We're all standing around with our thumbs up our asses.
Liam: Yup.
Matt: The sphinx takes a step forward to the edge of the stairway and (roars) gives out this earth-shattering roar that shakes-- a couple of stones and dust that are loosened from the ceiling falls down. I need everybody to make a wisdom saving throw.
Sam: Is this magic?
Matt: Yes, it is.
Liam: Is it charm, by any chance?
Matt: It's not a spell, it is a magical effect.
Sam: Do I get advantage on that?
Matt: What do you get advantage from?
Sam: Advantage versus magic on saves.
Matt: From being a gnome?
Sam: It says, Gnome Cunning, advantage on wisdom, character, intelligence, magic saves. That's what I wrote down, anyway.
Matt: Let me double-check here just to be sure.
Sam: It doesn't really matter, I rolled shit on both, so it's okay. Don't bother.
Matt: (laughs) Okay. Against magic, so yeah, you would have advantage.
Liam: And does it have anything to do with charm or sleep?
Matt: Nope.
Liam: Nope, okay. 17.
Matt: 17.
Sam: Seven.
Taliesin: 19.
Marisha: 23.
Laura: 24.
Travis: 11. Disadvantage.
Taliesin: (laughs) You picked the wrong day to stop sniffing glue.
Travis: What the fuck? (laughs) I know. Paint chips.
Taliesin: You made a bad call.
Travis: I made a bad call.
Matt: Grog. Vex, what was it you rolled, again?
Laura: 24.
Matt: 24. And you rolled?
Liam: 17.
Matt: 17. That's right. All right, so. As the roar pierces through the hallway, most of you guys steel yourself. Grog, Scanlan, Pike, and Vax, you feel the sudden reality of how fearful and dangerous this creature is. You stepped into the lair of an ancient, powerful entity and you feel like your very life is at stake. You guys are frightened for one minute.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: Frightened means you have disadvantage on ability checks and attack rolls while you can see it, and you cannot willingly move closer to the creature. So you have to either move adjacent, like same distance from it, or away. You can make a saving throw every turn to try and resist it. It is now going to stay right where it is. That brings it to Pike's turn. Pike doesn't quite know how to deal with this whole circumstance. She is going to cast--
Taliesin: Text Ashley.
Travis: There's also the obelisks. We got to go start touching the other shit.
Laura: Obelisks were in Elvish.
Marisha: Issylra is a continent, right?
Travis: It was all written in what, in--?
Matt: Pike is going to reach forward to you, Grog. Take a step this way. Pike's going to reach forward and cast Freedom of Movement on you. At fourth level.
Travis: Oh. I was going to rage and shake it, but--
Matt: So for the next hour, you cannot be paralyzed or restrained, you can't have your speed reduced via magical effects. You're still feared, but--
Travis: I can shake that with a rage.
Matt: You can shake that with a rage, yes. But yeah, for the next hour. It's not concentration, either.
Travis: Thank you, Pike.
Matt: She says, "Go get him, Grog."
Travis: You got it, buddy!
Matt: All right. That ends Pike's turn. Grog, you're up.
Travis: I might as well do what Pike says. I'm going to bum-rush the sphinx.
Matt: Straight-up?
Travis: Yup.
Matt: All right. You rush up the stairs.
Taliesin: Oh god.
Matt: With a precariousness of-- we'll say you rush up here for the sake of positioning.
Travis: Sure. Two strikes, straight-up.
Sam: Just going to hit it?
Travis: (laughs) Yeah. I'm not smart, this is all I do. 23?
Matt: 23? That hits.
Travis: His face is awful. Should I roll damage or roll both attacks first?
Matt: It's all against him, roll attacks. You're not going to kill it in one hit.
Travis: No, that's true.
Sam: What if it's a nine-point hit point?
Travis: 24 on the first one.
Matt: 24 damage, all righty.
Travis: Second attack. Holy shit, that's a 28.
Matt: Nice, that hits.
Travis: Something's going to happen to me and it's going to be bad. Six. 11. 23.
Matt: Okay. Makes its first constitution saving throw. Fails its second. So you steal another strength point and the sphinx's strength goes down to that.
Travis: So I'm at 25 now.
Laura: Down to 79 strength.
Matt: You're at 25 now. Okay.
Travis: And I don't go up again until 26. Right? On the evens.
Matt: Right. But 25 is the max for this sword. It says on the weapon, it should be under ability.
Travis: Oh, you're right, yeah.
Matt: All right. So. You run up and swing two heavy swings after going into a rage to resist the fear effect. You grin and bear it, go over and swing twice, hacking into the side of it. Its hide is very strong and there's almost like this weird resistance on the outside of its body, like its very force of existence and personality is keeping the blade from doing as much damage as it should, but you still strike true, slamming into it twice. You pull the strength from it. As you do, a voice in your head goes, "Yesss."
Taliesin: Oh my god.
Matt: At this point, as you look at the blade, the blade now begins to emanate a shadow aura stronger than previously that begins to also form around your upper shoulders, drifting. The blade suddenly extends another foot, the edges of it that were smooth project with a jagged, thorny outside. The blade itself now is longer, thicker, and far more dangerous-looking than it was before. Until your next short rest, all attacks with the sword do an additional 2d6 necrotic damage.
All: Whoa!
Travis: (laughs) Super Saiyan, motherfucker! 2d6 necrotic damage? Okay. And I'll stay there.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: And await my punishment.
Matt: All right. At the end of your turn, the sphinx is going to use its three legendary actions.
Liam: Three legendary actions?
Matt: Is going to use three of them to cast a spell out of order. It's going to go ahead and call down a Flame Strike.
Laura: We're all going to die!
Matt: Onto the twins.
Laura: Why?!
Liam: Can I attack him now, while he's casting, because I held my turn?
Matt: You can, actually, yes.
Liam: Okay, so I'm hidden and Grog's next to him, which would normally put me at advantage, but he's got me afraid, which puts me at disadvantage, which means it cancels out and it's one straight roll, right? On the attacks?
Matt: Correct.
Liam: Okay. Good. So I'm going to throw-- I'm hasted, I'm going to throw two daggers at him. The first one is, probably hits, where's the freaking page? 23 for the first.
Matt: 23 hits.
Liam: 18 for the second.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Do they both hit or just the first? I'm only doing two.
Matt: What was the second one? It was--
Liam: 18.
Matt: 18 hits.
Liam: Okay, so the first one is seven, the second is seven. And I want to use the rest of my turn to, as I'm hasted, to run around to the back of that obelisk and start reading.
Matt: Over here?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. All right. As you're doing that reaction shot, it calls down the column, hits both of you before you can burst off. All of a sudden, as you look over at your brother, you feel this rising energy before all of a sudden this entire area is (boom) consumed in burning holy divine light. I need both of you guys to make a dexterity saving throw.
Liam: I'm going to use evasion.
Matt: Yeah, evasion happens automatically as part of your reaction to that, so yeah.
Liam: Okay.
Laura: 30.
Liam: Dexterity, so 14.
Matt: You rolled a what?
Laura: 30.
Matt: 30 dexterity saving throw?
Liam: No, eff it, I'm going to use my last Luck of the day. Ugh, barely any better. 16.
Matt: 16 for you?
Liam: Mm-hmm.
Matt: Okay. Right, so Vex? You take half damage from this. You take full damage, unfortunately. So that's going to be 21 points of fire and radiant damage to you.
Travis: Is half?
Matt: 21 is the half. You, however, have resistance to fire, Liam.
Liam: Yes.
Matt: So the 22 points of fire damage you would've taken is reduced to 11.
Liam: With evasion, if I fail, I take half damage.
Matt: Right, so yeah, so you would take, so you would take the same, but a quarter because of halving fire damage to take from that.
Liam: So I didn't hear the number because I was reading, what was--?
Travis: 21, so half 21 would be 11.
Matt: Well, radiant damage you're not resistant to, so I'd say it would be 17 points of damage. There you go. You rush out of the flames and find your way around the obelisk. However, you have to wait until your turn before you can take a look at that. All right, now it comes to Keyleth's turn.
Marisha: Okay. I yell out  Issylra!
Matt: It doesn't seem to have any effect.
Marisha: Okay, that might be a continent.
Matt: It is. (laughter)
Matt: It's the continent where Vasselheim is, and--
Marisha: Not his name. And I cast Control Water again and I start pouring the water out of the pools and onto the fire.
Matt: Okay. The water comes out as a column, doesn't appear to be coming to an end, you're not quite sure where it's being drawn from, it's this constant stream, and as it hits the flame (tshhh) but the flames aren't going out. It's all turning to steam and it's filling the room with steam and the more and more it pours into it, the more and more the room is beginning to become obscured and making it hard to see.
Marisha: Okay, well, I stop that.
Matt: Okay. As you do, the streams stop water. The pools are still completely still where you've pulled it out of, seemingly unbothered other than the little bit of wind that's blowing, and have not lessened in their volume at all.
Marisha: Good to know. Can I do some sort of check to see if I would've heard anything about this type of a thing in my druid time, is this like a different plane of existence, what is this shit?
Matt: What, this place you are?
Marisha: Yeah, or would I know of what his name would be from the telling of the Second Spark and any of my elemental knowledge as a druid?
Matt: Make an intelligence check.
Marisha: Ooh, that's good. 19.
Matt: 19. Thinking back about the stories you've heard, which isn't a whole lot necessarily. Are we good on the stream?
Ryan: (off-camera) Yeah, we're good on the stream.
Liam: Had a little flicker.
Matt: We had a little flicker. You recall, go through, poring through all the information that was given to you, you don't know a whole lot about the history element, it isn't a part of the druidic training experience, but based on the discussion with Highbearer Vord, no mention of a sphinx, nothing like that.
Marisha: Fuck. I don't know, you guys!
Matt: I think that's your turn, though. Unless you want to move.
Marisha: No. I'm good.
Matt: Okay. End of your turn, the shimmering webs on each side flash for a second, and stepping out of them, you can see a slightly translucent, not fully physical spider on each side.
Liam: Fey spiders, you son of a-- oh god, I keep hitting that, we got to fix that.
Matt: This spider immediately (skittering) up to Percy. And this one (skittering) up to Vex.
Laura: Ah, c'mon!
Matt: Versus you, Percy, rolled a one. Completely missed. It goes and reaches out towards you, out of the way. Vex, however, that is a 23.
Laura: That hits me.
Matt: That hits. You go ahead and suffer--
Laura: You go ahead and suffer!
Matt: (laughs) Suffer nine points of psychic damage. The spider, upon biting you, dissipates out of existence. It actually bites you and then its form (shhk) into your head and causes this psychic backlash and feedback in your head. The other spider misses you and remains in existence. Top of the round, Percy, you're up.
Sam: Oh, well if, at the end of the round, have I not gone yet?
Matt: You have not gone yet, do you want to?
Sam: Can I go?
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: Yeah, I mean, I guess I'll attack at this point.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: I'll try something that will definitely fail. I will try and fail to put him into the Resilient Sphere. Which I'm sure will fail. (laughs)
Matt: What is the DC on the Resilient Sphere?
Sam: Well, I don't have my stuff with me.
Matt: I believe if it's through the--
Sam: Through the hand cone?
Matt: The hand cone I think is 20 now, isn't it?
Sam: It's 20 now, yeah.
Matt: Okay, so it doesn't make its dexterity saving throw.
Sam: But I have disadvantage on attack, but that doesn't matter.
Matt: Doesn't matter for this one. That is 21. Yep.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: So. You attempt to create the sphere around it. As you can see it begins to encase the sphinx, and the sphinx just-- its head, after staring at Grog, goes (growls), and as it roars at you, the sphere that's formed around it shatters and the arcane essence is scattered about the room and vanishes.
Sam: Can I ask him if his name is Earned?
Matt: He sits there glaring at you.
Sam: Okay, that's a stupid question, sorry.
Travis: Maybe say it in Celestial.
Sam: I don't know Celestial!
Laura: Say it in Celestial, Percy.
Matt: All right, so that's Percy's turn now, Percy, what are you doing?
Taliesin: The first thing I'm going to is, I'm going to guess a name, because that's fun.
Matt: Sure.
Taliesin: I'm going to yell, Lux! Whatever that would be in Celestial. First light.
Matt: Okay. You shout out, and the sound of Celestial being spoken has this echo to it, this, Lux, and it fades afterward. It has no immediate effect, the wind seems to swallow it around you from all the noise going around. The sphinx has no interest.
Taliesin: That's fine, I'm going to take a slash at that spider with my sword.
Matt: Go for it.
Taliesin: That's 19.
Matt: 19 hits.
Taliesin: I don't suppose that there's a keyword dragon in there anywhere?
Matt: A what?
Taliesin: I don't suppose there's a keyword dragon anywhere in that spider's description, but--
Matt: (laughs) No, there isn't.
Taliesin: Pissing in the wind.
Matt: It's okay. It is a magical sword you're attacking with, right?
Taliesin: It is a magical sword I'm attacking with. That's 11 points of slashing damage.
Matt: This spider is scattered into ether.
Taliesin: With my sword out, I'm going to run down the hall and I'm going to take two more slashing attacks at the web.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and roll.
Taliesin: 17, but really, how hard is it to hit a web?
Matt: It's more about finding the right place to do the proper damage, but that works, go ahead and roll damage.
Taliesin: That's 13 points of damage.
Matt: Okay. You cut through some of the threads, it limps on one side, but it's still keeping itself aloft.
Taliesin: 19.
Matt: All right, that hits, go ahead and roll damage.
Taliesin: Ooh. 15 points of damage.
Matt: 15 points of damage. All right. With that, the second strike, the thread dissipates and turns into smoke and vanishes from existence. None of the threads remain, it vanishes.
Taliesin: Is there anything written on the wall?
Matt: Go ahead and roll an investigation check.
Sam: It says, "That guy's name is Paul."
Marisha: Paul was here.
Taliesin: 19.
Matt: Okay, 19. Glancing at the wall behind--
Taliesin: Fucking brain! Knowledge is power. For reals!
Laura: Maybe that's his name. Power.
Matt: It says in Celestial, "Windows and doors."
Laura: The sky. The sky.
Taliesin: Water and sky.
Matt: It says windows and doors.
Taliesin: I say out loud, windows and doors! Water and sky! And that's--
Matt: That's your turn. Percy's over. Vax, you're up.
Liam: I'm taking a quick look at the obelisk that I'm right in front of, I think it's in Elvish, isn't it?
Matt: The obelisk in front of you? This actually, aside from the symbol of Ioun, there's no writing on it.
Liam: There's nothing on it, nothing to do. I'm going to throw three daggers through the web. Is that the one-- so Percy's over there? I'm going to throw three daggers through the web over there.
Matt: Okay, go for it.
Liam: 13. 30. And 17.
Matt: All right, what was it? Sorry, it was?
Liam: 13, 30, and 17.
Matt: All right, the second two hit, so go ahead and roll damage.
Liam: Ten and eight.
Matt: Ten and eight. All right. You throw two and it cuts a few threads and the path of it falls limp but the web stays up.
Liam: And I can't move any closer to the sphinx at this point, right, because of the fear?
Matt: Correct.
Liam: So I'm stuck here, am I?
Matt: Yeah, you can't move any closer to it right now. But you can make a saving throw at the end of your turn to try--
Liam: I will do that. I'd also like to take one step to the right.
Matt: One step to the right? All right.
Liam: This way, yeah. And no, I rolled an eight for wisdom.
Matt: Okay, so you're still in the fear effect. All right. By the way, Grog, go ahead and make a saving throw to resist the effect so it's gone, even though you--
Travis: Oh, at disadvantage?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: Which saving throw?
Matt: It's wisdom.
Travis: (laughs) Five.
Matt: All right, you're still under the effect. And Scanlan, actually, roll it again.
Travis: Oh, but I'm raging.
Matt: Right, you resist, I mean, it doesn't affect you but it still persists.
Travis: Got you.
Matt: If you stopped raging then the fear would kick in.
Sam: Is this a saving throw?
Matt: This is wisdom.
Sam: And do I still get advantage or no, because the first time it's cast.
Matt: You would, I'd say, sure.
Sam: 12.
Matt: 12, yeah. The fear still strikes in your heart. All right. Vax, that's the end of your turn. All right. I need everybody in here to go ahead and reroll initiative as the time flux in the room all of a sudden flickers and time seems to shift and move. Everyone reroll initiative.
Marisha: What? Well, that's a better roll.
Sam: Are we time bandits now? Is that what's happening?
Taliesin: Oh my god. His name is the Doctor. (laughter)
Marisha: But Doctor who?
Taliesin: Doctor whom. That's always bothered me. Doctor whom.
Matt: All right, so. 25 to 20.
Sam: 20.
Matt: 20.
Laura: 23.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: 22, that's a lie, 22.
Sam: Liar.
Taliesin: Liar!
Matt: Okay. 20 to 15?
Taliesin: 18.
Marisha: 18.
Travis: 17.
Matt: All right, we got Percy, Keyleth, Grog. All right. And then.
Liam: Ocho.
Matt: Ocho? Pike's before you.
Liam: Time slippage, man.
Matt: Yeah man, it sucks. All right. That ends that count. It is now its turn. The time shift actually managed to lose your turn, both you and Scanlan. You guys shifted through the top of the order.
Laura: Wait, but I still rolled a 22.
Matt: I know.
Taliesin: I hate time travel so much.
Travis: It screws a high roll.
Matt: Basically, Scanlan, you can go simultaneously now. You lose your turn.
Sam: That sounds cool.
Matt: I mean, it's time, it's shitty.
Travis: What's the Celestial word for time?
Marisha: I know, we were thinking about that time.
Matt: You know what? It doesn't specify. I'll say go ahead. It starts at the top of the initiative round, so you know what? Vex, your turn, go for it. Go for it. Doesn't specify, I could be a dick about it, but you know.
Laura: I take back my glare.
Matt: It's more fun to not have your turn lost.
Taliesin: There was a time jump so the glare never happened.
Matt: What you got?
Laura: Can I look up at the ceilings and see if there's any portals on the top of the ceiling like there were in the last room?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Laura: 29.
Matt: 29. Nope, solid stone ceiling.
Laura: Is there anything to tie the Robe of Infinite Twine onto?
Matt: I mean, there's the brazier, but it's pretty close to flame and you don't know if rope will survive that.
Laura: Do I still have the Immovable Rod from before?
Matt: Yeah, you retrieved it, yeah.
Laura: Okay, then I put the Immovable Rod, I tie it in, I hold on to the rope, and I jump in the water.
Matt: Okay. You take the rod and you (click) in the middle of the air, you take the rope, tie it around real fast over everything, and the sphinx now looming forward being attacked and flanked by the two of them. You take the rope and jump into the water. There's no splash, you disappear into the water. You guys watch her vanish into the pool.
Marisha: Vex jumped in the water?
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: Cool.
Liam: The code is "critrole", and you will not have to pay for any kind of shipment in any way, shape, or form. The wood still costs.
Marisha: Also, look how attractive that map is. Dwarven Forge, everybody.
Sam: Oh boy. We'll be making an appearance--
Taliesin: Don't do that. That's weird. Stop that. God, every time you're off camera.
Liam: Travis is flexing his boobies.
Sam: Guys, we're going to die because we can't think of the name Steve.
Taliesin: It'll be fine.
Marisha: Yeah, there's a correlation with blue.
Taliesin: I have theories. I have lots and lots of theories.
Marisha: I have lots of theories, too.
Taliesin: I have lots of theories. There's lots of theories here, we have to be fast enough to try them out.
Sam: Test them out.
Liam: And then time shifts and we're back in.
Taliesin: I can only move so fast through the room.
Matt: Do you pull yourself out?
Laura: Yeah, I pull myself back out.
Matt: Okay, you guys, there's a breathless moment and suddenly Vex comes out from the rope, drenched in water.
Laura: Oh my god.
Sam: What?
Laura: K-A. Other door. But make sure there's a rope.
Sam: K-A? What does that mean?
Laura: Jump in the water. Make sure you can get out.
Sam: What?
Travis: K-A on the door?
Sam: What does that mean? What?
Matt: As you say K-A out loud, the sphinx goes-- there's a glimmer in the eye at you, and it continues on, looking over at Grog and Scanlan.
Sam: You got part of the name? Part of the name.
Marisha: Oh, son of a bitch! All right.
Sam: Which water did you go in?
Laura: The little brazier that I'm next to.
Sam: Okay.
Laura: But don't jump in without a rope.
Marisha: You're on the one on the left. Yeah?
Laura: Yeah. Make sure you can get out.
Matt: All right, that ends your turn. Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: Well, shit. I want to go diving, but I don't think I'd make it over there. Shit. For now, I'll just-- someone else is going to do the water thing, I assume?
Marisha: I can, I'm close by, I'm close by, I can handle it.
Matt: At the end of your turn, the water that's around you, it's freezing cold and you suffer eight points of cold damage.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: From the process of submerging into it. However, once that damage hits, your body heat manages to recover, and it turns back to normal water temperature, so.
Sam: I'm going to, I will attempt to cast Eyebite on the sphinx.
Matt: Okay. The DC is 20 on that?
Sam: Yeah.
Matt: What is the saving throw for that one?
Sam: Wisdom.
Matt: Wisdom. Eyebite it is. That is a 27. Yeah, it resists the Eyebite.
Sam: What a dick. What a dick. Well, I can't do anything else, so I will-- hi. Who's around? Who's about to do something? I'll turn to Vax and inspire him.
Matt: Okay, go for it.
Sam: That's it. I'll say, (singing) You are not throwing away your shot, you are not throwing away your shot, you're just like your sister, you're young, brooding and hungry, and you're not throwing away your shot. (laughter)
Matt: That's fantastic. Okay. All right, so. You take your d10 inspiration die. At the end of your turn, it goes to the lair count. Lair count's already happened this turn, so I'm not going to keep that going. However, the sphinx does take its turn. It's going to go ahead and loose a claw attack at both of you. Against Scanlan, that is--
Sam: I'm going to use Cutting Words.
Matt: Okay. All right.
Sam: To get out of it. I'm going to blow my shawm. (high-pitched lip whistle noise) (laughter)
Sam: To distract it.
Matt: Roll a d10. It rolled a 25 to hit, so.
Sam: He's still going to hit me. A d10.
Matt: Yeah, so roll a d10 and that's how much it reduces it by.
Sam: By eight.
Matt: By eight, that brings it to a 17. What's your AC?
Sam: 16.
Matt: So it still hits you. Hits you for 28 points of slashing damage as its giant claw (whoosh) rakes across you. The sheer impact almost throws you off the top of the platform, and you can feel the blood beginning to seep from the wound under your armor. It turns around and rapidly does a full-on claw attack towards you, Grog. That is going to be a 27 to hit.
Travis: Oh yeah.
Matt: You also take 28 points of damage. It is magical damage, however, you don't-- doesn't matter for you, being, it's a resistance against slashing, so you take 14 points of slashing damage from the strike. That's going to end its turn. That brings us to Percy.
Taliesin: Who's that?
Marisha: That's Ashley.
Taliesin: That's Ashley?
Marisha: That's Pike, yeah yeah.
Taliesin: I'm going to yell at Pike, first thing.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: Look into the wind, look into the typhoon, tell me what you see!
Matt: "What?" She hears you, yeah.
Taliesin: I'm going to run to the little stone pile, and out of idle curiosity, I'm going to try to shove a bunch of stuff away to see if there's anything in there, look at the stones or anything.
Matt: Okay, so you take your action, you start pulling the stones away. As you rummage through, you pull apart and you begin to see there is-- where there was hard rocks, you're starting to find finer stones, until eventually you find sand. Just like the sand that you encountered in the previous room.
Taliesin: Okay. I'm going to take a handful, I'm going to grab a bunch of that and--
Matt: Okay, you reach in and as your hands disappear into the sand, there's no resistance once they hit the sand, they vanish into the sand.
Taliesin: I put on my mask and I shove my head in.
Matt: Okay. You shove your head through.
Sam: Whispers.
Marisha: Whispers!
Laura: So many whispers!
Travis: You know what this means, right? Jump in the fire.
Sam: Oh my god. Oh wait, we got to jump into all these things?
Laura: Maybe. I don't know. How long is his name?
Marisha: Yeah, how long is his name?
Sam: Mississippi.
Travis: Rumpelstiltskin.
Marisha: You already did water, I'm wondering if there's anything in the other one, or I might try fire.
Laura: Oh. You're right.
Sam: No, you've got to go for the water.
Travis: The element is going to be a quarter of the letters.
Taliesin: I pull out my head and I yell, J-I.
Laura: J-I.
Sam: K-A-J-I?
Marisha: K-A-J-I.
Laura: Kaiju.
Marisha: K-A-J-I. But it could be any fucking order. Wait, wait, wait! Did anyone take note of the order on the cycle?
Sam: It was a circle.
Liam: It was a circle.
Marisha: Never mind.
Matt: All right, Percy, that's your turn? You going to move?
Taliesin: I burned a whole turn doing that, didn't I?
Matt: Yeah, that's going to be the rest of it. All right, Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: Okay. Seeing Vex jump in and seeing Percy stick his head in a wall, I run up to the fire column.
Taliesin: Yeah! Yeah!
Marisha: Right there. And see if there's anything in the fire.
Matt: Percy, you also suffered seven points of damage from the crushing and bludgeoning on your head as it passed through.
Marisha: And I take the fire hand and I stick it, and I light up my fire and I stick it in the fire.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Does anything happen?
Matt: You put your hand in and your hand is still-- it's hot because of the flame that's on it. As you put it in, it is a scorching hot pain.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: You take two points of fire damage just from placing it in there.
Marisha: Okay, I pull it out and I go fire elemental.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: Yeah!
Travis: Do it, do it.
Taliesin: You're my hero.
Liam: Heat don't hurt.
Marisha: And I stick my head, go into the fire.
Matt: Into the flame?
Marisha: Into the flame! (cheering)
Liam: I think we should stop there. We should not go into the wind.
Sam: Where's the wind one?
Liam: Center.
Sam: Okay.
Travis: Why? Was that sarcastic?
Liam: Yeah.
Travis: (Grog voice) It was lost on me. Your subtle humor is lost on me.
Sam: What else can we plug?
Laura: I don't know.
Sam: Be sure to follow us at @CriticalRole.
Laura: Hey, we're on twitter, you guys! @CriticalRole.
Sam: @CriticalRole is on twitter.
Travis: Don't miss the beginning of the 50th episode.
Marisha: I pull my head out and I go, M-A-L. The letters M-A-L.
Sam: Kajimal. Kajimal. His name's Michael Jackson.
Matt: All right, that's going to be your turn there. At the end of your turn, he's going to go ahead and use a point to do a claw attack against Scanlan again.
Liam: His name is probably Jamal Porter.
Matt: Hm. That's a natural 20.
Travis: Natural 20?
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: No worries. I didn't need to live anyway.
Marisha: Against Scanlan? Oh, Jesus Christ.
Matt: You take 38 points of slashing damage as the claw grabs you and slams you against the stone, and you can feel the claw actually pierce part of your throat.
Travis: Oh, shit.
Matt: And as it withdraws, you can feel the blood beginning to pour. It didn't hit anything vital, but it's a serious wound--
Sam: All the vital stuff's below the belt.
Matt: All right. That ends Keyleth's turn. That brings us to Grog. This thing is tearing into Scanlan.
Travis: Yeah. I run over to Scanlan. How jacked-up are you?
Sam: I'm all right.
Travis: Are you?
Sam: Totally fine.
Travis: All right. Then I run down the steps and I jump into the tornado.
Matt: (laughs) Okay. You leap into it.
Laura: Oh no, Grog can't read. (laughter)
Sam: Oh no, that's true!
Matt: Pike looks over and sees you whoosh into the cyclone and vanish.
Travis: (laughs) There's a couple of lines.
Liam: Squiggly lines.
Laura: It's like a--
Liam: Snake shape and a box.
Laura: There's a circle.
Sam: Two sticks and a snake.
Liam: (Grog voice) Six. It said six.
Laura: (Grog voice) Also ale.
Sam: Cake and a rope.
Marisha: Good call.
Laura: Was that O-I?
Taliesin: This is why I'm the smart one.
Marisha: You are. You are.
Taliesin: Arsehole.
Sam: Check out our 50th episode next week, guys, with special guests Vin Diesel--
Taliesin: It's going to be so fleek. Streets ahead.
Matt: Okay, you guys get the idea of what's going on, we're going to now bring this, because now shit's happening. So. Grog, after seeing this, though you cannot say to anyone what you found yet, you, having no tether, are drifting away from the portal and seeing it disappearing slowly away from you. What are you going to do?
Travis: Can I grab my earring and say what I see?
Matt: You grab your earring, you say it. There's no response. You guys hear nothing.
Sam: He's gone.
Matt: And you're about 15 feet away from it now.
Laura: Grog?
Travis: Can I take my Chain of Returning and attach it to Craven Edge and throw it through the doorway that I see?
Matt: You can. Go ahead and roll for an attack.
Laura: What if it hits Pike?
Taliesin: Should've had a breakfast!
Travis: 23.
Matt: 23. Whoosh. You fling it through, and it catches something. You feel it's taut, you start pulling your way in, pulling your way in, pulling your way in. Go ahead and roll damage.
Laura: It's Pike.
Marisha: It's Pike.
Taliesin: Oh.
Sam: God. It's fine.
Marisha: It's got to be Pike.
Travis: Damage, oh, damage. Sorry, damage. I rolled the wrong thing. Please don't let it be Pike. Nine.
Laura: Pike.
Travis: 14.
Laura: Plus 2d6 necrotic.
Matt: Yep, plus 2d6 necrotic damage.
Travis: 30.
Matt: 30. 30 points of damage. Okay. You pull the chain and you make your way to the portal, you put your hands out, pull through, and as you do, the chain in your hand-- you look and you can see now, grasping onto the edge of the wall, you see Pike, sweat dripping down her face as Craven Edge has embedded itself into her abdomen. She's holding it, and she looks at you with a gritted face and she goes, "It's okay, Grog. You're back, that's all that matters."
Laura: That's the saddest thing ever!
Travis: I crawl through the door. Can I run to Pike? That's my turn.
Sam: Did you get any of his name?
Matt: Doesn't have a chance yet. At the end of this turn, it uses the last two points of its legendary actions to Teleport.
Sam: I'm going to Counterspell that.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Don't know why.
Liam: Keep it away from Pike and Grog!
Taliesin: It's always the right move.
Liam: Yeah. Instinct, buddy.
Matt: All right. So now we get to go ahead and roll for this, I believe. Let me go ahead and check what level it is, I believe it's a-- all right, this is a 7th-level spell.
Sam: Jesus. I mean, I wrote down crazy things, but it says at level four, roll plus five, versus ten plus level. I don't even know what that means!
Matt: Here, hold on. So DC equals ten plus level, so it's DC 17.
Sam: Okay. So I have to roll?
Matt: Using an ability check. Roll d20 and add five, trying to beat a 17.
Sam: Ability check at disadvantage.
Matt: Yes.
Sam: Yeah, that's not going to happen.
Liam: Yes it is, come on.
Sam: Well, that would've worked. The first one was an 11 plus five.
Matt: 16. One under. You go to Counterspell, but the image of its head, and seeing Pike wounded, it's too much for you and your hand shakes and you can't manage to clarify the Dispel Magic, as the whole sphinx vanishes and appears right next to Pike. All right. That brings us to Vax.
Liam: Can I try to make my wisdom save before I do anything, or does that come at the end?
Matt: At the end of your turn.
Liam: All right. Then I'm going to come around the corner.
Matt: It's not in your sight, by the way, you don't see it.
Liam: I know. Can I walk over, yeah, ten feet that way and see it scowling down at Pike.
Matt: You can, yeah, around the edge.
Liam: And put three daggers in its flank.
Matt: Go for it.
Liam: First one misses, it's a 13. 24. And a 15.
Matt: All right. 13, 24, 15.
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Middle one hits.
Liam: Eight. Eight points of damage. I'm going to try to shake off the fear.
Matt: Eight points. It does get sneak attack because it's adjacent to Pike.
Liam: But am I at disadvantage because of the fear? I thought I was at disadvantage.
Matt: Oh, you're at disadvantage to all the attacks, yeah. Wait, I'm sorry. I thought those were your three attacks.
Liam: I did three attack rolls, but I thought that to get sneak attack damage I need advantage, but if I'm afraid, I don't have advantage.
Matt: Right, but Pike's still adjacent. That's one of the ways you can get sneak attack, is either having advantage or an ally's adjacent.
Liam: All right. I thought that meant that, sorry. All right, I'll take it. Four, seven, 13, 25. Added to what I said before, which was eight, so 33.
Matt: 33. So one dagger, two of them you throw and they vanish into the cyclone, consumed and thankfully return with magic or they would be gone for good. Third one you throw. It stabs into the shank of the sphinx, who growls, turns back to Pike. All right, is that your turn?
Liam: I don't know what I rolled, so I'm going to roll again. 20.
Matt: 20. You manage to finally shake off the fear. All right.
Liam: Can I use the rest of my movement?
Matt: You can, yes.
Liam: I'm going to run up to the side of the sphinx.
Matt: You're there. All righty. Now produces two spiders. Jump out of the web. Both of them, the only thing they see, rush up to Vex. That is a natural 20 and a two. (laughs) So the second one misses you, first one you take 16 points of psychic damage, and that one vanishes on the impact. All right. That ends their turn. Up to the top, Vex, it's your turn.
Laura: Grog, what did you see?
Travis: Can I respond?
Matt: I would say make a wisdom saving throw. At the sight of what you've done to Pike and all that is happening, this is to see if you can shake from the stupor of what has happened.
Travis: Nine.
Matt: He's not responsive right now.
Laura: I guess I-- Jesus. Can I bring Trinket out? That's stupid. If I, well, I'm going to go and try to see what's going on over there with the sphinx.
Matt: Okay, so you rush over right there?
Laura: Can I see Grog?
Matt: You can, you can see Grog. As you rush around the corner, you can see the sphinx there, you see Pike with Craven Edge partially embedded in her abdomen, the chain now lax, as Grog is standing on the outside of the portal holding it in his hand, his eyes wide. The rage has faded now, by the way.
Travis: Yeah.
Laura: Can I run forward and cast Cure Wounds on Pike?
Sam: She's Pike!
Laura: She's got a fucking sword in her! Can I help her?
Matt: Yeah, you could cast Cure Wounds if you want.
Laura: I mean, does she still have a sword through her, can I pull her off of it and then cast it?
Matt: Sword is still inside of her right now, yeah.
Liam: Don't do damage to yourself.
Matt: You can try and pull it out if you want to. Make a strength check. Roll a d20, add your strength modifier.
Laura: I know, I-- oh, natural 20!
Matt: And for the one who normally can't find the physical strength of activities like this, through the inspiration of seeing--
Laura: It reminds me of what happened to Pike before.
Matt: Yeah. And that clear image crystallizes in your mind of when that glabrezu snatched her from you once. And with that, you find the strength to persevere, you reach out and grabbing the jagged blade take nine points of necrotic damage in touching the outside of the blade, but you pull, you can see the blood forming at the edge of your fingers as you yank it outside of Pike's body, and it clatters to the ground at the base of Grog's feet. Grog's still seeing this all before you, eyes wide open, mouth agape.
Laura: Grog, snap out of it! And I cast Cure Wounds on Pike's stomach.
Matt: Okay, what level?
Laura: Level three.
Matt: Level three. So 3d8 plus, I think it's-- what's your modifier for wisdom?
Laura: Three.
Matt: So 3d8 plus three. And that will end Vex's turn. Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: Can I roll to see if I'm fearful?
Matt: That'll be the end of your turn.
Sam: Okay. Then I'm going to, as a bonus action, cast Healing Words on myself.
Laura: 17.
Matt: 17? Okay, good to know.
Sam: I'll heal myself at level two. 2d4 plus five. Okay. Seven points, great. And then for my action I'll Dimension Door into the tornado.
Matt: Okay. You Dimension Door into the cyclone. You find yourself on the outside of the wind before it grabs you and pulls you in. You step through a portal and you're now drifting out in an expanse of air and cloud. There's no up, there's no down, there's no left or right, you see various masses of land slowly rotating in place as you see different gusts of wind floating about. You drift by and see a single stone that has carvings on it.
Sam: Dammit.
Taliesin: You did this to yourself.
Sam: Great.
Matt: However, you have no anchor and you are drifting away from the opening you came through.
Sam: That's my action and my bonus. I have no movement.
Matt: Correct, so you were--
Sam: I'm gonna just do this.
Matt: Okay. You do that. There's, it's air, you're still drifting away. All right. That brings us to the top of the initiative round. Let's see. For this one, I need everyone in the room to go ahead and make another constitution saving throw.
Travis: So ready for a nap. 24.
Matt: 24. Vex, what'd you get?
Laura: Six.
Liam: Seven.
Matt: Keyleth?
Marisha: Do I use my fire elemental constitution? 14.
Taliesin: 18.
Matt: 18. Okay. Pike makes it.
Laura: So hard to get these last two fucking letters.
Matt: Okay, so you rolled a 14?
Marisha: 14.
Matt: All right, so Keyleth, Vax, and Vex, all three of you guys suddenly feel the wind pulled out from you once again, and you all age, and now I'm giving you the specifics here, you're aging each time this happens. Ten years. All three of you. Bones are starting to ache a little bit. Not terribly, but a little more than usual. Your body's now starting to feel the wear of time passage.
Travis: If that's happened twice, they're 20 years older.
Matt: Yeah. 25 for those who got hit before.
Sam: Wait, the first time was 25 years?
Matt: The first one was 15, now it's an additional ten to those who were hit.
Laura: The first one was 15?
Matt: Yes.
Laura: Wow. But as a half-elf you have a longer life, so really at age 50, you're not that far in.
Matt: It's not huge, it's not like a major difference. You know, 25 years to a human, to Percy, would be a lot harsher than it is to you guys. It's minor differences. It is now the sphinx's turn, the sphinx is now going to (roars) roar even louder this time. This roar echoes out with a shockwave. I need everybody except for Scanlan to make another wisdom saving throw.
Marisha: Fuck me.
Travis: Ten.
Matt: Ten? And you were still frightened from previously, right? Because you did not shake that.
Travis: Yeah, I never shook it, still in a rage, but never shook it.
Laura: But your rage ended.
Matt: You dropped the rage. All right. Pike. All right.
Laura: Natural 20.
Liam: 11.
Marisha: 24.
Taliesin: 19.
Matt: All right, so. Vax, suddenly as the blast hits, the fear hits you again as the sound vanishes and you can't hear.
Liam: Mup.
Matt: There's nothing. You are completely deafened.
Travis: Deafened?
Matt: As are you and Pike. However, because you were previously frightened, you find your muscles tense up and you are both paralyzed as well. You cannot move, you cannot speak, you cannot--
Liam: And I'm not afraid, but I'm deaf.
Matt: You are afraid and deaf. Yeah. All right. Percy, it's your turn.
Travis: We've both seen it, we can't say shit.
Sam: Well, I'm floating to my death, so.
Taliesin: Bugger all, I got to fix this shit. Oh, what a clusterfuck.
Sam: Don't worry, I still have my lips. (blows whistle) (laughter)
Taliesin: Great. Okay. Where is-- can you point to Vex in that?
Travis: Wait, didn't I have Freedom of Movement?
Matt: This is Vex here. You do have Freedom of Movement. So you are not currently affected by paralysis. Look at you, remembering your buffs, buddy! So the fear still hits you, and your muscles tense, but you, looking over at Pike now frozen in place, you remember everything that's transpired and that holy divine energy that she imbued upon you glows from the inside, and your muscles return to you and you're still able to function.
Travis: Oh, Pike!
Matt: Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: I'm going to turn around the corner.
Matt: Around here?
Taliesin: Grog, say the bloody words!
Matt: Make another wisdom saving throw.
Marisha: Come on, Grog. Snap out of it.
Travis: Nine. At a disadvantage.
Taliesin: Okay. All right, all right, all right. What the fuck am I going to do? I am going to hold my turn right here.
Matt: Okay, holding your action.
Taliesin: Until such time as someone says the fucking letters that we need, and I'm going to be ready to yell them out.
Matt: All right, Keyleth. Actually, at the end of Percy's turn, the sphinx is going to go ahead. It's going to use one of its actions to do a claw attack now against-- this is going to be against Pike. That is going to be a 15, which misses. The claw, even though she's paralyzed-- actually, no, he has advantage on the attack because she's paralyzed. Rolled a one on the second one. Manages to hit her, but the armor and the shield takes the brunt of it, not dealing any physical damage to it. There's now frustration in the sphinx's voice as it's growling with each one of these screams. Now it is your turn, Keyleth.
Marisha: Okay. Question  as a fire elemental, I can fly, right?
Matt: Does it say on the fire elemental? It should say movement: flight.
Marisha: It says that I can, oh, movement? It doesn't really say, it says I can move through a space as narrow as one inch wide without squeezing.
Matt: Well, for the elemental form here, which I have a list of your elemental forms just in case. Fire elemental, speed of 50 feet. No, it cannot fly. It moves as a flame across the ground.
Marisha: Can't fly. So if I go into that portal I'm going to be in the same fucking situation, I'm assuming.
Taliesin: Sadly, there is only one of us who can fly, and very busy right now.
Marisha: Okay, I'm going to drop my elemental form--
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: You still have my Immovable Rod?
Laura: It's planted next to the water.
Matt: It's over there.
Laura: But my rope is attached to it and it's dangling next to me. I dropped it when I healed Pike. So it's right next to me, I pulled the robe over to there.
Matt: Yeah, the robe that produces the rope is on the ground right now next to Vex.
Marisha: Okay, before I drop elemental form I'm going to go pick up the rod.
Matt: What are you doing?
Marisha: It's so I can move faster. Pick up the rod.
Matt: 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, and then you drop your form to grab the rope.
Marisha: Drop my form.
Matt: And you're grabbing the what? The rod?
Marisha: The Immovable Rod.
Matt: All right, so you click the rod off. You now have the rod with the rope on the end of it.
Marisha: And do I still have movement now as myself?
Matt: No, you-- in dropping the form, you've used most of-- I'd say you have one more square of movement left.
Marisha: I'll step forward a square.
Matt: This way or this way?
Marisha: No, the other way. Yeah, yeah. And say, Vex, catch!
Matt: Okay, so you throw the Immovable Rod to her?
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: Make a dexterity check, easy enough for you.
Laura: 19.
Matt: Yeah, you catch the rod, no issue.
Laura: I know, it was really close.
Matt: All right. So is that your turn?
Marisha: I think so. I think that's all I can do.
Matt: All right, that ends Keyleth's turn. At the end of Keyleth's turn it's going to use another legendary action. This one, it's going to go ahead and reach out and strike at you, Vex, as you're now holding the rod.
Laura: Of course.
Matt: That's going to be a 29 to hit. You suffer 28 points of slashing damage as its giant claw rakes across the front of your body, almost tossing you off your feet from the sheer force of the blow.
Laura: 28 points?
Matt: 28 points. That brings us to Grog.
Travis: I look down at Pike. Pike, buddy, are you all right?
Matt: You've gotten your senses back now at this point. You look at her, and she's still frozen in place. She can't move and you can see the sweat's still pouring from her face. The wound has stopped bleeding, the wound is still fresh and visible.
Travis: And I call out, the letters inside the wind are O-R-I.
Marisha: O-R-I.
Laura: Maljikaori? Maljikairi?
Liam: Karimaljika?
Laura: Kaorimal?
Marisha: Malkaoriji?
Matt: Anyway. Anyway, before you guys start doing this whole thing, take your turns to do stuff. Grog. What else do you want to do on your turn?
Travis: I turn, I face the sphinx, and I don't do anything.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Craven Edge is on the ground, right?
Matt: Craven Edge is on the ground, yeah.
Travis: That's it. That's all I do.
Matt: Okay. Ending Grog's turn, it is Pike's turn. Pike cannot move, fails the saving throw, unfortunately is still paralyzed, still frightened.
Taliesin: I was holding my action for this.
Matt: Okay, what are you going to do?
Taliesin: Maljikaori?
Matt: No response.
Marisha: Hang on, wait, before you move it, before you move it, put it back, put it back, put it back. Okay, I want to write it down.
Taliesin: Maorikalji!
Matt: Nothing.
Laura: The order was fire, earth, water, air. That was the circle. So it could be in any of those orders, maybe.
Matt: You've got one more try before your turn's up, this is--
Taliesin: Malkaoriji!
Matt: Nope. That is your turn, however. In the six seconds, you shout out, you come up with and shout out those three things. That ends Percy's turn. At the end of Percy's turn, it's going to use its third legendary action to go ahead and make another strike at Vex holding the rod. 25 to hit.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Takes another claw and rakes you for 28 points of slashing damage.
Laura: I'm unconscious.
Matt: Vex falls unconscious on the ground from the blow, the rod clacks to the ground behind her. That ends that turn. All right. Oh shit, I did that out of order. It's fine. That's my fault. Percy shouldn't have got that turn, but we'll say it happened, it's fine. Vax, you're up.
Liam: I'm going to use my bonus action to disengage from the sphinx and I'm going to run around the whirlwind, and as I move I'm taking the rope which I already made a loop on, and I'm going to throw the loop over Grog's head on one end, and I'm going to jump into the whirlwind holding tightly-- I'm going to, into there, I'm going after Scanlan.
Matt: The rope clenches onto your neck and you feel like you're being choked suddenly. Without even realizing this, as you shout this out, all of a sudden a lasso is thrown around your neck and pulls back and cuts off your air supply.
Travis: (chokes) Okay.
Matt: And you vanish into the cyclone. The rope goes taut, pulling. You come through the portal and you can see, indeed, Scanlan's about 30 feet away and drifting.
Liam: And I was hasted and I ran at the whirlwind.
Matt: Right. Which is why you're gaining on him, but it's still going to take a moment as you're both still drifting, because he also leapt through.
Liam: It's really quiet in here. But then again it would be really quiet out of here as well.
Matt: Yep. All right, so. That's going to be the end of your turn, Vax. This spider now is going to leap over as two more, or sorry, three more leap out of this. They all rush up to Keyleth, she's the one visible person there, and all making strikes against you. That is 19 to hit.
Marisha: Hits.
Matt: Eight.
Marisha: Miss.
Matt: 23.
Marisha: Hits.
Matt: And ten.
Marisha: Miss.
Matt: All right, so you take 12 points of psychic damage as two of the spiders dissipate, leaving nothing but a psychic mist behind. All right. Top of the turn, Vex, I need you to make a death saving throw.
Laura: Six.
Matt: Six. Mark off one of your failed death saving throws. Scanlan, your turn, you're floating out in space and you see all of a sudden through the portal, Vax come rocketing towards you, hand forward, clutching a rope in one hand, arm outstretched towards you. What do you want to do?
Sam: Well, as much as I appreciate the gesture, I'm going to try to Dimension Door out of here.
Liam: I deftly roll my eyes so fucking hard.
Matt: You Dimension Door and you appear right at the doorway. You cannot Dimension Door through dimensions. But you make your way to the outside of the door. You are still drifting with the momentum you had going backwards, so you appear back at the door and start going backwards again.
Sam: Can I grab the door?
Matt: You can grab the rope.
Liam: I don't see or hear him, so I assume he is healing my sister right now, and I feel comforted.
Matt: You see him vanish. There's the rope there that Vax is carrying. You can grab onto that and wrestle through. With that, Scanlan manages to pull himself through the portal, landing onto the side right there. And you're fine now. That's probably going to take your full action, everything to get there, but you're out--
Sam: Bonus too?
Matt: I'll give you a bonus, sure, because your movement.
Sam: All right. Do I have time to assess and see that she's dead?
Matt: She's doing pretty rough, yeah.
Sam: I will heal her.
Matt: All right. Healing Word.
Sam: Healing Word at level--
Matt: What level are you doing?
Sam: I don't have many levels. At level three.
Matt: Okay. So that's 3d4 plus five.
Sam: I roll?
Matt: Yes. 3d4 plus five. Finishing up Scanlan's turn--
Sam: 11.
Laura: Hey, it's better than zero. Thank you. I'm alive!
Matt: All right. I need everybody in the room to roll another constitution saving throw.
Laura: (laughs) Oh no.
Matt: Except for you, you're not in the room.
Laura: This aging thing, is it permanent forever?
Sam: We'll find out later.
Marisha: Maybe if we ask nicely, he'll make us young again.
Liam: I probably look really good with ten years on me.
Travis: 16.
Laura: Nine.
Liam: I'm not here.
Matt: Oh, sorry. Keyleth?
Marisha: 17.
Matt: Pike succeeds. 17.
Taliesin: 24.
Sam: 21.
Matt: 21. All right. So.
Sam: Do I also have to roll for fear?
Matt: At the end of your turn you would, yes. Actually, no, I think that's gone off of you now. It's fine. So Vex, you come to consciousness, and you age another four years.
Liam: Aw, he softballed you with that one.
Matt: I rolled a four. It's a d20 every time. Yeah.
Marisha: Shit.
Taliesin: You basically just got Netflix, that's really all that happened.
Matt: It is now the sphinx's turn.
Travis: We're all laughing and one of us is unconscious.
Laura: We're seriously going to die.
Taliesin: We're not going to die, we're doing great.
Marisha: We're doing all right.
Matt: There. Next to Scanlan and Percy, two claw attacks against you. That is a 28. And 21.
Taliesin: I'm going to use my shield to glance off the 21. I'm going to use the shield of plus five AC.
Matt: Okay. Which reduces it to a--
Taliesin: Versus AC of 23. It gives me a temporary AC of 23.
Matt: Right, so the second one would miss. So the first strike hits you for 28 points of slashing damage, the second one scrapes across the arcane barrier that appears before you from the brooch, and resist that. That's the end of its turn. Percy, you got your turn last turn when you shouldn't have, but I'm letting that fly--
Taliesin: No, because I was holding my--
Matt: Oh sorry, you were holding it, yes.
Taliesin: It's all part of the plan.
Matt: I confused myself. So yeah. Now it's your turn.
Taliesin: I said Jamalkaori last time, if I recall.
Matt: You did.
Taliesin: Kaorijimal.
Matt: Nothing.
Taliesin: All right. I'm going to, while I'm saying all these things I'm going to be running around the corner back towards the spiderweb. Make another one.
Matt: What have you said so far?
Taliesin: We said, Maljikaori--
Marisha: Maorikaji.
Taliesin: Jimalkaori.
Marisha: And Kaorijimal.
Matt: Right, okay. So. You have two more if you wanted to do anything, Taliesin.
Marisha: You should try that one.
Taliesin: Is that as far as I can move right now?
Matt: You can move up to there, I think.
Taliesin: Okay, I can't get any closer to the web?
Matt: Not for your full movement, unfortunately.
Taliesin: Kamaljiori?
Matt: At this point, all of a sudden the braziers flicker out. You notice as the wind cyclone begins to slowly drift to a minor wind curl. At this point in time, Grog, if you wanted to pull on that rope it would be a good time.
Travis: Yeah, I turn around and grab the thing that's strangling my neck like a dog leash and I yank it in real hard.
Matt: With that, you, as you're drifting off, you turn around and see the doorway where the rope goes taut, and the door begins to close.
Liam: Bye, guys.
Matt: You're pulling yourself in, and suddenly you're yanked through and come shooting out of it on the side. With that--
Liam: I can't hear you.
Matt: --the angry demeanor of the sphinx has entirely shifted. And now it goes from like this low, feral position to a proud, honored beast, putting its paws forward, its shoulders high. "You have earned a name."
Liam: What did you say?
Sam: Oh yeah, they're deaf.
Matt: It raises a paw like this, at which point all the paralysis fades, all the fear fades, all the effects fade.
Marisha: Are we young again?
Matt: The age is not dispersed.
Sam: Ever?
Matt: Hold on a second, let me see what it can do. Actually, no. It goes forward and looks at you, who's looking the worst for wear comparatively and says, "I can help but one of you." And his paw goes out and touches you, there's a warm glow, and the age vanishes from you. "However, that is the extent of my magic this day. Perhaps the little one could help a few at this. It is but a rather challenging restoration." Pike nods. "I can do that. I can do that."
Laura: I look at Vax and laugh at him because he's so much older than I am.
Marisha: That's true, oh my god, you guys are never going to experience this ever again.
Matt: "I apologize for the formalities, but it is a pleasure to meet you, Vox Machina."
Taliesin: Hello.
Marisha: Hi.
Laura: You too.
Sam: What was his name again?
Matt: "Kamaljiori."
Liam: Hahaha, good one, that was a good one. Hazing. Who doesn't love hazing, right?
Marisha: At about that time, I lift up my shoulder and I show him the Slayer's Take symbol.
Matt: He gives a nod.
Sam: Don't we get something out of this?
Matt: Looks to you and says, "I admire your impatience. The Vestiges that you seek. Some have been destroyed over this epoch. Others lie scattered across the planes. Some are sealed or hidden. Others have found an owner. You carry one now, I see." The sphinx backs up and turns around on the steps and lays down, crossing its paws, glancing at you all, shoulders high. And a smile, it's warm, it's this interesting contrast to when you first entered. "Well. I happen to carry a Vestige here, if you will take it."
Sam: I mean, sure, if you're getting rid of it anyway.
Taliesin: It is most gracious of you.
Matt: Gets up and turns around to the back of the platform. Takes the marble from beneath its fur and holds it up to one of the doorways, which switches--
Sam: What?
Liam: Dwarven Forge.
Laura: Secret doors.
Matt: It pulls something from within (shing), and you see this single thin blade that vibrates as he pulls it out. The door closes, it puts the marble away. The blade goes into its teeth, and it steps back down the stairs. Takes the blade from its hand as it stops, and holds it out. It's impossibly small in its hand, it looks very dinky. "Here I keep the Mythcarver."
Marisha: Mythcarver?
Matt: "Granted to me by the White Duke himself before his passing. We were friends long ago. It is yours." He takes the blade and sets it down on the stone. "But you seek the others that remain, yes?"
Sam: Yes, yes.
Taliesin: Very much so.
Matt: "Fenthras, the Wrath of the Feywarden, a bow that felled Titans. It was lost in the Feywild in the Calamity."
Liam: Obviously for Scanlan.
Laura: Obviously.
Matt: "It now acts as the heart of a cancerous tree, corrupting the verdant land there. The Plate of the Dawnmartyr, beacon of protection to the chosen of Pelor, gathers dust on a wall in the City of Brass, a trophy won by a fire giant in a card game from a Suutan bloodline that once donned it."
Marisha: What was that called again?
Matt: Don't worry, I wrote all these down for you guys.
Laura: Oh, thank you. I know, I'm like, there's going to be a test later!
Matt: I know. I got this for you guys. "Cabal's Ruin, a magic-devouring cloak once used by an assassin to eliminate the unscrupulous den of Druja. It is now worn by a merchant-warrior with a missing eye in the walls of Ank'harel. The Spire of Conflux, a staff born from Melora's very breath, was devoured, along with its previous owner, by a goristro named Yenk in the endless maze of the Abyss."
Sam: Let's go there!
Matt: "The Titanstone Knuckles were taken from the brutalized corpse of their proud owner, now worn by a terrible half-giant turned tyrant in Westruun. I sense you know this, tall one. I can taste your fear from here. Whisper, blade forged from metal pulled from the Far Realm, was a center to many a dark ritual. It now lies at the bottom of the Ozmit Sea, sunken with the lost ship, The Shrew, in a storm 300 years ago near an island of glass. Know that all life is connected on an impossibly small level, beyond the mind's ability to understand on your level. Ideas transcend distance, language. Many share dreams, thoughts, inspirations without knowing. The fact that you are now aware of these, others too may now be drawn to the search as well. Beware. Now go. You have earned the name, you have earned the knowledge. The race is on." And with that, sand begins to erupt from the two piles of rubble, swirling in a giant whirlwind of blasted stone and sand, you guys have to cover your eyes as it begins to completely consume the vision around you. You see the sphinx back up towards the top of the platform before the sand consumes even within 15 feet, ten feet, five feet of your vision. You lose sight of your friends around you, and for a second the panic hits you before the sand comes to a stop and drops to the ground. Looking around, you stand at the base of the triangular cavern entrance by the mountain range where you first entered the temple. And that's where we'll end tonight's game.
Travis: Fucking shit.
Laura: That got so much more intense than I ever thought it was going to.
Travis: I thought it was going to be like a gentle education, like a gentle ribbing.
Laura: Yeah, I thought we'd go and talk to this guy.
Liam: Hey, we're friends with your girlfriend, want to give us some stuff?
Travis: Matt, that was--
Matt: Well done, guys!
Travis: A crazy-ass puzzle.
Marisha: We can look at that list, so I can make some serious notes?
Matt: Yeah. There's a list for you guys.
Travis: I'll make a copy of it, I'll make a copy of it.
Laura: Do we need to go after all of them? We'll do it; we'll talk about it later.
Marisha: I think we each need to be outfitted with something. We need our legendary weapons, you guys.
Laura: We took the weapon off the ground before he portaled us out, right, Matt?
Matt: Yes, actually. In which case I will give this to you as you now have access to its capabilities.
Marisha: Fenthras? Is that what it was-- no.
Matt: No, the Mythcarver. It's a legendary longsword. This incredible silvered blade once belonged to the White Duke himself, and many more master bards before him. It resonates with nearby musical tones. It acts as a plus three longsword, and the weapon deals an additional 1d6 force damage upon a hit. Whenever you use your Bardic Inspiration feature, you gain advantage on attacks with this weapon until the end of your turn.
Travis: Advantage on attacks?
Matt: So if you were to give somebody-- use your bonus action before your attack, you would get advantage on any attacks with the weapon.
Liam: Percy, that was made for you.
Taliesin: I know, obviously. I'm so excited.
Matt: And whenever you use your Cutting Words feature against an enemy, the target also has disadvantage on its next saving throw.
Laura: Wow!
Travis: Holy shit.
Sam: Well, I guess I'll have to take it.
Taliesin: I've got a weird question I'm going to throw out there. Did you pick your sword back up before all this mess happened?
Travis: Yep.
Sam: Hey, the White Duke!
Matt: As Grog looks at his feet, the blade that still laid there before you, tethered to you by chain, still remains at your feet as you see the chain amongst the sand.
Laura: Oh my gosh.
Matt: Still jagged, still extended, still in its full form. All right. So. Well done, everyone. We'll pick this up next week for the 50th episode, so excited. (cheering)
Matt: Thank you guys for sticking around for this very long episode.
Laura: That was long.
Matt: I know it was long, I wanted to try and get through this before we started the 50th.
Marisha: Oh my god, it's midnight.
Matt: Yeah, sorry guys. So long. Hope we're cool.
Travis: We're cool.
Liam: (singing) It's the last midnight.
Matt: All right you guys, well, thank you so much for watching. Have a good night, and is it Thursday yet?
Liam: Yes. Two more minutes.

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors get together and play Dungeons & Dragons. Tonight, apologies for the slight technical issues, but we're back and we're going to be playing through tonight's adventure. Before that gets started, let's go ahead and get through a couple of quick announcements. First and foremost, it's our third week of our Loot Crate sponsorship. Thank you very much. (cheering)
Matt: Thank you for your interest in our show and our audience, so for those of you who are interested, Loot Crate is a really cool service where once a month they bring you themed boxes that have mystery contents within that are part of that theme. All generally pop culture and geek-centric.
Laura: Taliesin, you're so loud!
Matt: Taliesin, quiet!
Sam: Shut up, Taliesin. Jesus. (laughter)
Travis: Stop masturbating during the announcements.
Laura: It's so loud. What are you doing?
Taliesin: I think I hit my microphone.
Sam: Don't worry. You're not an audio professional.
Matt: That's okay. At least it wasn't during a very climactic and important emotional moment in the game.
Travis: (laughing) Yeah, that's right.
Ashley: You're welcome!
Matt: (laughs) Anyway, yeah. Loot Crate's awesome. We've gone with it for years. They send mystery items that are all geek and pop culture-related. They're a lot of fun, and if you go to their website at www.LootCrate.com/criticalrole and check it out. If you like it and you get a subscription, you can use criticalrole-- one word-- as a promo code to get $3 off a subscription.
Sam: I'm wearing some of the stuff from the crate right now.
Travis: And they've got a power crate coming out.
Laura: David Bowie! Labyrinth!
Travis: They have an Infinity Gauntlet oven mitt.
Marisha: That's pretty dope.
Laura: Is that giving something away? I feel like we gave spoilers.
Liam: It was already Periscoped.
Laura: Oh, that's true. Never mind.
Matt: That would be nice in the box. We're good? We didn't waste it?
Liam: What's in the box?
Ashley: (singing) A dick in a box.
Matt: I hope there is no dick in a box as part of this service. Or perhaps I guess you do, depending on-- that's a whole different box service.
Marisha: If there is, you should call your local post office. (laughter)
Matt: That's a love box membership. Anyway, so! Also, once again, I want to remind everyone, we are happily carrying along the torch of 826LA, a fantastic charity that's been with us from the very beginning. 826 is a wonderful charity that promotes creative writing skills and literacy in mostly underprivileged kids at a young age, at which they normally don't have access to tutoring and people to help them on that direction, so if you can and have the opportunity and you're feeling like giving to some awesome people out there, 826LA, and 826 in general in your area, is a great charity to take a look at, so please. You guys have been a tremendous help in the past and you may continue to be so, if you wish.
Travis: Absolutely.
Matt: Good times. Let's see. Taliesin is joining us from Hawaii. Where are you at, Taliesin?
Taliesin: Where am I right now? I'm in my hotel room. Somewhere-- which island are we on? Oahu. We're on Oahu. For Amazing Comic-Con.
Matt: If you're on Oahu and you're watching this, you should go say hi to him. Not right now, but tomorrow and Sunday. And the rest of the great folks that are out there with you. All good people. Big old Street Fighter troupe. Also, we have Travis and his nose goblin and Laura, you guys are attending Puerto Rico Comic-Con?
Laura: Yeah! We leave early tomorrow morning.
Liam: Ah, you can sleep on the plane.
Laura: Good times.
Travis: Yeah! If you're in Puerto Rico, come see us. We'll be there, totally sleep-deprived and bushy-tailed.
Liam: It's a good one, though.
Travis: It's a good one?
Liam: Yeah, I went to that one.
Travis: We're excited to go. San Juan, baby. San Juan!
Matt: That's pretty slick, actually.
Marisha: That's awesome.
Matt: Does anybody else-- you said you wanted to mention something?
Liam: Yeah, Sam Riegel and I are both in Fallout Far Harbor, which is the first big DLC story dump. "Fah Hahbah." Fallout is my favorite way to escape reality second to this, so I hope you come join me. I play a human guy, but there's also a synth. Look for the synth.
Sam: I think I play a synth. And there you go.
Liam: There you go. That's it.
Sam: Good plug.
Marisha: You can also build a Taliesin robot, which I did, and named it the Taliesin 2000.
Laura: Aw, that's awesome!
Matt: So you could take either a custom-build Taliesin or me as your companion to Far Harbor and talk to these shmucks. And have a full Critical Role after-the-apocalypse experience. That's awesome. Okay, we're actually going to be downloading that soon. Anyone else have anything they want to mention before we jump into the game tonight?
Travis: Let's do this.
Marisha: I don't want to die.
Matt: Let's go ahead and get this started, as we dive into tonight's episode of Critical Role!
Sam: Nothing's happening.
Matt: No intro.
Sam: Nothing's happening. (laughter)
Sam: Wait! Let's act it out.
Matt: Act out the intro?
Marisha: Okay! (imitating music)
Travis: (growls)
Marisha: (swishing sound effects)
Sam: Taliesin, do something!
Liam: Shoot from your screen!
Laura: Shoot, you're shooting your gun! Be Percy!
Liam: Then you got hit by a wang!
Laura: Oh, you fall over!
Matt: Well done Taliesin, that was great. Ashley picks him up.
Laura: She's healing him.
Ashley: I'll hold your hand! Eyes closed, holding my holy symbol!
Matt: And it got weird.
Ashley: Had to add it.
Matt: And now it swings--
Liam: Oh, Laura Bailey standing in for an orc! (stabbing sound) Ugh, gah! Now be yourself oh!
Laura: Pew pew!
Liam: And I'll go oh!
Laura: And then I'll go oh! Then I wink at you.
Travis: This was not the plan, for the love of god help us!
Laura: And then I shoot another one at you! [actual intro plays]
Matt: Welcome back to this majestic clusterfuck that is tonight. (laughter)
Matt: As open beta leaves its red and raw path, we rebuild! We stand up against the swaggering might of the new programming, and we stand tall for tonight's episode of Critical Role. Previously, Vox Machina, the band of adventurers walking through Tal'Dorei post-attack of the Chroma Conclave, an evil troupe of chromatic dragons that are currently holding power in this region and beyond, after tearing through many of the bastions of society in this countryside. They have gone on a quest to search for artifacts known as the Vestiges of Divergence, from ancient wars and heroes of old and yore, to use against the leader of the Chroma Conclave, Thordak the Cinder King. Now as part of this confrontation, they made their way to the city of Westruun, which was partially destroyed by the black dragon, Umbrasyl. While it was off and away with the rest of the Conclave, was then conquered by the wandering Herd of Storms that Grog once belonged to. After finding it occupied by these rather brutal barbaric individuals, Vox Machina set into the city, destroyed and tore down their leader Kevdak, to much fanfare from Grog's past. And through Kevdak's son and Grog's majestic might they decided to take the remainder of the Herd of Storms and take out Umbrasyl, the great black dragon. Half the Herd didn't like that and has decided to leave to their own devices, where the rest of the party possibly prepares to plot and plan a way to kill an ancient black dragon.
Travis: I don't like the way he said that. Why'd you have to say it like that? It's just a black dragon!
Matt: What else am I going to say?
Liam: Why the dramatic pauses?
Matt: Because it's fun.
Travis: You used the word 'somehow'.
Matt: I like it. You guys, having just finished this stroke of a conversation with Zanror in the Margrave's homestead, the dawn light is now beginning to pour over the mountain range in the distance. The day has officially begun. Zanror has stepped out and has begun to speak with a few of his trusted Herd members to stand down for the day, letting people know that the battle has been postponed for the time being while a plan is to be enacted, prepared for, and then sprung the following day. The rest of you guys have this day to prepare however you see fit. So I ask you: what would you like to do?
Sam: We have so many things that we need to do!
Matt: Where do we begin?
Sam: We need supplies. We need to parlay with our allies. We need lots of chains.
Laura: We need to trap the dragon obviously on the ground.
Sam: For that we'll need some bindings of some sort: chains, hooks, spikes.
Taliesin: I have a thought, I have a thought in that direction. When we're ready, I was thinking of basically building what is essentially a giant pressurized mousetrap.
Laura: Is there, how would you do that?
Liam: How much time do you need, Perce?
Taliesin: Do I have access to some people to help build it, and some perhaps broken homes and chunks of wood and chain?
Matt: You do have access to broken homes, chain, and scraps at your disposal. As far as individuals that can aid you, you have individuals that can help hold things for you. The Herd of Storms is not known for its ingenious use of tinkering tools, but--
Laura: What about blacksmiths in town? Are there any blacksmiths left?
Matt: You can check around.
Taliesin: This would be a blacksmith just to make a couple springs. This is not a complicated-- This is literally something you could make in the woods. It's a slightly more complex version of something you could make in the woods to catch birds. I'm just building a really big version. It's a whole bunch of systems like this that will have chains and weights on them that when you disrupt the weight at the center the whole thing goes clunk, throws a whole bunch of-- it's basically a netting system. It's an entanglement and will be an entanglement.
Matt: Okay. I'll tell you what. Go ahead and roll an investigation check, Percy, if you don't mind.
Laura: Can we help him at all?
Matt: Yeah, I'll say if you want to go ahead and aid to that, take advantage on that, Percy.
Taliesin: Thank god. Yeah, no, not very good.
Matt: What'd you roll?
Taliesin: I rolled a six.
Laura: With advantage?
Matt: With advantage?
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: So! After taking the better part of about three hours scouring the town, most of the remaining villagers--
Laura: He took three hours doing that?!
Matt: Three hours, so, from what he's doing with the aid of people that aided him, which would be Vex asking about, the few folks that have any experience with any sort of blacksmithy are the folks that make horseshoes, and that's the extent of the complication they can create. So they can attempt to, with your aid, craft some springs. They have the materials to do very basic metalwork and ironwork, but the people you encounter, two folks in particular, they're both a little confused by your overall design and are waiting for you to lead them in a specific direction.
Taliesin: Okay, I'm just going to take them and I'm going to start building one and see if they can follow suit then. Three springs will be more than enough for this design.
Matt: How big a spring?
Taliesin: I would say, how tall is this dragon?
Matt: Roughly 30 to 40 feet, depending.
Taliesin: About a two-to-three-foot spring, then. Three two-to-three-foot springs made of solid iron. Just enough to lift the system and toss. And it's just, you make them like chainmail. It's a process that exists. I'm not going nuts.
Matt: I'm not saying you're going nuts. You are a little stretched for supplies and manpower based on the circumstances in Westruun for a complicated task, but it's fairly possible, but it will pretty much take the entirety of your day and most of your night to prepare this. You'll be able to squeeze by with this, with the construction of the device, and have maybe just enough room for-- I'll let you squeeze in a long rest.
Taliesin: That'll be perfect.
Matt: But that's success or fail.
Taliesin: That'll do.
Matt: Okay. What are the rest of you guys planning?
Liam: Three hours ago, back when we were still together, I pulled Scanlan aside. Listen, I want to talk to you. I have an idea.
Sam: Is this about Kaylie? Because I'm still worried about her. But I don't think that we should discuss her right now. We have other things! Why are you harping on this? She's my daughter. (laughter)
Sam: Just give it a rest.
Liam: You're right, I should have never dragged you down into the sewers, and I apologize. It won't happen again. But listen to me. I have an idea. It's a dangerous idea, and I don't want to lead with it. I don't want to fight this dragon, to be honest, but I think the group is going that direction. If we do-- Percival's run off to try something, maybe we're just going to run out. I have an idea that only you can do.
Sam: Okay.
Liam: We have a rod.
Sam: Yes.
Liam: Not the cube. A rod that cannot be moved.
Sam: We could use it in some way.
Liam: You can teleport, and I'm almost too afraid to even suggest it, but if shit goes south, how would you feel about teleporting inside of Umbrasyl's stomach? With that rod.
Sam: Well, what has he eaten? Because it could be nasty in there!
Liam: I assume it will. I don't know anatomy. I haven't talked to my sister about this. She might be able to give us input, and I don't want to lead with this. I don't want you to do it because I feel like you could melt in there.
Sam: Of course I could melt in there! I'm a little man and he's got acid on him!
Liam: I know. I'm looking for a way through this fucking clusterfuck and if there's nothing else to do, you could go in there and click that rod and give him the worst suppository ever invented!
Sam: Listen. If there's a man invented who can go to where shit is made and make some really good shit, that's me. So let's pursue this. As a plan B.
Liam: As a plan B. And I take him by the shoulders. You remember that little talk we had about a week ago, when you told--
Sam: Is this about Kaylie again?
Liam: No, we can talk about Kaylie in a couple of days, all right?
Sam: Okay.
Liam: When you told me how things were better now? Okay, you remember that?
Sam: Yes.
Liam: That was fucking insane. They are not better. Everything is terrible! Our lives are terrible. They are way worse than they were six months ago, way worse. I was with all of you assholes a year ago, and two years ago, they're way worse.
Sam: You're saying that, a sullen loner who is confiding in one of his closest friends while holding him on the shoulders. This you never had before.
Liam: I slap him on the cheek a little bit and say: you are a fucking madman, but I am glad you're here.
Sam: I'm glad to be with you.
Liam: And I love you. And I give him a playful slap across the face.
Sam: Six points of damage. (laughter)
Matt: Unexpected, sneak attack. 7d6 points of damage.
Sam: All right, so I'm going to go talk to Vex. An expert in dragons I hope?
Laura: I'm an expert on dragons.
Sam: And ask her how dragons work, how their bodies work.
Laura: What do you mean?
Sam: Where they're vulnerable, where they make the acid, where they have lungs, where they have stomachs, how many stomachs? Are they like a cow with eight stomachs or something?
Matt: Go ahead and make an intelligence check with advantage.
Travis: Cows have eight stomachs?
Marisha: They've got like two or three.
Laura: Shut up! 17.
Matt: 17. Yeah, dragons have the pieces you imagine they would have in the right vicinity. Their stomach is quite acidic, as it has been known to dissolve some of the hardiest of creatures, let alone break down some basic minerals and materials. So it's not a happy place to be, but it's not like instantaneous dissolution. It will hurt. Also know that the breath weapon, the acid that a black dragon, which uses acid as a breath weapon in a stream in front of it, much like your lightning bolt, does not come from its stomach. That acid is much more toxic, concentrated, and comes from a separate part of its body, a gland, a breathing mechanism that projects it outward.
Laura: Where's the gland located? Would I know that, like, in his throat?
Matt: It's somewhere in this vicinity, you're not entirely certain.
Sam: So if I miss, end up in that gland, that would be not good.
Matt: That would be really bad.
Liam: Don't roll a one!
Ashley: But that would probably be really hard to just get right into that spot.
Liam: But you know, you wouldn't suffer.
Laura: It would be instantaneous, at least.
Sam: Also. Vex. Vex'ahlia.
Laura: Oh. Getting fancy now, Scanlan Shorthalt.
Sam: Thank you. Your brother tells me that you have some sort of acid-resistant something.
Laura: The armor? That I took from him?
Liam: Yes, my armor. She has it.
Laura: Well-- are you here? Are you next-- are you next to me now?
Liam: No, I'm about five feet behind you rolling my eyes and doing this the whole time you're talking about dragons.
Laura: It's the armor that I won fair and square from him! Yes, I am wearing it right now.
Sam: Is that your primary armor?
Laura: It is.
Sam: How would you feel about me asking you to take it off? Doing a little unbuckling and giving it to me instead?
Laura: Scanlan, that's going to cost you a lot of money.
Sam: We could swap armor.
Laura: You think your little armor will fit me.
Sam: I have a pretty broad chest. These are pecs.
Laura: What kind of armor do you have?
Sam: I have cold snap leather armor.
Laura: Which is cold resistant?
Sam: Cold resistant. Maybe the dragon will throw snowballs at you.
Laura: I doubt that. What is it, is it plus two?
Liam: Yeah.
Sam: Plus two on top of the armor, so it's four.
Matt: So it's armor plus two.
Liam: It's better overall.
Laura: Okay. Well sweet, then yeah, sure, give it to me.
Sam: Can we do that?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: Strip on down there, Scanlan.
Sam: Well, ladies first!
Laura: No, you first, I want to see the cube and then I'll give you my armor.
Sam: Shall we make it interesting and play a little poker?
Laura: There's no time for that.
Sam: All right. I very slowly and sultrily unbuckle my armor, let one strap fall, let the other strap fall, just do a little shimmy and let it fall to the ground, sort of like The Crying Game. Just sort of, camera pans up a little bit and it's just, there's nothing underneath, it's just me and the cube. And I cry a little. (laughter)
Liam: During which I pick up Scanlan's shawm and start playing it terribly. No idea what I'm doing. Do you blow into this, are there strings? I don't know.
Laura: I try really hard not to start laughing.
Sam: Go with what your body tells you to do. How are you going to take off your armor?
Laura: That's a good question. Do you want to walk away for this?
Liam: Yeah, I leave the room.
Laura: I completely ungracefully take it off and throw it at you. Give me that armor. How is this going to fit me? I'm just naked trying to squirm into these extra-skinny jeans.
Matt: Actually, as you pull the armor pieces up, they shift and formfit to your size as part of their enchantment.
Laura: What color is it? Is it beautiful?
Matt: The cold snap armor is I believe dark browns with traces of white and silver along the edges as a cold winter motif as part of the enchantment.
Laura: Does it match my storm bow?
Matt: Yeah, I guess you could say that.
Laura: You might not be getting this back, Scanlan.
Sam: Oh, really? Well. What does mine look like?
Matt: For a moment, it looks pretty haphazard and hanging off of you.
Sam: Oh, these are like C-cups up here. (laughter)
Matt: As the armor slowly retracts and finds itself to your form.
Sam: Oh! They went down.
Matt: In that moment, Scanlan learned a lot about himself.
Sam: All right. I feel good about this. Now we'll continue our dragon lesson I suppose.
Laura: Wait, why did you need to change-- are you going to be up close and personal with him?
Sam: Well, I think we all are, you know. He breathes acid.
Laura: Well yes, but.
Sam: Yeah, so we could get hit! Now I'm more protected than you are!
Laura: This was a really stupid-- why did I give that up?
Sam: I'm very charming.
Laura: Now you're not here?
Liam: You told me to leave! You took off your clothes. I'm Liam, I'm not Vax, what're you talking about?
Laura: Are you planning on doing something?
Sam: We're all planning on doing something, and I don't think that my part of the plan is any stupider than yours will be. So. Good luck to you. I'll keep your armor safe. Hopefully we can trade back. And if not, you can peel it off my dead body.
Laura: As long as you're not melted from all the acid.
Ashley: I'd like to attune to my frostbrand sword.
Matt: Okay, so you'll be putting aside the mace of disruption and taking on the frostband instead. Okay. Cool.
Liam: Oh, shit, I go running after Percival. I'm going to go find Percival.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Liam: Yeah. Well. Does that take an hour, or do I catch up with him pretty quick?
Matt: You would know the direction he went, and thankfully in the awkward still-quiet that is the center of the town now that it's missing most of its populace, and those that are there are acknowledging the tension of what might be coming, and many of them are now packing up and leaving and getting out of the town, evacuating when they've been notified of the possible coming battle. The sound of metal clangs in the distance, and the gathering of materials from some of the rubble is not too difficult to discern over time. Takes you about half an hour or so to locate him.
Liam: Oh, there's that white hair. Percival!
Taliesin: Yes? Hello. Bit busy. What?
Liam: Yeah, I'm sorry, I don't want to take up a lot of your time. I reckon you're going to be busy with this all day, yeah?
Taliesin: Oh yes. This is quite a project.
Liam: Ah, and also tomorrow. You're probably going to be taking potshots at that thing, yeah?
Taliesin: Ah, that's my hope is to be, honestly, as far away from this as humanly possible.
Liam: That's probably not my plan. Can I have use of your blade?
Taliesin: Oh! The dragonslayer longsword, yes, of course, of course. I pull it off my belt and hand it off. Could help. I'm a little terrified that you're getting that close to it, but here it is.
Liam: It's just in case.
Taliesin: It's quite a piece.
Liam: Good luck today.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Liam: Good luck tomorrow.
Taliesin: I am down to my normal sword now.
Laura: Can I be talking to Zanror?
Marisha: I'll join you in that. That was my next plan.
Matt: The two of you eventually find Zanror. Zanror and Warra are in the process of piling weapons and armor with the rest of the Herd into the center of the town where the battle outside of the Margrave's house happened. Most of the warriors there are in the process of steeling themselves, some of them are gathering their materials, some are in the process of doing some minor ritualistic scarring in preparation for the battle. There is very little conversation happening. It seems like there is this quiet understanding that this, for many, might be their last day. They're making peace with the coming glory of battle. You'd expect this sense of tense fear, this very Battle of Helm's Deep-type acceptance of doom, but this is a different personality amongst the Herd here. There is almost a brimming excitement with the idea of possible glory or at least a glorious end. And it very much befits the story that you've heard of Grog's past history, and very easy to see where he once came from.
Laura: I bring Zanror a big tankard of ale and sit down in front of him. MATT "Oh, good to see you."
Marisha: I stand behind Vex'ahlia.
Matt: "This for me?"
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Looks to Worra.
Marisha: Don't worry, we wouldn't try to poison you the night before a dragon-fight.
Matt: (laughs) "That would be rather stupid, wouldn't it?"
Marisha: It would.
Matt: And he just downs it all in one big chug. "Thanks."
Laura: Zanror? Did I hear you correctly before, that you have been the one speaking with the beast in the past?
Matt: "I have, aye."
Laura: So when it comes and gathers its treasure, it stops and talks, or does it just come and take it and leave?
Matt: "It has at times. More at the beginning. If it had questions and seemed curious. That wore off after the first few times. Now it just seems to come and take and find its way out."
Laura: So if the treasure looked different this time, it might stop and talk about it?
Matt: He stops for a second. "Maybe."
Laura: I'm curious because I know you said you are lacking in gold and treasure. What will entice the beast?
Matt: "Hm. Beyond that, I don't really know. That's what is forcing our hand right now."
Laura: What if we had a way of providing some gold? And maybe you provide an offering of a different kind? What if you say that your father Kevdak had been plotting against the dragon and you found out about it. Would you be able to offer his body and the body of his allies as tribute to the dragon?
Matt: "Huh."
Laura: Dragons are vain.
Matt: And you do know specifically white dragons, or sorry, black dragons, they're very cruel by nature. They actually enjoy messing with creatures they see below them, especially intended prey, torturing for extended periods of time before killing. They aren't comparatively as vain as other dragons per se, but all chromatics fall in some way shape or form on that same scale of self-love to the point of being a near-disease to many of them. Zanror thinks to himself for a second and goes, "We can certainly try. I mean, I've got no more use for it, though it's going to be hard to convince it without a head. I'm pretty sure Grog took that with him."
Laura: Well, we may be able to get that back. How are you planning on hiding your fellow warriors from the dragon so as not to attract its attention? Because we may have some ideas.
Matt: "We'll have to share ideas. Ours was to go ahead and plod up Gatshadow. Usually it's about noon when it comes down for the offering. We leave it what little we have left, possibly lose two men in the process of delivering it, and then when it returned to its place we'd be there waiting to ambush it once it returned, use that time when it was gone to go ahead and hole up inside its home."
Laura: Okay.
Matt: "That was our intent."
Marisha: We might be able to do one better.
Laura: A dragon's lair is not--
Marisha: Especially a black dragon's lair.
Laura: We wouldn't do much damage to it there, in fact, it's probably laid several traps against us already.
Matt: "Well, there's not much we can really do when we're all fighting with our fucking axes and swords, can we? In the lair at least it's stuck on the ground."
Laura: What if we could trap it onto the ground here?
Matt: "How do you intend to do that?"
Laura: We have a wonderful tinkerer. Quite talented. And he's creating something to trap the dragon.
Matt: "Really."
Laura: Plus we can provide several chains. Once it's on the ground, maybe your very strong goliaths could try to snare it, grappling-hook it, throw some chains up and over?
Marisha: This pile of weapons you have here, I see a decent amount of javelins. A rudimentary harpoon, in the hands of some of your strongest, could help wrangle him down.
Matt: He stops for a second and goes, "I just want to be clear we don't underestimate the sheer size, strength, and ferocity of this beast. With all 20 men, we might be able to hold it down, I don't know how long. I hope that contraption your friend is making is strong enough to aid us that last little bit, because I get the feeling that if our might is put to just keeping it on the ground-- well, that's a lot less of our strengths that we could be tending to. A lot less blades we could put into its hide."
Laura: Well, hopefully it would only be needed for a small amount of time before our magic users have their way with it.
Marisha: About that time I light up my hands.
Matt: "That's impressive. You know what else is impressive? Watching four of my friends melt in a matter of seconds."
Marisha: That is very impressive. You're not wrong.
Matt: "I just want to instill with you an understanding not to be brash, not to go ahead and run into this unless you're absolutely certain. Now. I've got chains, you've got chains. We've got strong men. If we put ourselves intent on just holding this beast down, I have the feeling, even with our weight behind it, it's going to be a difficult attempt. Do we have any other way of anchoring it down, something else we can put the chains to?"
Marisha: About that time I walk over to the-- is there a stone wall in here?
Matt: I mean, there are pieces of stone building in the vicinity.
Marisha: I put my hand against the stone and I cast Transmute Rock and I push my hand into the stone as it turns to mud.
Laura: And now turn it back, Keyleth.
Marisha: I take a spear that's on the floor, stick it in, and then turn it back.
Matt: All right. Let me look this up real fast.
Marisha: See? Magic. (laughter)
Marisha: Put my hand underneath the spear. Put my hand over the spear.
Laura: Ah? Ah? No strings!
Marisha: Where is it, where is it?
Matt: Yeah, mud to rock, yeah. Lasts for-- it's instantaneous. So when he looks at that, he goes, "So. What you're saying is if we can find a few places in which the rock is close to the surface, you could lock these chains in?"
Marisha: I think I could lock the whole dragon in.
Laura: Once it's on the ground, if we can pull it down enough, she may be able to lock its legs into the stone.
Marisha: Beyond that, if that fails-- And then I cast, for right now I'll just do Wall of Stone, I'm just burning through all my spells as a demonstration. And I bring up two pillows. Two pillows?
Ashley: And then we all lay down and go to sleep!
Sam: Pillow fight! (laughter)
Liam: Billy Mays here for the Ashari Tribe!
Matt: "Goose down. Unexpected tactic."
Laura: I like how we're walking through all of these ideas and none of it's going to work when we get there.
Marisha: I blast up two pillars, right next to Kevdak.
Matt: Not next to Kevdak. You mean Zanror?
Marisha: Sorry, sorry. Sorry, the other big goliath leader.
Sam: Whatever your name is.
Matt: That one, ohmygod.
Marisha: And trap him in.
Matt: Okay, you (rumbles). Warra's pushed to the side as the stone shoots up.
Marisha: (whispers) Sorry, Warra, sorry. So-- I know! Did not mean to lay a hand.
Matt: "All right, your point is made. We've got two others who can do similar magic as you, maybe not the same level, but--"
Marisha: Fantastic.
Matt: "Want us to put them at your aid?"
Marisha: That would be wonderful. Beyond that, in prep, I can dig a trench, hidden underground around our trap, so that whenever we're ready, your army can bust out of the ground.
Laura: Surprise.
Marisha: Without being seen.
Matt: "Without being seen, what, are we going to bury my men?"
Laura: Very lightly.
Marisha: Pretty much. To be fair, I actually did it on a trap to kill like eight of your men on the way in and it worked phenomenally. So you should trust me.
Laura: It was pretty great.
Marisha: It worked well.
Matt: "I think we'll take our chances above ground, please."
Laura: The only thing I'm worried about, Zanror, is that if this ugly beast flies in and sees, oh, how many of your men do you have?
Matt: "Currently we're sitting at 25 total, including myself."
Laura: 25 men standing around. Don't you think it's going to be a little curious as to why all of the sudden-- all of a sudden? There's a large number of people around, that's never been there before?
Matt: "You're asking me this, our plan was to go inside while it was out. But if you want us there, let's figure out a way to hide, then. I don't think my men are going to like to be underground."
Marisha: It'll be very spacious. It'll be a nice big tunnel, it's not going to feel like you're buried alive.
Matt: "And what, they just leap out one by one through an opening?"
Laura: It'll be super shallow. Just enough that they can come on up and out.
Marisha: It'll be awesome, it will look like they're coming out of the grave. They'll look like badasses!
Matt: "I don't think that's going to really get a dragon shaking in its claws, y'know?" (sighs)
Laura: Not a lot is going to get a dragon shaking in its claws.
Matt: "Let me talk to my men. We'll see what we can do, we can muster as far as these chains go."
Laura: A surprise attack is going to be one of our best shots at grounding this thing.
Matt: "So, am I to tell my men we're going to bury them in the ground?"
Marisha: Not bury them, that sounds so dramatic when you say it like that, I mean I'm going to make a tunnel, there'll be stairs, they'll be able to walk freely, they'll have air holes, it'll be just like when you moved through the sewers to not be seen.
Matt: "I'll talk to them. I certainly hope your magic stone-shaping is as strong as it is. At the very first moment that dragon looks like it's going to go ahead and break free, we're weapons out. You do understand that."
Marisha: We would appreciate that, actually.
Matt: "Okay."
Laura: We want it to land, then we strike. We just want it to hit the fucking ground.
Matt: "Okay. And what's our bait? You say you have some gold to give?"
Laura: Some gold to give.
Matt: "Try for Kevdak's corpse-- I hope that's enough. I'll see what else we've got left in our coffers." He turns around and him and Warra walk away, a couple of the men join them and they--
Marisha: Oh, I actually-- I go over to Warra real quick before she walks away? Just to her side, and say, you look well. Have the Seers told you if it's going to be a boy or a girl yet?
Matt: "Not yet. But if we survive this, I have a feeling I'll know. The strength and glory of this fight will confirm."
Marisha: If you survive this fight, I'm pretty sure you'll bear the strongest child anyone has ever known.
Laura: The stallion that mounts the world, for sure.
Liam: There it is, there it is. It's in all our heads.
Matt: Nothing ever goes wrong when that title comes up. (laughter)
Matt: What could possibly go wrong? She looks over her shoulder at Zanror as he's walking away and goes, "Could be." And she just turns and starts walking with him.
Laura: So we really need to dig a trench.
Marisha: Yeah. I'm going to start digging a trench.
Laura: Around the area that the treasure is going to be.
Marisha: How far is it?
Matt: You guys scope it out, it's northwest of the town, you saw it on the way in, and it's very easy to make out at this point because there have been large claw-marks in the ground, there are broken pieces of wood, there's a shattered cart, there's some barrels that are partially destroyed to the side, there's a little bit of leftover ends and pieces that fell out of whatever it picked up as it took off as well as a smattering of copper, silver, and gold pieces that you rummaged through before when you first came to the town. But there's a definitive place that you recognize where this drop point is, it's out in the open in the field, there's going to be a couple of nearby rocks, a handful of trees, but they're all very sparse and spread apart. Other than that, it's just open field, so.
Marisha: How far away is the nearest tree cluster?
Matt: To that, it's about-- tree cluster? I mean, most of the trees that are here are singular, there's two trees that are within ten feet of each other and that's maybe 80 feet away from it.
Marisha: Okay.
Laura: When you dig the trench, can I use my perception and my ranger ability to camouflage things and make sure that from above the ground, from the height that the dragon will be looking at it, that it's not seeable at all? I don't want this trap to be seen-- I guess I should wait until we find out if Percy finishes his trap and gets it in place to do all of this.
Matt: You can do that if you'd like to. Yeah, as far as the camouflage ability--
Laura: I know Hide in Plain Sight is for myself, but I feel like as a ranger I'd be able to hide tracks and stuff.
Matt: I'll say we can certainly give you--
Laura: We can use a little Dust of Tracelessness or something?
Matt: We can make something function a little bit there, you know, illusion magic is also helpful. If you have anything illusion-based that could even just help tidy up before. You do know that dragons are very perceptive creatures and are very-- are not very trusting either. They're paranoid. That is part of their narcissism, so anything you can use, whether it be illusion, camouflage, anything to hide any sort of possible chance of it not trusting this scenario you're going to want to do, otherwise this thing might fly overhead and notice one thing and be like ah, peace! So. Be warned. Miss Dragon Specialist.
Liam: That was all knowledge in your head.
Laura: I know all of these things! All of a sudden!
Marisha: Did he just say dragons have really high perception so don't fuck with anything and make it look weird?
Laura: No, he said if we're going to do it, make sure it is hidden.
Marisha: Right. Make it look real good. Right.
Travis: Can I go up to some of the guards outside and say, oi. Where do you keep your prisoners, hostages, meat shields?
Matt: I mean, there are no real guards of Westruun anymore, most of the guards that--
Travis: I meant like the goliath, the Herd guards.
Matt: Yeah, the Herd guards. They're a little sparse right now, there aren't any towards the outside of town, most of them are gathering towards the center as the rest of the folks are leaving the town, finding their way out south of Westruun to be away from the battle. But you do find in the Margrave center, similar area to where they were talking to Zanror, there are gathering warriors that are getting their weapons ready, some of them armoring up to just see how easily they can get it on, some of them might even sleep in their armaments, it's not a huge thing. But as you approach and ask this question, one of them turns to you and goes, "Well, there's-- the Iron Stocks is where we generally keep our prisoners. The ones who were before and the few we did keep, well, those we chained up or executed, but there were a few that were thrown in there."
Travis: Are there any still in there? Or are they all clear?
Matt: "Oh, there's plenty of prisoners still in there, we didn't touch the prison, mostly."
Travis: Hm. All right, thank you. (whispers) What was Reginald's daughter's name?
Laura: I don't know if I wrote it down.
Sam: I wrote it down.
Travis: I'd like to make my way over to the Iron Stocks.
Matt: Okay. And you've been here before, you know the Iron Stocks, although you weren't sure if it was being used as still a prison. And seemed loosely, just throwing a handful of people in for use later on that never quite came to fruition.
Marisha: I don't know her name either. We might not have known a name.
Travis: I thought we knew her name. Reginald's daughter's name?
Matt: Do you remember her name?
Travis: Are you asking me?
Marisha: What Sam wrote, he just wrote down 'Reginald's daughter'.
Sam: Maybe he never told us her name.
Matt: (laughs) All right, you make your way to the Iron Stocks. And it is currently unguarded, there is nobody there, the Herd has lost interest in it, the door's partially ajar, and as you walk inside you can already smell the place just reeks of refuse and decay. It looks like everything left in the middle of a workday. There are still ledgers open on the front desk, you can see what looks to be a small group of-- a barracks-type scenario to the left of the entrance that is just completely abandoned and looks like some cases are left open, scattering various keepsakes and bottles that are shattered on the ground, a lot of people left either to go into battle to defend against the dragon, to lose their life in it, or just to get the hell out of Dodge.
Travis: Can I walk up to the ledger and pretend to read it?
Matt: Yeah. You pick it up and leaf through for a few pages, lotta great squiggles.
Travis: Yep.
Matt: Some pretty handwriting, you can tell--
Travis: Any squiggles that look familiar?
Matt: Um, no. No, none that-- I mean, some look familiar, some are more rounded--
Travis: Oh, this poor bastard right here, yep, I remember him, good chap. Hello? Is anyone in here?
Matt: There's a slight pause. Then you hear a voice echo from the right side of the room, down a hall just through the stone, you can barely make it out because the distance it's at, because you're hearing the echo protrude from quite a distance, but a voice just says, "Hey! Hey! In here! Need food please!"
Travis: Oh, shit. So I go in that direction. Open the door and try and make my way that way.
Matt: You charge down the hallway and there are a number of cells that are immediately here. Some of them are open and abandoned entirely, there are a few that you look off to the side, looks like a few individuals just passed away inside the cell. You come to a set of stairs that leads down into the next subterranean region and you hear the voice again, much closer, be like, "Hey! Hey! I hear your footsteps!" And you see a hand reaching out from behind some of the bars.
Travis: Put your hand back inside.
Matt: The hand retracts as you look over.
Travis: That's a good lad. What's your name? Before I approach. Still far enough away.
Matt: "Ah. Orn. Orn Finch at your service. Been in here far too long and very thirsty. I will be happily at your service, fair muscled man, should you see fit to relinquish me from these binds." And you look at him, he looks like a lowly beggar, longish tattered hair, wearing just general tattered and soiled clothing, no shoes, feet look blistered and black.
Travis: Ugh. I'm going to call you Orn Blackfoot.
Matt: "Blackfoot it is, Orn Blackfoot at your service, if you could just--"
Travis: My name is Lord Grog.
Matt: "Lord. It is my pleasure." And he reaches through and grasps your hand, his fingers are bony and thin, and he takes it and shakes it with what little strength he has.
Travis: Man, you are looking a little rispy-- Pour out a little ale into a goblet, and I give him a goblet of ale.
Matt: He snatches it from you and slurps into it, extremely thirsty.
Travis: Ah-ah, not too fast, not too fast, don't want to get the bubbles. And I reach into the Bag of Holding and I have a dry food ration. I have three left. Now I have two. And I give him some dried food ration.
Matt: He takes it and eagerly starts jamming it into his mouth. As he's eating, he's not even talking at you, this is just sheer hunger, the need to survive has taken over and he's just cramming it in there, choking a couple of times, keeping himself okay.
Travis: Pace yourself, lad. Tell me, why are you in here, Orn Blackfoot?
Matt: "Ah, well, this is-- everyone just started yelling and they abandoned us all here. It's been terrible hearing the moans and screams going silent. I thought they abandoned us all."
Travis: No, they did, to be clear. They totally abandoned you. You are really the only person I know of that's in here. All the other mates around you, they're either sleeping or, you know.
Matt: "I appreciate the food and drink, you've certainly done--" At which point a voice comes from about two cells over behind you that goes-- "Did I hear food and drink?"
Travis: Fuck.
Matt: "Food-- food and drink, please. Please."
Travis: Orn, did you kill all those dried food rations just now, did you just--
Matt: You see him very discreetly pocket some in his robe. "Oh, everything you gave me is gone, I'm sorry, friend."
Travis: Man, what an appetite. Do you mind regurgitating a little like a momma bird into my hand?
Matt: "What?"
Travis: Never mind. Orn, don't, heh, don't move. And I walk over to see where the other voice is coming from.
Matt: Okay. As you turn around the way, there is the next set of bars, you see behind there a man in his forties, also extremely thin and gaunt, reddish long thin beard, long unkempt brownish red hair that is just crimped up around the base of it, like it's just gone almost into dreadlock territory from how long he's been in there and mistreated. You can see dried blood at the corner of his mouth. He looks up at you. "Sir, if you would be s-- Grog?" And the moment of recognition hits you, this is Abjurist Noja, whom you previously-- (yelling)
Travis: Abjurist is a very powerful-- he has knowledge of the arcane and stuff, right, he was--
Laura: He was the guy who saved us! He saved us when the white dragon came to Westruun.
Liam: I was frozen in ice. That guy!
Travis: I found us Boba Fett, sweet!
Matt: He looks pretty wrecked right now.
Laura: Oh shit, give him food, Grog!
Travis: Abjurist Nosebleed, hold on real quick, look. And I take the other, the second to last dry food ration, I give him that, and I give him a thing of ale, I'm like, I'm sorry, it's really dry.
Matt: "Thank you, friend, thank you very much."
Travis: Oh, yeah, you're very welcome! Hold on. Is there anybody else in this hallway before I give away my last bit of food?
Matt: You hear two voices simultaneously down the end of the hallway come in, one of which is a very weak female voice, the other is a very loud kind of-- "Hey, bring me food this way, please!" The other one is like, "Please, I ask of you, I'm starving." And you see these two hands come out of the two cells in the distance.
Travis: Right, I'm going to pick a number between one and ten. Ready? Go.
Matt: There's an awkward pause. "Three?" "Seven! Definitely seven!"
Travis: I lean over to Abjurist Noja, I say, I actually don't know any numbers, so. Y'know what, we're going to deliberate and we'll be with you in just a moment. (whispers) Abjurist, how old y--, why are you in here, who put you in here?
Matt: "I've only been in here for about a week. Got in an altercation in my store when these brutes started walking in. Threw me in here, didn't even let me take my spellbook."
Travis: Oh, that is a crime. I love b-- I can't even say it. Hold on, stay right there, I'll get you out-- And I walk back to Orn Blackfoot, I go, look, hey, so I gave you food, can you do anything, like, special?
Matt: "What?"
Travis: Like, can you make your hands turn to flame, can you disappear, are you really good with a bow and arrow?
Matt: "No! No." And he reaches out and grabbing at your clothes though and starts pulling you--
Travis: Hey! Orn, chill!
Matt: "But I have friends in many places, though. I can, I can get you things. I can make connections--"
Travis: Yeah, but most of the people in here are dead, right, like they're probably not--
Matt: "Not even here, Emon! I can get you anything you need from Emon. I can get you from Stillben. And Lansway, just name it and get me out of here and I can--"
Travis: How long has it been since you've been to Emon?
Matt: "Few months?"
Travis: You got any loved ones there?
Matt: "Why?"
Travis: I don't know, just asking, like, do you want me to take a note from you to them or something, you know.
Matt: "No, if you can release me, I'd be more than happy to take it myself if you don't mind."
Travis: Yeah, no, I'm still deliberating, sorry. Enjoy the food that you snuck in your jacket pocket. And I go back towards the front desk area. And I try and find any-- is there a lever on the wall to release the cells or can I look for keys?
Matt: You-- make an investigation check.
Travis: Fuck me.
Matt: Yes.
Travis: Your fate is in excellent hands. Oh shit, you're not dead! (laughter)
Travis: Minus two for a 17!
Matt: Ah! All righty. So. After spending the good part of an hour or so clamoring through, just throwing bookshelves over and (crashing) taking the desk and actually throwing it onto its back and pulling drawers out, this is Grog's method of investigation here, you're just--
Travis: Yeah, just trying some splinters of wood in the locks just in case.
Matt: Yeah, yeah. You break off a few forks in some locks.
Travis: (laughs) Forks, yeah.
Matt: In practice, yeah, whatever looks small enough and should fit, though it doesn't, but you make it fit. And it doesn't help. You do eventually find in one of the cells, closed and locked as you look by, there is one person in guard armor, in Westruun guard armor, that is in the cell. Not moving.
Travis: Hey. Hey, you. I kick him in the back a bit.
Matt: No movement.
Travis: I kick him harder.
Matt: No movement.
Travis: I look down the hallway. I back up a few steps. And I really run up and kick him really hard.
Matt: He just lurches over onto the side. Not moving.
Travis: Yeah, you're dead. Can I pat him down?
Matt: Yeah, you reach in and you can smell the decay starting to set in. And as you get close you can reach through the bars and see him, the actual area is closed and the door appears to be locked, and inspecting the body very quickly you can see that he was stabbed multiple times from behind and probably left in here to bleed out.
Travis: Low perception.
Matt: But you do find on him what appears to be a ring of keys. Not directly on his body, but underneath the corpse, like he was-- you gather best you can, someone probably grabbed it, got their way out, used that moment to stab him and escape.
Travis: Nice! I take the keys and I jauntily run by Orn Blackfoot and I go to Abjurist-- Hey, do you know who those other two voices are at the end of the hallway? Like, did you have anyone with you when you got put in here?
Matt: "No, no one with me. Although-- been plenty of angry discussion from that dwarven fellow down the way."
Travis: Yeah, he's got a really rough accent.
Matt: "I can hear you!"
Travis: Shit. My voice carries. Are you all right here for one minute? I have to go perform an interview real fast.
Matt: "I'm all right." And he just finishes eating the little bit of the ration that you gave him, like dried meats and bread.
Travis: All right, sit tight. All right, you two, put both your hands outside the cell where I can see them.
Matt: They both put their hands out. The dwarven man you can see puts his hand out, the skin is very wrinkled and you can see the varicose veins on it, the arm hair that you see on the dwarven arm is white, like bright white. The female hand comes out is thin, but the skin looks a little softer and younger.
Travis: Female elven, or is this female--
Liam: The daughter.
Travis: Who said three?
Matt: At this point, the dwarf voice goes, (incoherent semi-cursing).
Travis: I know, look, it's always lucky number three, right? That's what they say. Who says that?
Matt: "Racist little-- peh!" And the arms just withdraw, and the woman, "That's me, that's me."
Travis: Oh good. Hi. You look nice.
Matt: Look down, you see a young woman, maybe in her late teens, early twenties, long brown hair, tangled, covering one half of her face. You can see the edges of her lips are cracked from just dryness and lack of moisture. She's wearing, both of them actually are wearing just these long, simple cloth drape-over robes that are just, y'know, for any prisoners in here that need to not be wearing their normal clothing.
Travis: I've got three other goblets left, can I both give them a goblet and some ale, just to wet their lips and get a drink in?
Matt: They eagerly take it and begin scarfing it down, the dwarf's like, "Oh! That's nothing!" You can look at the dwarf now, he's elderly, crotchety, half-blind, one clouded eye, but for being a man who's been stuck in prison and slowly dying, he's got this wry grin on him at all times.
Travis: You're turning away good ale. Looks like you've seen many a moon.
Matt: "You're telling me that. But no, seriously, that's like half full. Come on, don't be stingy!"
Travis: I like your gall. And I pour more ale in.
Matt: "That's the ticket!" It's like spilling on the sides and getting stuck in his bright, bushy white beard, and each bit that dribbles down, he goes-- catches it and then pushes it back in, not wasting a single drop.
Travis: Beautiful. If you don't mind, ladies first, love, what is your name? Why are you in here?
Matt: "It's Amelia. I was taken because they were-- the beasts were dealing with an uprising from some of us farm folk and, well, they took me as leverage in the argument. Stopped their-- stopped their arguing."
Travis: You're-- you're farm folk?
Matt: "Yeah."
Travis: Do you have any family?
Matt: "I do."
Travis: What are their names?
Matt: "There's my father Reginald."
Laura: Oh no!
Travis: Sorry, I had a bit of split pea soup that's just disagreeing with me, it's all right. Yep.
Matt: "Are they okay, have you seen them? Have you seen any of the people out there?"
Travis: No, I-- we should get you out of here, there's really bad stuff going on outside, we're trying to get everyone out of the town.
Matt: And you hear a voice down the way say, "Everyone out of the town? That sounds like a great plan." And the dwarf behind you is like, "Well then, get us out! I'm sick of this cell!"
Travis: Yeah, just a minute, hold on. And so like. Hold on. Can I try the keys on Amelia's cell?
Matt: Mm-hmm. You go through the keyring, which probably has a good 40 or so different keys on it.
Travis: Shit.
Matt: And so you go through one, two, three, four, yeah.
Liam: Six, six, six.
Matt: (laughs) And what would be the late teens, and for what to you seems like forever, one key does (squeaking) in the lock and it opens. She, who's been like sitting down the whole time, stands up weakly and grabs the bars and pulls herself up and waits for you to let her through if she does, just being patient.
Travis: Amelia, if you would, please stay with me. Funny, I believe I heard of a man named Reginald. Very brave. Not sure where he is, but we're going to get you out of the city, just stay put for a moment.
Matt: "Okay."
Travis: All right, you, you salty bastard, what's your name?
Matt: "Old Davin. What's your name?"
Travis: Lord Grog. Emphasis on the Lord.
Matt: "Lord Grog."
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: "Lord of?"
Travis: The Vales of Strongjaw.
Matt: "I'll take it, that's fine. Get me out, please?"
Travis: Right. Oh, keys. Can I take the keyring and can I pry the metal keyring-- is it like one solid piece or is it the kind that I could maybe bend it open?
Matt: I mean, it is one solid piece that has been looped twice, but it has been-- the iron itself has been bent around itself to make it nice and tight, form-fit on one end. Go ahead and make a strength check.
Travis: 26.
Matt: Ping. (laughs) Like, you were preparing yourself for a full pull, and with but a minor twitch of your muscles it just bends open.
Travis: Can I take half the keys and give them to Amelia and say, love, would you go and let out the kind gentleman with the reddish beard and the little blood on his mouth named Abjurist, would you try these keys and see if his cell will open? Not yet for Mr. Blackfoot across the way.
Matt: "Right. I will, I will." She rushes off and starts fumbling through the keys, and you hear in the distance her making her way through the keys as--
Travis: I take the other half and start trying to get Da-- what was his name?
Matt: Old Davin.
Travis: Old, I like old.
Laura: Have we met Old Davin?
Matt: You have not met Old Davin, no.
Travis: Okay. Davin, what did you get put in here for?
Matt: "Right if I know! Got real drunk and woke up in here, everyone started screaming and running away, and I'm like ahh, run away you pansies, and they did, ran away, they never came back. Some packed fire, but not a problem now." And yes, the one snowblind eye doesn't move at all, the other one glances around, that one's completely stuck in a forward position.
Travis: Is that magic?
Matt: "I mean, certainly gets the ladies."
Travis: Yeah, it does.
Matt: "But no, it's a reminder to not, well, to not mess with your people."
Travis: Oh. Well, I'm sorry to hear that. But they do make you look very young.
Matt: "Much worse, say I."
Travis: Now if we let you out of here, right, which we're actually in the process of doing, what is your weapon of choice?
Matt: "Oh, oh." And he thinks to himself for a moment. "I would have to say my weapon of choice would be Bloodvine ale. Aye."
Travis: Bloodvine ale?
Matt: "Aye, if we're picking poison, that's my favorite."
Travis: Yeah, no, my-- He's a dwarf, right?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: Yeah. Obviously we are brothers of the beard. Like, to fight with, right?
Matt: "Oh, that kills, eh?"
Travis: Yeah, stab, poke, enchant, whatever.
Matt: "Once upon a time I was quite a duelist, so if you got something pointy and prickling I can spear 'em with the best of them."
Travis: I do have a Greatsword of Frenzy, but it's a two-handed weapon.
Matt: "Ah, that's not my preference."
Travis: I do also have one regular, just a regular longsword. About the best I have.
Matt: "Yeah, that'll do, certainly, I'll take a longsword."
Travis: All right, so. Have I got the door open yet?
Matt: Not yet. But at this time there's an awkward pause and now you're like, don't have any more conversation. But you still have to finish the-- about a minute later, he's sitting there going, "Come on, come on, come on." Eventually-- tink!-- it opens up. "Yes!" And he pushes it open as you pull it open.
Travis: Before I give you this sword--
Matt: "Aye?"
Travis: --are you up for the fight of your life?
Matt: "Yes?"
Travis: Can I insight check him?
Matt: Yes, you may.
Travis: This is going to go really well. Eight! Nine!
Liam: Go Tarv, go Tarv.
Matt: He seems a little--
Sam: Scottish. (laughter)
Matt: He seems a little malnourished, and a little confused.
Travis: Right.
Matt: But nothing sets you off as untrustworthy.
Travis: Look, your expression says a lot. What if I put an excellent meal in your belly, sharpened that sword some more, would you like to fight for some glory come the morrow?
Matt: "Sure. Why not?"
Travis: That's what I thought. If you would go join Amelia, I have to get my good friend Abjurist Noja out of his cell and then we're going to go have a meeting, because there's going to be a big feast tonight, it's going to be delicious.
Matt: "Oh, great, I'll be there for that, aye. Where's it happening?"
Travis: You know, it's very secret, yep. Secret location, TBD.
Matt: "Right, right. I'll wait for you." And he walks out, taking the keys from you as he runs off toward Amelia.
Travis: Now, has she gotten Abjurist out?
Matt: At this point, yeah, Noja has stepped out of the cell and is putting an arm on her, you see he's actually having a hard time standing and she's helping support him, even though she's having a hard time standing. (Skype noise)
Matt: There goes Taliesin.
Travis: Man, I know a lot of people that are going to be really, really happy to see you.
Matt: "Ah. Really? Well, I'm very happy to see these people, anybody really, that're not the inside of this blasted prison." (coughs) (Skype rings)
Liam: Oh, get him, get him!
Laura: Quick, answer it!
Liam: Stupid tinkerer.
Sam: I'm trying, I'm trying!
Liam: Percival and his technology.
Matt: There we go. Welcome back.
Laura: Hi Percy.
Taliesin: Hi.
Travis: Could I ask you a question? So I have this new axe, right, it's really nice. I got it off the leader of goliaths, real prick. It's really strong and I've known about it for years, there's nothing, like, funny about-- Actually, if I give this to you, would you just tell me if you, like, hear anything?
Matt: "Ah, they took my spellbook when they threw me in here."
Travis: Oh.
Matt: "If we could find that, maybe I can help you."
Travis: That makes sense.
Matt: "Otherwise, I'm out of tricks, friend, sorry."
Travis: All right. I turn around to Orn Blackfoot and I'm like, "All right, mate. Last chance. Why should I let you out?"
Matt: "Because I can be a good friend and help you out. I can get you money and women and travel anywhere you wish."
Travis: I've done all three of those things more than most men do in three lifetimes.
Matt: "And you can have a fourth! Please, just let me out of here."
Travis: I'm thinking of a number between one and three.
Sam: He's not.
Matt: "Two."
Travis: Shit. (laughter)
Travis: That's like only one of a couple that I know. All right. You get to come out.
Matt: "Ah, wonderful. Thank you, thank you, thank you. And I'm a man of my word, don't you worry."
Travis: Can I insight check if he's a man of his word?
Matt: Go for it.
Travis: Roll better. Shit fuck balls ass. Three.
Matt: Three. Seems legit. (laughter)
Travis: You have a face that is truly trustworthy. And I start looking for the key to his cell.
Matt: Okay. At this point, you've run through the ring enough, you can go ahead and take it from Old Davin. Over time you eventually get him free, and as soon as you do, he stretches, cracks his back a bit. "All right. Thank you kindly. So. Let's be off." And he charges up next to Noja and then breezes past them and you guys all exit the outside of the Iron Stocks.
Laura: Look for Noja's book, look for Noja's book.
Travis: Oh, yeah, well. Noja, Noja, is there a location where your spellbook was last? (belches)
Matt: "They took it from me when they arrested me. I don't know where they would have put it."
Travis: Yeah, well, goliaths are awfully fond of books. Let's go find out, shall we? And we go back towards where I guess everybody last was.
Matt: Okay. On the way there, Noja's like, "I do have one of my older spellbooks, wouldn't have all of my materials, but that would be back at my shop if we ever have a chance to stop by."
Travis: Well, we could go there now if you'd like.
Matt: "Certainly."
Travis: How far is it from here? I forget, it's been a few years.
Matt: "Oh, it's about-- just due east of where the temples are, about 25, 30 minutes up that way."
Travis: Hold that thought. I grab my earring and I say, can anybody hear me?
Sam: Can we?
Matt: At this point, yeah, the Stocks aren't too far. Whoever's--
Taliesin: Yes.
Laura: What's up, Grog?
Travis: Right, so. What if I told you I found somebody's name that rhymes with Daburish Koja?
Liam: You found Dabney Coleman?
Laura: Dabdrist Cojo?
Travis: It's Abjurist Noja.
All: Oh!
Marisha: Man, I didn't realize 'til now how many people we actually know whose name rhymes with that.
Travis: Yeah, we're like really important.
Marisha: Yeah, we know a lot of people.
Travis: So I'm going to take him to find his spellbook, because I feel like he could be a great--
Taliesin: I don't recall this person.
Travis: You don't?
Marisha: Weren't you with us, Percy?
Matt: Yeah, Percy met him.
Taliesin: Was I?
Marisha: Yeah, remember the guy who saved us at the first Winter's Crest festival?
Taliesin: Oh yes, no, he was quite lovely.
Marisha: Yeah, he's very nice.
Travis: Yeah, I found him. I'm going to get him a spellbook. Does anybody want to come with, or are you all good?
Marisha: I'm about to dig a trench, so I'll pass.
Liam: Keyleth, where are you right now?
Marisha: Heading northeast towards, northwest, northwest. Sorry. It's noon, it's hard to tell in the sky right now. Northwest.
Laura: Are you with us, Pike?
Ashley: Yeah, yeah.
Laura: Pike's with us.
Ashley: I'm done attuning?
Matt: Yeah, the attunement takes about an hour or so, half an hour to an hour.
Ashley: Yeah, I just found you guys, just hanging out.
Laura: Hey, what's up. You want to help us clear some stuff?
Ashley: You need some help? Yeah, let me help you, I'm so strong.
Sam: Um, Grog, I can come with you, Grog, if you need some help.
Travis: Yes. The cube is always welcome.
Liam: My. Goodness. Gracious.
Travis: Please. It's more like a Coke can. Okay. Um.
Liam: A what?
Travis: What? So, Scanlan, if you want to come meet us, we're over by the Iron thing. How would I tell him where we are?
Matt: Iron Stocks, you can describe it to him and eventually he'll find his way there.
Travis: I'm over by this thing balalalala.
Sam: Excellent description, I'm on my way.
Matt: (laughs) And you've been to the town before, you guys have spent some time in Westruun, so you know the basics around. So you manage to meet up with these fellas and you make your way northward into the outskirts of Noja's shop. Noja's shop is untouched by the battle, it seems, still stands.
Marisha: Oh, shit. Really?
Matt: He walks up and the door's open and looks inside and just sighs heavily, as the interior of this place has been picked clean.
Marisha: Ah, son of a fucking-- looters!
Sam: Noja, were there any hidden compartments or secret safes where you kept the good stuff?
Matt: "Well. Follow me." And he heads towards the back of the shop, heads into a room in the side which contains his bed and his personal setup. That door's kicked in, there was a lock on it, the lock's still hanging as part of the door contraption as the actual door was just kicked inward and the wood splintered and left open. He steps inside, feels above the doorway. There's a panel of wood that he pulls aside and brings out. There is a singular book, where he pulls it out and sighs, blows dust off it. "Ah, this is a bit rudimentary for what I require, but it's something, it's better than nothing." Puts it aside, manages to find some pieces of his clothing that have been tossed onto the floor as a heap or, you know, raiding the room and gets out of his prison robes and puts them over that to just go ahead and not be as tattered as he looked. He does pull what looks like a small jug from it and sets that aside, and he looks around his room, (sighs) "I guess let's see if there's anything in the shop that still remains." Steps around the way. Oof. All right. Yeah, most everything of worth appears to have been taken or broken.
Laura: Search around, help him search!
Travis: Yeah, is there anything we can help you find that you're looking for?
Matt: "Anything intact, really."
Travis: Yeah, can we help him look for any vials, or--
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Travis: Better. 17.
Sam: 16.
Matt: 16, okay. Looking around, most everything is ruined, destroyed, or missing, however you do find what looks to be two unspoiled, undestroyed vials that were part of a display set that has been tossed over the side. Most of the fluid contained in these vials, like corks have been left open, glass and crystal have been shattered, and the contents had just stained the floor and dried over time into little sticky pools of different colors. You do find two, one of which is a yellowish fluid that's streaked with black swirls, and there is one that it's like a clear liquid that has a-- the liquid itself fills the vial and then shrinks down to a tiny bead and then expands again to fill the vial, like a very, very slow heartbeat. Those are the two that you find.
Travis: What?
Marisha: Yellow with black swirls, and then a clear potion that--
Sam: Oh, he'll just tell us, I assume. Sir, we're about to embark on a deadly adventure to try to clear this town so that you can once again live here safely. Might we trouble you to borrow these potions if they can be in some way helpful to us?
Matt: "You've done me great service by getting me out of that hellhole. You are welcome to take these with you for now. I guess I have to start from scratch..."
Sam: Do you know what they are?
Matt: "Oh, yes, I'm sorry, I'm sorry." And he takes the vials and looks at them. "Ah, this is a Potion of Diminution. It shrinks you to a smaller size."
Sam: Oh, I could be small! Oh, wait.
Matt: "It only lasts for a few hours, depending, the magic isn't perfect, but it does make you smaller. This other one, this vial contains a liquid that will make you quite speedier. It will increase your metabolism for a short time, the world around you seems to slow, it's quite effective."
Sam: Thank you so, so much.
Travis: Yeah actually, have you ever seen this shrinking potion work, like, how small does something get?
Matt: "Pretty small. Like, if on your size--" And he makes a shape of about that big.
Sam: So teeny-tiny.
Matt: "For you, yes. For you, you'd be about his size."
Travis: That would be the best thing ever. Now that you've found-- I'm sorry, go ahead.
Sam: No no no. This is most helpful. Do you know anywhere also around here where we might pick up some chains, hooks, spears, javelins?
Matt: "Ah, those are not my forte, my apologies."
Sam: All right.
Marisha: Should've took those from the prison.
Matt: "I mean, check a general goods store, perhaps?"
Sam: Oh no, this is so helpful, thank you, let me go get those.
Matt: So here are your potions.
Travis: That book that you got, it's not your favorite, right, the one that was hidden above the door?
Matt: "No, no, but it'll do, at least. Do you wish me to inspect that weapon for you?"
Travis: Yeah, would you mind? I've never done that before, but the last one I had talked to me.
Matt: "That's... unsettling. That's very unsettling."
Travis: Yeah, among other things.
Matt: The dwarf and the woman are still waiting at the door, they've picked through things and they're finding bits of broken glass and over time they can't find anything else. He takes the hour to rest and regains, after some quick preparation, the use of at least his Identify spell. Takes the axe, holds it for a moment, chants some incantation that you don't understand. There's a brief glow on the weapon, and around the outskirts of his fingers, a brief glow around his temples. As it fades, he goes, "Hm. Well, if what you worry about is the presence of some sort of sentience, I can assure you, you need not worry. This is merely a tool, and a powerful one at that." And he begins to tell you what it does, which is exactly what you already know after attunement.
Travis: No long card coming? (laughs)
Matt: No.
Travis: Son of a bitch. Thank you, Abjurist, you are as wise as you are. Old.
Marisha: Old? (laughs)
Matt: "I'm only 48, but thank you."
Travis: That's lost on me. Do you need anything else?
Sam: Oh, oi, oi, I was just-- I'm enthralled by these potions, they're fantastic, and I'm enthralled and so happy that we met you again and all that. I totally remembered who you were. (laughter)
Matt: "It's good to see that you're all doing fine, considering the circumstances. Stay safe. I'll pick up what pieces I can."
Sam: Should you get-- should we tell him to get out of the city or fight with us?
Travis: Well, I was going to ask, you do know what is beset upon this city, right? The horrible calamity that's coming?
Matt: "I saw the dragon tear through, yes."
Sam: We aim to finish the dragon, maybe even tomorrow, and make Westruun free once again. Would you have any interest in aiding us in this fight, or are you past the point of putting up a brave battle?
Matt: And you see him standing there, even just standing here this time, his knees are wobbling a bit, and he goes, "I'm afraid I wouldn't be of much aid at this moment without my proper spellbook. I have a few child's treats at my disposal." And he sifts through a few pages and he seems to-- the book looks like it's pretty old, like probably his training manual when he first began to study as a practitioner of the magical arts. "I don't know how much use I'd be, unfortunately."
Travis: The day's still young. What say we give, like, a solid effort to finding your bigger books, and then if you can't find it and you can lend no aid to us, we'll make sure you find yourself safely on your way?
Matt: "All right. All right, fair enough. Well come, let us look. Perhaps we should give another once-over of the rather seemingly destroyed interior of that prison."
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: Looks like Amelia and Old Davin have nothing else better to do, they begin to aid you for a bit, although Amelia is eager, and mentions the possibility of going and checking in on the farmsteads on the outside of town.
Marisha: Yeah. About that.
Matt: Orn? Orn Blackfoot? Gone.
Marisha: Yeah, figured that much.
Matt: He has peaced.
Travis: He left.
Matt: Yeah. You guys take a moment, and when you start deciding what to do, and you look around and he's just gone.
Sam: I thought you had him.
Travis: I thought you had him. I clearly said when you came up, watch the guy with the black feet. What'd you do?
Sam: I was watching you, you have disgusting black feet. You walk around barefoot, you're disgusting.
Travis: I really can't argue with that. (laughter)
Travis: Well. Whatever. I saved a life, go me. I'll take it later. Yeah, so can we go back to the prison, not to take away from everything else, and maybe look for chains, like some hooks, maybe some broken bars?
Matt: Yeah. The two of you guys, make one more investigation check, this'll signify the next few hours of looking for the things you want.
Laura: Oh god, roll really good.
Sam: 22.
Travis: 19.
Matt: Between the two of you, working into and past dusk, you manage to acquire quite a number of chains. It's funny, a prison seems to have a lot at their disposal. They have a queue of chains that are used of various lengths, some of them may have to be put together to make the length of which you're looking for, but between ramshackle manacles to just lengths of chain that are used to opening gates and used to seal elements of the subterranean portion of this prison, you manage to acquire quite a bit. You do, towards the end of the evening, manage to find partially destroyed remnants of Noja's spellbook. He seems a little disappointed as soon as he sees the state it's in, a lot of the pages have been burnt and torn out of these--
Travis: I am sorry.
Matt: "Ah, it's all right, there are some here that are of use to me. And if I can be of any assistance tomorrow in this fray, hopefully at a distance-- How big is this dragon, you said?"
Travis: Oh, it's like seven feet.
Matt: "Oh, well then I can definitely be of help there, not a worry, all right. I'll prepare myself best I can."
Travis: Yeah. We'll make sure, we'll keep you on the outsides with those that are not, you know, can't take a good walloping.
Sam: Do you have any healing potions or anything, or I mean, I'm sorry, healing spells?
Matt: "That's not my specialty, I fear, and the potions I had are now soaking in the floorboards of my humble shop."
Travis: Not that I would understand, but could you tell us what your specialty is?
Matt: "Abjuration, of course. That's the school of magic of which my--" (laughs)
Sam: I'm familiar with that.
Travis: Abjur--yeah. Mm-hmm. No idea what that means.
Liam: Like Claymation.
Travis: Oh, like puppets. I'm a big fan of puppets.
Sam: All right, well, we'll get some rest, try to put the pieces of your place back together.
Matt: "I will. Come to me when the time is ready to face this fiend, this foul creature, and I'm happy to help."
Sam: Good night.
Travis: Oh yeah, we should probably make him a part of the feast.
Sam: Oh. All right.
Travis: We'll come get you later tonight.
Matt: "All right."
Liam: I'm going to track down the women after talking to them over the earring.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Straight from Percival, once I catch sight of them, can I talk to you for a minute?
Marisha: Sure.
Liam: Just a minute, I know you're busy. Um.
Laura: She's super busy, brother!
Liam: Yeah, two minutes. Two minutes. Um.
Laura: So busy.
Liam: Thanks, Stubbs. You're way more powerful than I am, and I don't know what I'm going to-- (Skype noise)
Sam: God dammit.
Liam: What's that sound?
Marisha: So many noises happening.
Liam: You're going to be doing a lot more damage than I am tomorrow, it's not like I'm going to run up and stab the thing in the back. I feel like you're probably going to be too busy to be using Fassbender--
Marisha: Yeah, do you want Fassbender? I was actually going to offer him to you, 'cause I feel like you might--
Liam: I think I want to be of use, so yeah.
Marisha: I'm pretty sure you don't have to worry about that.
Laura: (gagging)
Liam: So it just goes on the head, then how does it work, what do you, what do I talk to it or do I think it or what do I do?
Marisha: So you give it a command, it takes your full concentration to give it a command, and then once you do that it will enact that plan until it's complete or until you tell it otherwise.
Liam: All right.
Marisha: And if you wanted to cast a Slow spell, just, you have to focus and tell it to do that.
Liam: Okay. Do I say like, slow?
Marisha: You know, I don't know. Just wing it. I kept talking to him like it was a person and I don't think that's necessarily the way to go.
Liam: Maybe I'll prac-- where did you park him?
Marisha: It's still in Scanlan's mansion.
Liam: Oh.
Laura: Is that still there?
Sam: Yes?
Matt: Well, based on the time that spell was cast, the 24-hour duration has expired. All things in the mansion have been jettisoned from the doorway.
Laura: Including your grandad!
Marisha: So he's in Wilhand's house, with Wilhand.
Liam: Great, well, I'll take that.
Marisha: Yeah. Hopefully Wilhand's watching over him right now, actually.
Sam: It might have destroyed the house.
Marisha: It might've destroyed Wilhand's house. Yeah.
Liam: Kiki.
Marisha: Yes? (Skype noises)
Liam: What is that?
Marisha: This is the weirdest field. (Taliesin makes noises on Skype) (laughter)
Liam: Percy. Tinker quietly, please. (Taliesin makes louder noises on Skype) (laughter)
Liam: I think he's eating popcorn, or maybe opening a butterscotch candy in the theater.
Taliesin: I can't even see you guys, are you like?
Laura: Oh, he went away! Aw, this is just not--
Liam: Okay, really quickly.
Laura: Okay. Well, at least he started.
Marisha: Yes? This seems to happen all the time, every time we try to talk to each other. I don't think I've really, continue, continue. It's hard to have a conversa--
Taliesin: Hi.
Matt: Continue, please.
Liam: Hello, yeah, Percival, I'll talk to you in a minute, all right?
Marisha: Shut up, Percy. Thank you.
Liam: Ah. I've been confused. I am confused. But. And I take her by the hand.
Liam: It wasn't fair, last week. It wasn't fair to you. And I'm sorry.
Marisha: What are you talking about?
Liam: In your room, in your room. Me leaving wasn't--
Marisha: When you left me, right--
Liam: --wasn't fair.
Marisha: Yeah, no, that I remember. Yeah, that. Yeah. Yeah yeah yeah.
Liam: That's it. I'm sorry.
Marisha: I'm sorry if I dropped that on you, and put any more undue stress, that's not what I want--
Liam: This is awful, all of it is awful.
Marisha: This is awful. Yeah, no, this is pretty bad. You know, I've actually been wanting to talk to you. I wasn't entirely planning on now. I know you've been struggling. I know you feel like you're drowning, and I'm sorry that the Raven Queen chose you, but she did choose you. You know, as druids, I was raised to have an interesting perspective on the gods. We are taught that nature is the one true powerful force. I have yet to see a god control the sunrise and the sunset, so therefore it's hard for me to sometimes have the same faith in these gods. Personally, I believe that just because you're immortal doesn't make you infallible. These gods can be great ambassadors of their virtues and what they represent, or they can be horrible disgraces to their domains. And just because some self-proclaimed person or deity decides that they want control? Doesn't mean that they have to have control over me. Now, this does not mean that I do not respect the gods and the power that they wield, but, I mean, for the love of Sarenrae, we have seen Pike do many a powerful thing. So, therefore, I do not respect the gods any more than I respect the living people who are standing beside me at this moment. So I've also been coming to terms with the fact that it seems that, whether we like it or not, we are going to have to employ their services. Looks like we're going to have to be working with them in some way or another, myself included, if we are going to overcome this. So maybe you should start rethinking the way you look at your relationship to the Raven Queen. Maybe this can be a fine partnership. A fine endeavor to do with her, and then once we save the world and we retire and some other young prodigies come forward to save the world again, then we can thank her for her services and move on. I don't think we'll always need her. I don't think you will always need her. And, keep in mind, the one true thing that gives these gods their power are their worshipers. So I guess I'll let you choose what you want to be. And I walk off to catch up with the ladies.
Matt: All right.
Laura: Did you guys make out? Was it really fun? Lots of making out there?
Marisha: Vax. Vex. Vex.
Laura: I understand you have him on your mind. You can't get our names straight.
Marisha: You know, I was talking to him, so-- Hey. I love you a whole lot.
Laura: Do you still think you're talking to my brother?
Marisha: I know who I'm talking to.
Liam: Really similar.
Sam: She's the ranger.
Ashley: Did you ask him if he's going to help us?
Marisha: Who? Vax? Oh.
Ashley: Vax. Is he going to help dig the trench?
Laura: I turn around and see him. Is he just standing there?
Matt: Just standing there lost in thought, yeah.
Laura: Um, hey.
Liam: What?
Laura: Hey, what are you doing? Are you coming to help us, or are you just standing in the middle--
Liam: Yeah, we gotta kill a dragon tomorrow. We gotta kill a dragon. What do you need?
Laura: Do you want to help build, I don't know, a trench? Set a trap?
Liam: I mean, I'm really weak, but I think I can use a shovel.
Laura: What time is it? We haven't even started digging the trench yet? What fucking time is it?
Marisha: It'll take me like an hour. It's fine. What time is it?
Matt: For you guys, at this point, it'd probably be mid-afternoon, late afternoon. Percy. I need you to go ahead and make three tinkering checks for me, if you don't mind.
Sam: Oh, shit.
Matt: The first one is using your intelligence modifier.
Taliesin: That's intelligence modifier plus proficiency bonus plus tinkering?
Matt: Well, proficiency bonus is what you get with tinkering.
Taliesin: Yeah. 24. (cheering)
Matt: All right, so, initial designs and describing with your lackeys, for lack of a better term, that are helping you develop these springs, you manage to explain, lay out, and develop the proper materials, the process, and they seem to acknowledge and understand what you're trying to do, and you guys begin the work. Second check is going to be with your dexterity modifier.
Taliesin: Oh yeah, baby.
Sam: No one can help him on these things?
Laura: We're not there.
Taliesin: 22.
Matt: You spend the better part of the day helping them take the metal, strengthen it, bind it, pulling it into the springs that are required. You complete one, you get partway through the second one. Make a final check if you don't mind.
Travis: With dex?
Matt: This is also with dex, yeah.
Laura: Come on.
Taliesin: That's 23.
Matt: 23?
Taliesin: Yeah, it's the dexterity, right?
Matt: Yeah.
Taliesin: So yeah, that's right, 23.
Matt: 23. As the evening comes into about ten or 11 o'clock at night, after hours of aching work, sweat beads dripping down the foreheads of the three of you, forcing the furnace to work overtime. The room's heat and darkness eventually almost puts you to a point of exhaustion and passing out. However, you do manage to complete the springs. They seem to be functional, the structure of your trap is set. We shall see on the morrow if it is as functional as you hope it is. You do take a point of exhaustion through the work that will consist throughout the next day.
Taliesin: Okay. What does a point of exhaustion do?
Matt: Disadvantage on ability checks. So, essentially, any skill checks or ability checks you make-- not attacks or saves, but ability checks you make for the next 24 hours will be at disadvantage.
Laura: Did he work all the way through the night?
Matt: No, this is just the physical activity involved in getting it done in that short period of time.
Taliesin: Just double-checking, because I have no brain currently, dice roll, dex modifier, proficiency bonus?
Matt: What?
Taliesin: Just because I have no brain, dex modifier, proficiency bonus, dice roll?
Matt: Correct.
Taliesin: Okay, good.
Matt: You're good, you got it. As you guys find yourselves resting for tomorrow's trap incursion and hopeful defeat of Umbrasyl, we will take a break for the rest of you and come back here.
Laura: Oh, god! There's more we have to do!
Sam: It's okay, we'll do it during the break.
Matt: We'll come back in. We need a pee break. Quick one, guys. [break]
Matt: And welcome back. So, as you're preparing for this, what else do you guys need to do before the morrow?
Marisha: I dig a trench.
Matt: All right, so you dig the trench.
Marisha: I want it to be far away to where there's a tunnel and then make a circle around it.
Laura: We need to get Fassbender into the middle where the treasure's going to be.
Liam: I walk Fassbender out and I lay him down on his back, face-up.
Marisha: We have to do some stage-setting here. We have to set the scene.
Matt: Okay, as a note, when you return to Willhand's house, Fassbender and Willhand were both ejected from the doorway. Fassbender doesn't fit in that large room and wrecked part of the staircase from underneath but is fine. As soon as you acknowledge Fassbender to start moving, Fassbender, who has been inert this entire time, since left there for the evening before, takes a step and the area where the crack that you sealed earlier reopens. It looks like there is a minimal magical effect that was more of a cosmetic effect in the healing, but being a construct, it does not actually heal damage from it.
Marisha: Okay. Can I go ahead and take this time to do--
Sam: You're not there.
Marisha: Oh, I'm not there yet? Oh no, I'm building a tunnel. You're getting Fassbender. Never mind.
Liam: Yeah, I'm walking Fassbender out to where Keyleth is.
Matt: Okay. (stomping) Fassbender follows you out to that area of the town. As night has come now, the sun has gone, you guys are working in darkness. What are you guys doing?
Ashley: Vex, can I have one of your arrows? I want to make it real special.
Laura: You're speaking my language.
Ashley: Okay, so I grab one of her arrows and I cast Glyph of Warding on one of her arrows.
Laura: How many arrows can you do that do?
Ashley: I think just one.
Sam: Matt's checking his e-mail.
Matt: Within an object that can be closed, such as a book, scroll, or treasure chest. So yeah, it would have to be on something that, like a doorway or--
Marisha: Like a treasure chest? If-- can you cast it in like a barrel that he's going to break open?
Ashley: Okay.
Laura: Thanks. I really enjoyed the idea of that.
Ashley: I thought it was going to work. It was going to be real cool.
Matt: So, you decide what triggers the glyph when you cast the spell. For glyphs inscribed in a surface, the most typical triggers include touching or standing on the glyph, removing another object covering the glyph, approaching within a certain distance of the glyph, so you could place this in theory on the ground near where the treasure's being left and give it the specific trigger for it to go off.
Laura: It can be maybe in a chest above Fassbender, 'cause he's going to be buried, and then it can be triggered maybe when the dragon lifts it up.
Marisha: What exactly does it do, the Glyph of Warding?
Matt: You can choose explosive runes--
Ashley: An explosive rune.
Marisha: Oh, so it, (explosion). That's cool.
Matt: 5d8 acid damage, cold damage, fire, or lightning or thunder damage. Your choice. Everything within a 20-foot-sphere radius around it.
Laura: 20 feet is really big. Oh my god! You know what you could do? You could make a trigger if he gets a certain height off the ground, and that way if he's over 20 feet above the ground, then it triggers and he's the only thing that would get affected.
Matt: Well, it triggers as a glyph, so whatever's near the glyph would be affected.
Ashley: So can we hide it in the loot?
Matt: You can, you can definitely choose some sort of a small chest or the ground underneath the loot if you want to.
Ashley: Okay. I'll find something in the loot, some little chest or something that I can put it in.
Matt: Okay, and what's your trigger?
Ashley: When he gets-- if he starts to fly away.
Matt: Okay. So if a creature-- the trigger would be, if a creature--
Liam: Pulls the glyph up?
Matt: That's up to you. What would you like the trigger to be?
Sam: Specific.
Ashley: If he removes something on top of it. But also if he grabbed it.
Laura: What if it gets above a certain feet in the air? Can it trigger then?
Matt: You can say if a creature flies above it at a certain height it can trigger. I'll give you that, yeah.
Ashley: Okay. So if it flies--
Matt: If it flies 20 feet above it?
Laura: I thought it meant if the glyph lifted in the air.
Matt: We'll make that one of the triggers if you want it to be lifted. So, if the glyph is lifted by a creature--
Ashley: So it can't be if he just touches it?
Matt: You could do that, yeah.
Laura: But it might be better if he lands and then we spring the trap. It could be a thing, if he tries to leave it explodes.
Ashley: If he tries to leave.
Matt: Okay. So, if the object is lifted off the ground, it triggers.
Ashley: Yeah. Even like this much? If it's just moved.
Matt: Okay, and you're doing explosive rune. What type of damage?
Ashley: I want to do cold damage.
Laura: Would I know, is a black dragon-- does it have any weaknesses?
Matt: You would know, with your knowledge and specialization, it does not have any weaknesses.
Laura: It has no weaknesses.
Matt: It is immune to acid damage, of course. But that is the only real information you have.
Travis: Make it acid damage. (laughter)
Ashley: I'm going to go cold damage.
Matt: Cold damage. All righty.
Laura: What about Fassbender? Is he immune to any damage?
Marisha: I'm pretty sure he's immune to most kinds of damage.
Liam: No, it's hitting and slicing. I'll check.
Ashley: I'm going to cast it at fifth level.
Matt: Fifth level? All right. That brings it to 7d8 cold damage. And what's your spell DC?
Ashley: 17.
Marisha: If we lose Fassbender--
Liam: He's expendable. Hopefully he survives. If not, good cause.
Laura: Can we fuse some chains into Fassbender so that he can be attached to the ground?
Marisha: I can. Can I do that? Right now?
Matt: Using what?
Marisha: I want to take and cast a Stone Shape spell, and then I want to open and almost make him a chain harness that's embedded into his waist? And then while I'm at it, can I patch him up?
Matt: Stone Shape is instantaneous. So whatever you want to do, it happens immediately. So, essentially, you could, with one casting of Stone Shape, seal the wound. With another casting of it you could then go ahead and have the chains--
Laura: Ready to go (squishing).
Matt: Yeah, just embed them in and have it seal. How many chains are you embedding in it?
Laura: Two big ones?
Matt: Two big chains? Okay. So you get two of the heaviest chains that you can find, which you probably got from the prison.
Marisha: All right, well, how about this? Vax, Vex, grab a chain.
Laura: All right. These are heavy.
Marisha: Okay, ready? On my go.
Laura: Wait, where are we putting it?
Marisha: I'm going to shove them in his abdomen. Okay? I'm going to make a spot and just--
Laura: You take left. I'll take right.
Liam: Okay.
Marisha: Ready?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. As she does that, suddenly the chest wound opens up into these two big cavities. You take the chain edges and put them inside as they seal around them. There's now these two giant, heavy, door-holding chains that are now dangling for about 70 feet on each end from his abdomen.
Laura: Where do we attach these chains to? The ground?
Liam: One to the ground. Put the other one in a goliath's hands with a harpoon or a hook on the other end. Snag our prey, and then we have a Fassbender hanging from the bottom of a dragon.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: You can find some metallic hooks just through general construction materials in the town if you want to.
Liam: I think we should do ten or 15 feet to the ground of chain and ten or 15 feet to the dragon, so that it's, thunk, and he's caught on the ground.
Laura: Just ten.
Liam: Yeah?
Marisha: Okay.
Liam: Yeah, we'll sever the chains with Grog's muscles. We need to get 'em the right distance.
Matt: About how long?
Liam: Ten feet into the ground, which we can--
Marisha: Do it right now. Ready? I'm going to do another Stone Shape spell into the ground.
Matt: You have to go around and find an area, because a lot of it's dirt. You have to find an area that has actual stonework in the ground. Otherwise, it's just earth that's pulling it. Go ahead and roll a survival check.
Marisha: Not bad. What's my survival? 24.
Matt: 24, okay. You take some time. It's about 60 feet out from where the drop point is, is the nearest piece of near-surface stone. It's about 15 feet beneath the surface, but it is viable.
Marisha: Negative. I will cast--
Laura: Why can't it be 15 feet below the surface?
Liam: But he's going to go up like a kite now because it's going 60 feet all the way over there, where stone is.
Marisha: I'm going to burn-- I did that earlier, but I'm going to burn my last 5th-level spell to do Transmute Rock again?
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: So you said there was dirt? All right, let's dig a little bit of a hole real quick. So we dig a hole ten feet down.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Put the chain in there. Cover it back up. Transmute. Turn it into rock.
Matt: Okay, and with that, the earth-- Okay, what is the radius of that one there? Let me see.
Sam: We have to cover this up.
Liam: With dirt?
Marisha: And treasure.
Matt: Transmute Rock-- 40-foot cube. You turn that into a solid fucking subterranean block of stone. All righty. Now you have Fassbender just there, stuck to the ground with the chain at its side.
Liam: Fassbender, lie down. Lie down?
Marisha: Can I take my last little bit of Stone Shape residual energy and take that mustache Vax drew on--
Matt: Stone Shape does not--
Marisha: And make the mustache permanent that he drew on with charcoal?
Matt: Sure, I'll let that slide. With the remnants of the spell magic fading, the now-lying-down Fassbender staring up with his vacant sunken blue-glowing eyes towards the night sky and the stars above, your hand reaches across the face, and with that suddenly the--
Marisha: I like this, I want to keep it, there we go.
Matt: --the once-charcoaled curly mustache recedes into the face, carved permanently to his face.
Marisha: You look much better now, Fassbender. High-five.
Liam: Give Keyleth a very soft high-five, please.
Marisha: Yeah! Isn't that cool?
Matt: That'll probably bruise tomorrow.
Marisha: It's okay. It's cool.
Liam: I quickly take that same charcoal out and I write in Common on his chest: Conclave or bust. (laughter)
Sam: I'm going to go to Keyleth and ask if I can borrow the rod of immovable rodness. How big is it?
Matt: It's like that long. It's like the rung of a ladder.
Sam: Got it.
Matt: It's got a little button on the side.
Sam: Button on the side? Cool.
Taliesin: Like a Tron lightbike.
Sam: I love it.
Laura: When are we going to set the trap that Percy made?
Liam: As soon as he finishes it.
Marisha: Yeah, we should set the stage.
Taliesin: In theory, it has to be laid down underneath all the treasure so that it just is nothing, and then we put everything on top, and then basically it's set, and then pins get pulled so that it's set. And you don't disturb shit again.
Marisha: Hey Percy, we're ready to fly in the trap whenever you are.
Taliesin: Yes, let's do that, gentlemen. Let's move it. Good work, ladies and gentlemen.
Marisha: While you guys set the trap, I'm going to turn into a raven. My job is done here. I'm going to just go and circle while they're setting the trap and setting the stage and do patrol and make sure we're not being watched.
Matt: Okay, make a perception check.
Laura: Why this creepy music?
Sam: It's random, guys.
Ashley: Why is he doing his eyebrows up and down?
Laura: Because the fucking dragon's going to see us right now.
Marisha: 16.
Matt: 16?
Marisha: No, sorry. 15.
Matt: 15. You circle for a while and keep watch. So far, nothing seems to have caught your attention that's out of the ordinary. About half an hour passes before you see a group of civilians, along with Percy, wheeling on carts this large ramshackle construction made of support beams from houses, metal joints that were used as basic construction elements, as well as these large metallic springs on multiple sides with hooks and elements of a chain-based net that has been piecemealed together. Eventually you guys bring it over. You clear out the area.
Laura: Fassbender will lay on top of the trap.
Matt: Fassbender will lay on top of the trap?
Laura: Right? He can't lay under the trap.
Sam: Well if it's like a mousetrap, can't he lie in between it? Taliesin, how does it work?
Marisha: Let's just keep him right off to the side because if that trap triggers--
Taliesin: In theory, he should be able to fit right at the sides of it, because it's got an armature spring system. As long as you're not in the way of the armatures, you should be fine.
Matt: So you set it up and away, laying the sides down, precariously putting the pins in, holding it in an open position. You begin to take dirt, dust, and gathering up the area, trying to hide it to the best of your ability. Who is in charge of camouflaging this piece?
Marisha: Go ranger, go ranger, go!
Matt: Make a survival check.
Travis: "Which dice will I use? There's no way to choose."
Sam: Can I aid her in this bit of camouflage?
Laura: You want to sing me some inspiration?
Sam: Can I inspire her?
Matt: Sure, what do you want to sing?
Sam: (singing) R-r-ranger, turn and face the strange! R-r-ranger, looks like you're going to have to hide this shit! Time may save me, but I hope you-- also do-- (laughter)
Laura: 31.
Matt: 31. You guys take a good portion of the next hour or so, under her guidance and tutelage, hiding this entire trap, getting dirt, the top layer of sand to cover it so it looks like it hasn't been recently disturbed--
Laura: Little Dust of Tracelessness.
Matt: Little Dust of Tracelessness to fill in and smooth out any of the ripples of any possible passage that has come through. Fassbender has been-- (crash)
Matt: Killed. Buried beneath the surface, just to the point where he's pretty much flush with the ground of where it is. Contraption set, the objects placed back inside with some of the barrels and some of the leftover pieces of wood, the one overturned cart. You go ahead and take the chest and you place the glyph onto it. It takes a while to cast that spell, about an hour, but you complete it without an issue.
Laura: Make it look like there's treasure on it. I take some of the gold that we have and--
Matt: Place it onto it?
Laura: A thin layer, where it looks like a lot of gold but it's really just a thin layer of gold over top of rocks.
Ashley: If it's a chest, can we put some coins sticking out of it? So it looks like it's full?
Matt: You can do that. It does cost you about 200 gold worth of components to do this glyph, so mark off that from your personal gold supply.
Laura: Grog.
Travis: Yeah?
Laura: Question. We sort of thought maybe we could use Kevdak as a tribute, like we sacrificed him to the great shitty Umbrasyl. Is that his name?
Matt: Umbrasyl, yes.
Laura: But it doesn't quite have the same effect without his head. Do you still have that head? In fact, I think I might have the head. Did I put it in my bag of cold?
Matt: You did, I believe. You gave it to her to put in there?
Laura: Would that be all right with you, Grog?
Travis: No.
Laura: Don't you want to kill this dragon, Grog?
Travis: I want that head.
Laura: I don't have the head. I only have the gross bear tattoo off Kevdak.
Travis: That's right, I put the flayed skin. I don't have the head.
Laura: Grog, I can tell when you're lying.
Travis: I don't have the head.
Laura: You're lying. Grog, can we maybe-- you'll be able to get it back, because we're going to kill this dragon and then you can just go and pick up the head and keep it again in your Bag of Holding.
Travis: What's the head for?
Laura: So we can make it seem like we sacrificed Kevdak to the dragon.
Travis: What if you sacrifice me?
Laura: Well, what?
Travis: Yeah, use me as bait!
Sam: We'd have to chop off your head.
Marisha: No, we could just tie him to a chair or something.
Travis: Or I could just put my hands behind my back.
Marisha: Make it look-- wrap some rope to make it look like it's loosely tied.
Sam: What if he bites and kills you?
Travis: Well, I don't know, but it's better live bait than dead, right? At least when you fish.
Sam: Nope.
Travis: Pretty sure that's true.
Sam: Nope.
Laura: Do you want to be bait, Grog?
Travis: Yeah.
Marisha: Does that sound fun to you, or--
Laura: There's exploding things around here. Are you sure you want to be in this area?
Travis: Yeah.
Ashley: No, you don't.
Travis: (laughs) No, I don't. I will give you the head of Kevdak.
Marisha: Oh my gosh, it took a look from Pike!
Sam: Wow, that's a powerful look.
Travis: I want it back.
Ashley: You'll get it back.
Travis: You better promise.
Laura: I promise.
Travis: All right. You can have it.
Ashley: With a bow on it. You'll get it back.
Travis: I don't want a bow on it! He didn't ever wear a bow!
Ashley: No, I'm just saying you'll get it back.
Travis: I take the skull and roll it to her feet. It's still got flesh on it, right?
Matt: Yeah, it's a little soft, but it works. So you have the head of Kevdak at your disposal. Trap is set. Percy, who's pulling the pins, what's the trigger mechanism?
Taliesin: The trigger mechanism is any weight shift. It's the same as a mousetrap. It's like you put pressure on it, you take pressure off of it, doesn't matter. As long as there's immediate weight shift in the platform, where the booty is, it just goes snap.
Matt: Okay. So very carefully and very precariously, you all have set this trap as the final element, aside from the camouflage. Is there anything else you would like to add with this very sensitive large situation being finished?
Sam: Where are we hiding?
Laura: We're going to hide in the trenches, yes?
Marisha: It depends on where you want to hide, I guess. (caws)
Taliesin: As long as I'm within range for my guns, I'm going to hide way off in the treeline.
Marisha: Yeah, there were two trees that were 80 feet? Or 60?
Matt: Which, Ryan, can I get the box of tree materials? Thank you.
Sam: You know, that box of trees that you have.
Ashley: Are we near any structures or any houses?
Matt: No, this is outside of town. It's an open field other than a handful of trees. Just to give you guys perspective right here, this is the setup right now. This is the central area where most things have been dropped. There are pieces here. If you want to put it into perspective here, the glyph lies over in this area. Most of the treasure's been placed in that area. The trap we'll say is set about in that area, with the central piece being the triggering mechanism.
Laura: And the trench is all around that?
Matt: The trenches are down in this area. Oh, now you say the trenches, are you saying they're covered or not?
Laura: They are covered.
Matt: So they're tunnels. They're not trenches. Where is the opening for the tunnel? Where would you like it to be?
Marisha: Far away.
Laura: There, on the other side?
Matt: This side over here?
Travis: Make it 50 feet at the most.
Marisha: I want it to be more than that, I'd like it to be 100 feet away.
Travis: You want them to get there in one turn, right?
Laura: You want to be able to get there right away on surprise attack, spring right out of the ground as soon as that trap triggers.
Marisha: No.
Taliesin: In theory, if the trap is sprung it'll make enough ruckus that anyone in those trenches should hear it.
Matt: Right, but it's more about the proximity of the exit to the trenches.
Marisha: Yeah, what I'm thinking is I've got a circle that I've carved around it. And then there's like a tunnel that shoots off this way and there's an entrance that they can walk in and get into their places.
Matt: You want them to just burst out, then?
Marisha: I've made it really thin like I did before, carved it nice and thin--
Matt: Okay. So the entrance is back here, then.
Marisha: I don't know what that means.
Travis: I thought we were all filing out of one hole.
Matt: That's what I was getting at beforehand. The intent is for them to push up and out?
Marisha: Unless you guys think it would be better?
Laura: No, I feel like they've gotta burst out, yeah.
Travis: I was confused.
Marisha: It's going to be cool, like night of the living dead-style! Orcs coming out of the ground! In my mind, it's really awesome.
Sam: In your mind, so many things--
Marisha: So many things.
Matt: There we go. All right. We have entrenched areas in this vicinity with you around it. What's the last things you need to prepare before the evening is done?
Laura: We need to have a feast.
Sam: Heroes' Feast.
Liam: I have a couple of questions. One, so I asked this outside but I just want to make sure. It says in the rogue section that longsword is something that I'm proficient in, but there's a rule somewhere that I can't find that says I can't use that for sneak attack? On page 95, it says I'm proficient in longswords.
Matt: Correct.
Liam: But somewhere else that I'm unaware of-- no surprise, motherfucker?
Matt: The attack must use a finesse or ranged weapon.
Liam: So it's not a finesse weapon.
Matt: A longsword, I believe, is strength.
Taliesin: No, wait! This longsword was being used as a finesse weapon.
Marisha: It has been used?
Taliesin: We had this discussion at one point. We decided that this longsword was a finesse weapon. Or it could be used as a finesse weapon.
Sam: Aloha.
Taliesin: Aloha!
Liam: In Hawaii, the longsword is a finesse weapon.
Taliesin: There's a beautiful view out this window.
Liam: Just want to know in advance.
Matt: I would say-- stretching it thin. We had agreed it was a finesse weapon for use, meaning as a dex-based modifier for you to use in combat specifically. When did this discussion happen, I'm trying to recall?
Taliesin: This happened when we were doing sword tricks. We were discussing whether or not I could actually use a sword. And what that would be like. Because we were having the conversation about whether you should take strength with the sword. I've obviously been using it as a dex-based sword, but-- I don't remember if that was specifically for me, or--
Sam: This is a tough decision. But you know, it's not a tough decision to subscribe to Loot Crate.
Matt: I would say because it is part of the intent of the weapon that the longsword, while it may be circumstantially used as a dex-based weapon for that purpose, it is out of your realm of expertise when it comes to using the sneak attack ability. It would not be able to sneak attack.
Liam: Lovely. I'm going to take off my Boots of Haste and my cloak. See if anyone else wants it, and I'm going to start attuning-- Can you use this?
Laura: What is it?
Liam: Circlet. Would you be able to control Fassbender?
Laura: Instead of shooting arrows?
Liam: No, Keyleth said you just say "zap," and he just does it until you tell him to stop.
Marisha: Yeah, it takes your concentration, so it takes--
Matt: Well, it takes an action to--
Marisha: I'm trying to speak in character, all right?
Taliesin: What do your Boots of Haste do and what does your cloak do, out of curiosity?
Liam: I want to see how much I'm giving up here. Haste will let you double your speed, you'll be able to do one more thing when you're doing things. Scanlan showed me some sort of potion.
Marisha: Yeah, I'm assuming that was a Potion of Haste.
Sam: I gave the Potion of Haste to Grog. We both found these two potions. Grog has the Potion of Haste if anyone else desperately needs it, and I certainly don't need to be any smaller, so I've given the potion of reduction? Reducement?
Matt: Diminution.
Sam: Diminution? To good old Vax here.
Liam: It's funny, because part of my idea was to go in with you. But I know that you have to do it to folk of your own size, but if I were little Vax, I could go with you.
Laura: Why can't you keep your boots on for that?
Marisha: Honestly, spellcasters, it's not as beneficial for us to have Haste.
Liam: That's true, but I'm wondering if anyone wants Fassbender. If I'm going in, I'm not going to be able to concentrate on that.
Marisha: Well, depends on when you're going in.
Sam: You don't know. Give it to Vex.
Marisha: If you focus on Fassbender and tell him to just attack or to cast Slow, he will do that until that dragon is dead. He will just continue without you having to focus on him.
Liam: I know. I just don't want to miss a shot to go into the belly of the beast with my little buddy here.
Marisha: That's so trite.
Sam: We were born to do this!
Laura: Does it have to be attuned?
Matt: Yes. So if you already have three objects attuned, you'd have to take one off.
Laura: No, I can't wear the circlet, dude.
Liam: All right, I'll wear it.
Taliesin: I could, definitely. If you could take the Haste Potion then I might take the boots, because speed would not be a terrible thing for me to have because then I get to shoot more.
Liam: I'm going to take this sword and I'm going to leave the Deathwalker's Ward on, that can't come off anymore, and the circlet, so the boots are up for borrowing and the Displacer Cloak is up for borrowing. Displacer Cloak makes you very hard to hit.
Laura: That's good.
Liam: And the haste will Haste you.
Taliesin: What does the cloak do, again?
Matt: Disadvantage on physical attacks against you. Until you get hit, and then once you get hit, it fails to work for a turn.
Travis: I might take that.
Marisha: The cloak?
Travis: Yeah. Oh my god, I'm going to take the belt off.
Sam: You're going to lose your beard!
Travis: You don't know that! This shit's in there tight. I take the Belt of Dwarvenkind, and I put it in the Bag of Holding. I put the Displacer Cloak on.
Matt: You will be losing 26 hit points to your maximum hit points.
Travis: What? Wait! Really?
Matt: Your constitution-- or no, it's plus two, so you'd be losing 13 hit points on your max hit points.
Travis: Never mind, no. Nope.
Matt: Because your constitution will go down without it.
Laura: I can take off my Bracers of Archery, too, and put something on--
Marisha: What do those do?
Laura: They just give me a plus two to damage rolls.
Liam: You're wearing a cloak, so if you wear the boots, you can click them and you've got more movement.
Laura: All right. Give me the boots. I'm putting the boots on.
Matt: Boots of Haste?
Marisha: Then I'll take the cloak, I guess. I'm going to take off my spell slot ring. And I put my goodie but my oldie circlet on.
Sam: Let's have a feast! Let's have a feast!
Matt: You guys prepare for the evening. You make your way back to town. Where are you having your feast?
Sam: Isn't there a central place that we killed Kevdak at?
Marisha: The mayor's? The big mansion.
Sam: Whatever that place is called.
Marisha: The Margrave's house.
Matt: All right. So you find your way to the Margrave's town square there, you can see a number of the remaining Herd of Storms are sitting around small fires in the center of the cobblestone. They're all war-painted up, you can see there's smears of various dark charcoal and/or crimson liquid smeared across them in patterns. There is a brimming tension of coming battle. You may do your Heroes' Feast if you wish. You can feast up to 12 creatures as part of it.
Marisha: I can also do a feast if I cast it at seventh level. But, fuck it, I'm going to sleep, so it doesn't matter.
Sam: You're going to do two feasts?
Marisha: Pike and I are both going to cast Heroes' Feast, so that way we can feast 24 people total.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: So tell Kevdak. Sorry, fuck! Tell Zanror his finest warriors, his druids--
Laura: And Abjurist Noja.
Travis: And Old Davin.
Liam: And his wife.
Marisha: So make sure we have Zanror, his wife, his druids that he mentioned; there were like two to three druids?
Ashley: Are there any magic-users in the room?
Travis: Magic-users or clerics.
Marisha: Magic-users or clerics.
Travis: Abjurist and Old Davin included.
Matt: So. That being the case. You guys have your meals in the center of town, summoned forth a grand Heroes' Feast, two side by side. The chosen soldiers step up and you all begin to feast upon your meal. The taste is great but you're all distracted as the energies of the divine enchantment of these food items fill your body and steel you against the coming fear, there is still the concentration in your eye as you all look off listlessly in the distance as you finish your food. It's now just pushing past midnight.
Laura: We need to sleep.
Matt: Everyone seems to go and find themselves to rest, a tense sleep before them. Anything else you wish to do before you go to bed?
Marisha: Rise at sunrise? Rise at dawn?
Travis: Wait, before we do that, didn't you do something that gave us an extra amount of hit points before Kevdak?
Ashley: I have Shield of Faith that I can put on somebody.
Laura: Will that last for 24 hours?
Ashley: It's up to ten minutes. I can do it tomorrow.
Matt: What you're thinking of is Aid, and that lasts for eight hours. That's the one that gives the additional hit points he just mentioned.
Sam: Does the Heroes' Feast give us additional hit points?
Marisha: 2d10, and you're immune to poison, fear--
Matt: As temporary hit points, should mention that too. It's a separate pool. So 2d10 additional hit points. You want to roll, Keyleth?
Marisha: Oh jeez. Don't let me fuck this up. Oh, that's not bad. 14.
Travis: 14? That's not bad.
Marisha: 14 from me.
Ashley: 12.
Matt: Okay, we'll say the 14 goes to your group, the 12 goes to the rest of them for the purposes of this. So that's a separate pool, the 14 hit points come off first before anything else.
Travis: If it's midnight, I would take Aid, just in case he comes in the morning, and if he doesn't, no harm done, you rest up anyway, right?
Ashley: Say it one more time.
Travis: I wouldn't mind taking Aid in case he comes in the morning. If eight hours pass I lose it anyway, but you rest up again.
Ashley: Do you want to have it for the night?
Travis: Yeah, just in case he comes in the morning.
Ashley: Sure.
Marisha: Well, when do we want to be at the trap? Dawn?
Sam: At dawn!
Liam: Just before.
Travis: Yeah, before first light.
Laura: He comes normally around noon, he said.
Marisha: So we need to be in our places by 5AM.
Ashley: So each target's hit point maximum and current hit points increase by five for the duration.
Matt: For each level of the spell, so if you cast it at higher levels, it's more.
Travis: How high do you want to cast it?
Ashley: Cast it at-- fifth is the highest that I have now.
Travis: Rock out. Go for it.
Ashley: Yeah, let's do it.
Travis: Five times five?
Ashley: That's, yeah.
Sam: You'll lose it when we wake up.
Ashley: Yeah, do you want it for tonight?
Travis: It'll hold for eight hours, right, or, but I lose it--
Matt: Eight hours, yes, but a long rest is eight hours, so.
Ashley: Yeah, it'll go away. Let's wait.
Marisha: What time of year is it?
Matt: It's winter cresting into spring--
Marisha: Okay, so we have long nights right now.
Laura: We need to go the fuck to sleep.
Marisha: So let's sleep for a good six hours?
Matt: Six to eight hours.
Laura: Set our alarm clocks.
Matt: You run on a pretty consistent schedule, being a ranger.
Liam: I wait until everyone falls still, and then I scrabble over to you. Are you awake? Yeah, you're awake.
Marisha: Yeah, I'm staring at you.
Liam: I don't know if it's the food you made or the fact that we're going to die tomorrow, but I want to kiss you. And I kiss her. For a while. Good night.
Laura: Did you use your tongues?
Travis: You're asleep.
Marisha: How does she see everything?
Liam: She's a witch.
Marisha: She's a witch?
Liam: She's a witch! Did you see the broom?
Matt: The evening's rest comes to fruition. You guys wake up as the very distant, dull blues of first morning light begins to crawl across the distant mountain ranges. Dead silent is the morning as the rest of the Herd begins to rouse and armor up. You hear the gentle clank of metal against metal as armor and weapons are gathered. Food is being prepared, cooked, and eaten without a word being spoken between them.
Sam: I just want to make sure that we're going around, passing out all the chains, attaching little hooks and jabby things and grappling hooks.
Laura: They know the plan. As soon as he lands on the ground, everybody springs up and--
Matt: Everyone springs up and hooks him.
Sam: If the trigger for that, they're going to be underground--
Laura: The trap should go (snapping).
Sam: If they hear a big clank, that's go.
Laura: Get up and out. Yeah, regardless.
Sam: Will they know that that's a big clank?
Laura: I'm sure it'll be pretty loud. There might also be an explosion.
Matt: All right. With that, Zanror, after having this discussion at the Margrave's makeshift war room in the front foyer, agrees. "Not to worry. I'll make sure the men have known. We'll sharpen the hooks sharp enough to dig into dragonhide, hopefully. We'll hold taut, and the moment that creature breaks free, weapons are to fall on it. Very well." He puts on the rest of his armor. Everyone's feasted for the morning. We've lost Taliesin.
Sam: Don't worry. His work is done. He made his trap good.
Matt: It's like he's on the internet in Hawaii or somewhere.
Sam: Let's do this.
Ashley: Right when I wake up, I am going to try Divine Intervention.
Matt: Right now?
Ashley: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. Hold on just a second.
Travis: Yeah man, it's as good a time as any.
Sam: Does it last for a while?
Ashley: I don't know.
Laura: You used it before.
Ashley: No, it's never worked.
Laura: Yeah, the guy showed up.
Ashley: That's something else.
Laura: Oh really?
Ashley: That wasn't intervention.
Laura: I thought that was Divine Intervention that made the guy show up.
Ashley: It's never worked.
Matt: So Divine Intervention, there are elements of it that could be preparatory. By the nature of it, it's more of a sudden prayer of desperation. It's one of those things where the effects can range. It can be something that's immediate; it can be something that's more long. Understanding that, acknowledge when would be the good time to use it, whether it be now or later. Depends on what you're requesting, what you're praying for.
Ashley: To come help us kill a dragon. So that.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and roll a percentile dice, then.
Ashley: What do I have--
Matt: Roll 2d10. You may have a die that has multiple numbers on it.
Ashley: I do. Is this the percentile?
Matt: Yes. Roll that first. What'd you roll?
Ashley: What do I need to roll?
Matt: I believe you need to roll under your level. What did you roll?
Ashley: I rolled an 80.
Matt: Yeah.
Ashley: It never works!
Matt: So, as you call to Sarenrae, the boundaries and barriers that keep the gods from directly interfering with this realm are particularly strong this morning. While you feel her glow upon you, her warmth and protection guiding you to victory, there is not more within her strength or sphere of influence she can grant you at this time.
Ashley: Dammit. I don't feel her warmth, though.
Matt: What else would you like to do?
Ashley: Just go eat.
Matt: All right, so the sun has come up, the hour hits to eight, nine in the morning, you're looking at about three hours until the dragon's--
Marisha: Wait, what time is it?
Sam: It's nine.
Marisha: Son of a bitch, we overslept.
Sam: No, we've been up since dawn.
Marisha: I thought we were trying to get in places before dawn.
Sam: Well, we're moving now. It'll be fine.
Marisha: I hate it when I oversleep.
Matt: All right. The rest of you and the rest of the Herd make your way north. The few people that have stayed behind in the town, the few stalwart, stand outside as you all march by, and they all acknowledge, bow their heads, some get down on their knees and pray for you as you pass. As you quietly make your way outside of Westruun into the plains between the dotted treed landscape towards the drop point. The Herd makes its way under the tunnel beneath the ground.
Laura: I cast Pass Without a Trace on all of us.
Matt: All right. So they are now beneath the area. They are situated. There is the entrance tunnel off to the side that is currently visible and open from that portion. Do you wish to close or hide that tunnel?
Marisha: Sure.
Travis: I'm going in that tunnel, too.
Liam: Scanlan. Where do you want to go?
Matt: Grog, you have hidden--
Sam: I don't want to go underground.
Liam: Are we going in a tree?
Sam: We're going to go up in a tree. Let's go 200 feet away.
Ashley: I'm going to run up to Scanlan and I'm going to cast Death Ward on him.
Sam: What's that do?
Travis: If you drop below zero, you come back to one.
Matt: Once.
Sam: I don't need it. I'm okay. I know that you're very worried about me because of our love, but--
Matt: So Scanlan, you have Death Ward on you. You are now up in this tree here.
Sam: I don't need it. It jinxes me.
Ashley: I'm going to cast Protection from Energy, acid, onto Vax.
Matt: Vax actually already has resistance to acid because of his armor.
Ashley: I'm going to cast it onto Vex.
Laura: Thanks.
Matt: Okay. So Vex. Currently you have resistance to acid as long as concentration remains.
Marisha: I also cast Protection from Energy, resistance to acid, on Grog.
Matt: Grog, you also have resistance to acid.
Marisha: I'm going to stay in this cluster of trees with Scanlan.
Matt: Scanlan over here, okay.
Laura: I'm going to be up in a tree.
Matt: You're going to be up in the tree.
Sam: Different tree?
Laura: Yeah.
Sam: I don't think we should all be in the same tree, guys.
Laura: No, I'm going to be in a different tree. Can I use my perception to see how hidden everything is?
Matt: We'll say up in this tree. You want to be up in this one over here instead?
Laura: Yeah, something far.
Matt: There we go. You'll be in this one.
Laura: I think Percy wanted to be in a tree, too, at a distance.
Matt: All right. We'll say Percy is over at this one here, watching his trap hopefully spring.
Liam: Vax is with Scanlan. Stuck like glue.
Matt: Is Trinket in your necklace?
Laura: Yes.
Matt: All right. Where do you want to be? Did you want to cast your Aid spell on anybody before this happens?
Ashley: Oh, yeah. Yes.
Sam: Matt, we're more than 150 feet away, yes?
Laura: Some people.
Matt: Some people.
Laura: Like the trees are 80 feet away from the stuff.
Matt: This here?
Sam: I would like to be more than 150--
Matt: About 70-ish feet away is right here where these trees are.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: You're about 50-ish feet.
Ashley: I'm going to cast Aid on Keyleth.
Matt: At what level?
Ashley: Fourth.
Matt: That's 15 additional hit points to Keyleth.
Marisha: Additional or temporary?
Matt: Not temporary, additional. Keyleth, who else?
Ashley: Scanlan, again.
Matt: Scanlan, and--?
Sam: Why don't you do it on yourself?
Ashley: Okay, I have low hit points. I'll do it on myself. 15?
Matt: Yep, 15.
Sam: Keyleth, can you help me?
Matt: Do you cast it again, or are you just happy with those people? You can cast it multiple times if you have the spell levels for it.
Ashley: I'm going to save my spells.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: I'm going to need help. I know a little bit about dragons. I don't know a ton. Can you help my knowledge of animals in any way, shape, or form? For some sort of a check, I don't know. I just want to make sure that I know everything I can know in the moment when checked.
Liam: Can bards inspire themselves?
Matt: No. At higher levels, he can.
Marisha: Theoretically, I could enhance your ability, but it's a concentration spell and I've already protected from acid against Grog.
Sam: Never mind. I'm fine.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: What does your cloak do? That I put on?
Liam: Disadvantage on attacking you.
Marisha: Like, melee?
Liam: Until you get hit, and then it's gone for the round but resets for the next round.
Marisha: Only melee, not spells, yeah?
Liam: That's right.
Matt: So, at this point in time, Kevdak approaches.
Sam: Zanror.
Matt: I did it again. Zanror and two of his goliaths stay there waiting, with the offering placed at its designated spot.
Marisha: Shit. I can't believe we're doing this.
Matt: Any last-minute preparations?
Ashley: I'm going to-- wait, Grog, where are you?
Travis: I'm down in the tunnel.
Ashley: Is that where I am?
Matt: Well, wherever you want to be.
Ashley: I want to be in the trenches.
Matt: In the trenches? All right, so you make your way into the trenches, pushing past all the rest of the Herd members.
Laura: I hide the hole.
Matt: All right. We'll say for the purposes of this spread so everyone knows where they're all hidden currently--
Laura: Everyone knows they need to not move at all and be completely--
Marisha: Quiet.
Travis: I'm down over here.
Sam: Pike, you're in the middle of it? Oh, shit.
Ashley: I'm just going to hide. I'm not going to be a hero.
Travis: I'll throw her out of there if something goes wrong.
Liam: She doesn't clank if she doesn't move.
Ashley: They'll see me shining with my shiny armor.
Laura: You're right. We need to be stealthy up in the trees.
Marisha: I come over the earpiece in the calm of battle and I say: if things go terribly wrong, rush to this cluster of trees. I have ways that can get us out. I feel like I should say something inspiring, but I don't have anything, so--
Travis: How about fuck shit up?
Marisha: Fuck shit up, as Grog once said. About two days ago.
Matt: Hiding off in this tree beneath you is Noja, invisibility spell and vanishes behind. Beneath the ground here, off to the side is your good golem friend hidden in the dirt. Quiet sets in, gentle distant wind as the midday sun begins to stroll through. It's quiet and quieter still. You can hear the gentle bristling of high grasses against themselves. The tension causes the muscles in the back of your shoulders and neck to knot up. Watching the sun slowly crawl to its zenith. (wingbeat noises) You look up, those of you who are able, and you see a dark shape, a shadow dart off from the top of Gatshadow. Circles around, past you towards the city. Comes back. Growing larger and larger as it does. As it comes within the vicinity, it drifts up with one large beat of its wings. And (impact sound) lands into the center of this vicinity. As it hits the ground, there is a tink! (creaking sound, impact) As giant claws made of wood, metal, and rotten, angry hooks slam up out of the dirt, sending a giant cluster of dust just filling the vicinity. It woosh-- wraps around, you hear the smashing of metal and wood and low, guttural roaring. Dust has filled the area, and, for a brief moment, you have no visual on what's happened. As soon as that hits, everyone around you in the tunnels bursts through the floor, smashing through as the tunnels begin to collapse inward. Also, I need everybody to go ahead and roll intiative.
Ashley: Did he move the treasure?
Laura: Not yet.
Liam: Come on meteorite die, don't dick me.
Marisha: Green, lucky jade. That's okay.
Liam: Matt Colville, this is on you.
Sam: It's not you, Liam, it's me.
Marisha: Fucking shit.
Sam: Not good. Liam, yours doesn't matter. Mine does.
Marisha: Is yours not good?
Sam: No.
Laura: What did you roll?
Sam: It's okay, we got this. Pike's going to win the fight for us.
Liam: Hey, can I use Luck for initiative?
Matt: What does it say for the ability?
Sam: It doesn't matter, Liam.
Matt: I'll find out here. It counts as an ability check. I don't see why it wouldn't.
Liam: It's up to you. You're the boss. I love you. You're the all-seeing eye.
Sam: The feast gives us advantage on all initiative checks, right?
Matt: Ability check or saving throw-- technically, you get plus two to ability checks, correct? I'd say, sure, you can reroll initiative if you want.
Liam: (laughs) It was the exact same number!
Matt: You use the Luck point, and your initiative is what it is. Starting at this point in time, everybody--
Sam: It's a fight.
Matt: We have 25 to 20.
Laura: 22.
Travis: 20.
Matt: All right, 22. Vex. The Herd actually rolled really well.
Sam: Good, we need that.
Matt: Grog. All right, 20 to 15.
Taliesin: 19.
Matt: 19 for Percy. Is that it? So we have-- Noja. 15 to ten?
Liam: Big ten, which if you think about it rounded is like 100.
Marisha: Also big ten, which if you round it twice is like a thousand.
Ashley: 13.
Matt: All right. Ten to five.
Sam: Big five.
Matt: Big five, right there. Scanlan holding up the rear, there we go.
Liam: Gosh, plan B indeed.
Matt: At the top of this surprise round, I need Vex to go first.
Laura: Am I first?
Marisha: You've got, no, he has Fassbender.
Laura: He has Fassbender. I guess I'm just going to shoot it. I mean, what else can I do right now?
Liam: You do you!
Laura: All right. My Boots of Haste have been clicked.
Matt: All right, so you are now hasted. You may now have an additional attack action per turn.
Laura: Badass. I'm going to Hunter's Mark him.
Matt: All right.
Laura: Wait. Yeah, because I'm still hidden in the tree, right?
Matt: Correct, currently. As far as you know. Hunter's Mark on Umbrasyl.
Laura: Okay. I'm going to Hunter's Mark him. I'm going to shoot him with my Longbow of the Sky Sentinel. So I'm going to roll.
Matt: Go for it. Now, he is surprised, so you actually have--
Laura: Advantage.
Matt: Well, you have advantage because he doesn't see you, so yeah.
Laura: Okay, so the first one is 12 plus 15 is 23.
Matt: 23?
Laura: 27.
Matt: 27 hits.
Laura: 25.
Matt: 25 hits.
Laura: And 23.
Matt: 23 hits.
Laura: So. Okay, those are regular attack plus lightning arrow attack, right? I all of a sudden forget how it works. Plus 1d6 per arrow. 1d6 for the Hunter's Mark. And then 1d6 on the first one for the sneak attack. Okay. Plus the regular.
Matt: Herd's up next, and then Grog.
Laura: 31 on the first arrow.
Matt: 31 damage?
Laura: Yes.
Matt: Nice!
Liam: Seven plus five is 12.
Laura: 12. Plus nine.
Matt: 21. You're not getting additional sneak attack for the other two hits, by the way.
Laura: Right, I know. I lost my-- 18, I think. 18 was the last one.
Matt: All right. So that was your Sky Sentinel attack.
Laura: That was my first attack.
Matt: Correct.
Laura: For my second attack, I'm going to shoot him with one of my dragon arrows. Should I waste it on him?
Sam: Of course, he's a dragon! This is it!
Laura: I have two of them. I've been saving one, but I'm going to use one on him.
Matt: All right.
Laura: This is still advantage because it's still surprise round, right?
Matt: Sure.
Laura: Okay. 24.
Matt: 24 hits.
Laura: Okay. That's still my Hunter's Mark, and then-- I have a Jelly Belly in my thing-- And then that's 10d6 additional damage for the dragon arrow.
Matt: Okay, surprise round doesn't give you advantage, but you were hidden from the top of the round, so you have advantage.
Laura: Oh, okay. So an additional 10d6 damage for the dragon arrow.
Matt: Go ahead and roll damage on that.
Laura: No. 6d10. Sorry, my mistake.
Matt: There you go.
Sam: She's going to one-shot the dragon.
Laura: 6d10. (counting)
Sam: Matt, can I turn around and see Keyleth and Vax making out in the tree behind me?
Matt: They are not.
Liam: We're not making out! There's a slow trickle of wizz going down my leg right now, man.
Marisha: Yeah, I'm hyperventilating.
Laura: Sorry. 24 plus ten is 34 plus Hunter's Mark is another four. 38 on that attack.
Matt: 38 points of damage on the dragon-slaying arrow.
Laura: And then my third attack, I'm going to use the Blazing Bowstring.
Matt: Just so you guys are aware, this is over 100 points of damage in one round.
Liam: Enjoy those boots.
Laura: Do I still get advantage, because I'm still hidden?
Matt: No. At this point in time, I'll say you've definitely made yourself known.
Laura: 20?
Matt: Technically you shouldn't have had advantage on the other ones, but--
Laura: 20?
Matt: Pssh, arrow splinters across the hide, no effect.
Laura: Okay. Wow.
Matt: All right. Staying there?
Laura: I'm going to sink down into the leaves, yes, and try to hide better.
Matt: You have no actions to hide, but you're in a tree.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: All right. Finishing your turn, the Herd now is going to go. Shot from here, he's going to stay back. All move in, he's going to stay back here and aim. They can't even get in; there's so many of them.
Laura: I'm trying to duck behind some branches so he doesn't have direct line of sights on me, okay?
Matt: That's fine.
Sam: Man, what if this was all a trick and they actually work for him? Oh god, we're all going to die. It was all a trick! They work for him. They're going to kill us all!
Travis: If I were near you, I would slap you. Get a hold of yourself, man!
Matt: Throwing chains up, some of them leap up and jab the actual hook into the side and try to pull back. Having a hard time piercing hide. It's real strong.
Laura: Some of them can try to like swing the grapplings around the ankles--
Sam: Shh, don't distract him, he's adding.
Matt: I got this, don't worry.
Liam: Don't piss him off.
Matt: All right. We'll say about eight of them manage to actually get it into the hide. The rest either bounce off or can't find purchase into its hide and it just scrapes down, but the rest of them are trying to hold it down. "We got him! We got him!" And they're holding back. The archers all take aim. Misses, misses, misses, misses, hits.
Liam: Question. Did we give the chain attached to Fassbender to one of the goliaths?
Sam: No, it's buried in the stone.
Liam: To the stone, but one has to go on the dragon.
Sam: If that's what we planned, sure.
Liam: I don't know.
Matt: You didn't tell Fassbender to use it.
Liam: Oh, no. Okay. Cool.
Matt: That's two hits for all the arrows. All the rest of them are just smashing against the hide of Umbrasyl. No effect. That is seven points of damage and eight points of damage. They actually make it through. That's their round. Grog, you're up.
Travis: I go into a rage, and I would like to run up behind him with my Bloodaxe and make two reckless attacks against him.
Liam: He's got it. He's got a whole strategy. He's street-smart, this guy.
Sam: Intelligence of three.
Travis: 26.
Matt: 26 hits.
Travis: That's really good. 28.
Matt: 28 hits.
Travis: So, that's 23 with three points of necrotic damage.
Matt: 23, three points of necrotic damage added in or on top of that?
Travis: Oh, that's part of it, yeah.
Matt: 23. All right.
Travis: And then the second one-- 22 with one point of necrotic damage.
Matt: Gotcha. Whack! Whack! It's a tough hide to cut into, but you're making small hacks into it. You can start seeing that damage is possible, though it's a lot to cut through. This is a very hefty, very old beast. All right.
Travis: With my bonus action, could I drink the potion of fast nuts? Potion of speed.
Matt: Well, isn't it a bonus action to go into a rage?
Travis: I believe you're right. Never mind.
Matt: Pretty sure it is. Let me double-check real fast.
Travis: I think you're right.
Matt: It's fine, yeah. Bonus action. So that's your turn? Percy, you're up. You're way behind the dragon, hiding by the treeside.
Taliesin: Okay, I'm going to cast Hex on the dragon.
Matt: All right, Hex on the dragon.
Taliesin: With a disadvantage to all strength checks.
Matt: Strength ability checks, okay.
Taliesin: I'm going to hold my turn until the dragon's turn.
Matt: Okay. You're just going to hold until it does something?
Taliesin: I'm going to hold until it does something, and if it does nothing, I'm taking my attacks, and if it gets away I'm taking my attacks. I'm just taking my attacks after him.
Matt: Okay. It is now Noja's turn. Noja is going to step out from here and is going to attempt to Lightning Bolt. From the side, he just reaches out, hand forward. Arcs upward in its direction. It fails its saving throw because it is held in there. It is currently considered grappled. It doesn't have disadvantage or anything, but I'll say from this standpoint it can't really move around a lot. It's going to take the damage.
Sam: (laughs) What was that face?
Matt: Terrible roll. 21 points of lightning damage.
Sam: That's 8d6.
Matt: At the end of his turn, it's going to use one of its legendary actions to make a tail attack against you. We'll say that'll be 27 to hit.
Travis: That'll hit.
Sam: Can I use Cutting Words on the attack or to reduce the attack?
Matt: If you want to.
Sam: I would like to.
Matt: Okay, so 27 to hit. You take, from the slam of its tail behind you--
Sam: No, I mean to, I'm sorry, I can't reduce the--
Matt: Oh, I thought, to reduce the attack not the damage.
Sam: The attack.
Matt: Okay. Go for it. Roll your d10.
Sam: Okay. (slide-whistle) A d10 is this one. Ten.
Matt: Ten. 17. What's your AC?
Travis: It's a 20.
Matt: 20. With that, the tail-- whack!-- slams into the ground. You manage to push out of the way just in time as Scanlan shouts up to the dragon.
Sam: Oi! You're so ugly you entered an ugly contest and they said no professionals! (laughter)
Matt: Just enough of a distraction in the settling dirt for the dragon to turn its head over and its tail swings just a little wide of you, Grog, as you sidestep, no effect. We'll say for this, it's less of a surprise round. I use surprise round liberally. Surprise was it grappling and everyone getting out of it and preparing for the actual assault.
Liam: It's more of a surprising round.
Matt: Correct. Umbrasyl does get a turn. Umbrasyl, very frustrated and angry at the circumstance, is going to attempt to break free. With disadvantage on the athletics check to try and break out of the grapple because of the Hex. All right. That is--
Sam: Is that a save?
Matt: No, it's not a save. It's an ability check. However, the strength-- (struggling sounds) cannot seem to break free from the grapple of the communal might of all the goliaths there. So that is unhappy.
Sam: Meaning Matt is unhappy.
Matt: All righty.
Sam: And three more dragons.
Marisha: Why the book?
Laura: Oh no, what are we looking up?
Travis: What's in the book?
Matt: Nothing's in the book, guys.
Laura: We're literally going to finish off this bag of Jelly Bellies.
Liam: If an ancient black dragon takes one hit point of damage, it cowers and dies.
Ashley: I'm looking for the popcorn ones.
Marisha: Thanks to whomever sent these Jelly Bellies, by the way.
Matt: That'll end Umbrasyl's turn. That brings us to Pike, you're up.
Taliesin: Oh no, that's my turn now.
Matt: Percy's up, then.
Taliesin: I'm going to take just a standard shot with Bad News.
Matt: Go for it.
Taliesin: Ooh. 28 to hit.
Matt: 28 hits.
Taliesin: 18 points of damage, with four necrotic. 18 points of damage.
Matt: All righty.
Taliesin: And I'll take another shot with Bad News.
Matt: Go for it.
Taliesin: 20 to hit.
Matt: 20 does not hit.
Taliesin: All right.
Matt: Second shot just goes wide, firing off into the distance over the city of Westruun.
Taliesin: All right. Turn's up.
Matt: All right. Pike, you're up.
Ashley: Okay. I'm going to Guiding Bolt.
Sam: Be beautiful! Be good!
Laura: At what level?
Ashley: I'm going to-- at third. Let me see this.
Liam: Is this an attack range thing, or does it automatically--?
Matt: Spell attack roll, so you roll--
Ashley: And then I add that? That would be a 29.
Matt: 29. Damn, what did you roll?
Ashley: I rolled a 19.
Matt: That's nice. That'll hit.
Ashley: Okay, so now I do--
Laura: 4d6 plus two more d6.
Ashley: 26.
Matt: 26 points of damage.
Ashley: Yeah.
Matt: All right. And the next attack against it has advantage. So Pike, you're staying. You popped out of the trench and you're up on the ground. You hit it with the Guiding Bolt. You can see the blast of divine energy streaks up and slams into Umbrasyl's side. The darkened black scales now have this shining beacon across the torso. Anything else you want to do with your turn, or is that it? You want to move?
Ashley: Yeah. I'm going to stay.
Matt: All right.
Ashley: But I'm also going to put a Spiritual Weapon, just a sword again. Can't think of anything right now because I'm nervous.
Matt: We'll say right here in this area around Umbrasyl. The magical light sword of Sarenrae once again forges itself underneath Umbrasyl, swings up towards-- Let's see, you did Guiding Bolt at what level?
Ashley: Three.
Matt: Third level. And Spiritual Weapon is second level. So that works. Lasts for a minute. Make a spell attack. Roll again.
Ashley: 19.
Matt: 19 total? The blade swings up and as it strikes against the dragon's armor, sparks of divine energy versus the scales streak, but no damage is done. The blade is unable to strike through the hide. Does that end your turn, Pike? Are you staying where you are?
Sam: Did you add your spell attack bonus?
Laura: Yeah, she did.
Matt: All right. You going to move, stay where you are?
Ashley: I'll stay where I am.
Matt: Ending Pike's turn, Vax, you're up.
Liam: I'm going to hold my turn until Scanlan, no. Yeah, I'm going to-- Fassbender, slow the fucking dragon down now!
Matt: Okay, at which point suddenly dust streaks upward as Fassbender steps up out of the hiding place there. Fassbender focuses his arms out as the slow magic effect seems to take on towards it. What's the DC on it?
Liam: Oh, dear god. That's a good question.
Sam: Who has the Fassbender stats?
Liam: I've got it. Slow-- 17.
Matt: 17. And that's a wisdom?
Liam: It is wisdom. And Fassbender, just slow until the end of tomorrow, just keep going.
Matt: It rolled a ten plus nine, succeeds in the save.
Sam: Wisdom disadvantage save. I have Cutting Words-ed him.
Matt: That's true. Rolled even higher.
Liam: Question  he'll just keep doing that until I tell him to stop, right?
Matt: Yeah, but it has to recharge. If it doesn't, he might just start hitting it.
Marisha: He's got to roll to see if it recharges. It'll recharge on a five or a six.
Liam: Okay. With my bonus action, I drink that potion and I'm a tiny Vax.
Matt: Okay! With that, you have shrunk down to a small-sized creature.
Liam: (high-pitched) Do it, Scanlan, do it!
Sam: I think this is the first time I've ever been taller than you.
Liam: (high-pitched) Hey, buddy! I love ya. Let's go in that dragon's gut.
Sam: I don't particularly like small people.
Liam: (high-pitched) Do you think Keyleth will think less of me?
Sam: Yes, I do.
Matt: Is that the end of your turn?
Liam: Yeah, action, bonus action. Done
Matt: So Vax is actually like a few inches shorter than you. You're now towering over him.
Sam: I tousle his hair.
Liam: I'm like eight inches tall, if that's true! He's so small!
Matt: (laughs) You're like two feet. He's about two and a half.
Liam: (high-pitched) These are still sharp.
Sam: You're so cute!
Liam: (high-pitched) Heeheehee.
Sam: My turn?
Matt: So, it's your turn, Scanlan. Oh no, Pike, Vax, Keyleth, then it's you. Keyleth, what are you doing?
Marisha: Oh dear god. Okay. I'm going to transmute the earth underneath him. Right? That's what I'm doing? That's part of the plan? So if I can do right underneath Umbrasyl, that would be fabulous.
Matt: Transmute Rock--
Marisha: It's a 120-foot range.
Matt: Yes, and a 40-foot cube in the range. So what are you doing?
Marisha: I want to do the area just directly under Umbrasyl, if I can, so that I'm not sinking the Herd around him.
Matt: Turning what into what?
Marisha: I want to turn the ground directly underneath Umbrasyl into mud.
Matt: Okay. The only piece of rock is the piece of rock that you put beneath where the chains were there. The area right beneath Umbrasyl is dirt, it's earth.
Marisha: Okay, I thought it had spread, because it's 40-foot, so I thought it was under Umbrasyl, but I could do something else--
Matt: A 40-foot cube, part of it would be under Umbrasyl, possibly, but for the placement of where you put that, it's going to be hard for you to do it without it pulling everybody else into it.
Marisha: Okay. Plan B.
Matt: You can do it still, but it'll probably take some of the Herd with it.
Marisha: Should I go with pillars? Yeah. I'll go with--
Sam: No.
Marisha: No?
Liam: Just do what you're going to do. Ignore the gnome. Go.
Marisha: Okay. I'm going to cast Bones of the Earth, which I think I can pop up six pillars around Umbrasyl.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: So, Grog, you want a boost? You want to stand on a rock?
Travis: Yeah.
Marisha: Pike, you want a boost? Do you want a boost?
Ashley: Yes.
Marisha: Okay. Here's what I'm going to do. I want a pillar here, Grog. When you're ready.
Matt: All right, so you're putting Grog on a pillar.
Marisha: Grog on a big stone pillar, bam! And then, where's the button? Pike on a pillar over here, bam. Let's go ahead, I'm trying to trap him in here. I want to pin him as these go up, so let's do one here. Can I get whoever that is up on a--
Matt: Which one?
Marisha: Right up here.
Matt: All right. If I'd known you were going to use this spell, I would've brought the pillars.
Marisha: Oh. Surprise! We were trying not to tell anyone our plan.
Matt: I know, it's good. Now I know.
Liam: We wanted to keep you off-balance, Matt.
Matt: That's good. All right.
Marisha: Let's do another one over here. Bam. Pinning him in. One, two, what is that, three, four. One on the opposite side, over here. Umbrasyl's a big fatty so I can't get my laser pointer over there.
Matt: Where do you want it? Right there?
Marisha: Over here-ish. On the other side of this one. Can I raise a pillar through his wing?
Matt: Not through his wing, no.
Marisha: So flanking this pillar on the other side over there, if that makes-- flanking this pillar. So wait, move that one that you just placed over a bit.
Matt: This is like a summoning spell.
Marisha: You know, it's fine. You get the idea.
Matt: That one there.
Marisha: Let's do one up here.
Matt: You have one more.
Marisha: Knock him in the chin.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Hopefully that contains him a bit.
Matt: All righty. That finish your turn?
Marisha: Yeah, guess so.
Matt: All right. That brings us to Scanlan.
Sam: Okay. Here we go.
Liam: Here we go.
Sam: I turn to my little buddy and I say  are you ready for a ride, little man?
Liam: (high-pitched) Come on, big guy!
Sam: Before we go, I yell as loud as I can to Pike to inspire her with my bonus action first.
Matt: The range? Pike is quite far away.
Sam: Can't hear me, or it won't work?
Matt: What's the range, I think it's 60 feet, so yeah. She's too far away.
Marisha: I'm behind you.
Sam: Well then, am I within 60 feet of her?
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: Oh. Then I will sing her some inspiration and I'll sing. (singing) Westruun town a dead-end world, east-end boys and Westruun girls, Westruun girls. (laughter)
Matt: Take your d10.
Marisha: Fuck yeah, d10.
Sam: And then I sort of link arms with good old Vax. Actually, I hug him tight because we've gotta be tight together to do this, and I hold up my hand cone and I cast Dimension Door and I'm going to aim right for the belly of the beast.
Liam: And I say  This is so fuuuu--
Matt: Scanlan. You are not fully familiar with the physiology of a dragon.
Sam: No, I am not.
Laura: I gave him as much information as I could.
Matt: And you did. I would like for you to make an intelligence check.
Sam: Just an intelligence check.
Matt: This is your ability to ascertain based on what you've seen, your knowledge of the dragon, where possibly in its body its stomach may be.
Sam: Okay. Why not?
Laura: Is it advantage because I told him where it would be?
Sam: Nope. 12?
Liam: Can I give him my Luck?
Matt: (laughs) No.
Sam: It's just intelligence, right, there's no other--
Matt: Right, you add your intelligence modifier to it.
Sam: Yeah, it's two.
Matt: You would add two to that because of your bardic ability. Plus two to any skill check.
Sam: Okay, 14, then.
Ashley: Is there anything extra from heroes' feast? No?
Matt: No. So. Both of you grab hands and vanish. The darkness that hits your eyes upon vanishing doesn't go away as darkness still hits you. All of a sudden, you are plunged into a thick, wet, crushing interior. You have finished your Dimension Door spell. You are in darkness. You are being crushed between what feels like two layers of musculature. Both of you.
Sam: Hi, dude.
Matt: You don't know where each other are. You don't see the other person. There's no sight. You can't hear anything.
Sam: Are we touching at all?
Matt: Nope. The trajectory of the spell and the unfortunate circumstance put you guys on two different sides of a membrane, and you don't know where you are.
Sam: It's going great.
Matt: All right. Does that end your turn?
Sam: Yeah, that's all-- I'll use my movement to go--
Matt: You are both considered restrained, so your speed becomes zero, attack rolls against you have advantage, you have disadvantage on dexterity saving throws. Also, you suffer eight points of acid damage, reduced to four.
Sam: Awesome.
Liam: Who's got the other gatestone? I have one.
Ashley: Oh, I have one.
Liam: 60 seconds.
Matt: You also both currently have no air. At the top of this round, Umbrasyl goes (disgruntled noises).
Liam: Suck it, bitch!
Matt: "I will eat all of you!"
Liam: I'm a two-foot-tall rogue, you motherfucker.
Laura: I'm up?
Matt: You're up first, top of the round.
Laura: Oh my god. Okay, I'm going to cast Conjure Animals and I'm going to conjure two giant eagles right in front of his face.
Matt: I'm really hoping we can put more things on the battlefield, guys. I think that would be a cool idea.
Laura: (laughs) Sorry, Matt.
Matt: It's not like I don't have enough to concentrate on up there.
Laura: I'm sorry.
Matt: It's fine. I don't have two giant eagle miniatures, so we'll say, for the time being, this air elemental is a giant eagle.
Laura: Okay.
Liam: I'll say, with no facetiousness, this is all I ever wanted in my life.
Sam: To be trapped in the spleen of a dragon with me?
Matt: We'll say these are up in the air.
Laura: Okay, right in front of--
Matt: Because I've used all the height things for--
Laura: And Conjure Animals is an action, or a--
Matt: It's an action.
Laura: Okay. I'm going to tell them to attack his eyes.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: They get their own--
Matt: Own initiative, which I just rolled. What's their dexterity bonus?
Laura: You sent me a thing-- let's go with that. Hold up. Giant eagle, dexterity is 17, plus three.
Matt: So it would be plus three, that puts them at 11, so they are just above Keyleth and Vax. All right.
Laura: And then for my bonus action, I'm going to-- I can't cast two spells, even if one's a bonus action?
Matt: As long as it's a level two or lower.
Laura: Oh, okay. For my bonus action, I'm going to hide a lot? I'm going to hide.
Matt: You didn't start the round hidden, so you can't do that.
Laura: I wasn't still hidden?
Matt: No, you have to spend a bonus action to attempt to hide at the end of your turn.
Laura: Can I attempt to hide?
Matt: You'd have to be a level two rogue to do that as a bonus action on your turn.
Laura: But on my boots of haste I can use it to dash, disengage, or hide.
Matt: Oh, you're using your bonus action-- so your extra action, not your bonus action.
Laura: Okay, my extra action.
Matt: You can do that, yes. Go ahead and roll a stealth check.
Laura: Natural 20.
Matt: You vanish into the foliage.
Ashley: Yeah.
Matt: All right. Great. Finishing your turn, the Herd now goes. They're going to attempt to put the rest of the chains up to increase the DC of the grapple. There we go. So four more chains get latched on so they're holding. Each chain increases the DC of the grapple. All right. So as they're all holding it down, the five in the back that are going to take attacks on it are going to do so. That's a hit, miss, miss, hit, miss, miss, miss, miss, miss, hit. Three hits. So four damage, five damage, and eight damage.
Laura: Wow, these guys hit real hard. How come they were hitting us so hard?
Matt: They're rolling really terrible. They get two attacks each. All right. And with that, the tribal druid is going to cast Blight on the creature. However, it does make its saving throw, so for the purposes of speed on this I'm going to use my dice-rolling app. That's a lot of dice to roll. That comes to 18 points of necrotic damage. That brings us to the end of that round. Grog, you're up.
Travis: Could I go into a frenzied rage?
Matt: You may.
Travis: Excellent. I'm on top of a pillar, and I'm not within striking distance, right?
Matt: You can hit it.
Travis: From up there?
Matt: Yeah, it's pretty tall.
Travis: (laughs) I would like to use all three of my attacks against his backside, reckless.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Natural 20.
Matt: All righty.
Travis: 26.
Matt: Hits.
Travis: These are just regular. They're not great weapon master. 23.
Matt: Hits.
Travis: Sweet. So the first one was the crit.
Matt: The crit. So go ahead and roll damage on that plus two additional d12s.
Travis: Right. That's a d12. 21 and two additional d12s?
Matt: Yep, 21 plus?
Travis: Ten, 31.
Matt: 31.
Travis: Seven, so 38.
Matt: 38 points of damage on the first strike. Next two strikes, roll for it.
Travis: That was awful. 13.
Matt: 13, all right. Last one.
Travis: That was also pretty crap. That's 16.
Matt: 16, okay. At the end of its turn it's going to use a legendary action to attempt to wing attack you. It's going to cost its last--
Travis: Oh, I did not add the necrotic.
Matt: Go for it.
Travis: On all three of them. Three, six, eight.
Matt: Total of eight?
Travis: Total of eight.
Matt: All right. Expending two of its actions to use a wing attack, it's going to go ahead and start beating its wings as hard as it can, even with the chains amongst it. Each creature within 50 feet of the dragon must succeed on a DC 23 dexterity saving throw. Make a dex save.
Travis: (singing) I believe I can fly--
Matt: The only one of the party within-- what did you roll?
Travis: A nine.
Matt: Nine. All right. You take 15 points of bludgeoning damage.
Travis: Reduced to...
Matt: Reduced to eight. Go ahead and make one more dexterity saving throw, just for my own sake.
Travis: 16.
Matt: 16. You are thrust off the pillar, pushed, falling, and hitting the ground, prone on the ground, the pillar remains there. You take an additional eight points of bludgeoning damage, reduced to four, from the impact. But you are knocked prone. The rest of the Herd here, we'll say for the sake of that, they do not save. Oh, man. They are all knocked prone, knocking much of the chains free from their hands as they're thrown onto their backs. Then it is still technically grappled, so it cannot fly half its speed, unfortunately. It does seem to have knocked a majority of the chains off its back. Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: Holding my action until its action.
Matt: Okay. That brings us to Noja. Noja's going to attempt another Lightning Bolt. It's the best thing he has at the moment. Oh, a natural 20 on the saving throw. Nope. Not bad. 15 points of lightning damage to Umbrasyl. Noja's then going to dart back behind the tree. Ending Noja's turn, it is now Umbrasyl's turn. Umbrasyl is going to go ahead and attempt to break free of the final chains that are there.
Taliesin: With disadvantage.
Matt: Correct, with disadvantage. But even so comes out to a 22. (crash) The rest of the chains that were holding Umbrasyl down break free.
Laura: What about the trap? Is he out of the trap then, too?
Matt: Well, the trap that's currently holding it in place is part of the whole setup. The trap is what's keeping it there, starting the grapple, and the chains are just there to increase the DC. So with that, the actual metal structure of the trap that held it in place is shattered. You can see pieces of iron go flying, wood splintering in this cloud of dust that is kicked up from the movement of the wings. Currently right now there are still hooks and chains dangling from Umbrasyl, but some of them have broken and most of them are unmanned at the moment. The dragon is going to (wings flapping) go ahead and--
Taliesin: Can I take my action?
Matt: You can, yes.
Taliesin: I'm taking a shot at him at the joint at his wing and I'm going to attempt to ground him.
Matt: Attempt to ground him? Okay, go for it. Roll for the attack.
Taliesin: Natural fucking 20. (cheering)
Taliesin: Oh no, oh my god, right now.
Marisha: He's taking a photo?
Travis: He's taking a photo.
Taliesin: Photo taken. Ha! Natural 20. It still doesn't necessarily mean he's grounded. It means he has to make a strength saving throw or he's prone.
Matt: Correct. So roll the damage first.
Taliesin: Roll damage. Oh yeah. That's double dice, so that's-- 23 points doubled is 46 plus--
Matt: Plus the modifier. So 46 is--
Taliesin: 46, yeah, plus the modifier now is 52 points of damage total.
Liam: That bullet came from the center of the Pacific Ocean!
Matt: Strength saving throw.
Taliesin: I rolled really well.
Matt: That's amazing. All right, so. Strength saving throw to try and resist the effect. That is a failure. It's going to use one of its legendary actions to automatically succeed, one of its legendary resistances. So succeeds. Rising up from the ground, because of all the guys that are knocked prone--
Taliesin: Wait!
Matt: What was that?
Taliesin: I was going to pop off a couple more shots.
Matt: You held your action, okay. So you fired, loaded, fired last round.
Taliesin: I was going to blow an action surge.
Matt: Oh. It's weird to do-- Out of turn action, it is a little strange to do that.
Taliesin: Okay.
Matt: He held his action. That's something you do on your turn as a burst. I'll say, probably have to wait on your actual turn to do that full bit.
Taliesin: No, it's okay. Go ahead.
Matt: Umbrasyl does rise up about 40 feet.
Liam: Here we go, Scanlan.
Matt: It's actually going to move back this way.
Ashley: Did he never land on the glyph?
Matt: He landed in the trap immediately and the trap set off, but he never grabbed the stuff.
Ashley: It was if he landed on it.
Matt: You said it was to--
Liam: Pull it off.
Travis: Yeah, we said to lift it off.
Matt: All right. Flying back at that point (flapping wings) just growling, absolute anger. Squeezed in its insides, you guys both feel this heavy contraction within its body as you guys watch this flow of greenish bile spittle begins to fill up and spray out in a line from its mouth.
Liam: Look at all those people.
Laura: Are they all going to die?
Matt: Everything there-- Okay.
Laura: The birds were up in the air, though.
Matt: Right, but the stream sprays down, it's not just a single bolt. It vomits it out and it lands over everything. That's how it works.
Sam: Pike, are you in there?
Travis: No.
Matt: All right, that comes to 15d8 acid damage.
Laura: 15d8?
Sam: I think a lot of those people will be fine.
Matt: So that's 81 points of damage to all those guys. They all just dissolve in horrible agony.
Laura: Oh my god, you guys, we're going to die.
Sam: No, just me and Liam. Both of the eagles just screech in pain as they're entirely ruined.
Laura: Good job, you fucking wastes of space. They didn't even get to fucking go.
Matt: Sorry. That's going to end Umbrasyl the Hope-Devourer's turn.
Marisha: The Hope-Devourer?
Matt: That is the full name.
Sam: So his middle name is The Hope? And his last name is Devourer?
Matt: Devourer. Married into it.
Sam: It's hyphenated?
Matt: Hyphenated, yeah.
Travis: Marriage fucked everything up.
Marisha: Yep, Umbrasyl the Hope and then marriage fucked everything up.
Matt: You guys have both entirely vanished, you both are inside the entity. All right, so. Keyleth, the line just stops right before you. It smacks into the ground five feet from your feet and you watch as the earth and grass beneath you just immediately turns black and seems to almost coalesce into this death-sludge in this long line. It just barely misses you. All right, that's going to end Umbrasyl's turn. Pike, you're up.
Ashley: All right. So. I'm going to Guiding Bolt him again.
Matt: All right. You're now up on a pillar facing this giant flying dragon. Standing above the rest of the battlefield, your shield up and your Frostbrand to the side, you reach up and grab your holy symbol and go ahead and roll for your Guiding Bolt attack.
Travis: How high is he?
Matt: 30 feet. He went back.
Ashley: 28?
Matt: 28 hits.
Travis: Fuck him up, Pike.
Marisha: Come on, Pike. Can you bring him down any?
Ashley: I'm rolling what again? Sorry.
Laura: What level are you casting it at?
Ashley: Four again.
Matt: How many 4th-level spells do you have left now? Because you cast--
Ashley: I have two more.
Matt: Two more? Because you cast Death Ward, which is 4th-level, I believe, right? On Scanlan?
Liam: Well, what did you do? You did Death Ward. And is that it?
Ashley: The last Guiding Bolt.
Laura: Yeah, so that's only two you used.
Matt: Right. So you have how many more left at 4th-level?
Ashley: Two. Because the ring gives me one extra.
Matt: All right, so go ahead and roll that. That is going to be 4d-- how much do you get Guiding Bolt damage on that then?
Laura: 4d6 plus an additional two or three?
Ashley: At fourth level, that would be seven, then.
Matt: That would be 7d6 radiant damage.
Ashley: 22.
Matt: 22 points of damage.
Ashley: But I'll also-- never mind. We're good, 22.
Matt: You're good. Okay.
Ashley: And then I'm going to move my Spiritual Weapon.
Matt: Okay, Spiritual Weapon, which is technically on the ground over here.
Ashley: And I'm going to move it to the back of his neck.
Matt: Let's see. Spiritual Weapon, can move it 20 feet and repeat the attack. It is more than 20 feet away.
Ashley: Okay.
Matt: It's down there, so it can begin to shift upward in that direction. So we'll say that it's partway floating in midair.
Ashley: Can it get his feet?
Matt: No, it can't. It's too far away, unfortunately.
Ashley: All right, well, it'll start working its way up there.
Matt: Okay. That ends your turn, Pike. All right. It would be the eagles' turn, but they got dissolved.
Laura: Thanks, Matt. Thank you for pointing that back out.
Matt: Oh, I like to. I also want to point out that you guys held my dragon to the ground for two rounds and hit it like a goddamn pincushion.
Liam: You'll feel better once Scanlan and I have dissolved.
Matt: I will. All right. End of Pike's turn. Vax, you're up first. At the top of your round--
Liam: I'm just going to take the dragon blade and I'm going to as best as I can drag it in front of me.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: I'm going to cut the insides of this--
Matt: First, you take eight points of bludgeoning damage as it is crushing you, muscles tensing on the inside are just-- You're in between musculature right now and just being crushed.
Liam: Yes. Probably its sphincter. Now what?
Matt: You are restrained, so go ahead and make your attack at disadvantage.
Liam: At disadvantage.
Laura: But it can't very well avoid it.
Matt: It's about him being able to actually move and get it.
Liam: Well, I'm using the dragon longsword, which I've never used before. It's a plus one sword, so I get what?
Matt: Plus one to hit.
Liam: With strength?
Matt: It would be strength, but we've agreed that it can work as finesse for the purposes of a dex bonus, you just can't sneak attack.
Liam: I just can't sneak attack. All right. So.
Matt: Be grateful I'm being--
Liam: Whatever you want to do, you are the deity here. So this is a 17 to hit.
Matt: 17, you pull the blade and it's just unable to cut through this tense muscle and tendon.
Liam: Use Luck.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Nothing.
Ashley: Wait, what is this? Is this an attack?
Matt: He's trying from the inside.
Ashley: Can I cast War God's Blessing?
Matt: Does War God's Blessing require you to see the creature?
Ashley: Probably not.
Matt: We'll find out.
Sam: Yeah, probably.
Travis: Probably not.
Matt: When a creature within 30 feet makes an attack roll-- So, using the Guiding Bolt, you can see shifting somewhere in the body of Umbrasyl-- (laughs) You see this form moving in there. You know, based on what you guys have discussed before-- I hope you discussed this plan before.
Liam: We discussed it so much.
Matt: That's a plus ten bonus, is that what it is?
Ashley: Plus ten.
Matt: That hits, go ahead and roll damage with the longsword.
Marisha: Is this sneak attack?
Matt: No, he doesn't get sneak attack with a long blade.
Travis: But against dragons it does specific damage.
Liam: Yeah, it does plus 3d6, if I remember.
Matt: Let me look it up here just to be safe.
Liam: 15 from the inside.
Matt: 15 damage from the inside.
Liam: Hopefully that cuts me a little breathing room. And a question that only you know, Matthew--
Matt: The extra is 3d6, you are correct.
Liam: Am I within five feet of Scanlan?
Taliesin: An extra 3d6, not just 3d6.
Liam: I got 15 damage. Am I within, I'd like to use my bonus action to sneak attack if I can, if I'm within five feet. If Scanlan is within five feet of the creature, that's up to you. I don't know. It's crazy circumstance.
Matt: The reason that you would get sneak attack for having another creature within five feet is because it is harrying and the opponent is distracted--
Liam: The heartburn is not distracting it?
Matt: Not enough.
Liam: Not enough. Okay.
Matt: There's not a lot of threat to Umbrasyl.
Laura: You get a d8 plus your d6.
Liam: Yes, I know. I did it.
Laura: Then you did the additional 3d6?
Liam: I did, darling.
Laura: And you only got 15?
Liam: I only got 15. I would like to use the dagger to cut into him as well.
Matt: All right, go for it. Disadvantage on that attack.
Liam: Disadvantage?
Matt: Yes.
Liam: Oh, that's no good. That's, nah, it's 12.
Matt: You can't even get your dagger out of the sheath. It's too tight in there. You are cutting through muscle, and you feel the body and the muscle just tense based on the reaction of the interior pain. You watch the dragon, but it's still keeping up in the air.
Liam: I'm okay. Okay.
Matt: You are beginning to suffocate.
Liam: All right.
Sam: Oh, jesus.
Matt: I mean, you can hold your breath for a little while here, but just letting you know, there is no airflow. You're not suffocating yet, but you know there is no air to breathe currently.
Liam: I understand, Matthew. I'm fucked. It's fine.
Matt: All right. That's your turn. That brings us to Keyleth.
Marisha: I'm so scared. Okay, hang on. What the hell is the range on that? I'm going to just take a few steps forward, here-ish. Matt.
Matt: Right there?
Marisha: There-ish, move up a little bit. Just so I can-- Yeah, just ahead of the tree. And I'm going to attempt to cast Earthbind on him. He has to make a strength saving throw.
Matt: Strength saving throw. That is a failure. It's going to use its second legendary resistance, succeeds.
Marisha: Fuck, I knew it. Well, we've burned off two of his legendary resistances.
Liam: Also, I have no idea what the initiative order is, but Fassbender keeps doing Slow until I tell him to do something else, right?
Matt: If it recharges. Go ahead and roll a d6.
Liam: A d6.
Matt: Yes.
Liam: Two.
Matt: Two. It does not recharge Slow. Fassbender is too low. Fassbender is just standing there now.
Marisha: Okay. I'm going to take the remaining of my turn. Oh shit, I actually didn't want to move. It's okay. I'm going to turn into an earth elemental.
Matt: Okay. All right.
Marisha: And I'm going to take the remaining of my movement to move up--
Matt: Up?
Marisha: Well, he has 60 feet of movement, but I moved, what, like ten feet earlier, so.
Matt: 60 feet of movement? His speed is 60?
Marisha: No, I'm sorry. His Earthglide is-- Yes, 30, so he moves up 20 feet.
Matt: 20 feet, all right. That finishes your turn, Keyleth. Scanlan, you're up. Actually, at the end of Keyleth's turn, it's going to use a legendary action to use a tail attack against you, Pike, because you are within 20 feet of it. As it's in the air, its tail whips out toward you. That is a 32 to hit. (laughter)
Ashley: Yeah. Nope. No. Doesn't hit.
Matt: You take 22 points of bludgeoning damage.
Ashley: And I'm staying up there?
Matt: You're barely holding on up there, but yes. You take the brunt of it with your shield, and it almost knocks you off the side. You manage to take your sword and dig in to the opposite side and catch yourself on the edge of the pillar. It does not knock you off. Scanlan, it is now your turn. At the top of your turn, you take six points of acid damage, reduced to three, as you've found your way into the stomach. He did not.
Sam: Is it big in there?
Matt: It's fairly spacious, but it's all squeezed together right now. It's not a giant, empty void, it's not a giant pocket of air in your stomach, it is a--
Liam: Click, motherfucker, click.
Matt: You're also holding your breath. You are also submerged in liquid that is dissolving you.
Sam: I can move my arms, though.
Matt: You can. You're still pressed in but you can move your hands, yeah.
Sam: Okay, that's good. I'm going to get that rod out and click it.
Matt: (laughs) Okay. Pulling out-- This is going to be weird. All right. So you take out the immovable rod and click it and as you release it, it stays there aloft in the center. You have darkvision as a gnome, correct?
Sam: Yes.
Matt: Right, so there in this space amongst the murky liquid you can just barely see its shape there and it is held aloft, yes.
Sam: Okay. That's good, that's positive, guys. We're getting somewhere. Is that my movement? Is that my bonus? What is that?
Matt: No, that's your action to pull it out and click it. Because it's not easy to do in your current circumstance.
Sam: Sure. Okay. Well, I guess that's my action and I guess as a bonus action I can't really do anything. (laughs) I can't inspire anyone because I don't think I can hear-- oh! I'm going to use the earring. Shit. Fuck. I'm going to just start screaming and say: can you hear me, Vax?
Matt: You guys hear through the earring, (incoherent high-pitched babbling). The air has now escaped your lungs.
Sam: Fuck!
Matt: You're not drowning yet. That ends your turn. Vex, you're up.
Laura: Do I get advantage on attacking it because of Guiding Bolt?
Matt: You do. The next attack, yes.
Sam: Did Vax reply?
Matt: Yeah, the Guiding Bolt, because the Guiding Bolt's technically the next attack, it did not give you advantage on the attack, because you're on the inside and you don't actually see the Guiding Bolt. It would go over to the next one.
Liam: I don't know what the fuck's going on, Matt, it's fine.
Laura: I've got to see, because I just want to know. How far does Grasping Vine go? Do you know, Keyleth?
Marisha: 60 feet? I can tell you super fast. No, 30 feet.
Laura: How high in the air is--
Matt: He is 30 feet up right now.
Marisha: You technically have a pillar that's 30 feet high adjacent to him that you can anchor it into a pillar.
Laura: I'm going to-- can it go from the bottom of the pillar up towards him?
Matt: If you want to. Down here, you mean?
Laura: Yeah, I want to try to grasp onto one of his legs and yank him back down towards the ground. Ooh, which would really hurt with the immovable rod inside of him.
Matt: Okay. All right. So using your bonus action, you conjure the vine as your one 4th-level spell.
Laura: I have two because I have a pearl of power.
Matt: Oh. So you would've had to have prepared that in advance. But yes, we'll say you do.
Laura: Okay. Oh, I didn't tell you. I should have.
Matt: You should have told me. But we'll say as part of the preparation you did that, okay. So Grasping Vine appears, lashes out from this pillar up at Umbrasyl.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: All right. The creature has to succeed on a dexterity saving throw or be pulled-- what's the DC on your spell?
Laura: Um, 16.
Matt: 16. That is a nine plus nine, that is 18. So the vine whips out and Umbrasyl backs up and pulls the leg up and it just hits the air beneath. Kicks away the vine.
Laura: That was my bonus.
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: Okay, then I'm going to attack him three times with my hasting.
Matt: Go for it. Yeah, three attacks.
Laura: All right.
Matt: First one has advantage.
Laura: Okay. 24?
Matt: 24 hits.
Laura: Okay. And that's sneak attack, because he's got somebody close to him. Inside of him.
Matt: It's technically not sneak attack. It's not so much about-- there's somebody close, but a person that is not threatening him from his current physical space, it is a bit of heartburn for him right now. You don't sneak attack somebody from eating bad pasta.
Laura: Cool. Then just seven--
Sam: Did he move?
Matt: Not yet, no. So how much damage is that?
Laura: Ten.
Matt: Ten points of damage for the first attack.
Laura: For the first attack.
Matt: Second attack? This does not have advantage, only the first one did. What was your first roll?
Laura: Then it doesn't hit. Then 26 for the last one.
Matt: 26 hits, so the first one hits, sticks part in the front of its armor, doesn't seem to phase it, the second one it actually hits the wing and the wing just shatters it and knocks it out of the air as it's keeping itself up. The third one, however, does strike and hit and it'll actually go between the scales of the neck. Roll for damage.
Laura: Nine.
Matt: Nine points of damage. Both arrows sticking out of the hardened exterior of the ancient black dragon.
Laura: The Grasping Vine just still hangs out there?
Matt: Yeah, it's just chilling on the side there. As long as you maintain concentration, it'll stay.
Travis: Is it grabbing him or not?
Matt: It failed with the grab. All right. End of your turn? Is that what you're doing?
Laura: Am I hiding still?
Matt: You have to use a bonus action to try and hide if you began the turn hiding. Or you can use your extra action from the haste to do it, but you already used it to attack, so you're not hidden.
Laura: Ugh! Fine.
Matt: (laughs) End of your turn, it's going to use another legendary action to do another tail attack against you, Pike.
Travis: Is that the third one?
Matt: That is a natural one. Umbrasyl goes to swing and suddenly there's a pulse in the stomach as you see Vax moving once again on the inside and doing so distracts it and the tail just swings overhead and you duck below it as it just barely misses your head by inches. One of your braids actually comes loose from the amount of wind that blows by. That brings us to--
Travis: What's left of the Herd.
Matt: Herd's turn.
Travis: Come on, goliaths and Herd, please roll better.
Matt: He is going to rush up around here. Grab the chains that they can. The chains have broken, so they're going to go ahead as part of their plan to begin to just unleash weaponry, so they just run through--
Marisha: Have they all broken? Maybe some just came loose.
Matt: This was their plan. The plan they agreed to. They're all taking out javelins now. They had them at their side. They're all leaping up towards it.
Laura: Are they just the stupidest goliaths, that they're all clumping together again?
Liam: That's redundant.
Laura: These guys are dumb.
Matt: You've met...
Travis: Scholars, the lot. You're going to pay for that later, by the way.
Matt: All right, so they're all going to take javelin shots at-- miss. Miss. Two-- miss. Hit. Hit. Three hits. And so they're all just (effort sounds) chucking these javelins upward. Four, eight, that's 12, plus seven-- 19 points of damage from the javelins as some stick in then fall out, the wounds are now becoming visible. Umbrasyl's-- there's visible wounding but doesn't appear to be in dire straits or anything. Grog, you're up.
Travis: Yes, I have two questions. One of the things I picked up from Kevdak were four enchanted javelins. What do those do?
Matt: They're thrown, ranged attacks.
Travis: And they're just enchanted?
Matt: They're plus one to hit and damage.
Travis: Just that.
Matt: That's it, yeah. It's a relatively simple enchantment.
Travis: What is my climbing speed? If my natural speed is 50 and I wanted to climb that column, what's the climbing speed?
Matt: Climbing speed? I mean, if you roll a decent climb check-- here. That would be-- I'd say that would be an athletics check to see if you can climb it, and I'd put it at about half speed. But you're also prone, so getting up from that's half your speed.
Travis: On my back, can I use my bonus action to drink the potion of speed, which makes me hasted?
Matt: Yes you can. You now have technically four attacks per round.
Travis: I do. And it doubles my speed, right?
Matt: Yes.
Travis: Okay, so I have 100 feet, so can I stand up?
Matt: Yep. 50 feet.
Travis: Can I try and climb that column towards Umbrasyl's feet?
Matt: Athletics check.
Travis: That's not awesome. 18.
Matt: 18. You just manage to get to the top with the last bit of your movement. So you are up about ten feet from Umbrasyl right now, pushing on 15 at an angle.
Travis: So I have four attacks?
Matt: Yes. You're not in melee, though.
Travis: Yeah, so I'll use three of the enchanted javelins and the javelin of lightning.
Matt: Okay. All right, so you (effort sounds) finally with the javelin of lightning. So go ahead and make the first three strikes.
Travis: Reckless, all of them.
Matt: Okay, so with advantage on each of these. The range on the javelin strikes, I'm just going to pull it up real fast, since this is the first time you've used this.
Travis: Yeah, it's 120 feet for the javelin of lightning.
Matt: Yeah, within 30-foot range, so it's fine. Go ahead and roll. First one is?
Travis: It's an 11 plus-- just my natural like--
Matt: It's 11 plus one for being enchanted.
Travis: Right.
Matt: Plus your strength modifier and your proficiency modifier.
Travis: Oh no, my proficiency--
Matt: Which is plus seven, I believe. Plus-- so yeah, that hits.
Travis: Okay. Where's my proficiency-- oh five, I got it.
Matt: Yeah, you're looking at plus 13 with these attacks. The first one hits.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: Second one.
Travis: Is 28.
Matt: Hits. Third one.
Travis: Is 19.
Matt: Misses. The lightning javelin you just throw and I think it hits.
Travis: And the second one, the last one is a 30.
Matt: The last one, I don't think you actually roll to hit with the javelin, it just becomes a bolt of lightning.
Travis: That's right.
Matt: So roll 1d6 plus eight for damage on two of those javelins.
Travis: So that's 12.
Matt: All right.
Travis: 14.
Matt: All righty. And now with the javelin of lightning. Makes its save. That is a 21 with the save. What's the DC?
Travis: 17.
Matt: 17, so it takes the half damage.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: What's the damage on it total?
Travis: 4d6.
Matt: Go ahead and roll that and he takes half damage.
Travis: 13.
Matt: 13, all righty. So 13, and then halved.
Travis: Six--
Matt: Six points of lightning damage. Okay. The last hit, the javelin turns into a bolt of lightning, and streaks through, hits and impacts and then just falls to the ground, the energy expended. Jamming itself into the dirt not far from the ground. End of your turn, Grog. Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: Okay, my first shot, taking a wing shot.
Matt: All right, go for it.
Taliesin: That's 20, that does not hit.
Matt: 20. It just ricochets off the armor.
Taliesin: All right, that's one grit. Taking another shot.
Matt: Okay, reload, and then shot again.
Taliesin: That hits. 30.
Matt: 30 hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
Taliesin: 15 points of damage. And he has to make a strength saving throw.
Matt: Strength saving throw. That is a 19.
Taliesin: DC is 19.
Matt: Okay, so it succeeds.
Taliesin: It succeeds on the 19?
Matt: Yeah, you have to meet or exceed.
Taliesin: Okay, I'm going to burn an action surge to take a third shot.
Matt: All right. So reload, shot, reload. Go for it.
Taliesin: 21 does not hit?
Matt: 21 does not hit. It just steers wide, shooting past the beating wings.
Taliesin: Yeah, and then I'm going to just hide behind that tree and wait for my next round.
Matt: Okay. All right. Ending your turn, Percy. Noja is going to use the third and final Lightning Bolt, now arcing up to the entity. Makes its save with a 27. All right, bringing us to-- 8d6. 13 points of lightning damage against Umbrasyl from Noja, and Noja steps back behind, looking exasperated and spent on some of the upper-echelon spells at his disposal. Now it comes to-- actually, at the end of Noja's turn, Umbrasyl's going to use its last legendary action to make one more tail swipe at you, Grog.
Travis: Yup.
Matt: That is going to be a 29 to hit.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: All righty. You take-- that's really bad. That's 11 points of bludgeoning damage reduced to five.
Travis: I stay up?
Matt: Yeah, you stay up. (loud clanging sound from Skype)
Matt: What's happening over there?
Liam: Taliesin!
Matt: All right. Top of Umbrasyl's turn. See if this recharges. Umbrasyl is going to attempt to move to the left.
Liam: Yeah, try it, buddy. Internal damage.
Sam: The rod supports 8,000 pounds of pressure.
Matt: Correct. If the creature pushes against it, it must make a DC 30 strength check to move the rod up to ten feet in a single round. So. Nope.
Liam: That thing's fixed in space.
Matt: It goes to move and (grunts) and is feeling something tear through on the inside of its area so it stops with this sharp pain. Takes one point of damage, but the warning is there. It does not move. However, (laughs) the acid breath did recharge on a five. It's going to go ahead and go right there. Angrily lay down right there.
Laura: No!
Ashley: No!
Liam: But you're resistant.
Taliesin: Isn't he having plummeting issues if he's not moving?
Matt: No, if your speed is zero you plummet is how it works.
Taliesin: Okay.
Matt: No, they all fail. All right. They are all right over here. Wrecked. Wrecked. Wrecked. Wrecked.
Laura: Where's Zanror?
Matt: Zanror's right there at the bottom.
Laura: Where's his wife?
Matt: His wife is over here. And when I say wrecked, they're on the ground, their flesh dissolving and screaming in pain. The Herd has been heavily culled in but a few rounds. There's a little bit of horror to it. I need both Grog and Keyleth as an earth elemental to make a dexterity saving throw.
Travis: 16.
Marisha: I rolled a two with a minus one, so one. Not a natural one. Rolled a two.
Matt: You both suffer 82 points of acid damage.
Marisha: Okay.
Travis: Resistance, so I halve that?
Matt: Yeah, you take 41 points of acid damage.
Marisha: I'm in tank mode, so I'm good. I'm an earth elemental.
Matt: Unable to move, that is the end of Umbrasyl's turn. That's messed up. (laughter)
Matt: Pike, you're up.
Ashley: I am going to cast Blindness on him.
Matt: What's the DC on the check? What is it, is it wisdom?
Ashley: I think it's constitution. Constitution saving throw.
Matt: All right, constitution saving throw. That is 18 plus 14. 32. I think that succeeds.
Liam: You don't know. She might've rolled a 78.
Ashley: You don't know! That's fine. I'm going to move my Spiritual Weapon.
Matt: All right. So it now shifts up into space as a bonus action, and you can make a ranged spell attack against it as the sword arcs upward towards Umbrasyl. Go ahead and roll, add your spell attack modifier.
Ashley: 29.
Matt: That hits. Go ahead and roll damage. 1d8 plus five, correct? Pretty sure.
Ashley: 1d8 for every two slot levels--
Matt: You did second level for that one, because it was a bonus action. 1d8 plus five.
Ashley: Nine.
Matt: Nine points of damage against Umbrasyl. Blade just streaks across and more sparks fly, but this time you can see it left a carve of glowing red mark across the scales where the blade managed to do some damage to it. That ends your turn, Pike. Vax, you're up. You immediately take eight points of bludgeoning damage as it begins to crush you from the inside.
Liam: Okay. I'm going to use my bonus action to-- can I sneak attack this thing from inside? I'm inside him! That's very surprising!
Matt: It's different! It's not like a soft gooey center. All of its body is still very dense, sinewy muscle in the vicinity. You don't know where you are in its body, so you don't know where the actual weak points are. So, given those circumstances, your ability to barely move-- Probably not.
Liam: Probably not? All right. Well. I'm going to use my bonus action first to hit it. It's at disadvantage?
Matt: Yes. All attacks because you're still restrained.
Liam: Okay, so that is 19, which fucks up.
Matt: That unfortunately is not cutting through.
Liam: And now I'm going to use the dragon sword. Okay. That's a 21?
Matt: 21, just barely not able to cut through the dense hide, the blade is caught on what feels like a ligament or something, it can't quite carve through with your body all crushed up inside.
Liam: Well. I will, for my turn, suffocate and also Fassbender should still be trying to recharge.
Matt: Correct. So go ahead and roll a d6.
Liam: d6. Four.
Matt: Four. Fassbender's still standing there. On a five or six, it recharges. That ends Vax's turn. Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: Okay. As an earth elemental I want to drop into the earth and Earthglide.
Matt: All right. How many feet are you going?
Marisha: With my 60 feet-- question, can I get across and to the top of this pillar here? Maybe?
Matt: Oh, right there?
Marisha: That one.
Matt: You can get up to there. You're wider than the pillar, though. You like--
Marisha: Earthglide to the top, so it's 30 feet tall. (nervous laughter) And I'm going to use my momentum to see if I can rocket myself out and see if I can jump and grab onto his leg.
Matt: Okay, so you're making this a jump action, then?
Marisha: Yeah, I want to shoot out of the pillar.
Matt: Using the momentum of the Earthglide?
Marisha: And shoot out with a waterslide trajectory, woo! Yeah? Maybe?
Matt: Okay. I'll say that-- It's pretty fast-- Also pretty heavy as an earth elemental.
Marisha: I'm thinking about it real hard.
Matt: Go ahead and make an athletics check.
Marisha: So is that strength as a--
Matt: That would be strength as an earth elemental if you do not have a specific skill for it.
Marisha: I'm going to use Scanlan's inspiration. Ooh, that's good. 18 plus five, so, 23.
Matt: 23. You manage to leap and catch the bottom of its foot. (cheering)
Matt: You're not halting or doing anything to Umbrasyl other than the fact that you're holding on to--
Marisha: But I've got his foot. And I'm heavy as fuck. Well, if Fassbender weighs, what was it, like 1,200 pounds? 2,800 pounds?
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: So I'm at least as heavy if not heavier than Fassbender.
Marisha: A ton is 1,000 pounds. Right?
Matt: 2,000.
Marisha: 2,000 pounds.
Laura: I thought a ton was 3,000 pounds.
Marisha: None of us fucking know. Why didn't we go metric?
Matt: The European watchers are like--
Marisha: Yeah, what are they talking about? Okay. I'm holding on for dear life.
Matt: All right. That ends your turn. Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: I know from my experience going to the pubs with Grog--
Matt: Take eight points of acid damage, by the way, as you're slowly dissolving. Reduced to four.
Sam: I'm fine. How's my lungs?
Matt: Oh Keyleth, by the way, I need you to make a concentration check before I forget.
Marisha: Okay. Yeah. No, that's. Wait, do I add anything?
Matt: Well the DC is half the damage you took from the breath weapon, so 40. So who did you cast the resist acid on? You're no longer resistant to acid, Grog.
Travis: Copy that.
Marisha: Sorry.
Travis: No, it came in handy for the one.
Marisha: It did.
Sam: How's my lungs? Am I dying here?
Matt: Your air is out, you're still holding your breath, per se, but you have one more round before you actually probably start--
Liam: I would like to say that Liam O'Brien, who's a total wuss-puss, can hold his breath for like 50 seconds.
Sam: While you're screaming?
Liam: So Vax and Scanlan should be--
Matt: You're doing okay. He screamed and released all the air out of his lungs. So he's now completely collapsed lungs, no air to subsist on.
Sam: I'm almost out. I'm going to see if I can last one more round in here.
Matt: Okay, what are you doing? (laughs)
Sam: Well, as I was saying, I know from my time drinking with Grog that any sort of blow to the stomach will really make you barf pretty easily, so I'm going to set off a Thunderwave at level six and hope that he spits me up.
Ashley: Spits you both up, maybe.
Liam: I'm still in its anus.
Travis: We don't even know where you are, really.
Sam: You're done, friend, sorry.
Matt: All right, so at a sixth level we're looking at 7d8 thunder damage.
Sam: Yes. Thunder damage.
Matt: Go ahead and roll that.
Marisha: Do you need more d8s?
Liam: All part of the plan.
Sam: Yeah, this is totally thought-out.
Liam: The hastily smushed-together plan.
Sam: 7d8?
Matt: That is a DC, it rolled a nine plus 14, so it succeeds.
Sam: So it'll be halved.
Matt: Half damage.
Sam: Okay.
Liam: Eat some shit, Umbrasyl.
Sam: 25.
Matt: 25.
Sam: Only 12 points.
Matt: 12 points. I need you to make a constitution saving throw, because you are on the other side of the membrane from Scanlan and suddenly there's a giant impactful forceful blow as the outside of the stomach crushes--
Liam: Natural 20! (cheering)
Matt: You take 12 points of damage as well.
Liam: (laughs) Okay, I'll take it.
Matt: Constitution saving throw on Umbrasyl's part for-- Rolled a natural 20, so Umbrasyl's not vomiting.
Sam: Not vomiting.
Matt: Nope, rolled a natural 20 to see if it could hold it down. There's a boof from the inside of the dragon--
Sam: Does a little come up and he swallows it back down?
Matt: Basically. A little, almost.
Ashley: Maybe you got a little air though. For you.
Sam: I don't know, did that make a little air?
Ashley: Probably give you enough time to (inhales).
Matt: From the source of the force that probably pushed it away for a second, air is pulled through the esophagus instinctually as when the space opens it has to suck through, there's this (gasp) sound, so yes, there is a moment of air that is pushed back out. You can see upwards a brief little glimpse of light at the top of the esophagus as the mouth is forced open as the air is pulled in and the blast streaks out angrily. Scanlan, is that your turn?
Sam: I can't do much else. Do I have any movement?
Matt: You are restrained so your movement is zero.
Sam: Even in the water? I'm in a womb-like state.
Matt: You're not like floating in a giant pool of water. You're crushed against membranes with acid. Remember the scene in Akira when Tetsuo gets too big and the girl gets crushed briefly? You're in that middle period right there, you're between two folds of stomach lining and there is just acid all around. It's awesome.
Sam: All right. Then I can't really do much. Oh! Shit. No, I would've had to call it earlier. Never mind.
Ashley: What?
Liam: I just want to remind everyone, I am really small. I fit between muscles, bones, ligaments, anything.
Sam: I could have done Cutting Words after I cast my spell, but I didn't, so forget it. Shit.
Matt: At the end of your turn, it's going to use a legendary action to do a wing attack, actually two actions cost. Begins beating its wings rapidly in this vicinity. I need both Grog and Pike to make dexterity saving throws.
Liam: Scanlan, we're safe from all this shit.
Sam: I know! This is the best place to be. We're only going to suffocate and be crushed.
Travis: 18.
Ashley: 18.
Matt: Both of you take 15 points of bludgeoning damage and are thrust towards the edge of the stone, I need you both to make strength checks to resist the force to the blow.
Marisha: Hold on! Nice.
Travis: 21.
Ashley: Ten.
Travis: Is 15 halved for me for the bludgeoning, or is that already halved?
Matt: No, it's halved for you after that. However, you both are, from the sheer force of the wind, blown off the top--
Travis: A 21?
Marisha: What did you have to beat?
Matt: 23. Ancient dragon. You both fall and take an additional eight points of bludgeoning damage.
Ashley: I'm going to use my celestial shield and cast Featherfall.
Matt: Okay. So you take no damage from the additional seven. You catch yourself on the ground.
Travis: My eight is halved.
Matt: Yeah, you're both prone at the bottom of the pillars. All right. That was the end of Scanlan's turn. Back to the top, Vex, you're up.
Laura: Okay, I'm going to try Conjure fucking Animals again. By the way, I was wrong. My pearl of power only works up to level three, so I don't have two level fours, I already used the one. So. Conjure Animals, again, two more giant eagles out of the ether. This time I want to conjure them like ten feet above his head.
Matt: Okay. Actually, because I didn't see you I need you to go ahead and make a save as well, because you were on it as it's beating its wings, too.
Marisha: Even though I'm holding on to his leg?
Matt: Yep. Go ahead and make a dexterity saving throw.
Marisha: That's not good. Four.
Matt: Four. You also take 15 points of bludgeoning damage.
Marisha: Halved because I'm an elemental.
Matt: And I need you to go ahead and make a strength saving throw.
Marisha: Strength? 19.
Matt: 19. You are blown off of the dragon's body.
Marisha: That sucks.
Matt: Like a rock slamming into the ground.
Laura: Oh, she knocked out a pillar on the way down.
Matt: You take 12 points of bludgeoning damage from the impact with the ground, leaving a small crater. However, there are two giant eagles that are now floating in the vicinity around the dragon. The eagles are summoned. Their initiative is not bad. They're going to be after Grog.
Laura: Okay. So they're above his head now, so if he shoots acid down, they'll be here. And their command is, attack his eyeballs. Okay. I'm going to use my boots of haste. For my perception, would I be able to see any weird little bumps on the dragon? Because my brother's been in there a while. Can I see anything going on?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Liam: I'm behind his left nipple. It's pretty good already. It's pretty good.
Sam: Our earrings should work.
Laura: I'm sorry.
Sam: We don't need to talk.
Laura: 28. No, 29 perception.
Matt: 29? All right. You notice, on the outskirts of like the central row of scales, there is a small lump that is constantly struggling not far from the surface and is just darting around like a cartoon flea.
Laura: I'm going to aim right by there. But not quite at it. I want to make an opening around it.
Matt: All right. Roll for it.
Liam: Man, remember when we used to do hopscotch? That was the best. And then also we used to take baths together when we were really little, but that was when we were really little--
Laura: 20. Doesn't hit.
Matt: 20, it hits and shatters--
Ashley: Can I use War God's Blessing again? I use it every turn. Every round.
Matt: I think it's a Channel Divinity, in which case I don't think you can. War God's Blessing, Channel Divinity-- Which currently-- You can use it a second time between rests. Yeah. So you can.
Ashley: Let's do it.
Matt: So that does hit.
Laura: Oh, it hits?
Matt: Plus ten to the attack, so it hits.
Laura: Oh my goodness!
Travis: Pike!
Liam: Vex'ahlia--
Laura: Ten damage.
Matt: Let's see here, what's the range on that one?
Marisha: He's consulting the book again.
Matt: Just checking to see the range on that last because it does have a range--
Laura: He's getting my hopes up and then he's going to dash them down to the ground.
Matt: It's what I do. Creature within 30 feet of you makes an attack roll, so you could not, unfortunately.
Ashley: What was that, say again?
Matt: Has to be within 30 feet of you. She's too far away. So that one does miss, shatters across the armor of the dragon. You have one more attack and then your extra if you want to.
Laura: That one doesn't work either. (mock-crying) Okay, that's good. 23!
Matt: 23 hits.
Laura: Okay. 11.
Matt: 11 points of damage.
Sam: Yeah, he's dead!
Laura: How do I want to do this? (laughter)
Matt: You can't summon it yourself.
Laura: Dammit!
Matt: Sticks into and pierces through. You feel a (impact sound) nearby. And what little bit of vision you have in the squeezed area, dark as it is using your elven darkvision, you can see what looks to be a part of an arrow point that has stuck through the armor.
Liam: I wrap my fingers around it.
Matt: Okay. Ends Vex's turn.
Sam: You don't know if it's Vex's. It could be anybody's!
Liam: Shut the fuck up, gnome!
Matt: At this point, Zanror looks over to Worra and says, "We have to go. Save our child." And Worra looks and sees all the dead around her. "Only if you come with me." Looks back and says, "No. I don't run from this. I'm going to kill this with my cousin." She turns and goes into a full dash this way, escaping. This guy's going to go ahead and begin to climb up. And gets partway up. Not all the way. Take a step back and make four arrow shots at it. That's a hit, a miss, a miss, and a miss. Takes an additional ten points of damage from the arrow. That guy over there is going to move around and he's going to grab one of the dropped chains on the ground and throw it up to see if it can wrap around Umbrasyl. Seven does not hit. It just arcs below and falls to the ground. That's going to end the Herd's turn. Grog, you're up.
Travis: Still hasted. Can I stand up?
Matt: Okay, so 50 feet.
Travis: And with the Titanstone Knuckles, can I smash them together and cast Enlarge on myself? (cheering)
Travis: How tall am I?
Matt: You are twice your size, so you're pushing about 12 feet.
Laura: He's only six feet tall?
Marisha: He's gotta be taller than six feet.
Matt: It's roughly half your height, not perfect--
Liam: You're 15 feet tall now, Grog.
Laura: Yeah, 20 feet, you're probably 20 feet.
Marisha: 15 sounds nicer. Rounds up.
Matt: Don't argue with the DM.
Marisha: I'm not arguing, we're rounding up.
Liam: You're like two feet tall now and it's really impressive.
Travis: Being that I'm hasted, can I move directly behind Umbrasyl, like underneath him and behind? And can I attach the chain of returning to the Bloodaxe--
Matt: I assume it was attached before the battle.
Travis: Yes. And can I throw it at Umbrasyl?
Matt: Go for it.
Travis: Do I have four? No, I just have one throw.
Matt: You have one throw. It hits and then you can pull it back.
Travis: If I want to.
Matt: Yes.
Travis: Reckless.
Matt: Yes.
Travis: That's even better. 29.
Matt: 29 hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
Travis: 21. With one point of necrotic damage.
Matt: 21 points of damage onto Umbrasyl. All righty. It is embedded in there. Do you want to pull back?
Travis: I don't want to pull it loose. I just want to weigh on it.
Matt: Okay, you weigh. All right. At the end of your turn, it's going to go ahead and make a tail attack against one of the eagles. That is going to be a 21 to hit.
Laura: I bet that hits.
Matt: The giant eagle takes 20 points of bludgeoning damage.
Laura: I'm sure that probably kills him.
Marisha: He has 26 hit points.
Laura: He's got six points left.
Matt: Okay, so the eagle right there has six hit points left.
Travis: Does enlarging do anything to my damage? Sorry.
Matt: You do an additional 1d4 damage with any melee attacks.
Travis: I didn't do that. Can I do that?
Matt: Melee attacks. Although the weapon does grow large. I'll say go ahead and do another 1d4.
Travis: Hey, four!
Matt: There you go. So that's an additional four damage. Great. So that's the eagles' turn. What do you got, Laura?
Laura: They're going to fly and attack his eyeballs! Fuck him up.
Ashley: Get him!
Matt: Roll attack, they have two attacks each, so roll four attacks.
Laura: Roll four attacks?
Matt: Yes. Plus five to each.
Liam: That one hits.
Laura: That's good. That hits. That one doesn't.
Matt: 23 hits.
Laura: Ooh! Then one other attack hits.
Matt: So two hits. All right. So that is--
Laura: So those would be, like, one beak and one talon maybe?
Matt: It would be one beak and one talon, yeah. Go for it. So 1d6 plus three and then 2d6 plus three.
Laura: Nine for one on the eyeballs.
Matt: Nice.
Laura: And eight on the talons.
Matt: Not bad. Both streaking out and clawing heavily at the dragon. It's bothered by it very remotely. It's more distracted with the sharp pain in its stomach.
Laura: Eyeballs.
Matt: Well yeah, I mean, they're striking at it, they don't go straight for the eyeballs, the dragon goes here, hit. They're getting near it and scraping it, the scales around it, it's moving its horns around and batting them away. If you wanted to make called shots for its eyes specifically, none of those would've hit. Outside of a natural 20, none of them would've hit. And even a dragon's eyes have pretty decent armor.
Laura: That's cool, okay, good to know.
Matt: So Percy, you're up. Oh, we've lost audio on Percy.
Laura: Oh no!
Sam: Text us your move.
Taliesin: No, I'm good.
Matt: What are you doing?
Taliesin: All right. I'm taking two shots. That's all I got left.
Matt: All right. Go for it.
Taliesin: Here we go. 23?
Matt: 23 hits.
Taliesin: Ah! Hm. Ah. Okay. That's, eee, (broken audio).
Travis: Say that again, Perce.
Taliesin: 20, 24 points of damage.
Matt: Nice.
Taliesin: Six of which are necrotic. I'm taking my second shot.
Matt: All right. Reload, second shot.
Taliesin: Reload, fire. Fuck my life. That's m--(audio glitches)
Matt: Misfire? Oh no. Bad News just (muffled explosion).
Taliesin: Putting it away, pulling out the other gun.
Matt: All right, so that's the end of your turn?
Taliesin: That's the end of my turn.
Matt: All right. Noja actually is getting scared, yeah. Noja is actually hiding behind the tree and is shaking now, his body, malnourishment that whole time and this dragon taking all of these blows and is still standing has gotten to his head. Umbrasyl is going to look around in the vicinity, you know, starting to show some wear and tear and some serious damage to it now. And it's going to go into a dive. As it does so, you watch as the rod hits the edge of the body and tears through the stomach.
Liam: Damage.
Matt: And tears through the abdomen and out the side of it. The immovable rod now shoots out the side of its body.
Marisha: That's going to be a lot of damage, right?
Liam: That's a fuckin' missile.
Matt: That is 37 points of piercing damage as it ejects from the side. He is going to--
Travis: I'm still attached to him, too.
Matt: Correct. As you are pulled up, let's see here.
Travis: I'm going for a ride.
Marisha: We burned through all of his legendary saves.
Sam: One more.
Liam: You're attached to him? By a chain?
Travis: Yup.
Matt: You, Grog, are now being lifted up. Make a strength check.
Travis: Advantage on this. 24.
Matt: 24, yeah. Umbrasyl lifts up and goes full flying speed of 80 feet this way, carrying you dangling beneath and is going to go into a dash and continue to fly up towards Gatshadow.
Sam: (terrified laughter)
Liam: He's scared.
Matt: With Scanlan and Vax inside him still.
Liam: Work that broom, girl!
Matt: Grog dangling from beneath. And that's where we're going to pick up the next one. (yelling)
Matt: It's midnight!
Travis: Three of us are not here next week.
Matt: Three of you are not here-- That's right. Do you guys want to keep going then?
Liam: Yes!
Travis: It's either that or--
Matt: Or you're going to have to wait two weeks.
Travis: We're not here.
Laura: What do you guys think? Would you rather wait two weeks?
Liam: I want to go.
Laura: I mean, this is you guys, too. You guys have to stay.
Sam: You want to go, keep going?
Liam: Keep going.
Sam: It could be a long night.
Ashley: Who's not here next week?
Travis: Laura, Travis, and Sam.
Matt: Yeah, we're probably going to take off next week because we're missing half the party.
Sam: Oh, so we'll just skip next week and come back in two weeks.
Liam: No, it's on us, because we have jobs and getting up in the morning.
Matt: Yeah, we have work tomorrow.
Sam: Why don't we skip next week and come back in two weeks to finish?
Laura: I feel like that's smarter.
Matt: All right, let's do that.
Liam: You're leaving me in this thing's anus for two weeks?
Travis: That 30 minutes fucked us.
Matt: Picking up in two weeks from now. (yelling)
Marisha: This is awful.
Sam: The worst cliffhanger ever.
Matt: We have the remnants of the Herd and most of Vox Machina left behind as Umbrasyl flies off to the peaks of Gatshadow, dragging a large chain-held Grog beneath and a miniaturized Vax and Scanlan inside of its body.
Liam: Yeah, but I'm holding an arrow that's half in and out of the dragon. So I've got a little tunnel out.
Marisha: Make a little breathing hole?
Sam: I see a hole that goes to the outside now.
Travis: It's the shaft of an arrow.
Taliesin: This is chaos. I will see you guys later. I can't hear anything.
Marisha: Bye, Taliesin! We love you!
Matt: Oh man, this is going to get real interesting.
Sam: How are we going to survive two weeks thinking about this? I know what we'll do! We'll subscribe to Loot Crate and we'll find all sorts of things to keep us-- We'll be able to play with new toys and drink from-- (laughing)
Travis: Made me drop my fucking jelly bean.
Laura: That went south. That went seriously south.
Sam: We're not doing well.
Travis: We're doing great.
Matt: You guys did pretty good. Dragon's taken some damage.
Liam: Is it two Thursdays from now yet?
Matt: No, but it will be soon. All right, guys. We'll figure out what we're doing next Thursday. It might be another Q&A hangout session for those of us who are still in town.
Liam: Son of a b.
Ashley: Why are you guys going?
Marisha: Are you still going to be in Puerto Rico that long? No?
Travis: No.
Matt: They got birthday events and travel to do. It's all good. We'll be back here in two weeks, back here next week for probably a Q&A hangout session, two weeks from now with the dramatic conclusion of the showdown with Umbrasyl the Hope Devourer, member of the Chroma Conclave.
Liam: Matt, if you were wondering what to get me for my birthday, it's to kill my character in two weeks.
Laura: No! That is so terrible. Don't say that.
Matt: (laughs) That's awful.
Marisha: Such a death wish.
Liam: Kill me.
Laura: No.
Marisha: Hope Devourer. Maiden name Hope. Maiden name Hope.
Liam: The dragon's name is Hope.
Matt: We'll see you in a few weeks? Well, some of us will see you next week. Rest well, dream of flying dragons digesting smaller people. (laughs) See you guys soon. Is it Thursday yet? Good night.

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors battle traffic from E3 to get here in time to roll dice and play Dungeons and Dragons.
Travis: Yeah, we do.
Sam: Video games!
Marisha: All the video games.
Matt: Thank you for being patient and waiting for us with a couple of tech issues and generally battling living in Los Angeles and having a car. Anyway, before we kick the night off, real fast, I just want to take a moment to acknowledge-- and I feel it's important to acknowledge there's been a lot of difficulty and a lot of terrible things happening in the world and in our country in particular this past week or so. And us as Critical Role and this community around, I'm sure many of you agree, we just wanted to take a moment to express that we stand with the families of those that are currently dealing with this difficulty, who have lost those, and stand with the community that this was aimed at. And everybody who has come together as part of this, we are in full support of this whole wonderful gathering of people in light of this darkness, and I think it's not just myself when I say that everything this community stands for is to perpetually spread love, community, positivity, acceptance, and everything in between. So we just wanted to bring that to you guys and let you know that we're thinking about you all out there. And we have a wonderful community of Critters out there as well. If anyone needs any help, assistance, or guidance, or even just a happy word to pick them up during this rough time, we're all there for you. So, anyway. (blows kiss, sighs) Then, to kick off this evening of announcements and such, we are kicking into the second day of our renewed Loot Crate sponsorship. (cheering)
Matt: We wanted to reinforce that their current theme is Dystopia, which is an awesome theme box that deals with all sorts of things of post-apocalypse and dystopian-type films, games, the whole thing. They have Fallout, RoboCop, BioShock, a whole bunch of really, really cool things, so if you guys want to go to lootcrate.com/criticalrole, you can go ahead and get $3 off your subscription and get a whole bunch of that cool stuff. We also have the Dystopia DX, which is their big collector's box--
Travis: So awesome.
Matt: which we showed last week.
Laura: Oh, is that what this one was from?
Marisha: Yeah, your sweet shirt.
Ashley: I love that shirt.
Laura: Yeah, Skeletor!
Matt: (laughs) That's pretty slick. If you guys have a chance to check it out, go see if it's something you'd be interested in, and make sure you put in the criticalrole-- all one word-- code to go ahead and get your subscription discount, which is fantastic.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: We're happy to present that (funny accent) and are happy that they like our show enough to come and sponsor, which is awesome. (normal voice) So check that out. You have until the 19th at 9pm Pacific to subscribe and receive the Dystopia theme, otherwise it switches over to the next theme, so if you're gonna get under the wire for that one, (funny accent) do it soon. It's like a-- yeah! We have a--
Travis: Were giving out crates in a chat room thing, don't we?
Matt: You think so?
Travis: Yeah.
Sam: Giving out crates?
Laura: We are?
Ashley: Yeah.
Taliesin: Are we?
Marisha: Are we?
Laura: (gasps) That's exciting!
Ashley: It's going to be one at the break? It's going to be a giveaway at the break?
Matt: Oh, snap.
Ashley: I'm just going to start making stuff up.
Travis: Is that-- did you just point and--
Ashley: Point, shoot.
Sam: Loot Crate has donated two Loot Crate DX boxes to give away to you. We will be doing this at the break and at the end of the night, random in chat. You must be active! Stay tuned for that! Exclamation point!
Marisha: I'm so glad someone wrote that down for us!
Taliesin: Yeah, I'm so glad they wrote out the exclamation point.
Travis: I'm in the chat right now.
Laura: (laughing) Yeah.
Travis: Totally.
Sam: Remind you, gotta stay active.
Marisha: You're active? Stay active.
Matt: Stay active, Travis. In the game! (snaps fingers) Eyes up here, Grog. (laughter)
Matt: All right, so the next couple of things we want to mention to you guys real fast: We have, it started up today, a Critical Role t-shirt contest that went up.
Laura: Yeah!
Matt: We're doing this with Woobox. The link should be in the chat room for you guys to check out, but we have currently, until June 24th at midnight, the cut-off date, but if anyone wants to submit any designs, all the rules for the contest are there. When all those designs have been submitted, we ourselves, the cast of Critical Role, are going to pore through and pick our favorite.
Laura: Top three.
Matt: Top three?
Laura: Yes.
Travis: Top three faves.
Matt: (funny accent) And we will have designs incoming forward for official Critical Role shirt stuffs, which is nice.
Travis: (similar accent) Critter.
Laura: (similar accent) Critter, it's a Critter shirt.
Marisha: Critter shirt.
Travis: (similar accent) Critter community t-shirt.
Sam: Are they all going to be like Boaty McBoatface or something? (laughter)
Laura: What's Boaty McBoatface?
Sam: Boaty McBoatface is like an online "name our boat." (all say Boaty McBoatface)
Matt: Say Boaty McBoatface so we can get into this, and I'll be happy. (laughter)
Travis: Do your worst. Show us your best. Yes!
Marisha: All right, who did we send to Alaska? Who was that? Was that Flo Rida?
Matt: No. Oh, Alaska? That was... Redman. Bulldog.
Marisha: Bulldog!
Taliesin: Pitbull.
Marisha: Pitbull! Pitbull!
Matt: I mess up his name intentionally all the time.
Travis: Bullman?
Taliesin: (groans)
Marisha: (laughing) Pitbull.
Ashley: Bulldog. Shih tzu.
Marisha: He played in, like, a Wal-Mart in Anchorage.
Laura: But it was like a joke for publicity, right?
Matt: He went ahead and did it! The online poll for his next performance, the internet trolled him and made it to this far Alaska performance.
Marisha: A Wal-Mart in Anchorage, or something like that.
Laura: And he did it
Matt: And he did it! I was like, "respect to you, man. Well done."
Marisha: Yeah, respect. Like 50 people showed up.
Laura: That's awesome!
Marisha: And got a private--
Laura: Concert.
Marisha: Yeah.
Taliesin: You know what, I've done a con in Anchorage. It's nice. I like it.
Travis: Yeah, man. Anchorage moose.
Taliesin: They've got moose.
Laura: Can we talk about our next thing because I'm so excited about it.
Sam: Yeah.
Taliesin: What's the next thing?
Marisha: Yeah.
Sam: Do we get to show it, or no?
Laura: YES.
Taliesin: Oh, yes, that!
Liam: (frustrated noises)
Laura: Wait, okay, so Liam gets to say it.
Matt: So, you are technically DM.
Liam: So some of you might remember us talking about Joe Madureira and his Kickstarter game, Darksiders Night War, which he successfully Kickstarted. We talked about it a bunch on this show--
Matt: Battle War, you mean?
Liam: Hm?
Matt: Darksiders was--
Liam: Excuse me. Battle Chasers.
Laura: Battle Chasers.
Liam: Excuse me, I was going to be here for a half hour and settle down and go over my talking points.
Liam: Battle Chasers.
Sam: You're wearing the shirt.
Liam: Battle Chasers. I'm wearing the damn shirt. (laughter)
Liam: Sorry. Hour and a half in L.A. traffic. Anyway. He successfully Kickstarted, they're working on it, I just saw him at E3, I saw him a couple of days ago. If you don't know Joe's work, he is a comic book artist rock star. He has worked on X-men, he's worked on Avenging Spider-Man, Inhumans, Ultimates 3, and his own comic, Battle Chasers, which I fell in love with when I was a teenager. He does gorgeous artwork. He's only gotten better with time.
Sam: Pitbull Chasers.
Marisha: (laughs)
Liam: Pitbull Chasers, Flo Rida, and Joe collaborating together. Anyway, that game's coming out. You should check it out, this is it. But I bring that up because while Joe is a busy, busy guy, he somehow found the time-- I'm so excited-- to create an exclusive art piece for Critical Role.
Ashley: Can we bring it in?
Marisha: So gorgeous.
Laura: Okay, okay, okay. (noises of awe)
Liam: Look at that business. So right now--
Laura: It's blocking my face, but I want to see it.
Marisha: Well, we've seen it tiny.
Liam: Guys, if you go over to the Geek and Sundry shop right now, this is on pre-order, so-- I'm going over my script-- signed versions of this will be available for pre-order for 2 weeks only.
Travis: Yeah, limited 2-week run, y'all. Get it.
Liam: 2-week pre-order. And then unsigned for 3 weeks.
Laura: 3 weeks.
Liam: So this is now or never.
Ashley: It's so badass!
Marisha: Now or never and then it goes away forever.
Laura: Forever!
Liam: And it's too gorgeous, too. Oh my lord.
Marisha: It's so gorgeous.
Ashley: I wonder if we should show a close-up or something.
Laura: So yeah, keep in mind when you order it on pre-order that you have to wait for it to be fully pre-ordered before we can send it out. I don't know if that was on camera because I'm above the poster. (laughter)
Ashley: It's so sexy.
Marisha: You're so sexy.
Liam: It's all right. Vex is on the paper, so.
Laura: That's right.
Marisha: Pike in that three-point landing!
Laura: Oh no, don't take it away.
Ashley: (singing) Goodbye, my love!
Travis: There's an image on the website, right?
Marisha: And they are movie-poster size. They are that size.
Laura: Yeah, they're that full-on--
Liam: They're 24 x 36. Gorgeous.
Marisha: 24 x 36.
Sam: And there's a place to click on the page where you are right now watching this.
Matt: Those are my eyes. I'm on a poster!
Marisha: If you scroll down, there'll be a button.
Liam: Scroll down to the bottom of the page, there's a button for that.
Marisha: Scroll down, there's a button.
Liam: Thank you, Joe. Thank you. It's gorgeous.
Laura: Thank you, Joe!
Marisha: Thank you, Joe!
Matt: Thank you, Joe. It's amazing.
Ashley: Thanks, Joe!
Taliesin: That's amazing.
Laura: It's beautiful.
Ashley: I love it so much.
Matt: It is getting framed and becoming a centerpiece of our home.
Liam: And Battle Chasers Night War. You should check it out today. (laughter)
Matt: All righty.
Sam: Signed, by the way, signed by us, not by the artist.
Liam: Us. By us.
Marisha: Yeah, by us.
Taliesin: You could find him. Hunt him down if you wanted to.
Marisha: Yes. (laughs)
Matt: (in a funny accent) Taliesin, you are going to be somewhere this weekend, are you not?
Taliesin: Oh, god, I am. As soon as we're done here, I go home and pack and get on an airplane. I will be at Amazing Comic Con in Vegas all weekend.
Travis: You bastard.
Taliesin: Yeah. Sleep is never gonna happen.
Laura: No.
Ashley: No.
Marisha: No.
Taliesin: Never.
Ashley: What is that.
Travis: Sleep.
Taliesin: You can meet me, slightly deranged, all weekend at Amazing Comic Con with a bunch of other Street Fighter kids, and it's going to be a great time, and be right next to the Library Bards. Bonnie Gordon, yeah yeah.
Matt: Yes, yes.
Taliesin: Yeah, be hanging with them.
Marisha: Oh, yeah, Library Bards. Nice.
Matt: Glorious.
Taliesin: Good times.
Matt: And if I recall, there was also a recent announcement of a cool Telltale game that went up this week.
Laura: Oh, man! Batman the Telltale series!
Travis: It's sweet. They announced the Batman cast and Laura is playing Catwoman Selina Kyle.
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: Yeah, man.
Travis: I play District Attorney
Laura: Harvey Dent.
Travis: Harvey Dent.
Ashley: Ohhh.
Laura: It's pretty exciting.
Travis: We're gonna turn Gotham around.
Laura: And at E3 today, we went and checked out the demo and it's pretty frickin' cool.
Ashley: It's so good. I saw it yesterday and today because I just couldn't not watch it again.
Travis: It's gonna be fun.
Matt: All righty, anyone else have anything they want to talk about? (southern drawl) Or shall we dive into the rest of tonight's story?
Travis: Let's dive into the story.
Marisha: Let's dive.
Matt: (southern drawl) All righty. Let's go ahead and bring it down as we all prepare ourselves to begin to kick off tonight's episode of Critical Role. (spooky ethereal music) (heavy breathing) (roaring) (dramatic music) (gun firing) (dramatic music) (crackling flames)
Matt: Welcome back. So, picking up where we last left off last week. Vox Machina, the growing troop of heroic misfits, having recently felled their first recent member of the Chroma Conclave, Umbrasyl the Hope Devourer, as well as destroying the current incursion of the Herd of Storms in the city of Westruun. You met with the remaining people of the town and began to decide a plan for its continued existence and the recovery of those that were displaced in these recent conflicts. Part of this process was meeting an individual named Kerrek, who was a blacksmith who had been in the town for a while, who unwittingly became part of this discussion--
Marisha: My best friend.
Matt: (laughs) Grog had spoken with the remnants of the Herd of Storms that had essentially been disbanding from the name and moving west to join with the Rivermaw, which had stepped off from the herd not too long ago. You guys had a hot springs episode in the mansion.
Sam: (laughs)
Matt: Scanlan, you had made your way back to Kymal, in which you, along with the aid of a few of your friends, figured out a plan in which the people who had been displaced could eventually return to Westruun, and also found Kaylie and spoke with her, had your somewhat-tearful reunion there. You guys began to construct a subterranean portion of Westruun that would be protected from future dragon incursion, renovating and restructuring within the sewer system beneath the city. After this process was complete, you decided the next level of your trek, the next direction you would travel would be towards the far western, northwestern continent of Othanzia. Specifically, the city of Vasselheim that you all know so well. All of you guys stepping through a tree portal presented by Keyleth, you immediately step out into the snowy exterior of what seems like the outside of the Quad Roads in Vasselheim. And now, we see what your next plan of action is. What do you guys want to do?
Sam: (sighs) Light a fire.
Laura: What time is it? (laughs)
Marisha: Yeah, what time is it?
Matt: It's hard to tell right now with the cloud cover so thick in the sky, but you envision at this point in time, it's probably mid-afternoon or so. The general omniscient glow through the clouds, kind of diffused light, but based on the time that you-- where you were and how far you traveled, you gather it's probably early to mid-afternoon.
Sam: Well, you're the one who brought us here, Vax. Where would you like to go?
Liam: I need to go to the temple of the Raven Queen.
Sam: We'll come with you.
Laura: Let's go.
Taliesin: I know where that is.
Liam: I know that you all have a lot of errands to do. I don't need everyone to come.
Travis: We have a lot of errands to do?
Liam: I thought so. You mentioned...
Laura: My only errand is to keep my eyes on you.
Taliesin: I have some errands, if that makes anybody feel better. I have some errands to run.
Travis: Do you need any help with your errands?
Taliesin: Sure. Actually, yes. I would love some help with my errands.
Laura: Don't let him shop, Percy. Do not let him shop.
Taliesin: That shouldn't be a problem.
Travis: I don't know what that means, but I'm sure I take great offense.
Laura: (laughs)
Taliesin: You're getting smarter.
Travis: How effin' dare you.
Laura: That eagle form really made a difference.
Travis: I spit out a feather. (pthh)
Matt: So. Who's off to where?
Laura: Where is this Raven Queen's temple?
Liam: (sighs) We've not been here many times. Are we surrounded by people? Are there people walking about?
Matt: It is quite a busy time in the afternoon. There is actually a bit of hustle and bustle. Looking around, just a quick glance at your vicinity in Vasselheim, you can see a lot of the bastions are out in force. Many of them are in process of helping construct what looks like reinforced dragon-headed ballistae. Some of the ones you had seen towards the outside walls of the city. There are more being installed upon the inner walls, and the ones in the distance appear to be under some form of construction.
Taliesin: We have rooms. Why don't we go claim our rooms and I'm sure they can lead us to everywhere we need to go.
Liam: That makes sense.
Marisha: Want to go check in at the Slayer's Take?
Taliesin: And we can meet back there when everything is done.
Marisha: All right.
Laura: Do you need to check in at your temple, or should we pretend you're not here so they don't try to make you stay?
Ashley: Let's just pretend for a little bit.
Travis: Yeah.
Marisha: Okay.
Ashley: And then I'll check in later. There's no rush to get there. At least, that I know of right now.
Sam: God will wait for a long time.
Travis: All right. To the Slayer's Take, then?
Laura: Let's do it.
Taliesin: To the Slayer's Take.
Matt: All right. You guys continue further south into the Quad Roads until eventually you find yourselves at the Slayer's Take guildhall. The door is partially ajar already. It appears that somebody had left it open, but it is warm on the inside. You can see a fireplace hearth on the far back and to the right is already kind of filling the area with this subtle musty smoke smell, and the crackling of wood in the distance is a very welcoming sensation from the cold exterior of the city streets. As you enter, you do not see anybody at the front desk at the moment, but you do see a few other random individuals of the guild that have taken certain tables. Some are eating, and some are in the process of playing cards or passing the time. It seems to be a relatively casual day here at the Slayer's Take. But your rooms are still available, best as you need. Anything you specifically require in this place?
Laura: Can I grab one of the people that are here and ask him, What's all the hustle about outside? I see them installing more.
Matt: Okay. You go ahead and-- one of the guys closest to you, you've met him briefly in passing, his name is Loran. He has a completely bald head with a single stripe tattoo down the center. He has a very, very pointed long chin. Human, but he's probably been busted in the face a few times. You can see there's just scars and what appears to be bone structure that may have been reformed at times due to blunt trauma. But he's just sitting there, sharpening his weapons, just kind of doing good upon his own self, being prepared for anything. But as you come over to ask him the question, he looks up to you and goes, "Word's gone around the town recently that there's some wandering dragon horde tearing through Tal'Dorei, so they're just upping security around these places, just in case."
Laura: Smart.
Matt: "I hope so. Hope they make their way here."
Laura: Nobody's sighted the dragons, though, over here?
Matt: "Not to my knowledge, but (chuckles) I'd love to get my hand on some of them scales." (blade scrapes)
Marisha: What's your name?
Matt: "Loran."
Marisha: What?
Sam: What?
Marisha: Oran? What?
Matt: "Loran."
Marisha: Loran.
Matt: Because... that's what I remember.
Liam: Thought so. (laughter)
Liam: It took over 50 episodes for that to happen.
Laura: I'm sorry, what was the question?
Matt: Well, when you don't take notes when I give you a character's name originally, and they come back around and it's weird when you suddenly take damage and your character starts hemorrhaging.
Laura: Oh no. Loran. Loran was his name.
Liam: I was just eating an apple. Why am I dying?
Matt: (laughs)
Travis: Veiled threat.
Ashley: I'm just sitting by the fire, so.
Laura: Slayer's Take.
Marisha: So we have seen this guy before?
Matt: Some of you may have seen him in passing. You haven't really had a conversation with him. He just exists within the guild. There's many members that you've come across in the past.
Marisha: Sure, that exist.
Travis: Probably a dragon.
Laura: Pointy chin. Got it.
Ashley: Stripe on his head.
Travis: Nothing wrong with those.
Liam: How are the people doing? Is there a sense of worry, or do you guys feel pretty secure?
Matt: "As far as this town is concerned, it takes a lot more than a couple dragons to drop these walls. It's the reason it's been around for a long time, and I'd like to see them try."
Marisha: Have you ever encountered a dragon personally, Loran?
Matt: "I mean, I've come across a few small ilk in my days."
Marisha: Uh-huh. Sure. Yeah. Yep.
Sam: (laughs) Are you hazing Loran?
Marisha: Nope.
Laura: Keyleth is proud of herself because we've just killed our third, actually.
Matt: "Oh, that's fantastic. I love to hear it. You half-elves are a humble bunch." (laughter)
Travis: Fire! Put the flames out!
Marisha: Yeah, Team Half-Elf. Yeah!
Travis: Such a good burn.
Laura: Liam, I don't want to ask Matt this, but the chick that runs the Slayer's Take, her name's Vanessa?
All: Vanessa.
Sam: Cyndrian.
Liam: And her husband Merkin.
Sam: Mertin.
Matt: (laughs)
Laura: Are Vanessa and Merkin around?
Sam: Mertin.
Laura: Mertin.
Sam: Merkin is a different thing.
Matt: (laughs) Yeah, a very different thing. I guess it depends on if he shaved recently. He looks toward the back room, where her main office is, and he goes, "You're welcome to go ahead and knock on the door if you're feeling frisky."
Laura: Should we try to sell Vanessa some of our dragon bits?
Travis: We should sell to a merchant?
Laura: Well, they tend to be in the--
Taliesin: They may have a buyer.
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: Yeah.
Travis: Love that you asked me that question.
Laura: I know, right? What was I thinking?
Travis: I don't know. (laughs)
Taliesin: Keep a few of the scales, obviously.
Travis: We can tell what my place in the party is.
Laura: Of course. Grog, come with me.
Marisha: Oh, wait, keep the teeth. Keep enough teeth for us.
Taliesin: We'll talk about the cold bag for now and see if there's anything else they want to talk about.
Marisha: I have an idea for teeth.
Laura: Can I go find Vanessa?
Matt: You go and knock on the door. (knocks) There's a brief pause. Knock again. (knocks)
Laura: (sing-song) Vanessa? Vox Machina here-- oh, hi.
Matt: The door (whoosh) swings open. You have to duck backwards. It (thump) slams onto the other side of the wall there, knocking a few knick-knacks that were on a nearby shelf over. And Vanessa swings out. "What? Who's calling-- ah. It has been some time. How nice of you to come and visit. May I... be of service to you?"
Laura: Oh, well, we were wondering if we could be of service to you. We happen to have acquired a great many dragon bits and we thought you might be in need of buying them for your sellers-- buyers. Your people.
Sam: Fencing them.
Laura: Fence-- you know.
Taliesin: I really thought you'd be better at this.
Matt: "There is no fencing."
Laura: No fencing, no. No, you're--
Matt: "We run a legitimate business."
Laura: Legal buyers.
Matt: "Good. As was I hoping to hear this. Let me check my ledger." She turns around and goes back to her desk. Her tail flicks behind her as she steps over to her table, leans over. "(muttering) Ah!" Pulls one of the books. (blows) Starts thumbing through it. (mutters) "What color dragon?"
Laura: Black.
Matt: "Chromatic."
Sam: (quietly) Ancient.
Laura: Ancient black dragon.
Marisha: Yeah, you might have heard about him. Umbrasyl... (chuckles)
Sam: You're super salty today.
Travis: Tone it down two notches.
Matt: "There is currently no contract for a black dragon. I do have one up for a bronze or perhaps a white, but..."
Laura: Oh, white! Do we have any white bits left?
Travis: Yeah.
Ashley: We should have white from back in the day.
Laura: What, do you want scales or...
Matt: "Specifically hide. If there is white dragonhide?"
Travis: We have 60 pounds of--
Laura: That was the dragon we killed for you before, because we didn't bring the--
Taliesin: No, it was before that one.
Laura: No, but we killed one with Zahra. We killed a white dragon.
Matt: "That was for a different contract. This is for a newer one I came by."
Laura: We've killed four dragons?! Four fucking dragons. Go us.
Marisha: Yes, we have. Yes.
Travis: Excuse us while we reminisce, apparently.
Matt: "(deadpan) Yes, it is amazing. The things you've accomplished. I am blown away. But in light of your capabilities, I do not require anything black dragon. However, if a contract comes in, I know who to call. Hold onto that, because that would save you a trip."
Laura: All right.
Marisha: All right.
Taliesin: We do have some white scales left over, don't we?
Laura: Yes, I think so.
Travis: Yeah, we do. We have 60 pounds of scales.
Matt: "Is this hide or scales?"
Travis: Just scales. No hide, unfortunately.
Matt: "Well, I could definitely do a bit of business for you there. The hide would fetch more, but-- 60 pounds, you said?"
Travis: Yeah. 64, to be exact.
Laura: Of white dragon scales.
Matt: "64 of white dragon scales, okay."
Matt: "I would be willing to continue at least part of this contract for this applicant for... let's say... 4,500 gold pieces."
Laura: 5,000 gold pieces, I think is a fair price.
Matt: "This is not about bartering. This is what the contract says, my dear. This is beyond a situation of conversation. The paperwork is already signed."
Laura: What if we gave you less dragon scales? Would you have said less money?
Sam: That's typically how it works.
Taliesin: (laugh)
Marisha: (laugh)
Matt: "Vex'ahlia. My dear. My delightful little dragon-hating half-elf. We've been good to you. We've done many great things for you. You've done great things for us. This is a fantastic arrangement." (thud) She slams the book shut and sets it down. "But you have signed on with us, and the deal is to fulfill contracts as they are signed, as they are written, as they are agreed upon by the person. If you wish not to accept this contract, we can just wait until somebody else picks it up and goes out and fulfills this need at the price at which they are requesting for this. You're welcome to keep the scales."
Laura: I think we'll keep them and we'll sell them to other vendors, then.
Sam: Haven't we had them for years?
Taliesin: I have a thing I'm thinking about.
Matt: "See? Then it's easy for you to get rid of them. If they've been a problem for you, then I'm sure this would be easy."
Sam: Where are we going to sell these? The world's on fire!
Marisha: Okay, hang on. We know it's here. There aren't that many white dragons walking around--
Taliesin: Certainly not anymore.
Marisha: Certainly not anymore. We know it's here. Why don't we sleep on it. Think about it. If we're ever in a pinch for money, we can come back.
Travis: Yeah. Sounds good.
Laura: Vanessa, you're so kind.
Travis: Besides, I've been working on that dragon immunity potion.
Laura: I'm so sorry.
Matt: "That is all right. Goodbye." And she shoos you out.
Marisha: Oh, wait, Vanessa. Wait.
Matt: "Yes, other female half-elf?"
Marisha: That's me. Where's the temple of the Raven Queen?
Matt: "Oh, you're looking for the Duskmeadow. Raven's Crest." She points loosely outward, kind of southeast of the direction of the Slayer's Take guildhall. "It's kind of hard to miss. It's giant, black, ominous. (chuckles) You'll see it." And she bops your nose a little bit with her finger. "Now, please. Out of my office. I have work to get done."
Laura: Thank you, Vanessa.
Marisha: Okay, bye.
Sam: Thank you. Kord's strength to you.
Matt: "That does nothing for me." (slamming) Slams the door shut.
Laura: They were worth a lot more than what she was offering, just for the record. They are worth so much more.
Sam: To whom? We haven't ever sold them or come across anyone who wanted them before.
Taliesin: This is no reason to get rid of something for wholesale.
Laura: Well, we've not really tried. That doesn't mean we should just give them away.
Sam: We also are almost full in our Bag of Holding, might I remind you, and 64 pounds would free up quite some--
Laura: It's not 64 pounds.
Sam: It's 64 pounds.
Travis: It's 64.
Laura: Oh, it was 64 pounds. (groans)
Matt: (laughs)
Travis: Like I just told you.
Ashley: 64 pounds of scales.
Travis: But I could get rid of some other stuff.
Laura: Well, they're worth like 20,000 gold.
Sam: To whom?
Laura: You don't care.
Travis: We also have 15 cases of expensive-ass bottles of wine.
Taliesin: I'm just going to point out, since--
Liam: We should drink those.
Laura: We should drink those.
Marisha: We should drink those.
Taliesin: We should drink those, first of all. That is the only thing that makes sense. And I feel-- and I apologize if it seems like I say this a lot, but I do have a castle that we can drop things at, and we can leave them there, perhaps get back to them at a later date.
Marisha: To be fair, Percy, you do a lot to remind us to try not to forget that you're titled.
Sam: To be fair, have we ever gone back for something before, ever, in our entire travels?
Taliesin: Yes.
Sam: What?
Liam: We needn't stay here long. I don't think what I'm here for is going to take too long. I hope. We could go to Whitestone next.
Taliesin: Yes, drop everything off, create a little nest of what we need.
Laura: All right. Let's go find your queen.
Travis: (quietly) There is some gross shit in this bag. (laughter)
Taliesin: You found the troll dick, didn't you?
Laura: What do you have in there?
Travis: There are six basilisk eggs.
Laura: Are they still good?
Marisha: Those are probably bad.
Taliesin: Oh, I bet those have gone really bad.
Travis: I reach into the Bag of Holding and think about one basilisk egg.
Liam: I'm sure they smell like Grog.
Matt: You pull out a basilisk egg.
Taliesin: Do they just turn to stone?
Matt: It's roughly that size. It's a dull grayish-blue hint.
Liam: Sulfuric?
Travis: Can I get the smell?
Matt: It has a somewhat, very vague sulfurous scent on the outside of the egg.
Travis: I'll put it back in the bag.
Ashley: Oh, Vanessa!
Laura: We could make stink-bombs with it.
Marisha: Ooh.
Taliesin: Ooh.
Liam: Yeah, we could.
Marisha: Good idea. I like that.
Travis: All right. So what's next?
Laura: We go see the Raven Queen. You go see the Raven Queen and we wait outside.
Liam: I didn't say anything.
Laura: Uselessly.
Liam: I didn't say anything!
Taliesin: Is it in the direction where I have to go?
Matt: Where are you heading?
Taliesin: I need to resupply everything.
Matt: That's the opposite direction.
Taliesin: Okay.
Matt: You're heading to the Braving Grounds. They're heading to the Duskmeadow.
Travis: Oh! I like the sound of that. I'll go with you.
Taliesin: Yes, you will.
Sam: I'll come with you, as well.
Travis: Yeah, three! Who else? Any other takers while Vax goes and gets a tattoo?
Matt: (laughs)
Liam: Another tattoo?
Travis: Well, I thought that-- is that not what you're doing?
Laura: That's what he's doing, Grog.
Liam: It is. I'm getting a tattoo.
Ashley: Close. Something like that.
Liam: It will say "Phillip the Brave".
Travis: (gasps)
Liam: Across the small of my back.
Travis: Phillip. Full name, Phillip.
Taliesin: This is out of-- I don't know if this is going to be any help or anything, by the way, Vax, but just in case. I'm going to reach in and pull out the mask and hand it to Vax. Just in case.
Liam: (slowly) I don't know. Thank you.
Marisha: Percy?
Taliesin: Yes?
Marisha: Do you still have that raven's skull I gave you?
Taliesin: I do. We'll talk about that.
Marisha: All right.
Taliesin: But I've found in moments when I was feeling less than brave that pretending to be somebody else on occasion, even afterwards, can be helpful.
Liam: Is there anything left inside of this?
Taliesin: Just some spit.
Liam: That's wonderful.
Laura: (laughs)
Taliesin: And something that smells nice in the front that will help. It helps cleanse the air.
Liam: All right, Percival.
Taliesin: I don't know why. I'm feeling... what would be the word? Superstitious.
Marisha: Oh, I was going to say "giving."
Laura: She's ornery today.
Marisha: Sorry. Angry.
Taliesin: You know, I kind of like it.
Liam: You know. Enough chit-chat. Let's get this shit done.
Matt: All right.
Travis: All right.
Matt: So you three are going to the Braving Grounds. You four are going to the Duskmeadow.
Laura: We are.
Matt: Okay. All right, so. You three are making your way towards the Braving Grounds. Following suit after Percival, you make your way up not quite to the Trial Forge, which is where you had your last discussion and brief showdown with Earthbreaker Groon. Still seeing the large statue of Kord looming over the entirety of the realm. You can still see the large columns of dark smoke and soot coming out of the various forges, the various mining encampments, and a lot of the folks there that are working on different pieces of iron and metal. You, I assume, make your way to a very familiar abode. (laughs)
Taliesin: Of all the options of the world that you've given me...
Matt: All right. (laughter)
Taliesin: This is really your fault as much as it's mine.
Matt: You come up to the outside of a familiar hovel. Previously damaged, missing part of its roof. The roof is mostly repaired. You actually see two individuals are over the top of it, hammering pieces of wood into it. Not a very fine job, but definitely enough patchwork to keep the rain and snow from pouring in. The door is partially open as you approach.
Taliesin: (sighs heavily)
Sam: You might be blown up if you go in there.
Taliesin: I know.
Travis: Should we wait outside?
Taliesin: Let's just all be ginger. (louder) Hello? Victor, are you home? It's Percy.
Matt: Silence.
Sam: Want me to go in and investigate?
Taliesin: Hold on. (louder) Hello, you up there? Hello?
Matt: (hammering noises) "What?"
Taliesin: Where is the owner of this domicile?
Matt: "I don't know. I haven't seen him."
Taliesin: How long has he been gone for?
Matt: "(mutters) (louder) Couple of hours."
Sam: Oh, good. Not dead, then.
Travis: He's dead. (laughter)
Taliesin: Do you have any idea where he's been off to?
Matt: "I haven't seen him leave." (hammering noises)
Taliesin: Well, I'm going to pop in and check really quickly, just letting you know.
Matt: "Your funeral." (hammering noises)
Taliesin: I gingerly open the door. Can I check for traps?
Travis: Attaboy.
Matt: You may. Make an investigation check.
Travis: Yeah, we're standing right here.
Taliesin: Oh, yay, that's not that bad. Investigation? I never use that. 11. No, 12. 12.
Matt: 12, okay. (creak) You move the door open and kind of search the ground and the area before it and the actual frame of the door itself. No traps.
Taliesin: All right.
Matt: Glancing inside, though, you can see a little bit of light. It looks like there's a hooded lantern across the way and just a little bit of light is flickering and it's kind of going against the wall nearest to you, to your right, as you enter. The same familiar smell of fresh earth, really, really, really dry dust and a very familiar smell of explosive black powder material.
Taliesin: Oh, dear.
Sam: Is Victor in there?
Taliesin: No, I don't see anybody in here.
Sam: Well, should we just purchase what you need via the honor system and leave some coin behind?
Taliesin: He's not necessarily always a believer in coin. Sometimes he just wants some trade. Also, I need to talk to him about some personal issues.
Matt: (thud) You see off to the side, what you didn't initially notice as you entered, what appears to be a wooden trapdoor in the far corner that (thud).
Taliesin: Oh, sweet gods of Pelor!
Matt: (repeated thuds) And you notice that apparently something-- a large sack of some heavy material has rolled off a nearby table and is now currently holding the door down.
Taliesin: Okay.
Matt: You hear a muffled, "I'm inside!"
Taliesin: I'm going to go try and lift it.
Taliesin: (grunts)
Matt: You lift it up, set it off to the side. (boosh) "(coughing) What's going on? You trying to kill me?"
Taliesin: (laughs) No! Hello, Victor. I was just to give you money. You were stuck-- you had gotten stuck down-- what is down there?
Matt: "This is my mining building."
Sam: Your mine?
Taliesin: His Mayan building. Can you not understand simple English?
Matt: "Don't put things on top of the door. It makes it hard to get out!"
Sam: (whispering) Something's happened to him.
Taliesin: Are you all right?
Matt: "I'm okay!"
Taliesin: Are you sure?
Matt: "No, I've been locked down here for hours!"
Ashley: Oh no.
Taliesin: Grog, Scanlan? (stutters) Come on in, he's fine.
Matt: "Help me out!"
Matt: He raises his hands up. You can see now, where once was two, now is none. (sounds of dismay)
Matt: (grunts)
Liam: You have to build him a hand.
Taliesin: I know.
Matt: (grunts) "I can't wait all day, here!"
Sam: Grog, can you get him out, can you lift him up?
Taliesin: Grog, can you lift the poor--
Travis: All right, yeah.
Travis: I grab the stump and I pick him up into the air.
Matt: (screams)
Travis: I shake him a little bit.
Taliesin: I need him mostly intact.
Travis: Oh. So on the ground?
Taliesin: Treat him slightly better than you would treat a member of your own family.
Matt: "Don't shake me too hard."
Taliesin: More than slightly better. Much better.
Laura: Oh, don't shake him too hard-- I'm not there.
Travis: Oh. Gas.
Matt: "Sure."
Travis: I put him gently back on the ground.
Matt: "Thank you." He pats you on the head with his nub.
Sam: Ugh.
Matt: Goes over. You can see he's kind of bandaged. He goes over and then pulls the ladder up that he didn't use, closes the--
Travis: (laughing) The ladder he didn't use?
Matt: "Okay. So. What do you want?"
Taliesin: Well, I was hoping to buy a little bit more black powder from you, if possible, and I'm curious if you had anything else for sale, and I wanted to ask you a couple of questions, just about other customers again.
Matt: "That's a lot."
Taliesin: I know.
Matt: "I have powder."
Taliesin: You do.
Matt: "I can sell you more powder. Question one: yes. How much?"
Taliesin: One question?
Liam: First question.
Taliesin: First question. Has a one-armed lady, a one-handed lady, a doctor come by to purchase--
Matt: "Not a lady. I am an honorable man!"
Travis: Don't insult him.
Taliesin: I know.
Taliesin: And I would never insult your honor or preferences of any kind.
Matt: "Are you saying I'm pretty?"
Taliesin: Victor, I think you know how I feel about that, but you're a very attractive man, and--
Matt: "Your friend's hitting on me."
Travis: I know it.
Matt: "I'm taken."
Travis: He's taken.
Taliesin: Are you dating right now?
Matt: "No, I'm just taken."
Taliesin: Okay. (laughs) I can't. I'm sorry. I'm good.
Matt: "(shouting) How much?"
Taliesin: Well, I was going to offer, I was originally going to offer some gold if you like, but if you'd like, I could make you a tool you could use with your current predicament. Some sort of simple clawing mechanism for grasping, lifting, not getting caught in your mine.
Matt: "Maybe. Maybe. Maybe a trade? Maybe a claw?"
Taliesin: I love trade. Trade is brilliant.
Matt: "Build and bring. Build and bring, and we trade."
Taliesin: I would ask one other thing, if I am to do this for you.
Matt: "Oh, so many questions! Does he have questions, too? Does he have questions, too?!"
Sam: I do have a question, actually.
Taliesin: You have a question?
Sam: Yes, I do.
Travis: I don't, no. I don't have any questions. None.
Matt: (sighs) "I like him. What's your question?"
Sam: I'm just looking for a hat shop. Is there a hat shop around here?
Matt: (considering noise) And he starts pulling around from a pile of oiled rags and shit and he pulls up what looks like a small burlap sack that's torn somewhat at the opening. "Hat."
Sam: Oh, god. Ugh. All right, thank you. Thank you.
Matt: "My pleasure. Happy to help." (chuckles)
Sam: Okay.
Taliesin: That was everything I could have hoped for, and more.
Matt: "Don't get near the fire."
Taliesin: Really, don't.
Sam: Thank you.
Taliesin: Has Dr. Ripley-- has a woman come by to buy black powder, one hand, one mechanical hand, one normal hand? Mechanical hand?
Matt: "Is that the one you're saying you can make?"
Taliesin: I'm going to make you something, nice and useful claw piece, yes.
Matt: "So you're saying that this woman made a better hand than you can make?"
Taliesin: No, I can make a better hand.
Matt: "Then make me a better hand! Why would you give me a lesser hand?!"
Taliesin: You're going to need to give me quite a bit of black powder for that. And more questions.
Travis: Ooh.
Matt: "Really?" (laughter)
Matt: "I've had a bad day."
Taliesin: Is that recent?
Sam: That happened today?
Taliesin: It doesn't look that recent.
Matt: (ripping sounds) He starts unwrapping the wound.
Taliesin: Oh, that's recent. That's wet. That's very wet.
Matt: It's pretty recent.
Taliesin: I can work with that. I can work with that. I'm going to go construct you something that will be perfect for your needs. I have a great idea. I will need another hogshead and a half of black powder and a little information about another customer and then I will leave you to your work. Is that fair?
Matt: "Fair!" He turns around, rushes over, and grabs the same phantom hogshead that he has lying around his place.
Taliesin: He eats a lot of pork.
Matt: Before he fills it with powder, he goes over to Scanlan and goes, "(hums) Too big."
Travis: Good hat.
Matt: Fills it with black powder, carefully brings it over, holding it under his arm. (grunts)
Taliesin: Thank you. (grunts) I will put this in something reasonable. I'll be back in just a little bit with-- actually, do you have a glove that you used to wear, or anything like that? Do you have something?
Matt: "Yes!" He pulls out the glove that was on the hand, (laughing) and you can see that it's blown apart, hand burned to cinders--
Taliesin: I can take measurements from that.
Matt: It's more a sleeve with a charcoaled edge.
Taliesin: I'm going to be busy. Can you cast the--
Sam: No, but Keyleth can, and I think that would save you a lot of time.
Marisha: I'm not here.
Taliesin: She's not here.
Sam: No, but we can go get her and come back.
Taliesin: To?
Sam: To just fix his hand.
Taliesin: I don't think she can just fix his hand.
Sam: Someone can restore something. Maybe Pike can.
Marisha: I can. Not today, but I can over time.
Travis: Want me to give it a try?
Taliesin: While I'm tempted-- would you just-- I feel like I made a deal. I'm just going to have to see to it.
Sam: I think he would prefer a real hand than a claw hand.
Taliesin: Would you prefer a real hand or a claw hand?
Matt: "Depends. How cool is the claw hand?"
Travis: (laugh)
Sam: (laugh)
Taliesin: That's what I thought.
Sam: I would much rather you spend time on projects for us than projects for him.
Taliesin: This is projects for us.
Travis: I vote for the claw. It's pretty cool.
Taliesin: And believe me, I would like--
Matt: "Cooler than that lady's hand?"
Taliesin: Keeping him happy is pertinent. I can make this myself, it's just very difficult.
Sam: We have party members who can regrow his hand.
Travis: Hey, Percy.
Taliesin: Yes?
Travis: He wants the claw to be cooler than that lady's claw hand.
Taliesin: That's very easy to do. She has no aesthetics whatsoever.
Travis: All right. Then eff the old original hand. Let's give him a reasonable claw, yeah?
Taliesin: Don't worry about it.
Sam: All right.
Taliesin: It'll be fine. And if you can't do the mansion, I know where I can go get some work done.
Sam: Oh, you want me to make-- we have the Slayer's Take. They have a workshop, don't they?
Taliesin: If not, I know where I can work on something. I will be back. I will not leave town before I've delivered to you something--
Matt: "(squawks)" He takes the hogshead.
Taliesin: Oh! Absolutely fair.
Matt: "Trade when you bring hand."
Taliesin: Yes, of course.
Matt: "Then I deliver with new hand. Then all is well."
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: "No more questions!"
Taliesin: No. That's fine. We'll be back! It'll be good.
Matt: "You're small."
Sam: I need a big hat.
Matt: "Can't help you, sorry."
Sam: All right.
Taliesin: Are we going to go find a hat shop, then?
Sam: Maybe, if we pass one.
Taliesin: All right. We will be back. Stay safe.
Matt: "Okay. Don't touch the door, please!"
Taliesin: Yes. No. Just. We'll be back. Bye!
Taliesin: I'm going to go find a workshop to work on something.
Travis: I like you. We'll see you later.
Matt: "(chuckles) Hes big."
Travis: (chuckles)
Taliesin: And I'm just right. It's... a thing.
Matt: "I'm undecided about you."
Taliesin: You're not alone. I'm going to go see if the Slayer's Take has--
Sam: We're going to leave.
Taliesin: I cannot handle any more of that. That was brutal.
Sam: Too good.
Travis: I feel like youre just on a higher level.
Ashley: Right?
Laura: So much.
Laura: I just thought you were going to make him not there so you didn't have to do it.
Matt: No no no.
Marisha: Yeah, yeah yeah. He's just not home. Sorry, guys.
Ashley: Oh, I love him.
Marisha: Victor's on vacation.
Taliesin: So, I'm going to go see if there's-- if there's not a blacksmithing, if there's not somewhere I can do a bit of basic smithing work and technical work, then I'm going to go find that blacksmith from last time.
Matt: There's basic materials to do essentially weapon repairs, armor repairs, minor armor construction within the Slayer's Take. If you want something that's going to be a little more to the level of what you're doing, you may have to actually rent out a facility.
Taliesin: Well, I'm going to go find that young chap from before.
Matt: Okay. Yeah, easy enough to do. If you want to rent the forge for the day to craft whatever it is you're looking to craft, he's charging you 50 gold for the day.
Taliesin: 50 gold for the day? Can I use all of his tools and just my own materials?
Matt: You have to supply your own material, but he'll let you rent.
Taliesin: I'm going to run and find Vax, get my stuff, and go to work.
Matt: Okay. You guys. You four make your way over towards the Duskmeadow.
Laura: Trinket's out.
Matt: Trinket's out? (whoosh) (bear moans)
Laura: Come on, Trinket.
Matt: (grunts) He rolls his head against you, licks the side of your face, happy to be out of that stuffy little necklace. You make your way towards the Duskmeadow, which you've seen before. It's a very comparatively... glum-looking area of the town, hence the name that accompanies it, but this is the area of the city that contains the Raven's Crest, the Amaranthine Oubliette. It also contains the entire town's catacombs. This is where, since this town's existence, all of the dead are interred perpetually deeper and deeper and deeper beneath this part of the city. Also one of the oldest libraries of the city is kept here as well. As you approach the outskirts-- and you can see a very fine line between this area and the Birth Heart, which is the Melora section of the city. There is a very, very wide river divide between the two of them and it's like night and day, back and back. Very, very, very directly between the two of them. You can see on Melora's side there's just stalks and stalks of corn and other vegetation that's being grown for food. There's almost like a lush forest that curls around the outside of it that doesn't match the rest of the indigenous trees you've seen in this area of Othanzia. The entire Birth Heart area, where this temple to Melora is, is just this plucked-out-of-nowhere section placed into it. And then you move over to the Duskmeadow and it's just... like the color has left the vicinity. And there you see in the center of this part of the town, this large, looming, ominous obsidian and gold structure. It's like a giant black stone aerie. It has no intricacies from this distance that you can see. It's almost like a giant square building that is just devoid of light, with little glimmers of gold when the light catches it at moments. It's hard to miss and definitely stands as a centerpiece to this section of Vasselheim.
Liam: The whole walk over, I've been talking a lot, mostly to Trinket. You know, scratching him behind the ears, saying, "Buddy, you've been trapped in there a while. It's good to see you out."
Matt: "(moans, snuffles)"
Liam: Come hug your uncle. Come.
Laura: He doesn't mind it.
Liam: I'm sure he doesn't. I'm just happy to see him.
Matt: He presses his nose under yours and lifts your chin up and you bite your lip a little from the sudden impact from this very large bear, but it's all with love.
Liam: Yeah. It's cold. You're sure you don't want to go back in? Nah, you don't want to go back in. I know.
Marisha: (whispering) Hey, Pike.
Liam: Just nervous talking the whole way there.
Marisha: (whispering) I think Vax is talking to himself.
Ashley: (whispering) He's very nervous right now.
Ashley: This is a big deal.
Marisha: Yeah.
Ashley: This temple is very... it's lovely.
Marisha: It's gorgeous. It's very intimidating. Do you know anything about this? You've lived here for a while, Pike.
Ashley: I've never been by.
Marisha: Never been in?
Ashley: I've never been in, no.
Matt: You do know from your time here and what little you've heard that part of the purpose of this vicinity is not just to inter the dead within part of these catacombs. The library here is kind of a loose partnership between the people worshipers of her and those who follow Ioun. It is a center for knowledge and history kept within the city. But you'll see throughout the town and the landscaped outer wall that surrounds this entire portion of Vasselheim, there are repetitive glyphs that line this entire area. And from what you've heard, at the very least, most of these glyphs, which you see across the corners of roadways, and many of which surround the entrance to the catacombs, it is a perpetual enchantment that is to seal any sort of possible undeath. There once was a terrible scourge of undeath in this part of the landscape, long ago, that corresponded with a battle hundreds of years ago, and since then, the reinforcement has been put in place to prevent that from happening again. So the downside is that the power of these glyphs that prevent undeath also prevent any actual vegetation from existing in this area as well. So all the ground that you've come across: no grass, no natural vegetation. It's just dirt and ash and dust.
Marisha: Can we recognize the language in which the runes come from?
Matt: The magic itself is divine in nature, but it's based in the same very, very base Draconic glyphs that a lot of arcane magic is based on. It's very-- it's old magic.
Ashley: (laughs) It's old.
Matt: Yeah. It's based in some sort of divine ritual.
Marisha: What did you say the name was of the Raven Queen's temple, again?
Matt: The temple itself is referred to as Raven's Crest.
Marisha: Raven's Crest?
Matt: Raven's Crest, yes.
Marisha: Okay.
Ashley: How are you feeling, Vax?
Liam: I'm all right. I'm just going to talk to my sister for a minute.
Ashley: Okay.
Liam: You know, I know you want to-- I know you. I know you want to be here.
Laura: I know you don't want me to come.
Liam: I don't. I really don't.
Laura: I know. And I won't, if you're sure. I put you in this place and I feel terrible about it and I know you're extremely nervous. Trinket can sense it, too. He's very in tune with those emotions. And I just--
Liam: Listen to me. You did not put me in this place. No one put me in this place.
Liam: And everything's going to be fine.
Laura: Everything will be fine!
Liam: And I tug her sleeves and make them a little more orderly and I move a bit of hair out of her face and I do a button that's not done.
Laura: (laughs)
Liam: Everything's going to be fine.
Laura: I wanted it unbuttoned, actually.
Liam: That's all right. Just wait here I'll be out in a bit, all right?
Laura: Yes.
Liam: Everything's fine.
Laura: I know. Everything's fine.
Liam: Yeah.
Laura: You don't need to be nervous, either.
Liam: I'm not.
Laura: I will be here waiting for you when you come out.
Liam: I know. I'll see you--
Laura: I love you.
Liam: You know I love you, too.
Laura: I'm proud of you, you know. She's just going to love you so much. And who knows, you might have a new girlfriend when you come out. (laughs nervously, sighs) I've heard other people have dated gods before. I've heard it's done. That Cashew guy. Anyway.
Liam: You're going to wait here for me, right?
Laura: I'll be right here.
Liam: And then I drop the smile as I walk off towards the other two.
Matt: Okay. Which, as you turn and look, when you originally approached the stairs that lead up to the entrance of this large structure, it was just empty, doors closed. There was no guard post on the outside. It was just these two looming, almost dark glass-type doors about 12 feet tall and about 8 feet wide on each side that are just locked shut. As soon as you turn to walk towards them, the doors open and you see a figure standing there at the door, just looking directly at you. Or at least you assume is looking right at you. It's hard to see. This individual, somewhat lithe in physicality, is wearing long, dark robes and their face is shrouded in opaque black cloth, like a death shroud that just blocks the entire face. You can see the hint of a jawline, a nose. It looks to be a person of some background in there, but they're just standing there, watching you. And as soon as you react to their appearance, the hand just beckons quietly.
Liam: Were you expecting me? All right. I've brought a couple of friends. Is that permissible here? They'll keep quiet.
Marisha: I turn to Vex.
Laura: Keep him safe.
Marisha: I swear to you. We're all coming out of here alive.
Laura: I know.
Marisha: But if like an hour passes and we don't, maybe come in? But we're all coming out of here alive, so don't worry about it. It's fine.
Ashley: And I squeeze her hand. I'll make sure he gets out okay. I promise.
Laura: All right.
Ashley: Okay. Please be safe.
Laura: It'll be fine.
Ashley: It'll be fine. Yes.
Laura: I'll just be right here. Waiting here with Trinket.
Ashley: Okay.
Laura: Just calmly leaning against a wall. No big deal.
Ashley: Okay.
Marisha: We've faced way more terrifying things than a few albeit creepy men in robes.
Laura: I don't even think she's that bad. She's not going to be bad.
Liam: Guys.
Laura: Just go.
Ashley: Okay. We'll go. We'll go in with you.
Matt: All right. As you step up to the stairs, the figure leads you all inside, and as you step into the main center of this initial walkway chamber, the figure doesn't enter with you. It just closes the door behind you. (echoing thud) You can feel the hint of vibration of impact as the doors close shut.
Marisha: It's dark?
Matt: It's lowly-lit on the inside, and it's interesting. From the outside, it looks like a black, solid, impossible-to-see-through building. From the inside, you can actually look out and the entire building is made of this glass, this somewhat-warped, dark glass. And you can see almost the entirety of the outside from your position. The doors are held aloft into it. It's like a one-way type enchantment, or the construct, the material itself, is somewhat translucent from this side.
Marisha: Like an interrogation room? Like one-way mirror type of thing?
Matt: Kind of. Or like a very, very dark pair of sunglasses, but made of naturally-formed rock, almost.
Liam: Noticing that, I turn and just sort of look at my sister for 5 or 10 more seconds.
Matt: She doesn't see you and she just stands there quietly, looking around, inspecting the vicinity. Pets Trinket a little.
Liam: (hesitantly) Let's do this.
Sam: (chuckles)
Ashley: Do I feel anything, being in here?
Matt: You just feel a natural tremble stepping into a place of powerful divine influence that is not the warm comfort of Sarenrae, which has protected you before. Now, you understand the way many deities work in these lands, and your place in it, and Sarenrae's place in it, and you know enough about the Raven Queen to know that this is not an unwelcome place, per se. Go ahead and roll a religion check.
Ashley: 23.
Matt: 23. You understand the Raven Queen has also not always been the one who holds sway over the domain of death, the domain of winter, the domain of fate. Once mortal, the Raven Queen ascended as, essentially, a follower and a partner to the previous god of death, which his name has been erased from the books. This mortal ascended many, many years ago, pre-Second Spark, and has since taken what was once a tyrannical position of death and afterlife and souls and took it instead as the natural transition that it is. However, due to a lack of respect, or at least, a lack of, for lack of a better term, belief or trust from the other gods, she only gained dominion over the actual moment of transition, not of the actual souls of the afterlife. That influence was given to others. But the Raven Queen represents one of the most feared elements of life, which is the end of it, but you also know that that is a natural thing. Your personal belief is up to you. The sense you get here is that... being an individual that worships life, that worships redemption, that worships second chances, you can't help but swallow a little hard at the idea of a god that's purpose is to make sure that if you're destined to have once chance, it stays one chance.
Ashley: Okay.
Matt: As you begin to walk down this hall, ever so slow as it is, each footfall deafening in the clack. (clicking footsteps) The hallway leads on for another hundred feet or so before the glass, somewhat translucent material shifts into the next chamber, into an almost deep gray and ivory ice-like interior. The dark, coal-black exterior you've seen now transitions into what feels like a very finely-carved piece of architecture from ice and bone.
Marisha: Do I get the sense as a druid, as an Ashari, that we've switched into another plane?
Matt: Go ahead and roll an arcana check, as this is not so much a nature-based thing, yeah.
Marisha: Oh! I rolled a 19. (laughs) 21.
Liam: Oh dear, oh my.
Laura: Oh gosh, oh jeez.
Marisha: Oh goodness gracious.
Matt: From your understanding of transitional magic between planes, there has been no actual shift between planes, it's just the material itself is different upon the interior of this building. As soon as you enter this place, you do see another figure walking towards you. Similar long, dark robes. However, the veil has been pulled back, and you see before you what looks to be an older elven woman with very, very bright silver hair that just kind of falls long, past her shoulders, down to her back about mid-waist, or down to the bottom of her waist. With a smile. You can see as she walks towards you, a very welcoming grin. As she approaches, she pays very little mind to you three, but directly to you, says,
Laura: (whispers) I'm not there.
Matt: "You walk with Her sight on you. You are ever welcome here."
Liam: I've come to understand my place in Her sight.
Matt: "Then I think, perhaps, you are here for communion. Come. Our most sacred chamber. The communion pool awaits. Only you may have entry, unfortunately."
Liam: Right.
Liam: I plant a kiss on the cheek of each of the women.
Marisha: Do you need anything before you go in? Any enhancement of any kind?
Liam: Just cross your fingers for me, okay?
Marisha: Okay. I just kind of squeeze his hand.
Ashley: Same. Be careful.
Marisha: We're right out here on the other side of this door. If anything terrible happens, you have the earpiece. No one will stop Pike and I from getting through there if something terrible goes wrong. Rules be damned.
Liam: I made my bed. Now I gotta lie in it. I'll see you soon. I follow.
Matt: "Come, champion. The Lady of Fates awaits." And she turns around and leads you 30 more feet to what looks to be an ascending staircase that just enters up and out of the sight of you two.
Ashley: We'll just hang out, yeah?
Marisha: I guess we'll wait, yeah.
Matt: You ascend a few feet behind her, about 40 or so feet, until it comes to a single large doorway of deep, deep dark oak wood with what looks to be a dark iron ring in the center. As she steps up to it, she takes it and (thud) knocks on it twice. (deep creak) It just shifts open and leads into a central chamber now that looks about a hundred feet high, and it is a large steepled dome of what looks to be nothing but stained glass. It's awe-inspiring. It's beautiful: the colors, the light as it peeks through. The source of light, diffused as it is by the clouds, is sourceless in here. It seems like there are beams of light coming from all directions and all the colors are just strewn across the floor in what looks like this perpetually-shifting kaleidoscope of dots of reds and blues and purples and yellows and pinks and whites. You can see, across the room, there are three other figures that are all dressed in the same dark robes, the veils over their heads, of varying size. You can't make out what their racial background is, per se, but they are all stationed around the center of the room, in which lies, from what you can see, a very, very large round pool of some sort of deep crimson liquid.
Liam: I have come to pay a debt, and I do so gladly and without question. What would you have of me?
Matt: "You came to speak with the Lady. Well, the way is before you." She gestures to the pool.
Liam: I walk slow and straight in.
Matt: You step into it. (squelch) It comes up to your ankles, to your knees. And what catches you first is that the liquid is very thick. It is viscous in a familiar way. This is most definitively a pool of blood. And it is cold. It is ice-cold. As you step in, you can feel that as it begins to seep into your boots and begins to find its way into the crevices of your outfit as you get down into your waist, it's just chilling. You can't help but to stand up straight as you step further in, not quite sure of how deep it gets. And it gets deeper. And deeper. Up past your chest, up past your shoulders, and you're not even halfway into the center of the pool before it's going past your nose.
Liam: I keep going.
Matt: You take your last breath, hold it, and submerge yourself in the pool. Darkness around you, the cold sensation. Nothing... Nothing... Nothing...
Liam: I open my mouth and inhale.
Matt: As you do, you feel the blood fill your lungs and immediately your lungs begin to seize with the lack of oxygen. You instinctually begin to reach up for the water and pull, but you can't rise. You can't get up. And at that point, the cold, piercing pain of the liquid in your lungs becomes warm. All the liquid around you becomes warm. And in the darkness, where you cannot see, you calm, as suddenly your breathing is no longer difficult. It's natural. It's like air. And it's reminiscent of being in the womb, of the moment of birth you'd forgotten so long ago, that you're just surrounded in darkness and comfort. And piercing the center of this darkness before you, you see a very faint bead of white light just begin to spark and grow, and grow, and as that light widens out, it becomes a face. A porcelain face. A nose, lips, a chin, empty dark sockets, long dark hair that goes to crimson and surrounds you. You see a small hand reach up behind and lift you from your legs. And for what you thought was only a few feet of liquid, you look around you and it is an endless space, a space you've been before, a space that you once visited in your sleep, in your dreams. You look down below and you can see the infinite skein of threads that you were once given inspection to. As you look down, you see the very palm of the Raven Queen holding you aloft in this space as the mask pulls in close to you with a smile. The lips don't move, but you hear a voice from all directions in your head. A comforting voice. A welcoming voice. "My champion. Vax'ildan. You've come to me at last."
Liam: This was always supposed to happen, wasn't it?
Matt: "There is destiny, but you still guide your path where it must go. Especially you, fate-touched. You're one of the few that bends threads near and around you. That's why you're so interesting to me."
Liam: (haltingly) I give myself willingly to you for the bargain that was struck, although I question if the bargain was just the surface reason for this to happen.
Matt: "When one such as your... unique essence walks these realms, do not think I am the only one to take interest. And do not think you are the only one, either. But I was there to seize the opportunity when it arose, and as such, you are now mine. And I know that you hate me. I know that you fear me. Most do. But only because they are without understanding. Without death, life has no meaning. Finality drives change, innovation, greatness. It is the end that I bring that drives all of your gracious creations of this land to make the world better than we did, than those before me did."
Liam: I would learn your ways. I will learn your purpose. And I will serve.
Matt: "Then understand the wholeness of what it is you serve and what you represent, champion. Even after death, the soul is carried to another purpose, but it is that transition where it is at its most vulnerable. It is my charge, my gift-- your gift, now-- to safeguard that beautiful moment. There are those that find the immortal soul one of the most pure and powerful means of energy, of sourced power, in this world. That is an abomination. There are those that wish to halt the process and live eternally in some form of undeath or the other. That is an abomination. There is also a difference between bending your thread around destiny, fate-touched, and perverting the thread entirely, for death is sacred. But not all deaths are destined, in that moment. Some destinies require one to endure beyond the moment. To meet that moment many times before the final death is to come. We must guide these moments across this web." And as she sweeps her hand out. Where she holds you in one palm, another hand reaches out, and the entire web of threads just glows below you in this curling wave out into infinity, into the horizons, endless, to each side of you and beyond. "So, to bend destiny, to bend these fates, is within our sphere of influence. It's those that find a way to cheat this destiny, halt the progression, corrupt their thread to the point it sickens those around them. Undeath, wayward necromancy. Perversion of the sanctity of the cycle, of our very domain, is an atrocity and must be stopped and stamped out. That is our cause. Your cause, now. Do you still accept this gift?"
Liam: (whispering) I do.
Matt: "You, Vax'ildan. I've had my eye on you for some time." And the smile curls into this much wider smile. To the point it seems somewhat perturbing. "Your dual nature: rushing prematurely towards your end, wantonly throwing your life before the flames, only to pull away in those last moments. Instinct. You test your path constantly, without knowing you've been preparing for this mantle your entire life. My beautiful champion." The smile subsides. The face goes stone. Lack of expression. Blank. The hand pulls back and you now can see the full immensity of her size. Her body infinitely long, looking down before it disappears into darkness. And as you look up, suddenly the mask is there before you, but normal, human-sized. You're no longer in her hand. You're standing on a floor, a floor of the same white, ice-bone type substance that the interior of Raven's Crest seems to be built from. And for a brief moment, you see before you the woman before the god, the ascended mortal, no larger than you. From the hair that topples down the sides, the hand reaches up and grabs the mask and pulls it away. Beneath the mask you see a very beautiful, very sad-looking woman. But her eyes are cold and red in the iris. Her skin flawless and smooth. White, pale, sunless. Her brows thinned and furrowed. She steps forward and touches the side of your face. "There are those who will be frightened of you. But know what we do is one of the most important gifts of all." And she grabs your head, pulls you down, and kisses you on the forehead. At which point, suddenly your lungs fill once again with searing white pain. You find yourself scrambling about, instinctually spilling out liquid all around you, and you finally (coughs) come out on top of the communion pool. Your eyes open and you can see just red crimson pouring in your vision. You rub it out and you're in the chamber alone. Eyes wide, swimming around, you can see the figures on the side come to the edges. They all bow. The figure that led you in stands at the mouth of this pool where you entered. She's smiling. She has her hand extended.
Liam: I take it.
Matt: She lifts you out of the pool. One of the other figures runs up and takes one of the dark robes that they have and pulls it off around them, revealing just a simple dark blue and black outfit beneath. Still wearing the veil, but wraps the dark robe around you as the liquid is now back to its freezing cold sensation. Your teeth are chattering. They lead you back to the door you entered, down the stairs, and into the central chamber where both Keyleth and Pike await. You guys turn and see, descending the stairs, being flanked, essentially, by two of the members of the Raven's Crest, both of the shoulders with the dark robe wrapped around a very cold and somewhat freaked-out looking Vax'ildan, who has smeared red across his face. His hair is thick with viscous crimson liquid.
Ashley: I run over. You okay?
Marisha: I stand at the bottom of the stairs and I watch.
Liam: (hoarsely) I got answers in there, but they led to more questions. What am I to do with those questions?
Matt: The woman who had led you in there smiles and says, "That is the nature of death. We can't have all the answers, my friend. It is the pursuit of those answers that drives us. Do you trust Her?"
Liam: I do.
Matt: "Then perhaps you'll find those answers one day."
Liam: Thank you.
Matt: "Thank you." They pull the robe off and they all head back up into the chamber, leaving you all there in the room alone.
Marisha: I walk over.
Ashley: (whispering) I'm just going to stay where he is.
Liam: I'm shell-shocked.
Marisha: You look well.
Liam: It's going to be good.
Marisha: What did she say to you? Did she speak to you at all?
Liam: (whispering) Yeah.
Marisha: (shocked laugh)
Liam: Do you speak?
Ashley: Yes?
Liam: To her?
Ashley: Sometimes.
Liam: Do you understand?
Ashley: I don't think any of us can fully understand. I think, if we did, then we would be gods.
Marisha: Do you believe?
Liam: Yeah. Yeah. I do. I don't know what... I don't know why, but... this was fate.
Marisha: Is that what she told you, that this was fate?
Liam: No. I know it here.
Marisha: Why?
Liam: Everything has led to it. You and I wouldn't be standing here if my sister hadn't stolen a broom. Where's the sense in that? What else is it? I teleported into the stomach of a dragon with a gnome and I am still standing here. If it is not fate, what is it?
Marisha: I don't know. As someone who is constantly questioning mine, I don't think I'm the right person to ask. But I do know one thing-- and I grab his hands-- you were amazing and talented and special way before she found you. If anything, we can call her a god. We can also call her a great opportunist. She didn't give you anything special. The Vax that I see before me right now is no different than the Vax that I saw before me ten minutes ago. I'm not saying that what you experienced wasn't real and true. I believe you whole-heartedly.
Liam: This is real. This was meant to be. And I am on board.
Marisha: Is it what was meant to be or what you just really wanted? And it found you?
Liam: (disbelieving laughter) It is not what I wanted. Thank you. Thank you. I need to see my sister. And I head off towards the exit.
Matt: You guys make your way to the outside of Raven's Crest. The doors open once again. The figure that let you in is waiting for you, opens the door. As you see the doors open--
Laura: I jump up immediately. I've bitten off all my fingernails.
Matt: (laughs) Rushing down the stairs, you see Pike, Keyleth, and your brother in a little better spirits than when he first entered, if a little damper and redder.
Laura: Is that blood? Is that blood all over you? Did she hurt you?
Liam: It was really weird, but it's fine. I told you I'd be fine, and I'm fine.
Laura: I get out a rag and I start wiping everything off. (laughs) You're alive, though.
Liam: (laughs) Yeah, doesn't make any sense, does it.
Laura: (laughing) Oh my god, are you stronger now? Are you so strong?
Liam: I think I might be a bit weaker, actually.
Laura: Oh, I don't believe it.
Liam: I have the jelly-legs.
Laura: (laughs) Do you want to ride Trinket for a while?
Liam: Could I?
Laura: Yes!
Liam: He's going to get sticky.
Laura: No, he loves the taste of blood.
Matt: (sad moaning)
Laura: (laughs) Oh, Trinket.
Matt: Trinket comes over and begrudgingly lowers himself so you can climb on.
Liam: No, don't lick. Don't lick.
Laura: He's very light. Scrawny, scrawny, scrawny.
Liam: But don't lick, Trink, please.
Matt: (grunts)
Ashley: Just one kiss? One little lick?
Laura: (laughs)
Liam: Later, buddy. Later.
Liam: I climb on top.
Laura: Aren't you glad you got out of the Pokeball for this?
Liam: I give a quick look back at my friends. and then I take a nap on Trinket.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: So everything's good, then. He's good? Everything's fine?
Ashley: I think so... I mean, it's-- it was very different, but that doesn't mean it's wrong.
Laura: He talked to her?
Marisha: He talked to her.
Laura: Were you there?
Ashley: No.
Marisha: They didn't let us in the room.
Laura: Oh. Well, I'll find out.
Marisha: We stood outside. He didn't talk much about it. Maybe you can find out more. All he said was that he knows that this was fate.
Laura: Well, good. He has a purpose.
Ashley: Yeah.
Marisha: Oh. Yeah. Well, that's one way of looking at it.
Liam: (snores)
Laura: I keep him steady and I walk next to him.
Matt: Okay. You guys eventually make your way back to the Slayer's Take. The three of you guys... what are you doing while this is transpiring?
Travis: Eating my mechanical pencil. (laughter)
Taliesin: I've sent him with a shopping list.
Matt: Okay. What have they been sent to acquire?
Taliesin: I'm going to need a cheap gauntlet, some saddling straps, three tankards, a pick-axe, and two clocks.
Matt: All right. How much gold do you give him?
Laura: You've got--
Taliesin: That's right, I've got.
Sam: Four gold.
Taliesin: (snorts) I give--
Laura: You've also got a five-pound bag of gems, don't forget.
Taliesin: I do. I give him--
Marisha: (giggles)
Taliesin: This is what happens.
Marisha: Is that Riegel?
Taliesin: That was Riegel.
Marisha: (giggles)
Taliesin: Don't read that. That's not necessary.
Sam: (singing) I drew a dick on his picture. (laughter)
Taliesin: And I need that man's dick to finish the arm.
Matt: That'll go over well.
Taliesin: Despite the dick on my page, I'm going to give Scanlan 100 gold to take with Grog to find some junk items that they can put together.
Sam: I'm going with Grog to shop? All right, sure.
Taliesin: If you're down.
Sam: Yeah. I'll do it. Yeah, we'll go for all that stuff. Do we find success?
Matt: I want you guys to go ahead and roll-- actually, for you, just roll a general charisma check to ask around and get people to give you the proper information.
Taliesin: I love you.
Sam: What is this, just charisma?
Matt: You just add your charisma modifier.
Sam: 18.
Matt: 18?
Matt: Yeah, within a very brief period of talking to the right people and smiling and getting folks to listen back to you, eventually you're given information on where each piece of that list is able to be found. They're not too crazy items. There's a lot in general stores, general armor--
Taliesin: I don't even need an articulated gauntlet. It just needs to be a clamp.
Matt: Yeah, just a basic clamp gauntlet.
Sam: Do we also find a hat store?
Travis: Yeah, we'd better.
Laura: You want another beret?
Matt: Not in the Braving Grounds, but you can definitely find one on your journey in the Quad Roads.
Sam: If I can take an extra side journey to find a hat shop, that would be great.
Matt: Do you go with him?
Travis: Fuck yeah.
Sam: It's just hats, Grog. We're just getting hats.
Matt: You guys make your way to the busy streets of the Quadroads. Eventually, asking around, you find yourself across from what is called the Sore Socket Haberdashery.
Sam: The Sore Socket?
Matt: Sore Socket Haberdashery.
Travis: I love it.
Sam: I love it.
Matt: And the picture outside has a caricature of a guy, smiling, with a giant black eye.
Sam: (laughs)
Matt: You walk inside and it's like a small, localized bar-- not a tavern by any means, but it has like one small set-up in there for just general beer, and just loads and loads of hats. Leathers, cloth, all kinds of silly circumstances. You see some nice fancy hats with big feather plumes. You see joking hats that have multiple colors and what looks to be bells hanging from them. As you step into the room, you see two other random individuals that are looking around, shopping, and at the far end, you see coming through a big thing of curtains what looks to be a rather rotund woman in her late 40s or so. Big curls in her dark brown hair and maybe a little too much makeup on her face, who goes, "Darlings, what are you looking for? What can I get you? Are you looking for hats?"
Sam: Oh, man.
Matt: "I assume you're looking for hats."
Sam: Wow. Yeah, we've come to the right place.
Travis: The guys are missing out on this one. (laughter)
Sam: Hi, ma'am. My name's Scanlan. This is Grog. We're just-- I needed one hat, but you have such a fantastic selection, maybe we'll pick up a few.
Sam: How much money do I have left over from his hundo?
Matt: After all those materials, I'd say probably, asking around and your high charisma, you probably have about 60.
Travis: Bro, we got money.
Sam: Let's get some hats!
Matt: "My name is Deidre, dear, so nice to meet you."
Sam: It's lovely to meet you.
Matt: "You're so adorable."
Sam: We've heard so much about this store.
Matt: "Really?"
Sam: Yes, far and wide.
Matt: "Oh ho, I can guarantee you, it's all true. And you, you're so big, you're so strapping."
Travis: I am.
Matt: "And that beard!"
Matt: She kind of tousles the beard with her fingers.
Matt: "(giggles)"
Travis: (giggles) Oh, stop it.
Laura: Little food bits fall out.
Sam: I'm here to buy just one quick thing in particular, then we'll be on our way. I just want a very tall hat. Just very tall black hat with a point.
Matt: "Tall. Proportionally tall or regular?"
Sam: Like a big triangle hat.
Matt: "Hmm."
Sam: With a wide brim. Like a wide black hat just like this.
Marisha: (laugh)
Travis: (laugh)
Matt: She thinks for a second. "I don't carry anything like that--"
Sam: All right, well, it was worth--
Matt: "But I can make you something if you don't mind waiting a bit."
Sam: I could come back for it another day, perhaps.
Matt: "Oh, but at least let me measure your head, sweetie."
Sam: It's not for me.
Matt: "Do you know the size of who it's intended for?"
Sam: Well, her head's a little bigger than mine.
Matt: "I'll make it adjustable! You have to pay half in advance, a custom order."
Sam: Sure, how much?
Matt: "That will be 10 gold now, and an additional 10 upon retrieval."
Sam: More than worth it. I'll take it.
Matt: "All right."
Sam: And also, can you get something for him that would really accentuate his features?
Travis: Me? What?
Sam: Yes, you need a hat.
Travis: Oh, this streamlined. This is how the look goes.
Sam: But if it rains, Grog.
Travis: But that's part of it. My muscles ripple in the moisture.
Matt: "Nothing to block the muscles, no, not at all, but I have to say, with a fine, smooth head, it does need a little decoration, if you don't mind me saying."
Travis: Oh. You think so?
Matt: "(chuckles) You!"
Sam: Something in a yarmulke, perhaps?
Matt: "I was thinking--" And she whips out what looks like this fancy engraved leather cap with two straps on the side and just (shoomf) right over your head. It kind of folds everything in, the straps just go very long and dangle there.
Laura: (laugh)
Ashley: (laugh)
Marisha: Yes! Yes!
Matt: She takes them and snaps them underneath to where these two little danglies are dangling from under the chin. And it just has these really intricate flower patterns punched into the leather all around.
Sam: I love it, Grog. I think you look great.
Travis: (stutters)
Sam: We don't have a mirror here?
Matt: "I think it speaks of the seasons."
Travis: Is it over my ears?
Marisha: Is it like one of those old-school leather helmets?
Matt: It looks almost like the old football helmets.
Marisha: Oh, football! Yeah. Okay! Cool.
Travis: I mean, I don't know, does it do anything?
Matt: "It looks masculine. You wouldn't believe. Here, let me show you!" And she brings up a small mirror.
Travis: (screams) (everyone else laughs)
Matt: "Exactly. Men will fear you walking down the road."
Travis: No, please, more like-- a bit more like war, death, battlefield. More aggressive. This is a bit more like sheep-herder.
Travis: Here you go.
Matt: "Well, all right."
Matt: "Death. Battle. Aggressive."
Sam: Maybe something with spikes?
Matt: "Spikes. Spikes... let me see what I can do."
Marisha: (laugh)
Laura: (laugh)
Ashley: (laugh)
Matt: And she runs off down the way, gets into a bag and you start hearing things going (tink, thud) something rolls over-- "Ah, shit!" Eventually she comes out. "This is less of a hat and more of a half-helmet, but maybe it'll do." And she pulls forth what looks like this very wide metal brim, almost in a swish shape to a point in the front.
Travis: (laughing) Conquistador's helmet?
Matt: Yeah, it kind of looks like a conquistador's helmet. But it's only the front, so it's almost like a rhinoceros horn that sticks up to a point.
Marisha: Yes.
Laura: Oh my god.
Matt: And the rest buckles to the back of the head, so it's a giant metallic groove for the front.
Travis: I'll take it. I don't even care if it fits.
Liam: (laugh)
Marisha: (laugh)
Matt: "Oh, that's what I like to hear."
Travis: How much is it?
Matt: "This will be 50 gold."
Laura: (gasps)
Travis: Is the point very sharp?
Matt: "Try it yourself."
Travis: And I reach up and I... hit it with my finger.
Matt: It's all right. It can be sharpened. It's more for decor. It's not meant to slice somebody in half.
Travis: Yeah, it could be sharpened?
Matt: "Well, I mean, what are you intending to do with this hat? (titters)"
Travis: Nothing, just look sharp. (groaning)
Matt: "I can do that for you, my big muscley man."
Liam: That is the very ceiling of intelligence of his.
Marisha: Yeah. (laughs)
Travis: Oh, see that sweet jam I just dropped there.
Sam: I did, that was a good line.
Travis: Write that in a notebook somewhere.
Taliesin: We'll be cleaning that off the floor for ages.
Matt: So after about five minutes or so, she grinds down with what materials she has to a little more-- it does mess with some of the polish on the very tip of the metal, but it does come to a more solid point. "Be careful with that."
Travis: So is it one piece or is there a strap on the back or it just goes (foonk)?
Matt: It goes on and then straps tight in the back to fit your head.
Travis: Beautiful.
Laura: It's basically like a unicorn?
Matt: Kind of.
Travis: Rhino.
Matt: It's like a big old rhino horn that curls upward to a point there.
Liam: Wow. Wow.
Matt: It looks a little ridiculous.
Marisha: I'm so excited for the art!
Travis: What do you think? Hold on. What do you think?
Sam: Wow. I mean, your silhouette is magnificent. Imposing.
Liam: Is this your variant fighting costume?
Ashley: Oh, boy.
Travis: Am I fearsome?
Sam: You are. You are. We should go to a silhouette artist after this and get something drawn for this.
Travis: They have those?
Sam: They do, they cut it out.
Travis: Milady, you are a master of your trade.
Ashley: Oh, boy.
Matt: "Well. So they tell me."
Sam: Our mom only gave us 60 gold to spend. Could you give us both hats for 60? We're brothers. (laughter)
Sam: Something went wrong with him at birth.
Matt: Make a deception check with disadvantage.
Sam: With disadvantage?!
Matt: Yes.
Liam: Doesn't matter.
Sam: Well, would a 1 be bad? (laughter)
Matt: Deidre goes, "(laughs) You silly, tiny man-- No, seriously. We have a price agreed upon. Pay it."
Travis: Yeah, no, I got it. I got 50 gold of my own.
Sam: All right. 20 from me, 50 from him. We'll take them both.
Matt: "Ooh, all up front? All right. It'll be ready for you shortly." She takes the coin. "Thank you for the patronage. Return here in about... ooh, an hour, and the hat shall be prepared for you, sir-- what's your name?"
Sam: My name's Scanlan Shorthalt.
Matt: "Scanlan Shorthalt. All right, come soon."
Sam: See you soon.
Travis: Can I hit my head on the doorway on the way out?
Matt: (shoomp)
Laura: (laugh)
Marisha: (laugh)
Matt: (creak) You have to kind of pull it out. Yeah. You leave a nice big groove.
Travis: It is nice, right?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: Okay, good.
Matt: (laughs) All right, eventually you all gather again back at the hall of the Slayer's Take. You guys have just settled in and are free to continue any discussion you like as you see Scanlan and Grog come in. Say, you've since retrieved your hat with your various wonderfully-crafted accoutrements.
Travis: 'Sup, bitches.
Laura: Wow.
Sam: Look at that.
Ashley: Whoa.
Travis: What happened?
Sam: Look at that.
Ashley: (gasps) Ohh...
Travis: I know, right? Wait for it.
Liam: (laughs)
Laura: Whoa. Grog, you're so monstrous.
Ashley: What? Grog, that is so scary.
Marisha: That's like another 12 inches to you.
Travis: I know.
Marisha: You look so tall.
Travis: It, like, changes my whole battle strategy. I'm now literally the point of the spear.
Ashley: (gasps) You're so scary.
Taliesin: How have we lived with this idiot?
Travis: (laughs) I'm a sea monster!
Ashley: (roars)
Travis: I'm like the most wicked narwhal of all time! Give me a pool! (laughs)
Ashley: Can I try it on?
Travis: Yeah, you want to?
Travis: (laughing) I put it on Pike's head.
Ashley: Whoa, it's so heavy. (all but Taliesin laugh)
Taliesin: What is the world coming to?
Travis: Is it as tall as she is?
Matt: You can see the bottom of her mouth.
Ashley: Oh, Grog.
Travis: Oh, yeah, look. Wait, turn around 180 degrees and then run as fast as you can.
Marisha: Oh, yeah, go! Go! Go! Go, Pike! Go, go!
Laura: (clapping) Go, Pike! Go, Pike! Go, Pike!
Matt: Okay, make a perception check.
Taliesin: (groans)
All - taliesin: (laughs)
Ashley: 9.
Matt: 9. You go running straight out of the door--
Laura: No!
Matt: You guys are like, "Oh. No, Pike!" She's already out the door, over the stairs (repeated thuds), outside of the hall. (sounds of dismay)
Travis: Oh no!
Laura: Oh no!
Ashley: I'm okay!
Matt: You guys rush out to go catch her and the helmet is actually embedded partway into the ground and she's kind of--
Marisha: Yeah!
Matt: And she's just laughing.
Ashley: (laughing) Grog, get me out of this helmet.
Travis: I pick her up by the feet.
Travis: That was excellent. (giggles)
Ashley: As he's holding me up like that I try to stab him with it.
Travis: I yank it off of her head and put her back on the ground.
Liam: Vax has been laughing hysterically, giggle fits, clutching his ribs the entire time. And then is there any of the staff here? Anyone that's here? Anyone else?
Matt: You haven't seen Mertin. Vanessa doesn't seem to have left.
Liam: What about underlings?
Matt: I mean, there are a few individuals here that are part of the guildhall. The hierarchy here is more like the few that run it, and then everyone else comes and goes as they please.
Liam: Yeah, yeah, come here, you. Do you have a tub? Do you have a bath? Look at me. Do you have a bath? I need a bath.
Matt: "You look pretty rough."
Liam: Yeah?
Matt: "Yeah. We could-- we got a washroom in the back, if you need it."
Liam: Is it hot? I feel like I need it to be hot.
Matt: "You get what you get. It's water, buddy."
Liam: Okay. That's perfect, thank you. Grog, put that hat on again.
Travis: Oh, yeah, hold on. (foomp)
Liam: (laughs hysterically)
Liam: All the way down the hall to take a bath.
Sam: It's crazy. Did you guys get him drunk or something?
Taliesin: I don't know what you people did, but...
Ashley: Well, he just...
Travis: People respond to fear differently.
Sam: I guess so.
Laura: He's gone insane.
Marisha: He might have saw the face of a god.
Sam: Whatever.
Travis: He did?
Marisha: Yeah.
Ashley: Yeah. The head of--
Travis: By the way, why is he covered in bloodbath?
Ashley: I think that was part of the--
Marisha: Ritual? Communion?
Ashley: Getting to know his new god.
Travis: Did he kill a lot of people?
Ashley: Maybe he had to. I don't know.
Travis: He did?
Laura: So many, Grog.
Travis: Oh my god.
Laura: Yeah. It was a giant battle.
Travis: Like, how many on two hands?
Laura: Like at least this many.
Travis: That's a legendary amount.
Laura: That's more than six.
Laura: I know.
Ashley: Yeah.
Liam: Somewhere deep in the building, far away:
Liam: This is not hot!
Matt: The gruff individual chuckles. "Heh. It never is." I need you to make a tinkering check.
Taliesin: Okay. I'm sitting with my tea and my tools, trying to ignore these people.
Laura: Can I heat water up in the fireplace?
Matt: Yeah, yeah, it'll take you a little while.
Taliesin: Please don't explode.
Sam: When I delivered the materials to him--
Taliesin: Oh, Jesus H. Fucking Christ.
Marisha: Oh no, Taliesin...
Sam: Could I have inspired him at all, when I delivered the materials?
Taliesin: Please.
Matt: Sure.
Sam: All right.
Marisha: Please inspire.
Sam: I will inspire-- oh my god, it's not even worth it.
Taliesin: (muffled) Please inspire. Do it. Do it, you bloody gnome!
Sam: Okay. So when I delivered everything, I just sang him a little song to inspire him. And I sang,
Sam: (singing) Percy's gun, won't you come and kill up all the dragons? (others join in) Percy's gun, won't you come, won't you come?
Ashley: Percy's gun! (laughter)
Liam: Percy's gun! (laughter)
Matt: Oh my god. All right, take your d10.
Laura: Ten! Ten! Ten!
Liam: Do it! Do it!
Marisha: Oh my god, it's a 10!
Taliesin: Better!
Sam: That was a 10.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Marisha: I get excited. Sorry.
Liam: Pretty good song.
Taliesin: Proficiency, tinkering, plus the--
Matt: Well, your proficiency is what you get with the roll and then it's your dex bonus.
Taliesin: Okay, so proficiency, dex, okay, thank you, god.
Taliesin: (muttering) That's 11...
Liam: (hums Black Hole Sun)
Taliesin: 23.
Matt: 23. What did you roll naturally?
Sam: A 2.
Taliesin: 2.
Liam: (laughs)
Laura: Whoa.
Sam: Plus 10.
Matt: Ah.
Taliesin: Plus 10.
Marisha: Plus 10.
Taliesin: Made it 12.
Matt: Wow. All righty.
Taliesin: It's not complicated, but I've got a good design, and it has two nifty things.
Matt: What are the nifty things?
Sam: Fingers.
Taliesin: It doesn't actually have fingers. It's a mitt piece, strap-on, it can lock the thumb and lock the hand so you can open it, lock, close it, lock. It's got little flip-locks.
Matt: Mm-hm.
Taliesin: You can detach the hand and put a pick spike on for mining. Like a mining punch.
Liam: Is it like Young Frankenstein? (mechanical sound effects)
Taliesin: It's more Dustin Hoffman "Hook", but, you know.
Marisha: Oh, sure.
Laura: Oh, that's nice.
Marisha: I was thinking Go-Go-Gadget Finger.
Taliesin: Because it's got the click, pull, click.
Matt: Right.
Taliesin: I can do it with all these things. I can graph it. So.
Matt: (laughs)
Taliesin: Reasonable. It's not pretty.
Matt: It takes you a few hours and gets you into the early parts of the evening, but you do manage to go ahead and complete it. You manage to get it finished up and you're pretty proud of your work, actually, and you feel-- the whistle you're still doing as you do the final bits, you realize is the song that Scanlan sang for you, just looping in your head. It happened to push you through your work and get your final piece completed.
Taliesin: I also carved a little message inside that will not matter unless it actually becomes pertinent.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: You don't get to know until you ask offscreen.
Sam: You don't know.
Laura: (laughs) Ohhh.
Matt: Okay. I'm excited. Okay.
Marisha: That's right, DM.
Travis: That never happens.
Matt: (laughs) Try me. Okay. Do you go and deliver it?
Taliesin: I do go and deliver it.
Matt: Okay. As the sun begins to set in Vasselheim, you make your way back over to the Braving Grounds, which as you look across, too, as the night goes dark, the Braving Grounds itself has a whole different life to it. There are so many forges and smelters going that there's-- most buildings have this bright orange glow through the ceiling and these various openings where fumes and smoke and exhaust are sent up from the various production constructs and such. It has this very luminescent look in comparison to a lot of the city. It's very interesting. It reminds you of the deep, deep portions of Kraghammer, where most of the actual fire and melted rock was being smelted and gathered and heated. So you make your way to the hovel. The roof workers are no longer there, and the door is closed.
Taliesin: (knocks) Victor? I've got your hand.
Matt: "(muffled) I'm sleeping."
Taliesin: Do you want your hand?
Matt: "(muffled) You want me to sleep?"
Taliesin: I don't see why they're mutually exclusive.
Marisha: (laughs)
Matt: You hear (scraping sound) a bunch of different locks fiddling. (series of clicks) (fwoosh) And the door opens and you see Victor, clean-faced for the first time you've really seen him before, and he has a nightcap which sort of (foomf) in front of his face, with a little puffball at the end. He's like, "I told you. I was trying-- oh! Hey. (hesitantly) Percival?"
Taliesin: Yes, that's quite good. I love your hat.
Matt: "Thank you. It's comfy to sleep in."
Taliesin: It looks it.
Matt: "Did you bring my hand?"
Taliesin: I did. I grabbed your hand and I will show you. It is very special.
Matt: "Come in! Come in! (grunts)" And opens the door. You see he's wearing this long nightgown that is covered in patches and tears in it. Most of it has been turned black through soot, but the cap is perfect. Perfect condition.
Taliesin: I have a special set of pajamas myself, so I understand.
Matt: "They are comfortable." As he walks in, still bandaged on the arm, you can see there's a small kettle of tea set by the small fireplace right there. It's a tiny little table and a tiny little stool that he's just kind of sitting on right there. And he goes and he reaches over for the kettle. "(groans)" Tries to pick up the cup and just pours the tea into it.
Taliesin: (alarmed stuttering)
Taliesin: I'm going to stop and attach and begin strapping this.
Matt: "(confused stuttering)"
Taliesin: Let me show you. It attaches like this.
Matt: "Ooh."
Taliesin: Here are the two switches. (clicking) And for your mine.
Matt: "Eh? Oh."
Taliesin: I grab, hit the button, twist, pull.
Matt: "Oh? Eh? I just got that!"
Taliesin: And I get the spike and attach it.
Matt: "Oh."
Taliesin: Remove it, put the hand back on. Tea?
Matt: (chuckle, click) (excited laughter) "Tea?"
Taliesin: Sure. Why not? Always say yes.
Marisha: (laughs)
Matt: "Need another cup. (grunts)" He stands up and goes over, still holding the kettle and splashing everywhere, and he's flipping through cabinets and knocking pieces of glass out. "Ah! Found it." Pulls out another little ceramic cup and pours the tea in, sets it down. (chink, click) "(cackles)"
Sam: (laughs)
Matt: "To new hands!"
Taliesin: To new hands.
Sam: That's a great toast.
Matt: It is pungent. It is bitter.
Matt: It has been steeped way too long.
Ashley: Gunpowder tea.
Matt: But it definitely cleans out the sinuses. And there is a hint of gunpowder to the flavoring. You get the sense that pretty much everything in this room is marinated in some way, shape, or form to be flammable.
Taliesin: (hoarsely) Victor. (laughter)
Matt: "It can put hair on your balls."
Taliesin: Ohhh, probably. Has a woman been by to buy black powder? (coughs) Has a woman been by?
Matt: "Not in, uh, weeks, maybe."
Taliesin: Weeks?
Matt: "Did you make her hand, too?"
Taliesin: I did not. Do you know where she goes?
Matt: "No. She paid well, though."
Taliesin: Did she? What did she pay?
Matt: "Are you guys in a club now? How many people want black powder? Tell me! Tell them! Bring them more. I could use money." (others laugh)
Taliesin: How much black powder did she buy, Victor?
Matt: "Uh... (mutters to himself)" (click, click)
Taliesin: Only counts to two. I'm so sorry. (laughter)
Matt: "Maybe... 12 hogsheads worth?"
Ashley: Whoa.
Travis: Oh, shit.
Marisha: Oh, shit.
Taliesin: Really? And how often does she come by?
Matt: "She only come by once."
Taliesin: Okay. (sighs) Thank you. I'm so pleased. I may stop by one last time before I leave town, just to say goodbye. Thank you.
Matt: "Please do! I have more tea. Many different flavors. This is, I call, dark roast."
Taliesin: It... certainly scalded something. Thank you. That was very lovely and that was very charming and I unfortunately have business in the--
Matt: "I want to try the other one before you go."
Taliesin: One more and then I must go, thank you.
Matt: "(click, creak) Come on, need this, too."
Taliesin: Yes, of course.
Matt: "(creak, click) (cackles)"
Taliesin: (uncertain laughter)
Matt: (thunk) He sticks it into the wooden stool and the table. Kind of breaks the wood and snaps it. "Oh. (cackles)"
Taliesin: Remember that it's attached to bone. You can still break your arm, so be gentle.
Matt: "Yes. Thank you!"
Taliesin: Thank you. Good night! Have a lovely evening.
Matt: "Good night!"
Sam: Aah.
Taliesin: Good night. Aah. Pleasure, as always. Thank you.
Matt: "(slurps)"
Taliesin: I leave in a little bit of a panic.
Matt: You leave and he's just sitting there staring at this long chisel point, going, "(quiet cackling)"
Sam: His ring.
Marisha: (laughs)
Matt: The door slowly closes behind you.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Liam: A fighter is born.
Marisha: Yes, yeah, just give him an anime weapon.
Taliesin: Yeah, okay. We're sticking around for a day?
Sam: I assume so. I don't know. We're going to spend the night, at least.
Taliesin: I'm going to take a long walk before I come back and I'm going to walk by the Raven Queen temple and just... peek inside.
Matt: Okay. You make your way past the Quad Roads. At this point at night the whole clientele has shifted. Most people coming here-- you hear laughter, you hear music. The Quad Roads is the New Orleans of the town, comparatively. It's still nowhere near as rambunctious as many places you've been, but for what seems during the day to be a rather dour and serious business type city, the Quad Roads is where the celebration of humanity hits when the evening hours hit. So you come by and there's some taverns that are open. You see, to a certain extent, what even appears to be an adult entertainment district.
Laura: (laughs sarcastically)
Matt: You make your way beyond--
Liam: (clears throat) Ring-a-ding-ding.
Matt: It's the oldest profession. You make your way all the way to the outskirts of the Duskmeadow, and there, amongst the just barely peeking through the cloudline starlight, the looming dark structure that is Raven's Crest.
Taliesin: I'm just going to gently open the door and peek inside and see if anybody's inside.
Matt: Okay. You go ahead and push the door open. (creak) Doesn't appear to be anybody there.
Taliesin: I walk in just for a moment and take a look around.
Matt: Okay. You walk in. (clicking footsteps) At this dark hour, looking around, the obsidian-type walls are translucent glass on the other side, though you can barely make out through the material the details of the outside world, due to the lack of light across the cityscape. Especially here in Duskmeadow, in which the magical lantern light that illuminates the city streets are relatively sparse on this side of Vasselheim. You take a few more steps in, (clicking footsteps) footsteps echoing across the long, thin, dark material of the floors. (creak, thud)
Laura: (gasps)
Matt: Door closes behind you.
Travis: (quietly) What would-- why would you do this?
Liam: Said the T. rex.
Taliesin: I'm going to gently look around and slowly back up and see if I can see anyone.
Taliesin: Hello? Hello?
Matt: (echoing) Hello... hello... hello.
Taliesin: What do I have to pay to fix this?
Matt: (echoing) This... this... this... this.
Taliesin: I leave.
Matt: (thump-crash) You hear the sound of some sort of low, distant hit and a rumble, and you see a distant light appear in a chamber just beyond the walkway, just faint enough to illuminate and give the presence of some sort of life or movement about a hundred or so feet ahead of you.
Taliesin: I walk briskly towards it.
Matt: You enter the next chamber, where you see the interior of this structure is ivory-white bone and glass, with a blue hint, very much resembling the interior of a very naturally, beautifully-carved ice cavern. There is a stairway that ascends, as well as other hallways that lead out from the central nerve center of the lower floor of the main structure. As you walk into this central chamber, you see, ever so faintly, at the very top of the stairs, a pair of feet (footsteps) walk and disappear up the stairs.
Taliesin: I'm going to charge after them.
Matt: Okay. You go running up the stairway. (thud thud) You get to the top, and you can see at the very top of the stairs a dark wooden door with a dark iron rim and what appears to be a large hanger or handle or knocker bolted to it and it (thud) just closes as you come underneath the top of the archway and up the stairs.
Taliesin: I knock.
Matt: (doosh) Once?
Taliesin: Three times.
Matt: (doosh doosh) With each hit, you can hear the reverberation of the echo of the knock through a much larger chamber beyond. As soon as you release the actual door knocker, the door (thump-crash, creak) just creaks open ever so slightly into a very, very dark chamber. You can see very, very little in here, other than the basic outline of what looks to be a little bit of floor, some sort of a smooth, glassy surface that refracts just a little bit of light that makes it through what looks to be some sort of broken-up glass dome-type structure above you. You can't make out much beyond that. It's very dark in here.
Taliesin: Hello? Please. (sighs) Something terrible has happened. I don't understand how these games work. I need help to fix something. Something terrible has happened! You obviously care little for this world. I start to back out.
Matt: As you step out of the room, you hear a whisper come from beyond the chamber, within the darkness. It says, "Is it yourself you wish to fix or something more?"
Taliesin: I don't think I can be fixed. There is something broken in the world.
Matt: "Then come. Let us talk."
Taliesin: ...I don't understand how these things work. I'm so sorry. Where do you wish me to go?
Matt: "Have faith."
Taliesin: (disbelieving laugh)
Matt: "Step in. Join me."
Taliesin: (sighs) ...I strip.
Travis: (gasps)
Taliesin: And put it aside.
Sam: Put "it" aside?
Taliesin: Put my clothes in the corner.
Sam: Oh. You're gonna jump her, eh?
Taliesin: You're filthy. And I go into the pool.
Matt: All right. As you step into the chamber, freezing cold as your toes--
Taliesin: We're cold people.
Matt: Your legs, your whole body eventually finds itself stepping into this thick, freezing liquid. You hear the whisper in your ears just as your head reaches the level of the blood, that says, "Come. Come to me with your questions." Just as your head goes beneath the surface.
Taliesin: (sighs) We're doing this.
Matt: You're underneath and in darkness, feeling around the thick material, kind of just swishing your fingers around, but amongst the liquid, you still hear the whisper again in your ear: "Come. Bring your questions."
Taliesin: And I swim down until it's uncomfortable.
Matt: You swim downward and you touch the bottom of the pool. You reach a somewhat concave, smooth floor to the pool.
Taliesin: I'm going to head to the surface. I don't know what's...
Matt: You head to the surface. There's no surface. It just keeps going.
Taliesin: (sighs) I do not do well with this.
Matt: You do not. You begin to panic.
Taliesin: Yes, I do.
Matt: You begin to reach around and try to swim up and find the surface, but it just keeps going. The liquid's thick and it's hard to pull through, and you can't open your eyes, and you can't see anything, and the iron-like flavor is starting to find its way to the inside of your mouth as it's seeping through your nose and your ears. You begin to panic even further as the cold is starting to take and you feel your muscles beginning to shake and seize from the onset of hypothermia. You begin to head to the bottom of the pool again, and this time, you crack your head on the bottom in the middle of your stupor, and you reach up and scream in pain. As you do, the blood fills your lungs and you begin to feel yourself drown. You begin to shake and convulse as you begin to try to find a way to force it out of your body and you can't. And at that moment, where all of a sudden you realize that this is it. This is the end. This is how the tale of Percival comes to an end. The sensation goes warm again. And it's like all that cold energy goes away, and you're now swimming in water, then air, and the pain subsides, and you're breathing normally. But you still stand in darkness, and you hear these distant footsteps. (clicking footsteps) Sourceless. No light, just shadow. And you look around over your shoulder and then right behind you, you see immediately a white porcelain face, the head is just standing there amongst the shadow.
Taliesin: (takes deep breaths) Do you know what I've done?
Matt: "I've watched."
Taliesin: I have questions.
Matt: "Then ask them."
Taliesin: First is, can we stop it? Can we stop what's been released? Is there something I can do?
Matt: "Many things are released in this world. Many terrible, many wonderful. Many things. Ask the right questions."
Taliesin: Did it choose me because I was broken, or did it break me?
Matt: The mask, which has not shown any expression at this point, pulls back a little bit from you and almost seems to grow in size. It's strange; the proportion seems to stay the same, but suddenly your vision shifts and you realize, no, it's farther away from you and is just suddenly immense, like your visual focus just changes and your whole perspective suddenly causes you to lose sense of scale and balance. The voice comes in, this time louder: "You were always broken, Percival. And you were preyed upon, just as it preys upon others, and will continue to do so until finally destroyed."
Taliesin: Can it be fixed?
Matt: "Perhaps. Your deeds will guide your path to salvation or damnation. The choice is yours. You skirt that line still."
Taliesin: But the first deed is so... there's so much, and I don't think any of them see it. I want it to die before anybody sees it. Can you help?
Matt: "I've already helped, Percival. Do not think the path that you and your allies walk goes unseen. There are many of those in this world that represent the will of us, just as there are those who represent the will of those that combat us and always have. There are a great many deeds ahead of you. It's your choice to take them. Just know: should you not watch yourself, you may not find yourself on our side."
Taliesin: I know. There is nowhere I can look for healing? Other than deeds? I like to fix things.
Matt: "All life is inherently broken from the start, Percival. Take solace in that. There is no perfection in life. Otherwise, what would be the purpose of death? It's to try to find ways to better yourself before the end that gives us purpose. You are all broken, but also understand," At this point, her voice gets very deep and very resonant. "Mortals can achieve great things. I did." And the mask pulls back into the shadows and suddenly (gasp, cough) you begin coughing, finding your way to the surface, pouring blood out of your mouth and coughing and eventually you find your way over, breathing heavily, to the side of the pool and (grunt) pull yourself onto the side. (cough) Cough the rest of it up. A little bit of moonlight peeks through, and you can see the beams refracting through the purples and reds and blues and just hints of specks of light that just shimmer across the surface of this dark, glass-like floor.
Taliesin: I'm going to take my sword and I'm going to very carefully scrape my body clean of the blood, as much as I can, and I'm going to take the back of my shirt and clean my hair off as much as I can. I'm going to take a vial of the blood in the pool. One tiny bit.
Matt: You do so.
Taliesin: I'm going to put my clothes back on... and I'm going to cast Hex on myself for my walk home and banish it before I come in the door.
Matt: Okay. All righty. So, as Percival finally wanders in, is there anything else anyone wants to achieve before the evening's done?
Sam: I'd like to go to the Raven Queen. (laughter)
Sam: No.
Liam: Are we next morning, or we're still evening, at this point?
Matt: We're still evening at the moment, if there's anything else you wish to achieve. Otherwise--
Laura: I've been slowly heating water and giving it to Vax to put in his bath.
Matt: You do manage to draw a comfortable bath for your brother and wash him clean.
Laura: I don't wash him! I just give him the fucking water.
Matt: You aid him in washing himself clean. So you specify.
Liam: Thanks, man.
Travis: Do we see Percy when he comes in?
Matt: It's going to be late.
Taliesin: I'm going to walk quiet and late and go tinker on a little thing for a minute until I pass out.
Matt: Okay. You do notice Percy enter. Looks a little frazzled, but doesn't seem to--
Laura: Do I see any of the blood? Passive perception?
Liam: You're in the tubby town, though.
Matt: Make a perception check. I want you to make a dexterity check.
Marisha: (groan)
Taliesin: (groan)
Liam: Sorry, Taliesin.
Sam: You've got him.
Liam: Rolled high.
Laura: 32.
Taliesin: 32?! Oh my god, what the-- I couldn't have rolled that. Like, that would've been a natural 20, would have been the only way around that.
Matt: You see, just faintly behind one of his ears and at the edge of his collar on his coat, just a bit of familiar crimson, and a look of... a distant stare that is familiar.
Matt: All right. Do you all wish to rest for the evening?
Sam: No, I would like to take 12 hours to read my book.
Matt: Okay, so the first 12 hours are completed, but you do not sleep?
Sam: No.
Liam: It's a page-turner.
Sam: Lots of centerfolds. (laughter)
Travis: Don't be stingy, share those with me.
Matt: Written by John Cleese. It's a wonderful piece.
Laura: I also spend a lot of time that night reading, but I'm reading the book about the Raven Queen.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Pretty much have it memorized at this point.
Matt: Yeah, fair enough. All right. You guys all find yourself to rest, except for Scanlan, who takes a point of exhaustion for going through the night without sleep.
Sam: I don't know what that is, but someone will tell me.
Travis: You'll find out.
Matt: Yeah. Basically, it means any ability checks, any skill checks until you get a full night's rest are at disadvantage, yeah. All right, as you find yourselves to rest, most of you the morning light comes, greeting you to a new day, and we're going to go ahead and take a break. We'll be back here in a few minutes, guys. Reminder, once again: Loot Crate, our awesome sponsor, check them out at lootcrate.com/criticalrole, enter criticalrole-- one word-- to get $3 off a subscription. We'll be back here in a minute, guys.
Marisha: And get your Joe Mad poster!
Matt: Joe Mad poster!
Marisha: Right now, pre-order.
Sam: Wait, there's a giveaway at the break, I think.
Laura: Oh, there's a Loot Crate giveaway.
Marisha: Oh, and giveaway!
Matt: For the DX boxes, so be active in the chat.
Liam: And please go check out the Joe Mad poster.
Laura: It's so sick.
Liam: Also check out Battle Chasers Night War. It's a beautiful-looking game. I played it today.
Laura: Also, give your friend a hug. Love each other.
Marisha: (laughs) Yeah, and a high-five.
Sam: Bathe in blood. We'll see you soon. [Critical Role resumes at 2:22:43]
Matt: Welcome back, guys. So, as we return to the game, the morning comes to you all in Vasselheim as you awake in the Slayer's Take guildhall. A brisk morning, but not too cold. The clouds are actually a little more separate this morning. You get brief moments of blue; it looks like the weather is a little clearer than you're used to seeing in this vicinity. But the day is yours. What do you guys wish to do?
Liam: What do we need to accomplish here in town? Is there anything we need to finish, or do we want to pick our next destination?
Sam: Do they sell potions and things here in town--
Sam: No, they don't.
Taliesin: No, very specifically they don't.
Sam: Then let's get the hell out of here. There's nothing for us here.
Travis: What about the Feywild?
Sam: Oh, yeah.
Marisha: We did talk about the Feywild.
Taliesin: Let's drop off our--
Laura: Don't tease me about the Feywild.
Travis: Wait, don't you have to pick up something?
Taliesin: Oh, I already picked it up.
Travis: Not you, you.
Sam: Me?
Taliesin: Oh, you have a hat.
Sam: I thought we waited for the hat.
Matt: Yeah, he picked up the hat.
Travis: Oh, shit, balls, ass. All right.
Sam: There's the Feywild. There's dropping stuff off at Whitestone. There's Marquet, which something is there in Marquet?
Laura: Is one of the Vestiges there?
Sam: I don't know, everyone just keeps talking about it.
Travis: Really?
Sam: Wait, weren't we going to go to--
Marisha: One of the Vestiges is in Marquet.
Laura: Which one?
Marisha: Hang on. Cabal's Ruin, which is a magic-devouring cloak--
Travis: Hold on, hold on, hold on. Are we alone in this room?
Matt: You guys are right now having breakfast in the guildhall. There's maybe two other individuals in the room. One of them is drunkenly asleep and snoring. The other appears to be going about their business.
Travis: I'm just saying.
Marisha: (whispering) Okay, I'll speak quietly. There's apparently a magic-devouring cloak who is being worn by the-- it's in Ank'Harel. It's being worn by...
Laura: It's a cloak that devours magic?
Marisha: A merchant warrior with a missing eye.
Sam: And there's one in the bottom of the sea somewhere.
Laura: And there's a really beautiful strong bow in the Feywild.
Travis: Yeah, let's go to the Feywild! We at least know that place.
Taliesin: I say we drop everything-- we take a pit stop in Whitestone and head towards the Feywild.
Marisha: So, technically, we don't even have to head towards the Feywild. Do you guys remember how I kind of did that thing with Grog's evil sword and kind of banished it away for forever?
Travis: Are we bringing it back?
Marisha: No.
Laura: Yeah, to the Dread Emperor's.
Marisha: Right.
Liam: Not a good idea, Grog.
Marisha: No, we're not bringing it back. I can do that with the rest of us.
Laura: You can banish us to the Dread Emperor's island?
Marisha: No, it's not like a banishment. I can Plane Shift us wherever we want to go, to an alternate plane.
Laura: To the Feywild? So we don't even have to find an entrance?
Marisha: Yeah, we just hold hands and think about it really hard.
Travis: No way.
Marisha: Yeah. It's druid magic. It's great.
Liam: And you put us in a safe spot somewhere in there, somehow?
Marisha: I can take us to where we've been before, to where it's familiar.
Liam: Have we been there before? I don't know.
Marisha: Very briefly.
Taliesin: Yes.
Laura: Is it somewhere that you have to have been, or can it be somewhere that we have been.
Marisha: It is somewhere I am familiar with, I believe, through means that I am familiar...
Laura: Syngorn is in the Feywild.
Sam: Normally?
Liam: No, not normally.
Laura: They transferred the entire city there.
Liam: I know, but you're saying we've been there, but they just did that recently.
Sam: Grog's been to the Feywild.
Matt: You can specify a target
Marisha: In general terms.
Matt: In general terms.
Marisha: Such as "City of Brass on the Elemental Plane of Fire."
Sam: Oh, is that where we're going?
Marisha: No.
Sam: Oh. Sounds like fun.
Taliesin: It does, actually.
Marisha: If you guys want to go to the Plane of Fire, that's like, a hike and a jump through a hole.
Taliesin: Ah.
Travis: No, no, not the Plane of Fire. Just the Feywild.
Marisha: All right. Yeah, I can get us there.
Sam: To the Feywild. How big is the Feywild? Is it like a football field?
Marisha: It's very big.
Laura: It's a whole other plane.
Sam: Well, how do-- do we know where we're going in the Feywild?
Marisha: I imagine we'll figure it out once we get there.
Taliesin: Do I know anything about the Feywild?
Matt: You have no knowledge of the Feywild.
Ashley: Would I know anything else?
Marisha: What about me?
Laura: Would we have learned something about it in Syngorn?
Matt: You have a general idea of it, somewhat--
Marisha: Team Half-Elf, yeah.
Matt: Somewhat, just through your learning. You never actually visited there. The Feywild is a near plane, a plane that overlaps this Prime Material Plane. It's a version of the world you live in right now that is shifted and changed in a place where time, distance is relative and shifts. Nature grows rampant and in cases is hard to really expect its direction. Things and entities exist there that prefer to trick and lose wanderers. It's a very strange place where some believe elves initially come from or craft from there, at least.
Liam: Do the two of us know enough that were you to jump from the same place here, would you necessarily end up in the same spot in the Feywild?
Matt: You have no idea.
Liam: We don't know. All right.
Matt: You don't know anything about the transition to the Feywild. You just know that certain doors open at certain times, especially with full moons in certain locations, the classic toadstool rings, areas where the moonlight in the realms can be a little thinner and the barrier doors do open, and those are where creatures can transition out or through. You do know it's a place of fey magic, it's tricky, it's difficult to follow.
Sam: Terrible.
Laura: It sounds awful.
Matt: Very, like, Oberon and Titania. Weird. Interesting.
Marisha: Question.
Matt: Yes?
Marisha: Hmm, okay.
Sam: Good question.
Marisha: It says the Wrath of the Fey Warden is what we're looking for, the bow, and that it now acts as the heart of a cancerous tree, corrupting the verdant land. Is there something I can do, maybe try and...
Travis: Hold on, is our stream up? Are we offline right now?
Lucas: (muffled, from offscreen) I'm checking. Just wait.
Ashley: Hold, please.
Lucas: It says we're still online. Hang on.
Liam: Loot Crate. Check out Loot Crate.
Sam: No one can see it.
Laura: No, it says it's offline.
Liam: Refresh it.
Marisha: It says offline?
Liam: Quit the program and go back in.
Travis: The chat is saying it's off.
Lucas: No, we're still online.
Laura: Okay.
Liam: Tell them to quit and re-login.
Sam: It's back. It's back.
Lucas: I'm not sure what happened. I'm not sure it even dropped frames on my end.
Liam: Whoa, we were in the Feywild for a second there.
Ashley: Oh, it was crazy.
Matt: You guys missed six episodes. (exaggerated sounds of relief)
Matt: Everything turned out okay.
Laura: Yay! And we got the warden thing.
Liam: Dragons are dead.
Marisha: Guys, I'm so glad we won DND. We beat it.
Laura: Yeah, that was the best.
Taliesin: Roll the credits scroll.
Marisha: Can I maybe sense a sick tree? You know what? Let's go to Whitestone. Let's go to Whitestone and drop some stuff off.
Laura: You know, because the more I think about it, I mean, we almost just died many times and the last time we tried to get a Vestige it almost killed us, and maybe we just need a little bit more preparation, maybe?
Taliesin: Let's empty our bags, let's prepare ourselves. There are certainly stories in the woods of Whitestone of strange happenings, so I'm sure there's probably some connection to the Feywild, and we'll see what happens.
Laura: Make sure Whitestone is actually preparing something underground just like Westruun.
Taliesin: Well, we have something.
Marisha: Yes, they have something underground already.
Laura: Exactly, but there's a spinning orb of death there.
Taliesin: Which, to be fair, is probably going to keep a dragon away.
Liam: But I also think we've earned more than a single day of rest.
Taliesin: Yes.
Liam: Let's go to Whitestone.
Taliesin: Let's go to Whitestone.
Marisha: All right.
Ashley: Where's the sea?
Sam: The Ozmit Sea?
Ashley: Yeah.
Matt: The Ozmit Sea is to the east of you, east-southeast, and that is a wide gulf that separates-- from your perspective, looking at me, there's Othanzia, Ozmit Sea, and there's Tal'Dorei right here.
Laura: Oh, okay.
Liam: (sneezes)
Taliesin: Bless you.
Marisha: Bless you.
Laura: Bless you.
Marisha: The Water Ashari live in the Ozmit Sea.
Laura: Are they like mermaids?
Marisha: No, I think they've got an island.
Ashley: It's also the sea that I sailed.
Marisha: Really?
Laura: (gasps)
Sam: Ohhh.
Taliesin: Really?
Laura: In your roving pirate days.
Ashley: I know it well.
Marisha: How familiar are you with the sea?
Ashley: I'm pretty familiar with it.
Travis: What if we go there?
Sam: We could.
Laura: Wait, could I see the list of Vestiges?
Sam: The one in the bottom of the sea is called Whisper, right?
Laura: Whisper?
Marisha: A blade forged from metal pulled from the Far Realm, it was the center of many dark rituals.
Sam: It now lies at the bottom of the Ozmit Sea, sunken with the lost ship, The Shrew.
Laura: (sing-song) The Shrew?
Ashley: (deep voice) The Shrew.
Sam: A storm three hundred years ago near an island of glass. Anyone know about the island of glass?
Laura: Have you heard about an island of glass?
Marisha: Have I heard about an island of glass? Have Pike or I heard of an island of glass?
Matt: I'll have both of you guys make history checks.
Marisha: All right. I rolled a natural 1.
Matt: You barely know what glass is right now.
Marisha: Guys, water isn't glass, that's stupid.
Taliesin: I would have a theory as to what it was.
Travis: She rolled a 20.
Marisha: You rolled a 20? Oh, go Pike!
Ashley: Not a natural 20. Total.
Matt: Explain.
Taliesin: Should I roll to figure out that this is probably an active volcano?
Matt: Make an intelligence check.
Taliesin: I'm down.
Liam: Come on, man.
Taliesin: No! Wow.
Sam: Onesies.
Marisha: Team ones. Whoo.
Matt: Natural 1?
Taliesin: Natural 1.
Liam: Snitch.
Matt: Doesn't quite come to you, but what it could be. The idea of a volcano possibly comes to mind, but--
Taliesin: I'm distracted.
Matt: Yeah. You have not been there, you haven't seen it, but some of your crewmates while you were traveling aboard your ship for that five, six-month period, a couple of them did mention something about on the sea, a mirage-like island that glistens in the distance, but they said to avoid it, said it was dangerous.
Sam: Did they say where it was?
Matt: No.
Sam: Damn it.
Ashley: Heard many tales of The Shrew.
Laura: Yeah?
Ashley: Yeah, the ship lost at sea.
Matt: You know of The Shrew, you definitely know of The Shrew.
Ashley: All sailors know of The Shrew.
Marisha: What's the story of The Shrew?
Sam: Come on, sailor.
Ashley: There was a storm three hundred years ago.
Laura: Near an island of glass?
Ashley: Near an island of glass.
Marisha: It was really bad.
Ashley: And The Shrew just didn't sail on.
Sam: It was tamed.
Ashley: It was tamed.
Laura: (laughs) I was waiting for it to--
Matt: Come around again? Yeah, it was good.
Laura: Come around, yep.
Taliesin: Taming of the Shrew fits, yeah.
Ashley: Good tale, but we'll get there one day.
Matt: What's the plan?
Liam: Whitestone.
Sam: Yes, Whitestone.
Travis: Can I make one other suggestion? Emon... go take Thordak right now.
Sam: Good call...
Travis: Yeah, one taker?
Marisha: You know what, Grog?
Laura: It's a good plan, Grog.
Liam: It's cheeky.
Marisha: We will put that in our back pocket and we will think about it.
Liam: That helmet is really something else.
Laura: You could really do something terrible to him with that thing.
Travis: I'm just saying, I think we have an edge now.
Laura: I think you're probably right.
Sam: (chuckle) Attaboy.
Liam: That's technically true, yes.
Taliesin: You do... have a point.
Laura: But let's make sure that Whitestone is safe before we do such a thing.
Sam: Percy, we are in a place that has an airship dock.
Taliesin: That is true.
Sam: We could go steal an airship.
Taliesin: We could go steal an airship!
Laura: We don't need an airship.
Marisha: We don't need an airship.
Laura: We have an instant ability to transport anywhere.
Sam: It would be so cool, though.
Taliesin: Then we wouldn't have to go to Whitestone. It would hold all of our things.
Laura: When we kill all the dragons...
Marisha: When we kill all the dragons...
Taliesin: We could hold all of our things on the airship, and I could have cannonades...
Laura: That will be the first thing we do when Thordak dies is we jump on an airship.
Ashley: Party on the airship.
Marisha: We'll buy it with all of the gold that we've stolen from all the dragons. It'll be great.
Taliesin: We won't need the airship if the dragons are dead.
Laura: All the fun has gone out of it.
Travis: What are we doing?
Laura: We're going to Whitestone.
Marisha: We're going to Whitestone.
Marisha: (piercing spell noise)
Sam: Before we leave, do you want to sell these stupid white dragon scales?
Taliesin: No.
Sam: All right, let's go.
Liam: Let's go to Whitestone.
Marisha: (repeats piercing spell noise) Through a tree!
Matt: All right, as you guys walk outside of the Slayer's Take guildhall, you find the nearest tree, which you've used before to traverse. As you all step through the portal, Percy and Scanlan look over their shoulder at the distant skyport and see the one airship docked there and think, "One day..."
Liam: So handsome.
Sam: Someday, it will be ours.
Taliesin: You'll make a fine sailor.
Sam: Passenger.
Liam: Swabby.
Matt: You jump through and emerge out the other side. As you step out of the portal, you find yourself jumping out of the center of the Sun Tree.
Marisha: Can I do something?
Sam: Nope.
Matt: What do you want to do?
Marisha: While I'm in the tree, can I do something?
Travis: Like kill us all? No no no. Say they go first. "Go, go, go, go." And I kind of start teleporting through the tree and while I'm in the Sun Tree I just want to be like, "Hey, boo."
Laura: (laughs)
Marisha: "I missed you. Have you heard of this whole cancerous tree situation in the Feywild?"
Sam: (whispering) You're talking to a tree?
Marisha: Shh, no. I'm in the middle of the tree. I'm in the tree.
Laura: You're stuck in the tree?
Matt: As you finish this thought, you hear this sound emerge (vacuum sealing sound) and realize it's the sound of the whole portal you've made closing behind you because it only lasts for six seconds and you should probably get the hell out of the tree.
Marisha: Aww. I step out of the tree.
Ashley: Good try.
Matt: As you step out, a voice goes, "Hey, boo, sorry.(kiss noise)" (laughter)
Matt: And it closes behind you.
Marisha: I'll talk to him later.
Matt: You guys emerge. Due to the time differences, you land here in Whitestone, looking at where the sun is in the sky, it's early afternoon, as opposed to the morning where you guys just stepped away from. There are people in the streets, and you see a few, a little bit of life has returned to this town square, though still, by comparison-- there are folks now that are bringing in actual, healthy, looks to be fruits from nearby trees. There's a little bit of trade going on. This is the first real chance you've had to see a little bit of Whitestone coming to life again. As you emerge from the tree, a few individuals nearby stop and look and smile and wave, recognizing you as you approach.
Laura: Are there any leaves on the Sun Tree yet?
Matt: Actually, no, there are not. There are no leaves on the Sun Tree.
Sam: (quietly) Because it's winter.
Laura: Whatever.
Travis: We should check with the border patrol.
Sam: There's a border patrol?
Travis: Yeah.
Laura: A wolf.
Sam: Oh, the wolf.
Travis: (whistles) I whistle as loud as I can.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: What's his name?
Marisha: I don't know. Let me find it.
Sam: Oh, boy. Harold?
Laura: I just want to go find Zahra and give her a hug and say hello and see how she's doing while he's talking.
Matt: You whistle as loud as you can for a little bit. Nothing.
Travis: Must be off doing something (belches) important.
Taliesin: Quite.
Matt: You head off and, asking around, you find Zahra is actually up in Castle Whitestone right now, just poring through one of the studies of books, and is just currently reading and reading on her own. As you eventually ask around and find your way there, entering the room, you see her with a small set of spectacles at the end of her nose. She takes them off and, "My darling Vex'ahlia!" And comes up and just gives you a big hug and picks you up and sets you down. "I'm so glad to see you're all right."
Laura: Dear, the dragon arrow you gave me? Killed him. Well, I didn't kill him, actually, with it, but I did a lot of damage.
Matt: "You killed a dragon?"
Laura: Umbrasyl. Dead. One down.
Matt: "I knew you would."
Laura: Where's Cashew?
Matt: "I don't know. He's testy these days. I'm sure he's around."
Laura: I know his name is fucking Kashaw. So he's not there.
Matt: "Probably down in the city somewhere. He's helping where he can. You know broody types."
Laura: I do know broody types.
Matt: Yes, you do.
Laura: What are you reading?
Matt: "Oh, I'm just learning about the history of Whitestone and I'm very intrigued as to the actual properties of this stone the entire town is built on. There's a lot of really, really interesting things that can be done with the materials in these mountains."
Laura: I'm sure you have ideas.
Matt: "I do."
Laura: I sit down next to her and ask, just catching up, and see if they've spotted any dragons.
Matt: You guys continue your conversation, catching up, letting her know how things happened, and vice versa. You don't get any info that any dragons have come by. Apparently, there have been a few other arcane practitioners that have been helping set up some sort of barrier to help, essentially, dissuade attention towards the city. The idea of keeping this place as far off the map as possible, should any prying eyes find their way there. It's in the process of being set up right now.
Laura: Zahra, how long did it take you to make that arrow?
Matt: "A few weeks."
Laura: If I were to give you some more money, do you think you could do it again?
Matt: "Probably, based on what-- (sighs) if I'm able to use some of the resources here within the castle, maybe."
Laura: I'll talk to Percy, but I'm sure, if it's for a good cause...
Matt: "All right, perhaps I can."
Laura: All right. I'll come find you, dear.
Matt: "Wondrous." What else are you guys trying to achieve here?
Liam: I am trying to find Shaun Gilmore.
Laura: That's his first name?
Sam: Shaun Gilmore?
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: Yeah.
Taliesin: Yeah, Shaun.
Laura: Shaun? How did you know that?
Marisha: He told us.
Matt: He told you guys that a long time ago.
Laura: I fucking know, I remember.
Matt: (laughs)
Taliesin: Tattooed at the small of his back.
Marisha: Yeah, he's got a tramp stamp.
Ashley: Tramp stamp.
Sam: Can I accompany Vax on this trip?
Liam: Sure, come on.
Sam: I want to see Gilmore.
Liam: Let's start asking around town for him.
Matt: You start asking around. You come across a few folks you recognize, you find a few of the guards who helped you with the initial reconstruction of this city and such and asking around. One of the nearby guards takes his helmet off and is like, "First off, I am so excited that you guys are back. I'm so glad you're all safe. I heard that you were off to do some dangerous things."
Liam: You heard right.
Matt: "Well, great, I'm glad that you've survived. Looking for Mr. Gilmore, he's actually down with the Realmseer. They're inspecting the ziggurat underneath the city, so you could head down there if you wanted to find him."
Liam: Thank you. I'm not terribly familiar with Whitestone, could you point us in the right direction?
Matt: "It's under the castle."
Liam: The castle.
Matt: "Yes."
Liam: Can't miss that.
Sam: Yeah, we've been there before. Yeah, let's go.
Liam: Let's go.
Matt: He puts his helmet back on. "Thank you again for all that you do." He clicks his heels together and continues walking through the city.
Liam: All right, yeah.
Sam: I guess we'll head down to the ziggurat.
Liam: Let's do it.
Matt: Everyone else going with?
Travis: Fuck yeah, let's go.
Ashley: Yeah. Yeah.
Laura: We taking a trip?
Taliesin: Sure.
Marisha: Oh, are we all going down to the ziggurat?
Laura: Yeah.
Travis: Nothing else to do.
Marisha: Sure.
Matt: All right. You make your way down to the basement area of Whitestone Castle, into the family catacombs, which have been cleaned up and you can see Cassandra has put a little bit of care into restoring it to what it was before. The tunnel that was carved in has been given a little more support, and as you're making your way down a familiar tunnel, the same tunnel where you had the showdown with Orthax, you hear a few voices from up ahead. Two familiar voices. You hear the echo of some older, gruff, elderly gentleman and a little more rambunctious familiar voice. As they turn the corner, you see them deep in conversation. It's the Realmseer himself hunched forward with his white hair and balding top, turns around, "And it's a great mystery to me that they can put a-- Oh, look! They've returned. Vox Machina themselves." Gilmore, at this point, opens his arms, standing and healthy. "My god, I've been waiting for you."
Laura: (laughs)
Ashley: Aww.
Marisha: Aww.
Matt: "And all of you so graciously clean!"
Laura: You look so healthy, Gilmore!
Ashley: Very healthy.
Matt: "Well, I have you to thank for that. Still a ways to go."
Liam: But in two or three weeks, it's not bad. You're looking well.
Matt: "Well, you all have Kima to thank for that. She's been quite attentive to my needs."
Marisha: How is Whitestone finding you?
Matt: "Curious place, this Whitestone. Well, the company's interesting."
Marisha: Sure.
Matt: The Realmseer laughs. He's like, "(chuckles) So I've heard." "We've spent a little bit of time looking at this strange oddity beneath the city, and I'm not going to lie to you, it's really confusing. I've a few theories on it, as does the Arcanist, but we're still comparing notes and we don't want to jump to any conclusions, as tests have been inconclusive and rather dangerous so far. However, before anything else goes underway, I believe there's a very important bit of business that we must attend to."
Sam: Business? What business, Gilmore?
Matt: And he walks straight up to Grog and just gives you a big hug.
Sam: Aww.
Laura: Oh?
Matt: And pats you on the shoulder and is like, "(chuckling) You big lug."
Travis: You... Gilmore. (laughter)
Matt: Walks over to you, Pike, and kneels down and gives you a little pinch on the cheek and is like, "Looking as spry and smiley as ever, I see."
Ashley: Hello, Shaun. (more laughter)
Ashley: I give him a kiss on the cheek.
Matt: "Ooh."
Ashley: (laughs) "Ooh."
Matt: He turns to you. "Vex'ahlia, look at you. I hear, if my words say correct, that you folks are a recent dragon-slaying bunch, hmm?"
Laura: That we are.
Matt: "(chuckles) Good to know."
Matt: Skips over you.
Laura: Oh.
Ashley: Save the best for last.
Matt: And goes to Scanlan and goes to ruffle your hair, and goes, "And you, you, my little bardish friend."
Sam: Little?
Matt: "No, you're actually physically little."
Sam: Oh, I know.
Matt: "You are a tinier person."
Matt: "Embrace it! It's what makes you different."
Sam: That's true, I suppose. I suppose. Yes, absolutely. We've been spreading the good word about you and your works.
Matt: "So I've heard from all sorts of interesting folk. I only hope one day to wear clothes as fine as you."
Sam: Oh! That's a nice compliment.
Matt: "Percival."
Taliesin: Good patron.
Matt: "Thank you for taking me into your home."
Taliesin: You do nothing but brighten these halls.
Matt: "I'm... happy to keep things lit. (sighs)" At which point, he goes to look towards you. The Realmseer's sitting there tapping his arm; he's like, "Right, get on with it, we've got work to be done." And, "Shh. You be quiet. These people have saved my life. Keyleth. Sweet Ashari princess."
Marisha: Hi, Gilmore.
Matt: "You've grown. I can see it in your eyes." He gives you a big hug.
Marisha: I give him a hug back.
Matt: "Vax."
Laura: (giggles)
Matt: "Vax'ildan. Light of my eye. Smiling boy." (laughter)
Matt: And he walks up and puts his hands across your shoulders and kind of cups your face. "I've missed you most of all." And pulls you in for a big hug and lifts you up off the ground.
Liam: Oh, hey, you.
Laura: You're strong enough to-- be careful of your wound, Gilmore!
Matt: As he sets you down, hes like, "Ooh, I shouldn't have done that. My apologies."
Liam: I pat him on the ribs.
Matt: "Don't touch that. It's still very tender."
Liam: It's fantastic to see you. You're a sight for sore eyes, yourself. We're very happy to see you.
Matt: "My sight is sore, so this works out well. But please, these tunnels are dank and not becoming of us. Dinner should be happening soon and you should join us, now that you've returned, please."
Marisha: Oh, before dinner, I think we were all just curious on the state of the... ziggurat, as we were calling it.
Laura: The orb.
Matt: "Let's talk over dinner."
Marisha: Spinning orb of death, is what we call it.
Matt: "Let's talk over dinner."
Marisha: All right, yeah, sure.
Travis: Wait, you said you were doing tests on it, right? Did you throw things at it? Did it blow up?
Matt: "That is part of the test. Nothing blew up. Things did go away."
Travis: They went away?
Laura: They get sucked in, Grog.
Matt: "We'll talk over dinner. I hate to have this discussion without Allura here. I think this would only behoove the conversation if we're all present."
Taliesin: An excellent argument.
Laura: We have some delicious and very expensive wine.
Matt: "(chuckling) Well!"
Ashley: Expensive-ass wine.
Liam: Yeah.
Laura: Expensive-ass wine we could bust out with dinner.
Matt: "Color me intrigued."
Laura: Oh, I haven't got to wink in a really long time, you guys. It felt so good.
Marisha: Back to your old self.
Liam: Hard life.
Matt: "It was a good wink. Finest in the land. Well, come to the surface, then! This place is dreary."
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: "You, too, Eskil."
Matt: "Aye. Too many smiles in this area. I like it. It's jovial. Don't see that around these places too often. It's good to see all of you. Come, now, yes, let's move!"
Matt: You all eventually make your way back to the surface, to Whitestone.
Marisha: I go to Vex and Pike and go, "Is this a good opportunity for us to break out our formal wear?"
Ashley: (gasps) Yes!
Laura: Definitely, dear.
Marisha: Okay.
Travis: Oh, jeez.
Taliesin: I genuinely have no idea what you're talking about.
Marisha: The ladies take, like, 20 minutes.
Travis: Let's be honest, it's 2 hours.
Taliesin: 40 minutes.
Travis: Fucking 20 minutes, my ass. On what plane are you right now? (laughs)
Laura: (laughs)
Marisha: Not the Feywild. But maybe soon.
Ashley: There's magic involved.
Taliesin: Same plane as the break room. 5 minutes is 15. (laughs)
Marisha: (laughing) Yes, yes, yeah.
Travis: "I'll be 20 minutes." The next day...
Liam: On the way out, as we're all walking out, I walk along with Gilmore and I give him just a gentle shoulder. Shoulder to shoulder. And say, "It's really good to see you on your feet. It's the best smile I've had in ages."
Matt: "You and me both."
Laura: While we're getting ready, I would like to talk to Pike about a certain proposal that happened. None of us have addressed it.
Ashley: I know, because I just--
Laura: What happened?
Ashley: What should I do?
Laura: What did you tell him? Did you tell him yes, did you tell him no?
Ashley: I'm just so--
Marisha: Hang on, what exactly did he say, by the way?
Ashley: I just said we'll circle back.
Laura: We'll circle back?
Marisha: Circle back.
Laura: (laughing) How did he take that?
Ashley: I think he was fine with it. He just understands that I just--
Marisha: Treat proposals like we do our dungeons? (laughs) We circle back.
Ashley: Isn't that the only way to just treat all things? I guess, I don't know. I don't know.
Marisha: (giggles)
Laura: How do you feel about him, Pike?
Ashley: I just don't know. I just feel so confused.
Marisha: I understand that.
Ashley: He wears you down a little.
Liam: (cracks up)
Ashley: And there's something there, for him.
Marisha: I don't know if that's a good reason to say yes, though.
Ashley: Oh, I don't know. He's just very charming.
Marisha: He is very charming.
Laura: He is very charming.
Laura: And I noticed, he's becoming more charming.
Ashley: Yes, I know!
Marisha: Yeah, what is with that? I didn't know that was possible.
Ashley: How? I feel like he goes to sleep and then the next morning he's like--
Ashley: Even more charming!
Laura: Even more charming!
Laura: I don't understand it.
Ashley: Why is that?
Marisha: I don't know.
Laura: Like, every once in a while I look at him and I go:
Marisha: Yeah, no, and then I feel really--
Laura: No, but he's small, but at the same time, I'm kind of interested.
Marisha: Right! And you kind of think about it for a second and you entertain it, and then you feel really gross about yourself.
Laura: You feel like-- yeah!
Ashley: Yes! Yes.
Laura: But if you're actually interested, then it's not gross at all.
Marisha: No! Of course it's not gross if you're actually interested.
Ashley: I know. I just. (groans) I've had feelings for someone for a long time, but maybe they're slowly fading. I don't know.
Laura: Wait.
Marisha: Wait, what?
Ashley: I have. I don't know if I feel comfortable talking about it. But it's fine.
Laura: We don't want to push you, Pike, but you know, it's just us girls here.
Marisha: I know! And we've been through so many uncomfortable things together.
Ashley: (groans)
Marisha: Most of life is so uncomfortable. Be comfortable right now.
Ashley: I just. I don't know. It's still something that I need to think about.
Laura: All right.
Marisha: We understand.
Ashley: I'm just.
Laura: You pray to your Sarenrae about it.
Ashley: Okay. (laughs) You do look lovely, though, in your dress.
Laura: You look beautiful.
Marisha: You look so cute.
Laura: (laugh)
Ashley: (laugh)
Marisha: (laugh)
Ashley: Thanks.
Ashley: I do a twirl. (more laughter)
Marisha: I do a little air cantrip to make the skirt poof out.
Ashley: Ooh.
Laura: I tug up my dress.
Marisha: Hey, do you guys mind tying me up a bit?
Laura: Of course!
Marisha: Nice and tight. (grunts)
Laura: Can you breathe?
Marisha: (strained) No, but that means it's right.
Laura: All right.
Marisha: All right, I'm good.
Taliesin: I assume there's clean clothes for everybody in their quarters?
Matt: Yeah, it's all good.
Travis: I'm wearing the same shit. (laughter)
Sam: And the big hat?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: (laughing) To dinner. (shoonk)
Travis: (laughing) Yeah. I paid money for this thing.
Taliesin: And I'm going to arrange for our stuff to be stowed in the vault.
Matt: Okay. Not a worry. All right, so as the sun sets, you find your way down to the proper dinner table. Gilmore is there, Eskil is there, Cassandra is there...
Marisha: We look fabulous.
Matt: You guys look fantastic.
Sam: They do.
Marisha: Yes. We do.
Matt: Fine outfits have been provided for the men, if they wish to wear them, as well. Some do not.
Taliesin: Oh, I am dressed.
Liam: I'm dressed, yeah.
Sam: Oh, I'll dress up. I'll dress up for dinner.
Matt: All righty. As you guys sit down, pleasantries are exchanged-- (yawns) Pardon me. You catch up a bit with Cassandra. Partway through--
Laura: Aw, Matt.
Matt: What?
Liam: E3, y'all.
Taliesin: Sit down, have a beer, watch our game.
Marisha: (laughs) 2 pm.
Matt: Within the next 15 minutes or so, before food is brought to the table, Allura finally enters in a very, very nice dress, and says, "It is so good to see you all are safe."
Marisha: Allura!
Ashley: Hello.
Laura: I give her a hug.
Matt: She then gives you a big, wonderful hug.
Laura: How's Kima? We haven't seen her yet.
Matt: "Well..." She looks over this way and Kima walks in, for the first time you've seen her really out of armor since you first saw her. Her hair is also in similar braids to her side and she herself is wearing a golden dress, though she's kind of like...
Travis: Yeah, I know the feeling. (laughter)
Matt: She comes in.
Marisha: Kima.
Matt: "Hello."
Ashley: Oh, you look lovely.
Marisha: Keyleth goes over and gives her a hug.
Matt: She gives you a hug and goes, "It's good to see you guys. I'm glad you're all right... This feels weird. Does this feel weird? This feels weird."
Marisha: It's only for a few hours. Don't worry about it.
Travis: What are you wearing?
Matt: "That's what I'm saying! Do I have to wear-- he's not wearing anything. Do I have to wear--"
Laura: You don't have to wear a dress, Kima.
Matt: "You don't have to wear it, Kima. It was just a suggestion."
Laura: (chuckles)
Matt: "I'm going to go change. I'll be right back."
Travis: Yeah, go change.
Matt: She darts off for a bit and Allura smiles and facepalms a bit.
Sam: You two are at the kiddie table. (laughter)
Liam: You ought to let her try that helmet on later.
Sam: Show some class, man.
Travis: (laughs)
Matt: You guys catch up a bit as Allura speaks about her and Drake's escape from Westruun. Kima eventually comes back, wearing ratty clothing. Shirt, pants, the general wear she'd pick up throughout the city. And is still carrying her small maul at her side. It's like her little comfort blanket. (thud) Next to the table.
Travis: Yeah. That's better.
Matt: She scoots up next to Allura. Gilmore snaps his fingers and wine begins to pour from the servants. Cassandra says, "Well, thank you all for coming. I believe there is much to get underway here. This,"a
Matt: And she gestures towards Gilmore and Allura; they nod. Eskil raises his hand a moment.
Matt: "So, while you've been gone. Allura, you've been doing this research for a bit." "Thank you, thank you. So, we've been trying to ascertain the nature of the ziggurat beneath the city. The ziggurat itself is built over what appears to be an ancient temple of Ioun. The glass substance, the diluted whitestone that has been reformed into glass, is used as a very strong arcane current. A lot of energy was being placed in this location, as there is an actual, what appears to be an arcane leyline, a nexus point, near and above Whitestone, hence the Sun Tree's placement."
Taliesin: Yes, of course.
Matt: "And why it flourishes so well in this region. But everything within a certain vicinity of this temple, of this dark spot, if you will, is eaten. Doesn't vanish, it's not cancelled, it's taken. Devoured. Everything placed within that small little globule of darkness is taken somewhere as well. Now, at first, we thought maybe it was just destroying, but the arcane energy we feel, the flow of it, it's drawing it somewhere. Meaning that this is not what I had feared to be a sphere of annihilation, an object of complete destruction. Instead it feels like it's a siphon. Now, a siphon. Siphons are very old. Siphons were used in the First War. They were used as a means of transferring extremely powerful... raw magical powers. They were placed strategically throughout the world's crust at these various nexus points as a means of creating extremely powerful relics. The ones that you seek, the ones that made the Vestiges themselves, were crafted through the use of some of these siphons, but they have been lost and, many thought, destroyed for a very long time, or at least inert. I have reason to believe that this may be one. And it may be active. As to where the other side lies, I do not know. Because each siphon has two points."
Taliesin: So it's fair to assume that at the other end of this is something old, something trapped, something hungry.
Matt: "Perhaps."
Laura: Would it be in this plane or another?
Matt: "I have no idea. Everything we've attempted to put through it that had any sort of magical connection, whether it be through inter-planal scrying, anything that would bring us to the other side of this, is crushed, consumed, and transferred as part of it. None of our rituals or enchantments will let us see through this spinning marble, as you call it."
Laura: You haven't put any blood through it, though?
Taliesin: Let's not.
Laura: No, I'm hoping that hasn't happened.
Marisha: So nothing survives the transfer. It is destroyed into its... purest components, it sounds.
Matt: "Seemingly, yes."
Liam: Or is it? Don't know? Is it that you have no idea what happened to things put through?
Matt: "We're still delving into it, and it may be a little while before we figure this out, but this is the best I can ascertain with my knowledge at my disposal. And the Realmseer and Gilmore can back up this research. We've all worked together these past weeks and we're all kind of coming to the same conclusion." She gestures to Gilmore. Gilmore says, "I've only been on this case personally for a few days of rising health standards in my body and I've thrown everything I can at it, honestly, and it's all just come to nothing. Gone. (pthbbt)"
Taliesin: This is disappointing.
Matt: "You're telling me."
Travis: What about a person?
Matt: "(laughing) I'm not sending a person through there."
Marisha: To be fair, Grog, I might have tried that, a little.
Sam: What?
Taliesin: Yes, that's right.
Marisha: I sort of stuck my hand in the spinning ball of death and let's just say I'm glad I'm still here standing with you all.
Laura: Was it sucking you in?
Marisha: It did a considerable amount of damage to my hand and definitely felt like it was sucking me in and I had to resist pretty hard. But it seems like anything that goes in that sphere doesn't come out the other end intact.
Laura: Gilmore-- any of you, Allura-- have you experienced any kind of draw toward the orb? Do you feel different, having been around it for very long?
Matt: Gilmore cocks a curious eye to the Realmseer. The Realmseer thinks and scratches his chin, looks to Allura. Allura looks down at the table with her arms crossed, looks to Kima. Kima's finishing her big drink. "I stay away from it. It creeps the hell out of me." "Not to my knowledge. Do you think we should be worried?"
Laura: Well, I don't know. I mean, it is a very strong relic that we don't know how it works.
Matt: "The difficulty in our research is most of our means of inspection are, well,"
Laura: Up close and personal.
Matt: "Of arcane nature."
Taliesin: I was hoping that perhaps we could talk about some engineering possibilities of finding ways that science can measure what it is where magic cannot. Something safe.
Sam: (scoffs) Science, Percy?
Taliesin: In this sense, as it stands.
Matt: "We're open to all possible suggestions. We're kind of at the end of our rope for the time being. We may send a few of us across the way to, well, a few different places for more information. May do a bit of traveling ourselves, it seems."
Taliesin: I'll sketch something with my copious free time.
Matt: "Hm. Please do."
Sam: No dragons have buzzed by here in our absence?
Matt: They kind of look to themselves. "None yet, but we've been very careful. We're in the process of installing some semblance of, (sighs) for lack of a better term, sort of a screen. Ways to reflect and perhaps cloud anyone who attempts to peer too far into the northern regions of Whitestone. The last thing we need is any of these dragons finding their way up north where you've kept all of us and the refugees safe, so we're trying not to piss any of them off, while also trying to make sure that maybe they're not really looking behind this curtain of cloud."
Taliesin: Any fortifications would be helpful.
Laura: Don't dragons sort of see past those things?
Matt: "We're doing our best to try and meet those standards."
Taliesin: I have another request in that direction that might help. If there was a way to spread the word in this city and amongst those who travel, to not speak of us. We should probably not be hailed in this city at all. Our names should be stricken from any record of it.
Matt: Allura leans forward on the table. "No, I see. You're right. There is merit in that, though it will be difficult. Many here look up to you. They see you as the salvation of this city. But I believe we can go about and speak with them and help instill the idea that it's for the better good that you are not mentioned."
Taliesin: Best to be nameless, at this point.
Marisha: It's for their own safety.
Taliesin: It's for everybody's.
Laura: We-who-must-not-be-named.
Sam: The Unmentionables.
Taliesin: (cracks up) You're a terrible person.
Laura: (gasps) I love it.
Marisha: Yeah. My choice is The Unmentionables. I like it.
Matt: Allura says, "I did find some research on some of these Vestiges you are seeking."
Taliesin: Oh!
Laura: Yes!
Matt: "From what I could bring forth from the Cobalt Reserve in Westruun, there is an artifact that lies in the Feywild, swallowed by a terrible tree."
Laura: Yes, the Warden.
Matt: "Is that the name of it?"
Laura: The Wrath of the Fey Warden.
Matt: "So you've found some information yourself?"
Laura: Just the name.
Sam: And that it's in the Feywild, but nothing more.
Matt: "(sighs) This tree that holds it, it's a tree seeded by the betrayal of an archfey whose hatred burned into a black heart of disease. The cleansing rivers of the Gilded Run prevent the spread of the Shademirk Bog that seeps from it."
Travis: Sounds nasty.
Matt: "It doesn't sound very fun, no."
Sam: The Shademark Balg?
Matt: "The Shademirk Bog."
Sam: Ugh, it sounds awful.
Matt: "It seeps from this tree. It is held at bay by the rivers of the Gilded Run."
Marisha: The rivers are called the Gilded Run?
Matt: "Mm-hm."
Sam: Okay. Well, that helps us. Those are clues.
Laura: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Marisha: And the Shademirk Bog pours out of the tree?
Laura: Out of the cancerous tree.
Marisha: The tree is responsible for a swampy bog.
Matt: "From best I could ascertain from my research, yes."
Laura: And Fen-wraths? What's the name?
Sam: Fenthras, Wrath of the Fey Warden.
Laura: Fenthras is inside of the tree that is terrible.
Matt: "It is very possible."
Taliesin: Oh no.
Sam: Okay.
Liam: Do you know anything about the Vestige itself?
Matt: "I don't, unfortunately. Most of the Cobalt Reserve was destroyed and I was under siege at the moment from the return of the dragons. (sighs)"
Laura: Did you happen to find in your research what, perhaps, we might face in the Feywild? I mean, we've learned a little bit of it, but I know that it's going to be rather dangerous.
Matt: "I've not been there myself, to be honest. It creeps me out."
Laura: (laughs)
Travis: (laughs) No? Sorry.
Matt: "I did find also about the Spire of Conflux. It is a staff that can bend the elements and was taken into The Abyss by Joran the Sea-Speaker, hero of the Verdant Expanse, about four centuries back, and was never heard from again."
Marisha: Joran the what?
Matt: "Joran the Sea-Speaker."
Sam: He speaks to the sea?
Matt: "Perhaps."
Taliesin: Or just the letter C.
Laura: (laughs)
Sam: Cookie Monster.
Travis: Hero.
Matt: "I do have some research about the dragons, as well."
Laura: Oh.
Matt: "I've done a bit of looking into the personality types, the habits of some of these chromatics you may be coming up against. The black dragon, you seemingly already dealt with, if word has come to me correctly."
Laura: Yes.
Matt: "Which is magnificent and well done. Very dangerous. Let's hope they don't decide to strike back soon."
Laura: Good thing we didn't provoke them in the cave at all, Percival.
Taliesin: If they came there, they would've been provoked, I figured.
Matt: "I did find that the white dragons, they're more primal. They're overall less intelligent than other chromatics." And some of this information you know.
Laura: Yeah, why am I writing this down? I know this shit.
Matt: "But what they do is they-- (sighs) well, don't let the lack of intelligence lull you into comfort. They are also unpredictable and raw. Dangerous hunters, they stalk in ruined lands of ice and vengeance. Their memory is eternal. They recall every slight defeat and have been known to hold vendettas for centuries and centuries. They despise other dragons and this loose alignment with Thordak is stranger than the others for the white dragon. Though Vorugal's distance to the others is intentional, most likely. I mean, the entire alignment between them is strange, anyway, but particularly with the white dragon. They generally steer very clear of, or are bent on destroying, any other types of dragons that may wander in their midst."
Laura: (whispering) Interesting.
Matt: "Green dragons, in particular, are manipulative. Liars, by nature, finding pleasure in power over others. Through deceit and promises of wealth and glory, they corrupt. They play subservience to other dragons, then plot their demise to claim their hoards. They're the seedy underbelly of the chromatic world, if you will. They amass powerful allies, human and beyond, to their will, bending them and using them as tools. Their life and their very presence is poison to those around them, and is the very basis of their danger. They corrupt the air around them to be venomous. I found a bit about this Raishan you mentioned, and word has spoken, though little that exists out there, that she is also a very practitioned weaver of the arcane arts, so be warned."
Marisha: So much so that she could almost pass as a druid wielding natural magic?
Matt: "I can imagine that's quite within her grasp. I've heard rumors of her calling the sky down upon her enemies. Previous individuals that hoped to raid her space were swallowed in quaking earth as she laughed from above."
Sam: Druid-y things.
Marisha: I want to kill her so hard. (strained) I want her to die.
Taliesin: Do we know where these-- where these dragons have been all this time, where they were banished to?
Matt: "I mean, most of these dragons lived their lives wherever they once were before. Raishan used to exist in the mountains outside of Syngorn and actually had amassed a sizeable horde of followers, lizard-men. Lizardfolk, all sorts."
Taliesin: Wait, then Thordak was banished to the Fire Plane?
Matt: "Thordak we had banished, yes. Thordak, in particular. Now, red dragons are true tyrants, built on impulse and rage. Arrogant to the core, they see themselves as rightful rulers over all. And Thordak, the king of all other dragons, as well. He is powerful enough to amass networks of spies and followers far beyond just the dragons that we've battled, I'm sure. So the more time that passes, the more powerful that network will become."
Laura: (muffled) Oh, fuck.
Taliesin: I've had a terrible thought, and it is sort of my business to have terrible thoughts. What else has been banished to the Fire Plane?
Travis: The djinn?
Taliesin: Well, I say this because if I were to slowly open the portal to the Fire Plane and power it and make it bigger and bigger and bigger, eventually it would be a hole into that dimension that's big enough for a dragon to fit through, but still not big enough for me, so I need to keep eating, to make it bigger.
Laura: (gasps)
Taliesin: And maybe they might be looking for what's down there so they can feed it and make a bigger hole. Just a thought. It may be nothing.
Laura: You think there's something bigger than Thordak in the Fire Plane?
Taliesin: I have terrible thoughts. It's a terrible thought.
Marisha: I mean, I'm sure there is something bigger than Thordak, probably in the Fire Plane, but the Fire Ashari closed the portal.
Taliesin: That may not have been the portal.
Marisha: That was the portal that Thordak came out of. It ripped apart my entire--
Taliesin: That may just be where he escaped. That power may still be flowing.
Marisha: Well, Allura, how did you lock him in the Fire Plane to begin with?
Matt: "Well, we had, through clever subterfuge, managed to have a member of our team work as a follower of Thordak, work into his greater trust and convince him that to perpetuate his wealth, his growth, his strength, that he needed to truly embrace the essence of fire. And there are crystals, there are remnants of the First War that exist in this world and others. The very core of the elemental chaos itself, the hearts of the titans left behind. These heart-stones are the very basis, or, at least, shadows of the basis of what made the elements when creation came to be. We had found one of these on the Fire Plane, but the nature of these is that they cannot be removed. If they are brought beyond the plane themselves, they generally shatter, and the few that can be brought across temporarily, the magics that contain them do weaken, and those that attempted to harness their power leave it to ruin, destroying all around them before it whirls itself into a frenzy of uncontrollable arcane mass and destroys everything nearby. These were many of the fools who ushered in the beginning of the Second War. So. Essentially, we convinced Thordak to find one of these in the plane and convinced him that he had the power to contain it. Once there, all of our forces gathered and we attacked him, pressed him down, and the gem that we had convinced him-- the heart-stone that we had convinced him to take into himself, well, we found a way to seal it, to banish it permanently to that plane so that he could not escape."
Marisha: All right. So, that's all good. But he did escape.
Laura: Could he still potentially have it inside of him?
Marisha: Exactly! That was my question!
Sam: Well, she asked it, so, technically, it's hers.
Matt: She turns and you can see Gilmore's sitting at the table like this. "I got a very good close at that dragon. A very good close look, to finish my sentence. I've been drinking plenty of wine tonight; don't judge me."
Ashley: Expensive-ass wine.
Taliesin: It's the best wine.
Matt: "It is very expensive, fine wine."
Travis: Matts Vineyard is the best.
Matt: "Thank you, Grog, it's wondrous."
Marisha: (laughs)
Matt: "But his mass, his unforeseen size to a creature like that. I couldn't help but notice that within his torso there was a pulsing heart... of red glass."
Laura: All right.
Taliesin: Look how clever food makes all of us.
Matt: He looks over to Allura. Allura nods. "Well, if that is the case, then it's, I think, there's very much a chance that he did escape with the heart-stone intact."
Travis: I have a question. We've got one of the Vestiges in these Titanstone Knuckles, made from the heart-stone. If I left the plane with these, are they gonna blow everybody up?
Matt: "An intact heart-stone is the true source of power. Those have been carved from one, an inert one, or, at least, they carry but a smidgen of the power. I think you're safe, Grog."
Travis: Oh, thank god.
Ashley: Phew.
Laura: Which one?
Travis: Kord.
Laura: Oh, Kord. I got it. (chuckles)
Matt: Allura leans in again. "I have been keeping an eye on Emon from this distance, as well. It seems that Thordak's very essence twists the land with elemental magic."
Travis: (whispering) Oh, shit.
Matt: "My distant views of the city have shown the center of the town cracked with volcanic fire as he digs and burrows beneath the city itself."
Taliesin: (whispering) Fuck.
Laura: Oh, fuck.
Travis: Wait, why is he digging and burrowing?
Liam: He's reshaping the land as he sees fit.
Travis: Or is he looking for something?
Laura: Because he's a dick.
Travis: Is he not looking for something?
Taliesin: He might be looking for something, or might be making--
Marisha: So these heart-stones embrace the essence of where they reside?
Matt: "Their essence is created where they reside."
Marisha: And he has the heart-stone of the Fire Elemental Plane living inside of him.
Matt: "A heart-stone. There are many."
Marisha: A heart-stone. Right.
Laura: I'm confused.
Travis: I need more wine. Do you think he was just making himself at home, or do you think he was looking for something?
Matt: "I don't know. He seems pretty lax. From what I could tell from my investigations, the major step in the Conclave's plan is already over."
Laura: Take over everything.
Matt: "Now they settle into the divided territories and forget each other. Now, I feel that Thordak is far too old and covetous to be content with just Emon. Now, this was vengeance, which is now complete. Who knows what the next stage in his terrible design is."
Marisha: So you're thinking the Chroma Conclave was simply a temporary alliance?
Matt: "There are very few permanent alliances between chromatic dragons."
Laura: Well, that's good.
Marisha: We can use this.
Laura: Maybe they won't take vengeance.
Ashley: Maybe we can get one of them on our side.
Taliesin: We can only be so hopeful that they tear each other apart.
Laura: Maybe the white one will want to help kill Thordak with us.
Marisha: Turning them against each other is not a bad idea.
Taliesin: Our best hope, at this point, is just to amass power. We are not strong enough.
Laura: No.
Taliesin: But we will get stronger.
Laura: Does the heart-stone make him even stronger than he already was?
Matt: "I don't know, but he was not that large when we sealed him."
Laura: Shit.
Travis: Seize.
Marisha: So we can take-- yeah.
Laura: If we can pry it out of his body, we could shrink him down. Perfect plan.
Sam: Then we could go inside a dragon again.
Laura: We can go in another dragon.
Liam: Every one of them, one after the other.
Travis: You seen any dragons on the outskirts of the town? Have there been any flyovers or close calls within, say, 50 to 100 miles or so? Any reports?
Matt: "Hundred miles. There were reports of the white dragon a week ago, south of us. Far south of us."
Travis: Far south.
Laura: Doing what, just flying?
Matt: "Just flying. Flying east."
Taliesin: Unless they know what's underneath the castle, there's nothing of value here.
Liam: Do we know where Vorugal has taken up roost? No one knows?
Matt: "No. I've tried to scry, but they're apparently protected against that now."
Travis: What about means of protection for Whitestone. Do you have a defense planned? A warning system?
Matt: "We're just getting now to that point. It may be a few weeks before we're ready to go. It's a lot to build and it's a very big space to protect, but me and Drake are working on some ideas. (sighs)"
Marisha: Do you know exactly how these heart-stones are forged?
Matt: "They're not forged. They existed. They were the hearts of the primordial titans that existed on this world before the gods even came here."
Marisha: Oh, that's right.
Laura: Wow.
Matt: "They were the true denizens of this world, before any of us."
Sam: This is an awesome dinner, by the way. Super good.
Laura: So good.
Taliesin: I love game meat.
Matt: "I'm sorry, it's been a very tense time."
Laura: This wine is pretty good.
Ashley: It's very good.
Matt: "Perhaps rest is in order for all of us. It's been a lot. I'm so sorry. It's good to see all of you."
Travis: You, as well.
Laura: You've done so much.
Matt: Allura brightens up a little bit. You can see that she feels guilty that she just did this information dump and is like, "(sighs) It's good to see all of you."
Marisha: It was good to see you.
Matt: "(sighs) Well, let us rest for the evening." Drinks the last of her wine, stands up. "We'll talk on the morrow." She gets up. "Kima?" "I'm coming, let me finish."
Laura: (laugh)
Marisha: (laugh)
Matt: "No, seriously, it's good to see you all. I'm glad you're all right."
Laura: You should have been with us.
Matt: "I should've been with you. I didn't know you left!"
Laura: Sorry, Kima. We're dicks.
Matt: "Is Westruun okay?"
Laura: It's... better.
Marisha: (whispering) It's not great, though.
Laura: It's getting better.
Taliesin: It lives. It lives.
Sam: That's true.
Marisha: It stands.
Matt: "Does my house still stand?" (hesitant noises)
Sam: What's a house, really, but a bunch of bricks.
Matt: "Oh, it's fine."
Marisha: Home is where you make it, Kima.
Matt: "Object impermanence. (glug glug) Next time you're going there, you tell me."
Laura: Oh, yes. We will.
Taliesin: We will be returning.
Travis: On one condition. Don't wear any more dresses.
Laura: (laughs)
Matt: "You saying I wasn't pretty, Grog?"
Travis: I like you in your armor better.
Matt: "That's why I missed you." She reaches out and smacks your cheek.
Travis: Yeah. (laughter)
Matt: "All right, kiddies, sleep it is." Kima gets up and joins Allura, and they both leave. Gilmore stands up, Realmseer stands up. "All right, everyone. Rest well. See you in the morning. And, ah, glad you're all safe."
Liam: Good night, Shaun.
Matt: "Good night, everyone."
Ashley: Good night, Gilmore.
Matt: "Sleep well."
Matt: They all leave.
Sam: So we rest here for a night or two and then, to the Feywild?
Travis: Yeah, Feywild.
Sam: Or to the--
Travis: We even have a geographic-- demographic location to like--
Sam: True.
Marisha: We do.
Taliesin: I feel like the Feywild calls to us.
Liam: What do you say we go get you a new bow?
Laura: We could go get me a new bow. There's also the ocean.
Sam: Yeah.
Liam: Nah. Let's get you a bow.
Marisha: Let's go get you a bow.
Ashley: I'm going to pour another glass of wine.
Taliesin: Ocean next.
Sam: Pike could go off to get the ocean one herself.
Laura: No! You're crazy.
Liam: That's a shitty idea.
Matt: (laughs)
Travis: I think you've had too much to drink, Scanlan.
Laura: Or the two of you together.
Sam: Yeah, I like the ocean. I don't really like the ocean. (laughter)
Matt: You guys all going to rest?
Marisha: I have one thing I'd like to do.
Matt: Okay, what do you want to do?
Marisha: I want to go back to our little cave that we dug out under where the Sun Tree is. Is that still there?
Matt: Yeah, it's still there.
Marisha: I want to go there, and I want to kind of sit down and meditate for a second. And I want to cast Speak With Plants and have a little chat with the Sun Tree.
Matt: Okay. (laughs) You cast the spell, you reach out and touch the roots of the tree, the roots of which have more color than they did before. The dull gray has become more of a full brown. The earth here smells of fresh, damp earth. The tree, while still in the winter phase, is definitely teeming with life, to where it once didn't.
Marisha: I reach out and I touch the roots. Can I just kind of feel, sense the arcane ley-lines that Allura was talking about that the tree's in the center of?
Matt: Mmm... not really. In speaking to the tree, you can ask questions, but you're not quite-- you find yourself unable to tune into that or tap into that source of magic. At this place, at least.
Marisha: Okay. So I just reach out, touch the tree, and say, "Hey, old friend. How are you feeling? Doing better?"
Matt: "Hey, bud. Much better." (laughter)
Marisha: You're pretty cool, Sun Tree.
Matt: "Sun Tree, A-OK." (laughter)
Marisha: Hey, Sun Tree?
Matt: "Yeah?"
Marisha: I was just wondering if you knew-- if you could tell me anything about this terrible cancerous tree in the Feywild, if you knew anything about it? He might be like your brother or something.
Matt: "Tree cancer? What?"
Marisha: No! No, okay. There's this tree in the Feywild and it might have a man living in it called Fenthras.
Travis: (quietly) The bow.
Marisha: No, sorry, that's the name of the bow, the bow is in it, named Fenthras, and it might be a really sick tree. Can you tell me where there's a really sick tree, maybe in the Feywild?
Matt: "That sounds sad, but no. I don't know a tree like that, sorry. I've been here in Whitestone since day one." (laughter)
Liam: Want to play hacky sack?
Taliesin: Born and raised.
Matt: So I graduated from Berkeley and made my way to Whitestone. (laughter)
Travis: My twigs smoke the doob.
Sam: "Barkeley."
Marisha: "Barkeley!"
Ashley: Put a pair of Birkenstocks on its branches.
Travis: "Birkenstalks."
Matt: (groans)
Laura: "Birkenstalks?" I like it.
Marisha: Hey, Sun Tree?
Matt: "Yeah?"
Marisha: You apparently kind of live in the middle of all these arcane ley-lines of the world.
Matt: "Yeah."
Taliesin: (cracks up)
Marisha: How far do those stretch?
Matt: "Long way, Kiki. Long way." (laughter)
Marisha: Can you kind of give me a rough idea? Do they go to the other side of the world? Can you stretch all over the world?
Matt: "Nah, just right here. Pelor put me here for a reason."
Marisha: Who? Pelor?
Matt: "Yeah."
Marisha: Right. So you're not a natural tree, you're a tree from the gods?
Matt: "Sure."
Marisha: All right. Well, anyway, you're really awesome, Sun Tree.
Matt: "Speak for yourself, Kiki."
Marisha: Yeah, you're so cool. Okay, so it was good talking to you.
Matt: "You, too."
Marisha: I'll walk through you soon. Okay, bye.
Matt: (laughs)
Marisha: And then I leave.
Matt: All right.
Laura: I want to make a once-over on Vax and make sure that-- So you did, you got all the blood off, then?
Liam: What are you doing? Yeah, I took a bath.
Laura: I mean, we got all cleaned up for tonight. I just want to make sure you didn't ruin it by keeping some of the blood in your freaking hair.
Liam: Don't I look all right? I'm fine! What's your problem?
Laura: Nothing! Just making sure you're doing all right.
Liam: Yeah.
Laura: All the blood's gone.
Liam: Yeah. It's all gone.
Laura: You're great.
Liam: I'm doing much better.
Laura: Good.
Liam: Much better. You ready for the Feywild?
Laura: Fuck, no, not ready, but we can do it.
Liam: Oh.
Taliesin: Stupid to settle.
Marisha: (snorts)
Laura: I walk over to Percy.
Taliesin: I was about to walk out the door, but if you're walking--
Laura: Before you leave, I whisper in your ear, "You still have a little blood behind your ear."
Travis: (gasps)
Taliesin: Do you want to take a walk with me?
Laura: (sighs) Sure.
Taliesin: We take a very quiet walk around Whitestone. I want to pass all of the temples that are either still standing or destroyed. I just want to take a temple tour. Not stopping, not talking, I just want to see what they look like. Pelor looks good. The one in the cemetery?
Matt: The one in the cemetery is still under construction. That one needs a little more work.
Taliesin: While in the cemetery-- I assume that it's still a mess.
Matt: Most of the graves have been refilled, the corpses have been brought back. Most of the dead that were brought forth from the previous owners have been returned. That was one of the first orders of business that people who live here did, was to return their families to the earth.
Taliesin: There were a couple of lords' crypts in there. Was there an Anders family crypt, at one point?
Matt: There would have been, yeah.
Taliesin: Cool. All right. I'm going to walk back to the castle, with you in tow, and I'm going to find Zahra.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Are you going to tell me why you went and saw the Raven Queen?
Taliesin: Yes. Come.
Matt: All right. You come back to the study where you originally found Zahra. She's still there poring over books, but is now half-asleep. She has a little candle that's starting to flicker out and she has her feet up on the desk and her tail's kind of curled up and she's falling asleep into the book as you walk in.
Laura: (whispering) Dear--
Matt: "What?"
Laura: We all need sleep sometimes, hon.
Matt: "Sleep's for the boring."
Taliesin: I have a task for you, if you have the time and energy for something a bit quiet, but necessary.
Matt: "What do you ask, Percy?"
Taliesin: I'm going to have the deeds to the Anders family crypt transferred to your name. I want you to clean it out. Throw the bodies wherever; he has disgraced himself. Clean them. And if you can, if you can find people who can do it, I want to very quietly, in that crypt, create a small shrine to the Raven Queen. This will help. And I bring out the vial of blood from the pit. Perhaps they will know what to do with that.
Matt: "Intriguing."
Taliesin: But I would like her to have a quiet mark in this city.
Laura: Is this for you, or for my brother?
Taliesin: ...It's for your brother, so that he can help us. We're apparently all in this together.
Laura: I give Percy a kiss on the cheek.
Taliesin: Oh. Thank you.
Matt: "All right."
Taliesin: We need all the help we can get.
Matt: "Very well. I'm sure it can be done. I never owned a crypt before. I'm excited."
Laura: It's exciting. (laughs)
Matt: She takes the vial and puts it on the table.
Laura: I think it suits you.
Taliesin: Tell anyone you'd like where I went. It's not a secret. I just wasn't ready to... I don't think your brother-- I would hate for him to think I'm competing. I just had some questions.
Laura: I won't tell anyone, Percy.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Laura: Your business is yours. And mine, because I noticed. (chuckles)
Marisha: (snorts)
Taliesin: Thank you for noticing, and... I'm trying hard not to make it my business. It's hard to remember sometimes.
Taliesin: (sighs)
Laura: (quietly) We're all family.
Taliesin: That's awful, isn't it. (sighs) I'm going to go to my room--
Laura: Oh! Percy!
Taliesin: Yes?
Laura: Sorry. If Zahra wanted to make some dragon arrows, could she use stuff here in the castle?
Taliesin: I'll talk to my sister on the way out. I'll write her a letter and see if they can-- they may have to delve into our materials for it, but I think we're good.
Laura: Yes.
Taliesin: We'll talk about using our materials for such a thing, and I will talk to her about that.
Laura: All right.
Taliesin: I'm going to do my little thing and if it works, great, and if not, we'll speak not of it for a while.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and make your tinkering check.
Taliesin: Better! 30.
Matt: That'll do.
Taliesin: I craft a brooch. It's not even a brooch, it's a clasp. I had built these pieces of it earlier on in the game. For the last three weeks I've been working on this. I've taken the raven skull that you gave me and made a mold and poured melted silver into a bird skull, a silver bird skull. Taken a ruby and set it behind it, built it into a clasp that does not reflect, and in it, put a sachet of-- satchel...
Marisha: Sachet.
Laura: Sachet.
Taliesin: Thank you. My brain? Coffee. Of myrrh and--
Sam: Frankincense?
Taliesin: (snorts and laughs) Myrrh, sandalwood, opium, and dragon's blood. Not real dragon's blood, but dragon's blood--
Sam: True blood.
Taliesin: Sap. It's a sap. It's a tree sap. Put the whole thing together.
Liam: You've had opium this whole time and you never...
Taliesin: It's not, it's just poppy.
Laura: What does it do?
Taliesin: You will find out when I present it.
Matt: All right. Everyone else going to rest?
Travis: No. I ran out of dinner super fast and I ran outside of Vax's room and I took the jug and I whispered into it, "oil," and I poured one quart of oil on the ground outside of his door. Looked around real quick. Is there anyone in the hallway?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Travis: 10.
Matt: Looks clear.
Travis: (giggles) And I run away. (laughter)
Matt: All righty.
Liam: That was super awesome and I can't wait to see the outcome, but before that happens, I was standing right here when these two walked off, so I am waiting in the exact same spot for my sister to return.
Matt: A lot of time passes.
Liam: It's fine.
Matt: A few hours pass before she returns, but she eventually does.
Laura: Are you still here? You should go to bed.
Liam: I will. I took a little bit of a nap.
Laura: In the dining hall?
Liam: Yeah.
Laura: What?
Liam: You're a grown-ass woman, and you're twice as strong as I am.
Laura: I know.
Liam: So your business is your business. Just... both eyes open, yeah?
Laura: Always. (chuckles) I'm very perceptive.
Laura: (cackles)
Liam: Don't do that to me.
Taliesin: That's two. Two winks! Ah hah hah.
Liam: Please don't ever do that to me again.
Laura: I love you so much.
Liam: And if you do, you will never use that wink on me again. It is not for me.
Laura: All right.
Liam: Just... he's charming, but both eyes open, please.
Laura: I don't know what you are talking about.
Liam: Yeah, the fuck you don't. I'm going to go to my room now and see if I splat on the floor.
Matt: All right, make a perception check.
Travis: Come on, big money, no whammies. (laughter)
Laura: Ohhh.
Liam: Sorry, buddy, it's a 31.
Matt: As you approach the door, you look down and see a smear of dark, reflective oil across the walkway about two feet leading up to your room. You guys have a cluster of rooms in this long hallway, and it arcs around like an L. So you guys are in this big L of all your rooms scattered throughout.
Liam: How thick is it? Is it viscous?
Matt: Yeah, it's pretty slippery.
Liam: Put my hand in it. Does that stay?
Matt: The hand stays for a minute, then--
Liam: Goes away.
Matt: Yeah, it's pretty thick.
Liam: All right.
Matt: Also has a fume to it.
Liam: Okay. I'm going to scrape a bunch of it up just into my hand, so I have a big handful of it, and I'm just going to go to Grog's room, and I'm going to slowly, just at the door, take time to write, Grog smells like farts and--
Laura: I walk by him as he's doing this and say, You know he can't read, right?
Marisha: (laughs)
Liam: I picked specifically small words! (laughter)
Liam: Poo.
Taliesin: Oh, he can read that.
Liam: And I draw-- No. I'll tell you what I do. Pull down my breeches and I put the oil on my butt and I go (squelch). (laughter)
Liam: A little signature.
Matt: All right. Well done.
Taliesin: Preschoolers run amok in my gentle abode.
Liam: Get busy living or get busy dying. Butt-print.
Matt: All right. You guys all get into bed. Anything else you want to get done?
Sam: I just told Pike she looked real pretty tonight and I go back to my reading.
Matt: Okay. You guys all find yourselves back to your respective rooms, resting for the night. Some doors adorned differently than others. Partway into the evening's resting, we'll say the wee hours of the morning, post-midnight or so, your door opens slightly, Vax. You hear a little (knocking sound) on your door.
Liam: Yes?
Matt: You look over and you see Gilmore pop his head in with a soft smile. "I'm sorry if I'm waking you up."
Liam: It's all right.
Matt: "Here." And he produces what looks like a folded pile of material and throws it on the foot of your bed and goes, "Come, Vax, I made you a gift. Put it on, come walk with me awhile. We have a lot to talk about."
Liam: I open it up.
Matt: It's a very well-crafted silk robe of dark blue and black. Beaded, nice against the skin. It's really, really nice.
Liam: (quietly) Give me a minute. (louder) There's a wooden screen in the room. I go behind it and wipe any oil left off my butt. (laughter)
Matt: That's fantastic.
Liam: Everything looks all right. And I put it on.
Matt: All right. He waits for you patiently in the hallway. So he begins walking along. Puts his arm out to you.
Liam: Take it.
Matt: You take his arm. You guys walk up along the hallway. He leads you to a staircase that leads up further, and he goes, "I know a lot has happened these recent months. I've been watching from afar, keeping tabs on your journey best that I can. But I still know so little." You ascend the lengthy staircase and you make your way to the higher floor. You eventually open an intricate door and walk out onto a wide balcony on that tower that overlooks the grounds and the castle before you. Beautiful moonlight, the night air. You see the moon is nearly full and the white light illuminates the densely-forested countryside surrounding the castle. He closes the door and walks up to you at the edge of the balcony, looking over it all, elbows on the edge. "Some time has passed, Vax. And much of the world moves on to newer, greater threats. But true pain never really heals." He turns to you and steps up to you, looking you close in the face. "You hurt me deeply. And continue to hurt. Agony, for weeks, months. Pain I had never experienced. (deepening to a growl) It's all I can think about."
Liam: Can I make an insight check?
Matt: You would, if you had time.
Marisha: Oh my god!
Laura: (gasps) I knew it. I knew it.
Marisha: No!
Matt: The pain hits you suddenly, before anything else does, as you're lost in that face and the sudden feeling, the sensation of terror and horror. You suffer 18 points of piercing damage, and I need you to make a constitution saving throw.
Liam: Oh, that's my specialty.
Taliesin: (whispering) We don't know what the hell this is.
Liam: Constitution save?
Matt: Mm-hmm.
Liam: 11.
Matt: You feel the poison--
Liam: I'll use luck.
Matt: Roll again.
Liam: 18.
Matt: You feel what should be a pulse of poison hit your system and you manage to fight it off as suddenly you look down and there is Gilmore holding a blade thrust into your stomach, your robes now beginning to fill with crimson red around the wound. It's at that moment you see him pull you in and stare into your face with a very low growl, "It's all I think about." And you watch as a flicker to his form happens and you see for a second there's a flash: not skin, but fur. You see teeth, you see whiskers, and the hand holding the dagger is facing the other direction. That's where we're going to end tonight's session. (shocked exclamations)
Marisha: Nooo!
Laura: The rakshasa?
Marisha: Is it a rakshasa?
Matt: (laughs)
Laura: Oh my god.
Travis: Ohhhh.
Matt: We'll be back next week.
Liam: That fucked with my head, Matt.
Liam: What are you doing?
Taliesin: Wow.
Matt: What a rakshasa does.
Sam: Good job, man.
Laura: Oh my god.
Marisha: What the fuck?!
Taliesin: Wow.
Marisha: Has he been a rakshasa the whole time? Wait, is it the rakshasa who's different? Is it not Gilmore? So many questions!
Liam: (laugh)
Matt: (laugh)
Matt: Perhaps this will be revealed next week as we kick in at this very moment.
Laura: Oh my god. Why does it always leave off when he's about to get killed?
Marisha: Right! Why is it always you?
Sam: Because he's always almost about to die.
Liam: This one did die!
Taliesin: Because he runs into all the rooms first and he makes out with everybody.
Laura: Because you do. That's the thing.
Taliesin: That's why it happens.
Taliesin: He runs into the rooms first and he puts his tongue exciting places.
Marisha: (laugh)
Laura: (laugh)
Matt: You also happened to lean in real close--
Taliesin: I'm not yelling at you, man. I'm envious.
Matt: And whisper in the ear of the rakshasa as he slowly slit its throat across the floor.
Travis: Oh, that's right, you did do that.
Laura: Oh, so what did you do? What did you do?
Liam: I slit its throat, yeah.
Matt: Yeah.
Liam: It's all right.
Marisha: Hang on, wait.
Matt: It just wants to come back and show you the same love.
Marisha: Oh, wait, did you get the final blow in the rakshasa in the Slayer's Take?
Liam: Yes, I did. Yeah, I cut his throat.
Laura: And you said something shitty to him.
Liam: He threatened my family and I said, "Say something about my sister again," and I slit his throat.
Laura: Oh, nice!
Matt: Oh, boy.
Taliesin: It's about to drop.
Marisha: But he was dead. What the fuck is going on?!
Laura: Was he? Did you chop him up?
Marisha: No, because I'm not a psycho.
Sam: This is exciting.
Matt: This will be interesting next week when we kick in.
Taliesin: There's a fine line between psycho and practical.
Marisha: I can see chopping someone's body up might be psycho.
Taliesin: It's not psycho if you drive a very small car with not a lot of trunk space.
Travis: Nicely done, Matt.
Laura: Nice, Matt.
Matt: Guys, great game tonight.
Laura: Thanks, guys.
Travis: That Raven Queen, whoo.
Liam: Whoo.
Laura: That can be the name of the episode: Yas Queen. (laughter)
Matt: Awesome. Well, guys, we're going to go ahead and get home and rest. Hope you enjoyed tonight's episode.
Taliesin: Is there going to be one more giveaway?
Matt: Is there?
Laura: Are we doing another giveaway?
Liam: There were two Loot Crates, one--
Lucas: We'll do a giveaway afterwards.
Matt: Okay, we'll do a giveaway afterwards. Perfect. One more DX Loot Crate box coming your way.
Laura: Thanks, Loot Crate!
Liam: Thanks, Joe Madureira, for the art!
Laura: Thanks, Joe!
Ashley: Get your posters!
Taliesin: It's so cool.
Laura: Thanks, Critters, for being awesome!
Matt: Hope you guys got to enjoy our silly E3 couple hours we did earlier on GameSpot. I'm sure that'll go up soon, anyway. But anyway, guys, we'll see you next week. Until then, rest well and, is it Thursday yet? See you then.

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello, everyone, and welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around, roll dice and play Dungeons & Dragons. This week, not in costume, to the joy of all of my players. So welcome back. We're going to hop in here in a moment, but first, let's get through our announcements. First and foremost, this week's sponsor is the continuation of Loot Crate being our awesome sponsor. (cheering)
Matt: Thank you so much Loot Crate. I think we announced the new theme for this month's loot crate last week, but Sam, if you would like to give us a couple of words on our sponsor, please.
Sam: I am running out of things to say. So instead, I composed a little song, and I thought that Miss Ashley Johnson could help me with it.
Ashley: Okay?
Sam: I'm going to sing a couple of lines, and it will be very apparent what the rhyming word is, and you chime in with that. Little known fact, Ashley Johnson, beautiful singing voice, she's a soprano.
Ashley: I am! Yes, and?
Sam: Here's a song for Loot Crate. Okay. Ashley, I need you to focus here. It's to the tune of the Beverly Hillbillies. (singing) Well, yeehaw for nerd swag, let's all give a big hoot. You get a pretty crate and they fill it with--
Ashley: Loot!
Sam: Very good! (singing) With gear and apparel that'll make you look real cute. You'll even be attractive when your butt makes a--
Ashley: Toot!
Sam: Very good. (singing) Subscribe with the link that pops up on your computer. With the dough that you saved, buy some hot wings at--
Ashley: Hooters!
Sam: Very good. (singing) You'll be all hot and bothered even if you're spayed or neutered. So pull down your skirt, and stick that loot in your--
Ashley: Cooter!
Sam: No! It's in your crate. You put your loot in your crate.
Ashley: Oh, sorry.
Sam: That's disgusting. That's disgusting, Ashley. Jesus!
Matt: That's really inappropriate.
Sam: Jesus, why would you stick it in your cooter?
Ashley: It made all the sense.
Sam: Holy shit! Loot in a Loot Crate. Good God! Anyway, magic everyone. Sign up and use the exclusive promo code-- Wait a second, there's a new promo code?
Travis: It's new, yeah. Five dollars off Loot Crate and Loot Crate DX if you use promo code CHAOTICGOOD. All caps, one word.
Sam: Go check it out guys. I'm done.
Liam: Sam Riegel, you are against the law.
Travis: The code is only good for 48 hours.
Sam: Wait, is that true?
Travis: It is true. 48 hours only.
Sam: I should read these before I do the ads.
Travis: CHAOTICGOOD!
Matt: Thank you, Sam; I appreciate it. Ashley, you really need to clean that mouth.
Ashley: You know, there is only one place to put loot.
Matt: Really, keep it in your crate, guys, highly recommended.
Taliesin: Keep it in your crate.
Laura: Keep it in your crate.
Ashley: Keep it in your crate.
Matt: #keepitinyourcrate. So yes. Thank you Loot Crate for being our awesome sponsor. Other announcements: BlizzCon this weekend! For those who are going to be there, a number of us are going to be there. There are panels Friday. Who is going to be there Friday?
Liam: Friday! There.
Matt: There you go. Me and Liam will be there Friday. A number of other of us will be wandering the halls.
Travis: I will be in the bathrooms.
Laura: Just hanging out.
Matt: Just chilling. Just looking to massage folks as they come in? Taking tips?
Travis: Ask if they need their hands dried.
Matt: So look for that at BlizzCon. Those of us who have our schedules and have posted them on our twitter, and will probably post it tomorrow as well, so keep an eye out. Hope to see you guys there. Also, new GM Tips went up today, on YouTube. You guys can check it out; it's every week Wednesday on Alpha and then Thursday on YouTube. This week's episode deals with trying to get your players to engage more in actual roleplaying, in-character in your sessions. So go ahead and check it out. Hopefully it will be helpful for some of you new and old GMs out there. And let us know what you think. Also, Marisha, if you want to talk about the new Spotify playlists that we have coming up here.
Marisha: Oh yeah! We did those awesome playlists like a year ago, and if you didn't know, by the way, we did playlists about a year ago, each one of us, for our characters. You should go and check them out. They are deep somewhere in the Geek and Sundry website.
Laura: What's this?
Marisha: Our Spotify playlists.
Laura: Dude, they were so good!
Marisha: They were really good!
Laura: And they give really good background into our characters.
Marisha: Yeah, they actually give a lot of insight, if you pay attention. So yeah! Go look at our playlists, because we are going to be doing a round two, starting next week. Because it has been like 50 some odd episodes, and a lot of shit has happened.
Travis: Mine is just going to be animal noises. (braying)
Laura: What animal was that?
Travis: You wish you knew. Check out the playlist to find out!
Liam: It's just 12 tracks of whale song? (whale song) (whale songs)
Liam: (Grog impersonation) This is me when I'm sad. This is me when I'm happy.
Travis: He found a tape recorder.
Matt: It is all Sesame Street. All the time. All right, well, awesome! Keep an eye out for that. Starting next week, we will have info available on the Geek & Sundry website and our Twitter, as soon as that becomes available. Anything else that anyone wants to announce? So glad you could be here with us this week, Ashley! (cheering)
Ashley: Very spur of the moment. That's it. (laughter)
Sam: Are we going to do this thing at the break? Is that happening? What are we going to do?
Laura: Yes!
Taliesin: Oh, that thing.
Laura: So our critical costumes contest. We are announcing the winners after the break!
Liam: After we choose them on the break.
Laura: No, we have all been looking at them. We all have our personals, but now we have to fight amongst ourselves and duke it out for the winner.
Ashley: We need to fight. We are having a real battle.
Travis: We have Nerf Guns.
Marisha: And Jello.
Taliesin: And sticks!
Travis: You brought Jello?
Matt: It is going to be fantastic. For the record You guys are ridiculous!
Laura: They are amazing!
Matt: Those costume entries, every single one was amazing!
Marisha: Yes.
Taliesin: Cats.
Matt: There were cats in costume!
Laura: Victor cat!
Matt: I can't even.
Taliesin: Scanlan cat.
Ashley: Can we do one with just animals, sometime? Like during the Westminster Dog Show?
Taliesin: Just cats! Critical Cats!
Laura: Critter Critters!
Matt: We have already lost control. This has already gone. We are over it. We have peaked. We are done.
Travis: Also Talks. Talks Machina will be live every Tuesday at 7:00pm on Alpha. Every week, there will be like two to three of us on there, answering questions, giving insight.
Laura: When does it start?
Travis: November...
All: 15th!
Travis: It will be on there, and you can find out all of the juicy details, who Grog is really in love with. And you can follow @talksmachina on (shouts) Twitter! There are so many cool things! There will be gift giveaways and all sorts of stuff.
Marisha: Yay.
Matt: Thank you, Travis! It's exciting.
Marisha: It's fun.
Travis: Yeah, it's going to be fun. We are going to haze Brian Foster every single week.
Marisha: Oh no, he hazes us, man.
Taliesin: Yeah, it was kind of intense.
Liam: He's an OG D&D player, though, right? Like decades of Dungeons & Dragons.
Laura: Yeah, he's old school. He's old school.
Liam: Always checking me in my rolls, on my choices in the game.
Laura: He's off-camera laughing at us.
Liam: Who I talk to on any given afternoon. It is all I hear about. I'll do what I want, Brian! It's D&D!
Matt: So you can look forward to more of that on Talks Machina.
Taliesin: D&D  there's no wrong way to play except our way.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: Indeed. Well then, on that note, let's go and bring us onto the happy day-glo lives of Vox Machina right now, and Exandria, as we step into tonight's episode of Critical Role
Taliesin: Sparkle, sparkle, sparkle, friendship! [dramatic music]
Matt: Hello, and welcome back. While we were away, we learned much about the anatomy of the basilisk. Thank you, Liam.
Liam: Welcome!
Matt: All right. So bringing us into tonight's episode. Vox Machina, in their attempt to take down the Chroma Conclave, have slain three of the five dragons. They've made a tentative alliance with a fourth: Raishan, the Diseased Deceiver, in the hopes of taking down the fifth, and most powerful master of the entire Conclave: Thordak, the Cinder King, who currently resides over the now elementally corrupt city of Emon, with the ground itself beginning to boil and crack with fire elemental energy. You all sit within Whitestone, deciding upon the coming rush to the final battle, considering what allies you have at your disposal, what locations you want to put this battle in. You've had these conversations. You've revealed Raishan to the rest of your allies within Whitestone, and you've previously spoke about taking this to Fort Daxio to the north of Emon. And that was where we last left off. As you finish your conversation with the rest of your current temporary council on the ziggurat beneath Whitestone, you've made the choice of Fort Daxio as being your next grounds of conflict. What do you wish to do? (laughter)
Sam: You think we finished our conversation, but we have about an hour of more talking to do. (laughter)
Marisha: What if we get an airship, and put the ziggurat inside of it?
Sam: Oh, okay!
Laura: What?
Taliesin: What?
Ashley: I have an idea! (laughter)
Laura: We should go to Fort Daxio then. And talk to them.
Sam: Did we need to send word to all of our allies that that is where we are going? Has that been done already?
Marisha: I feel we need to scout the location first?
Taliesin: Let's scout first, let's head there and then if everything seems copacetic.
Sam: How do we get there?
Taliesin: By airship!
Laura: By the fabulous Keyleth.
Marisha: Let me scry, then we will bamf through a tree. Sound good?
Laura: Can you scry here though? We are by the Orb of Death.
Marisha: No, we have to go.
Sam: Hold on! Let me go get Pike.
Marisha: Yes!
Sam: I got her, guys! She's here!
Ashley: Hey! Oh man!
Travis: Oh, Pike. Good to see you. High five!
Sam: Wow! We almost left without her.
Ashley: Wait, so he said we were going to Fort Daxio?
Laura: Yeah. We are totally going to Fort Daxio.
Ashley: Okay! That sounds--
Laura: That's where we are going to amass our forces. Potentially.
Ashley: I think it is a great idea. On our walk, we talked about it, and I think that it is a really good idea.
Travis: The Monstah has spoken.
Sam: Now it's unanimous.
Liam: Sure.
Sam: Wait, can she scry? Do you need to scry? Do we have scrying things?
Marisha: I can scry. Yeah. I got my Scry Ball.
Matt: Who are you scrying?
Marisha: I am-- Do we know someone in Fort Daxio?
Taliesin: We do! We do.
Laura: We do?
Taliesin: Because your--
Laura: My shit father?
Taliesin: Yeah, your shit father.
Laura: Yeah, he knew somebody there, but I don't remember who it was.
Taliesin: Oh, shit. Hold on.
Sam: But wait! Anyone from like when we were with the 'fugees? The refugee camp? Didn't some of them go to Daxio?
Laura: Oh! Oh! What about that guy that was running the refugee camp? The leader! Bernard, or Reginald, or--
Marisha: Well, Reginald is dead.
Laura: Not Reginald.
Taliesin: Most of our friends are dead, let's be fair.
Liam: Yeah, we have met a lot of dead people.
Laura: What was his name? Bernard?
Matt: Who are you referring to?
Laura: The guy who was running the refugee camp that was like a blacksmith, not a blacksmith, but he had stepped up to--
Sam: Wait! Rothfuss?
Laura: No.
Liam: No. I know who you're talking about.
Laura: Yeah. We found his brother? His son?
Liam: When we left the orc camp, and we headed out into the snow--
Matt: Oh!
Liam: It was close to when we found Tyriok without an arm.
Laura: They were heading to Fort Daxio, weren't they?
Matt: I don't recall if they were heading to Fort Daxio.
Marisha: This was after the goliaths?
Laura: Yeah.
Sam: This is the part of the show where we look through our notes.
Liam: It's D&D! It is a Dungeons & Dragons game.
Travis: You guys actually write notes? I just draw pictures.
Taliesin: They write notes. I draw pictures.
Liam: I listen to them read their notes.
Travis: Oh, good.
Ashley: I look over her shoulder and read her notes.
Laura: Well, they're empty right now.
Sam: Mine are terrible! Arbiter Brom?
Matt: No!
Sam: Tristan the cleric? Gern Blanston? (laughter)
Sam: Spireling Shenn?
Travis: Orc skull?
Laura: But you know who I'm talking about. Yeah?
Matt: This will be Cornelius. Maybe? I'm trying to--
Taliesin: Wow!
Travis: Cornelius.
Laura: Cornelius.
Sam: Oh wait! I got it, I got my page! Cornelius! Leader of the refugees. He is a bookbinder. Drez Vena! Magic guy. Elowen, the mom. Simon, the son. These are people who were in Daxio, right?
Matt: No, these are people who were sent to Kymal.
Sam: Shit balls! Master Quall?
Matt: Also Kymal. Or Westruun. One of the two.
Marisha: Do we not know anybody at Fort Daxio?
Matt: No one that you know of. Fort Daxio--
Laura: Is Allura still here? Is Allura still around?
Matt: Allura is still around.
Laura: Allura, do you know anyone in Fort Daxio?
Matt: "Unfortunately, the one member I know is the Warmaster, Mikael Daxio, the father of Riskel. But as far as I know, he is currently sealed off in Syngorn with the rest of the army."
Laura: Right. Shit.
Marisha: Okay, hang on, wait. Is Fort Daxio near Syngorn?
Laura: No. The army, remember, part of the army got sent to Syngorn, and then Syngorn bamfed away.
Matt: Yeah. Three of the regiments in Fort Daxio were sent to Syngorn, with the supposed dragon incursion in the Stormcrest Mountains. Most of them went with Syngorn when it got pulled back to the Feywild, and one regiment still remains at Fort Daxio. Fort Daxio is north of Emon.
Marisha: Are there any guards from Emon here? Because the guards were also the guards from Emon went to Syngorn. So maybe someone in one of the guards knows one of the guards in Fort Daxio.
Laura: This is a lot of work.
Marisha: Yeah. Is there an easier way to go about this?
Matt: You could ask around?
Marisha: I am going to go and see if I can find one of the Whitestone guards.
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Marisha: Oh! I am not good at these. I think that it's a 12; let me double check my investigation. I don't do this a whole lot. Yeah, 12.
Matt: Okay. You spend the next 30 minutes asking around for various guards, and the few that you do know that are from Emon are like, "I don't really know anyone from Daxio. It's very regimented. I wasn't interested in the military, I wanted to more sit around the city and get paid to wear armor."
Marisha: So they're more militant? Or like, the army?
Matt: "It is where the military is, yeah."
Marisha: You don't have any army friends? Are there any army friends here?
Matt: "I think there are a few here that at least might know that, but I am not one of them. Sorry."
Marisha: Where? Where? Point me.
Matt: (shouting) I don't know! That way!
Marisha: (shouting) All right! I go that way!
Matt: Keyleth spends the better part of the next hour or so without luck, unable to really find anyone to match the description from before.
Marisha: Guys, this sucks! We don't know anyone in Daxio!
Laura: Should we just fucking go there?
Liam: This is like when you're on a level in a video game, and you run around and around and around. You can't find that thing that triggers to the next section of the video game.
Sam: Wait, Gilmore knows everybody. He must know someone in Daxio.
Laura: I don't know if he knows army people.
Liam: Well, he knows a lot of people.
Marisha: All right. If Gilmore doesn't know anybody, then we are going to the nearest location, and then we're hoofing it.
Laura: Yeah.
Sam: Kraghammer is near-ish.
Marisha: All right, let's go talk to Gilmore.
Laura: That's true.
Matt: Okay. As the rest of your council has essentially scattered throughout Whitestone Castle since your meeting, Gilmore is easy to find, beginning to make his way out of the castle down towards his homestead, and prepare what he has for the coming struggle. So as you intercept him walking down the outside, he says: "Oh, hi! I'm sorry. What did you need?"
Sam: Do you know anyone in Fort Daxio? Please say yes.
Matt: (chuckles, sighs) "You know, I believe I have had a couple of people come through my establishment."
Travis: Is that what they call it? "Come through my establishment?"
Taliesin: Yes, that is exactly what they call it when you have an establishment.
Matt: "That is actually exactly what they call it, Grog."
Marisha: I mean, we don't necessarily need to know anybody if you happen to know a very fast way to get to Daxio.
Matt: "I mean, there are magics that can get a person there quickly, but--"
Laura: Are there trees? Are there lots of trees? It's grassland.
Liam: Shaun, could you send one of us there? Is that possible by any chance?
Matt: "Let me think."
Laura: One? Why one?
Liam: Because if one of us goes with the Gatestone, Keyleth can jump over, she can see trees there, she can tree her way back here. I mean, I don't know; I'm spitballing.
Laura: It seems like a really long process--
Liam: Yeah, all right. Where's your great idea?
Laura: Well, one of us goes there, finds a tree and then bamfs back, and Keyleth brings us all over--
Sam: No, Keyleth can scry on you once you're there, and see the tree.
Laura: Fabulous. Send one of us over there.
Marisha: Yeah! Yeah.
Matt: He says  "Well, I can't. But Allura might be able to help with that. Ask her?"
Marisha: All right. Back to Allura.
Sam: (sings Yakety Sax)
Liam: Chickens with our heads cut off, eh?
Travis: In and out of the doors.
Taliesin: Like a Monty Python animation. Back and forth.
Marisha: Trip three times.
Matt: Exactly. Apparently, Gilmore doesn't seem to have access to the type of translocation magic you're asking about.
Marisha: All right.
Matt: You eventually find your way to Allura in Whitestone Castle, who is currently having a conversation with Cassandra. She turns back to you, and as you ask the same question, she responds with a: "I actually do have prepared-- I can bring up to eight other individuals with me."
Laura: Oh! How perfect!
Travis: Wait, wait. One... Somebody else do this.
Laura: We're good.
Ashley: I think we're okay. It's just right.
Marisha: Are you fine doing that?
Matt: "Yes. I can only go there, so we have to have some way of returning, which I believe you can handle that. All right?"
Marisha: I can get us back, yeah.
Matt: "All right. Then whenever you are ready, I suppose."
Laura: Great.
Liam: Now's as good a time as any. Yeah.
Matt: "All right, gather round." She puts her arms out and gestures for you to reach in like a hand circle.
Ashley: Come on Grog.
Sam: Are we taking Kima?
Laura: Kima! Can we take Kima?
Sam: Do we want to take Kima?
Matt: "Of course! I have to go get her"
Liam: One too many though, isn't it?
Laura: No. This is perfect.
Liam: I swore she said eight. Or eight along with her?
Matt: "Eight along with me."
Travis: We're just reconning.
Laura: Yeah, it's fine. Let's just go.
Liam: You know, we always take her and leave you. Why don't we flip that?
Matt: "Just don't tell her. She gets a bit testy when she's not included. All right, very well." She takes your hands. Some of you close your eyes, some of you don't. That familiar rush of warmth underneath your stomach begins fill--
Travis: (fart noise)
Matt: Your chest cavity... (laughs). Grog poots out the side and it distracts you momentarily, before you watch the ground beneath you; this line of blue arcane energy begins to link each one of your feet together in a circle. As it does, these star-like extensions begin to appear out in the center, and as soon as they all meet into one crystalline structure, there is a flash of light. Your vision goes white, and as it slowly adjusts to the daylight, this light breeze soothing you, you look around and see yourselves now standing in the Othendin Pass, which is this large rocky ravine that rides up on each side of you to these tall, cliff side edges of the very very southwest side of the Cliffkeep Mountains. This is far north of Emon. While you see the ground itself is very cracked land, you can see dry and long dead bushes, you can see bits and pieces of dead trees that have for a long time been petrified, broken over or been left without much of an actual fertile ground to exist in. You glance off to the eastern side of your direction, and you can see a very large cluster of reddish-brown trees; a forest there that has long died, or at least is definitely in the fall season type of color change. But the vegetation around here is very sparse, very scrub and in some cases very dry and dead. You do see to the immediate northwest of your current location, clinging to the side of the mountain cliff, what you assume is Fort Daxio: a massive stronghold, built of gray and brown stone, an outer wall perimeter that completely surrounds it, buttressed against each side of the cliff, and within, you can see a multi-tiered fortress structure within, built specifically for defending against any sort of army siege or incursion.
Laura: Wow, that is way bigger than I expected it to be.
Taliesin: That's what I'm talking about.
Travis: Can I check the skies? Anything flying around?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Travis: Hey! This will go well. Three!
Matt: You begin to look up, and you see a small bird, and it's really small and it'ss really cute, and your eyes watch it, and you watch it fling off that way.
Travis: (gasp) Pike!
Ashley: Oh lookit.
Travis: What?
Ashley: It's a little--
Travis: It's tiny right?
Ashley: It's so cute.
Travis: Yeah, he chirps I bet.
Ashley: It's a little thorbilly. (laughter)
Travis: Can you make thorbilly land on your finger like a Disney princess?
Ashley: Can I? This is so dumb. Yeah, I'm going to try.
Sam: Animal handling check!
Taliesin: Animal handling check!
Matt: I was going to say. Make an animal handling check.
Laura: Wow! Have we ever rolled this?
Sam: One! We have done one.
Taliesin: We have done one?
Sam: One. I don't remember why, or who did it.
Laura: Oh my God, you've got really good animal handling!
Ashley: Well, all right!
Travis: And you rolled a dick.
Laura: Is it a dick?
Ashley: It 's a four. Okay, nine.
Marisha: That's kind of a dick.
Matt: You make three (clunks) clomping plate armor. Pike steps before the bird-- [no audio]
Matt: Into the sky.
Ashley: It was a baby thorbilly. They're a little more shy.
Travis: Yeah, no yeah. He was very scared. (laughter)
Travis: It's all right. Next time.
Laura: Does it look like anybody's in the fort looking down at us? Are we far enough away?
Matt: Make a perception check. You're a few hundred yards away.
Laura: Fucking shit balls. 16.
Matt: 16. Okay. Best you can tell, you do see some shapes along the top of the outer battlements; the wall that surrounds the structure. However, from this distance, you're not sure if they have seen you yet.
Laura: All right.
Liam: Best you can tell, it's shit-balls.
Laura: It's shit-balls up there. Just lots of shit.
Marisha: What's a shit-ball?
Sam: Hey, if we walk up to the fort, what's our cover story?
Taliesin: No cover story. We tell them who we are and what we're doing here.
Sam: We're dragon fighters bringing the fight to their town?
Laura: We're not bringing the fight here.
Sam: We are looking to fight here.
Laura: Oh shit, we are. That's the plan, that's my plan
Liam: It's not a town. It's--
Taliesin: It's a fort.
Sam: Well, whatever it is, I don't think we should tell them that we're dragon fighters bringing the fight to their fort.
Marisha: Well, actually, that's a good point. Whose fort is this?
Laura: Daxio's, who's in Syngorn. No, it is!
Matt: Well, that is the warmaster, who has been assigned by Emon. This is technically where the majority of the military of Emon is stationed.
Marisha: So this is Emon's military? Not Syngorn's.
Matt: Yeah, this is Emon's military.
Laura: And we have got Allura with us; she's on the council.
Taliesin: And they are at war as well.
Ashley: This is already going well.
Liam: We're protecting the world.
Laura: Super good.
Marisha: Well, yeah. If this is for Emon, then it's for Emon.
Taliesin: This is specifically where you want things to attack, as opposed to towns.
Laura: But they might be skittish, so we should probably have a little protection as we go up there.
Marisha: Do we have any idea on who we're talking to?
Laura: Dudes. I think their commanding officers are in Syngorn. For the most part.
Travis: Do we need a white flag as we approach?
Laura: Sure.
Liam: Do you want to hold up Pike, as we walk closer?
Ashley: I can whip my hair.
All: (singing) I whip my hair back and forth. I whip my hair back and forth.
Matt: Yeah, it's 5th-level, you can do that. (laughter)
Matt: As you guys begin to approach the outside of Fort Daxio, you can see a number of the figures on the wall beginning to move faster and gathering at edges. You can see one of a few defensive ballistae being locked in. Allura begins stepping into the front, and she puts her hand out and says: "Don't worry, let me do the talking for this."
Sam: Ooh, okay!
Matt: As you guys begin to approach the gate, you hear a small horn give off this arrival notification. This: (pathetic horn noise). But deeper and much cooler sounding than that. (laughter)
Liam: (air horn)
Ashley: (air horn)
Travis: Come on, man!
Matt: (air horn)
Sam: (air horn)
Matt: Because I am not a war horn.
Marisha: I imagine a kid with a kazoo. (laughter)
All: (kazoo)
Taliesin: (deep and cool horn)
Travis: Of all the sounds you could make!
Matt: Fort Daxio is very sparsely run right now.
Sam: All their horns were broken in the war.
Matt: They left the regiment behind with a small conch shell that is partially broken.
Taliesin: Piggy's got the conch.
Laura: (pathetic horn noise)
Ashley: (pathetic horn noise)
Liam: Did we just find your Achilles Heel?
Marisha: Horn noises?
Liam: Man of a thousand voices  animals, creatures-- can't do horns.
Taliesin: And no horns.
Matt: (deep and cool horn sound) (cheering)
Matt: There you go! To make you happy.
Liam: I don't do horns; they sicken me.
Matt: That's more hit points on Thordak. Just keep a tally. All right. As you approach, and begin to gather and Allura steps forward, she takes a few more steps and then stops, puts her other hand up to give you a signal to hold back. She speaks out across the expanse: "Arcanist Allura Vysoren, member of the Tal'Dorei Council, here with allies to speak with who resides within. Will you allow us passage?" There's a pause. You hear the sound of the ballista crank being loosened. And then you see the two front gates slightly open. She puts her hands down. "Very well, walk with me."
Laura: They didn't even check us out; just letting us in. Be on your guard. They're too trusting.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: As you guys approach the gates and begin to walk through, you can see there is about 15 guards stationed above the top that all have cocked crossbows, that are trained on you guys--
Laura: Never mind!
Matt: Not directly ready to fire, but cautiously watching you as you progress. Allura leads through, leading you guys into the main entryway, and as you walk into this front area, the pseudo-courtyard or central area between the wall and the stronghold itself, the same cracked exterior. But you can see there is a trebuchet over there. There are countersiege weaponry. Some of it unused for a while and probably in need of some level of repair. You do see a number of other armored individuals, and the armor you see on the military stationed here is much more than the armors of Emon, or any of the local guard that you are used to. These are very heavy, regimented plate, tower shields, you can see spears that are very nasty looking and very strong in construction. A lot of these almost resemble a lot of the dwarven make you saw in Kraghammer before. So whether this is an alliance through Kraghammer and Emon that came to this, or the design was borrowed to some extent, a lot of the armor is more square and bulky than the more refined armor you have seen in more southern areas of the Tal'Dorei continent. Immediately, as you step in, while the guards still have their weapons trained on you on the other side of the wall, you see ten individuals approaching, armored. You can see these individuals, their shields are large, heavy tower shields, with a goldish, circular symbol on the front that has an inlay that's almost like a polished mirror. Like, a big old oval mirror as part of the center shield itself. As these armored individuals approach, one of them in the center has her helm off, and seems to be leading this push to greet you at that front. You see a woman, very stern look, dark skinned, very short ebony hair and a very tough, dour expression on her face as she quickly brushes up towards the front, and as she steps forward, she slams her shield into the ground, and gives a nod as the rest of the soldiers stop. She bows her head, and goes: "Allura. We finally have answer from the council. It's been silence for weeks." Allura bows her head, and says, "Well, General, let me introduce you to our allies here. These are Vox Machina. They are friends. They are--" And the general breaks once more into the conversation, and says: "That's fine! So you are here with your allies. Any word from Mikael? Any word from the rest of the regiments?"
Laura: They're in Syngorn.
Matt: "Still? In Syngorn?"
Laura: As far as we know.
Matt: "All right. Well." (sighs) You see the tension that's been building in her since she approached you guys begins to slowly fade with this sense of digesting the difficulty of the situation. There's an awkward pause and Allura says, "Can we speak in less--" She looks up at the rest of the battlements, "--less armed circles, if you don't mind?" The general looks up and nods. "Very well. My apologies. I am General Elle Gorgofon."
Laura: Elle Gorgofon?
Matt: "Elle Gorgofon. I am the commander of the Aegis Regiment and I welcome you, for the time being, to Fort Daxio. Follow me." She turns on her heel and begins to march at a very brisk pace back towards the stronghold itself. The other soldiers turning around as well. Allura gives you all a head nudge to follow suit.
Sam: Okay! Yeah! Let's go. This is going great. We haven't even done anything wrong yet.
Taliesin: Give us time.
Matt: As you're walking around, Keyleth, Vex, and Vax, looking over the number of soldiers that are here, you have roughly 20 or so you see on the top of the wall, maybe 25 to 30 that occasionally are stepping around the base of it or the interior of this main courtyard. For the entirety of the army of Emon, the regiment that's here, doesn't seem to be very busy or very well--
Marisha: Stocked?
Matt: Staffed. There aren't a lot of people here. This regiment is not extremely large. It looks like this may be the defensive regiment that was left behind to guard the fort, when other regiments are sent out on whatever duties.
Marisha: You said we saw 40?
Laura: 50 people.
Matt: 40 to 50 soldiers on the outskirts of the stronghold. You don't know how many are inside necessarily.
Travis: It's like the Alamo.
Matt: It's fairly lightly guarded right now.
Travis: Which ended well.
Taliesin: It depends on who you ask, really.
Matt: As you guys enter the stronghold, it's beautiful in its construction. It also looks like it's been in some level of disrepair. It's definitely built for function. The furniture and decor on the interior is very simple, very pragmatic. It is made for function more than presentation. You're led through two small hallways to the right to one central chamber where there are a series of benches and chairs, whatever has been assembled to the area and pulled to the center area. It would be considered a conversation room or war room in some circumstances, but it's very haphazardly thrown together. You also do notice that there are a couple of rooms that have a foul stench, and as you glance off to the left into the inside, you can see there are piles of folded dark material.
Laura: Toilet paper. (laughter)
Matt: It's your favored terrain. But you guys are led into this main chamber.
Sam: Do we just pass by those things?
Matt: As you begin to walk by, you glance over and see it as you go.
Laura: Can we see what it is? It looks like dark folded material?
Matt: If you want to stop and look behind, you can have a closer look. It's a hide-type material. It looks folded, and then as you walk in, you can see it's actually a series of piled corpses of some sort of leathery creature or creatures that have been pushed into an area there.
Taliesin: I'm going to take this moment to change out my attunement for my gloves from my sword. I'm going to put my gloves on and unattune to my sword.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: General, how many soldiers does this fort support?
Matt: As she enters the chamber ahead of you and turns around and sits in her chair, her shield set to the side. "We currently now, as the Aegis Regiment, have a grand total of 225 soldiers."
Sam: Pretty good.
Laura: And how many can be here?
Matt: "As far as all the regiments?"
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: "We're looking at, between how many survive or return from Syngorn, close to 2,000."
Laura: (quietly) All right.
Sam: So you have 225 here currently?
Matt: "We do."
Sam: And how is morale? Everyone have enough supplies and ready to defend the fort if needed?
Matt: "To be perfectly honest--" And the door closes behind you as two of the guards step in front and watch it as you all find your seats or at least stand in the space. General Elle goes, "To be perfectly honest, we are very low on supplies. Any of the trade routes to and from Kraghammer have been constantly harried by wyvern riders. We've had to defend our location a couple times by some errant wandering sentinel wyvern riders. It's been-- (sighs) We're on the edge of starvation."
Travis: Shit. Pardon my bluntness, but any flybys by Thordak himself?
Matt: "Thankfully, no. He would tear into this place in but an instant. We only have bits of information we've had from few scouts we've sent southward. We've had some conversations to and from Emon, but only half of them have even returned, and those that have say that it's a very dire situation, so we've been awaiting any word we can from Mikael-- sorry, from the Warmaster-- and nothing. So as far as I know, and have known, we are on our own and left possibly to die while the rest of this entire country burns to the ground. So seeing some seemingly friendly faces--" And she nods towards Allura, "--is the best news I've had in a very long time."
Laura: In your Warmaster's defense, it might be beyond his control to get back here.
Taliesin: Things are dire.
Marisha: Thordak is changing the entire landscape to be very similar to the Fire Plane.
Laura: And he's stuck in the Feywild.
Matt: "Who's stuck in the Feywild?"
Laura: The Warmaster, here.
Matt: "Mikael?"
Laura: Yeah, Mikael.
Marisha: All of Syngorn, actually.
Sam: Are we telling them this?
Laura: Why not?
Taliesin: Why not?
Matt: "Well, at least I know that they weren't wiped out, and that's good news. But still, we're not enough to even attempt an incursion on Emon by our own."
Taliesin: Well, that is true, and that is the purpose for our visit.
Travis: We may be able to help, though. At least where resources are concerned.
Taliesin: Oh, I would say so. We have to. That will be job one.
Marisha: How is the land around the fort? Do you have any farm land currently?
Matt: "What little bit grows here is not of the edible variety. We have to rely on the farmlands of Emon for most of our produce, and those have dried up, so we've been left to hunting and slaughtering what is available, which is not much these days, as we're constantly in battle with the giants of the north to keep some semblance of food intake to keep our soldiers fed and living."
Sam: (quietly) We can help a little with that, right?
Taliesin: Oh, yes. And we'll have to.
Laura: Maybe throw some food through a tree when we open it up, just chuck some corn.
Taliesin: Sandwiches!
Laura: Take some spaghetti!
Travis: Could we load up a cart, though, and wheel it through?
Sam: Well, but can't Keyleth make some farmland, right here in the fort? Little small garden sort of a thing?
Marisha: It takes eight hours, but it seems like we might have to do some field trips anyway.
Taliesin: The airship will be heading here anyway. We can load it with supplies as well.
Travis: To here?
Taliesin: To here. Everything will be coming here, if things go the way that we hope they will.
Travis: General, can I ask, are you close with Mikael?
Matt: "I've been under him for 15 years, yes."
Travis: Consider yourself friends?
Matt: "Friends?"
Liam: You're the worst.
Travis: I mean, it didn't even take a second. Not one second. Have you no decency?
Taliesin: I specifically looked left, hoping.
Matt: (clears throat)
Laura: Sorry. You've been under him for how long?
Matt: "15 years."
Laura: 15 years. Long time.
Travis: Pick a fight. Pick a fight with the general, then. Good. That's good.
Matt: "Allura, are these trusted?" And Allura nods. "Very. They have a thought. More of a plan. A plan that if it works should put us in a much more advantageous position in the conflict with the Chroma Conclave. Please, give them your ear. Give them your respect. They've proven time and time again to be capable."
Marisha: Forgive us, we've just been through a lot, Elle.
Taliesin: We've actually already killed three of the five Chroma Conclave.
Matt: She leans back in her chair. "Is this true?"
Marisha: I reach in and I pull out one of the teeth and throw it on the table.
Taliesin: You can't just keep giving those away.
Matt: She catches it in the middle. She gives you a very stern look, and eyeing you over, trying to give you a read and then slowly it goes from group to group. "Well, then perhaps this is our salvation." Throws the tooth back to you.
Marisha: Did you see that?
Laura: That was a good catch.
Marisha: Thanks, guys.
Taliesin: Before we get ahead of ourselves, our hope is that we think we can lure Thordak out of the city, and we think we can get him into a piece of terrain that gives us the advantage. We were hoping this would be where we consolidate our forces and make a stand against him.
Matt: "You wish to bring the Cinder King here?"
Sam: Not just the Cinder King. We would also bring allies to support you and to buffer your forces and hopefully with enough planning time to get you and your men back on their feet, well fed and ready for a fight.
Laura: We're hoping we'll be able to bring Mikael and Syngorn's army back as well.
Sam: Mikael's navy.
Liam: Yes.
Taliesin: I hate you all. We either face him in his home, in his terrain, with his guards everywhere, with people we cannot trust everywhere, or we lure him out and we bring him somewhere where we know the terrain, where we have places to hide, where we are prepared for him.
Matt: She nods and leans forward, putting one hand over the other and her elbows on the edge of her knees on her chair. "And what makes you think a creature of such power and intelligence would ever leave such an advantageous position to be vulnerable?"
Sam: To kill us. We are the bait, and we are also the dragon killer. So he will come here to kill us, or to at least investigate our whereabouts, we hope, and when he arrives, we'll wait in ambush.
Matt: "Very well. If you're confident, you have Fort Daxio and the Aegis Regiment behind you. I just hope you know what you're doing."
Travis: Oh, we do. We've killed, like, a number of them and none of us have died yet.
Laura: Not even a little bit.
Travis: We started with this many, and this many is still here, is what I mean.
Sam: I mean, technically, we started the day with this many, that's for sure.
All - travis - orion - liam - ahsley - matt: Yeah.
Marisha: What's unconsciousness? (nervous laughter)
Matt: You can see her expression drop a little bit into a curled eyebrow of confusion.
Laura: Three down.
Taliesin: There's no guarantees, but this is the best bet. This is the best place for us at this point. I'm sure you understand. There are no guarantees.
Laura: Do you have underground facilities? Something that guards against dragon fire?
Marisha: We noticed a few of the trebuchets when we walked in. How many of those do you have?
Matt: "Functional? Three."
Taliesin: We can work on that.
Marisha: Percy?
Laura: How many non-functional?
Matt: "12."
Taliesin: We can work on that.
Matt: "Very not functional. Look, siege warfare hasn't been necessary for a very long time, let alone counter-siege. Fort Daxio hasn't been under attack in close to 200 years."
Laura: It could happen. When was the last time ancient dragons took over the land?
Matt: "Which is exactly why we don't have any dragon fire-protected subterranean tunnels. My apologies, but, you know, even our budgets are limited."
Taliesin: Well, we can get to work. We can get people in. We can start making this place ready and we can start making a plan. We have a lot of power and a lot of energy at our disposal.
Travis: Yeah, it's a montage waiting to happen.
Matt: "How soon do you imagine this to transpire?"
Laura: The montage?
Marisha: Oh, we can get started right now!
Matt: "No, I mean, call-- wait, wait, wait!" She waves her hand and interrupts the montage. "Wait, wait, wait, wait."
Travis: (singing) Going to build some tunnels, make them look real cool!
Sam: It will take us a few days, if not weeks, to summon all of our allies here, and we'll need to get your forces ready as well. Is this something that you can fully support? Would you rather fight bravely against a dragon than die a slow starvation death?
Matt: "We exist here as protectors of Emon and the Council of Tal'dorei. With the current state of things, what's left of those things we choose and have given ourselves to protect, if we can we will. So yes."
Sam: Okay.
Taliesin: Well, step one is food, then.
Travis: Yeah, resources and food.
Marisha: What time is it here? Just creating farmland all over the world.
Matt: I'd say it's midday.
Laura: We need some source of water, too.
Sam: We have one pitcher of water whenever we need it.
Travis: Yeah, baby!
Taliesin: Actually, they might already have a well here.
Marisha: Yeah, like a well?
Matt: Yeah, it still rains here, and it has watershed elements that come through the Othendin Pass from the Cliffkeep Mountains. It's the ground in this particular valley, like elements of the Cliffkeep in the north, it isn't very fertile for any sort of vegetation to take root.
Taliesin: There's no food you can grow underground, is there?
Travis: I saw this movie called The Martian. If we shit all over everything, it'll grow. Yeah, lots of potatoes grow from shit.
Ashley: Maybe if we could make a composting system for them.
Sam: So you can't grow anything right now?
Marisha: Can I get someone to take me to a courtyard, or something like that?
Matt: The courtyard is the area between the outer wall and the fortress itself, which is all built into the side of the mountain.
Marisha: Can I do some sort of druidy soil test? pH test, or something like that?
Matt: Make a nature check.
Marisha: See if I can grow stuff here? With a Plant Growth spell. Just a nature check? 15.
Matt: 15? I mean, it doesn't take too much for you to find out that the dirt here, the land itself, is very nutrient-devoid. It is a near salt and rock land, which is why a lot of it does not facilitate--
Marisha: Can I not fix that with a Plant Growth spell?
Matt: Do you have a spell that could fix that?
Marisha: Does Plant Growth fix that?
Matt: Let's read the spell.
Taliesin: We have options.
Sam: For at least a day, I could create a soup kitchen. People could come in and take a bowl and leave.
Laura: Could they have something with veggies, too, though?
Matt: Plant Growth affects plants that already exist, as opposed to the actual land itself.
Marisha: All plants in a half-mile radius--
Laura: Isn't there something that turns the land fertile?
Ashley: Poop.
Taliesin: That's like, 5th level.
Ashley: Do you have horses? Lots of horses?
Liam: But I mean, Scanlan, until we are ready to pull the trigger--
Sam: Yeah, I mean I could create a soup kitchen, basically.
Liam: Once a day, yeah?
Sam: Sure. Yeah. We can have a bread line going in and out.
Travis: In the meantime, Percy could take a look at some of the weaponry. Maybe look at building a tunnel, or a bunker.
Sam: General, when's the next feeding time for your next shift of men?
Matt: "We've had to relegate it to just morning and afternoon meals to help ration our supplies. So I would say four hours til dusk, that would be the next allotted mess time."
Taliesin: Can this actually work? Can we use the spell this way?
Sam: What, the mansion? Sure, I think so. Right?
Matt: It's a unique way of utilizing it, but I don't see why not.
Laura: It's a Sizzler. I like it. (phone ringing)
Sam: Oh, shit! Shit balls! I can't--
Matt: We talked about this.
Sam: Sorry. I had an alarm to take off my shirt.
Laura: Oh, you did?
Sam: I have to wear four shirts tonight because of reasons. (laughter)
Travis: Really?
Sam: Yeah, it's an anal thing. I've worn 70 different shirts on 73 episodes of the show, so if I wear four tonight, that's one for every episode.
Travis: Oh my god.
Liam: That makes sense. That's time well spent. (laughter)
Travis: Liam and I will give you a dunking in the bathroom after the break.
Liam: You'll get a swirly forthwith.
Liam: Are we going to double back to Dad?
Laura: We have to, right?
Liam: Yeah, soon.
Taliesin: We have to at least send word. That's the first thing we have to--
Laura: I don't know how we send word to the Feywild without going to the Feywild.
Marisha: I can Plane Shift us there after we sleep and I learn it the next morning.
Liam: Now that you've brought us there, do you think you could get us closer?
Marisha: I could take us straight there, yeah.
Travis: Percy, what do you think of looking at all this weaponry?
Taliesin: I'm going to look at the battalions. See if I can drudge up some people who actually know how these things function and start seeing how difficult it would be to get the ones that are broken working.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Can I figure out if the ground is sturdy enough if I start digging little bunkers, that would be okay?
Matt: Bunkers for?
Marisha: Underground bunkers for hiding from a flaming dragon breath.
Matt: I mean, you could, probably. It's hard packed, very solid ground. Westruun, is where you did it.
Marisha: Westruun. We did the bunkers.
Laura: Didn't we do underground stuff in Whitestone, too, though?
Marisha: I did a bunker under the Sun Tree, kind of.
Taliesin: We do a lot of bunkers.
Matt: At this point, Keyleth almost has a burrowing speed.
Marisha: It's like that Fallout minigame that they came out with, the app. Basically that.
Travis: Do we want to crack out the mansion?
Sam: Yeah, sure. I'll crack out the mansion. Where should I put it, General Elle?
Matt: "I'm not entirely certain as to what you're attempting to do here."
Sam: Oh, I'm sorry. Through magical means. We are all, not to brag, we are all super powerful. We're like a band of traveling superheroes. One of the things that I can do is make a room or a home, a magical home, where everyone can go in and get a quick meal and then go back out to work again. So with your permission and a location, I can create this magical dwelling.
Matt: Keeping her eyes trained on you, she leans over towards Allura. "I can't tell, is the little man fucking with me?"
Taliesin: He gets that a lot.
Matt: Allura goes, "Usually, yes, but no, he's being completely honest right now." "Then, by all means, yes."
Sam: Is there a spot where you would like your men to--
Matt: "Follow me to the mess hall." She seems legitimately spooked and unsure what to make of you, but leads you on anyway.
Sam: Most women are.
Matt: But yeah, you can set up in the mess hall entranceway. There is a large hall with long tables and she says that would be probably the most optimal place to go ahead and set up shop there.
Marisha: Question.
Matt: Yes?
Marisha: Legi-- logi-- (fumbling words) Logistical question. That's the word I was looking for.
Matt: There you go.
Liam: Stuff and things.
Marisha: Stuff and things. Things and stuff. They are low on meat because they're low on animals?
Matt: Most of their food was being brought by the trade routes. Since then, they've had to hunt for food and go off of whatever stock and store they had, and even that's running really low. They're hard-pressed to maintain.
Marisha: Could I do a Conjure Woodland Beings and conjure a bunch of deer?
Travis: Fuck yes.
Marisha: And then we could play shooting range?
Laura: Do they disappear when they're dead?
Marisha: Oh, right. They disappear.
Matt: Yep. They would watch that meat go (poof). Sorry.
Marisha: Oh, that's mean. No, I don't do that, by the way. I was asking ahead of time, because that would be mean. Never mind.
Travis: Also awesome.
Matt: This one druid got to level three and then opened its own hunting emporium and never became an adventurer again.
Travis: Supply for days.
Matt: Yeah! So you're setting up the mess hall. You're checking in to see-- go ahead and make an investigation check, Taliesin, if you don't mind.
Taliesin: Ew. Seven.
Matt: Seven? Asking around over the next couple hours or so, it appears that most anyone who would be a specialist in any sort of siege weaponry was part of the other regiments that are no longer part of Daxio. Even so, some of the weaponry that was here looks like it was ordered partially just to get the money in. A lot of the trebuchets that are functional are very dry-rotted and have seen many rainy winters and haven't really been kept up, and you're not even sure if they'd fire. The ones that have broken down, a lot of the wood rotted. There isn't a lot of weaponry. It looks like the three could be fixed up and be functional, but the ones that aren't, it would take you weeks with new lumber and new materials to even get them remotely functional.
Taliesin: All right, we can make do. We can make do. I will definitely start making plans for the three that are functional to get them in tip-top working condition.
Matt: With successful tinkering checks on this, with a few borrowed hands for manpower, you could probably repair one per day of work. That's a full eight-hour day of work. So be aware of that.
Taliesin: All right. How many more of them were disheveled and broken?
Matt: About 12 of them.
Taliesin: And they each had their own spot?
Matt: The three that are still semi-functional are pulled back about 60 or so feet from the edge of the walls, and then the rest of them have actually been wheeled over into the corner and have all been jammed up on the edge, unused and not to take up space.
Taliesin: Okay. That'll start, at least. I'm going to look for any improvements that can be made in defensive measures against flying creatures in any way. If we use some Stone Shape, we can make this even more defendable against flying creatures, et cetera.
Travis: General? Just because, like, I'm an inquisitive mind, what is the travel time from here to Emon on foot, on a beast? Those two.
Matt: "On foot, I'd say it would put you at about five to six days. Horseback, straight through without sleep and running the beast into the ground, you could do it in a day."
Travis: Wow. Cool. Good deal.
Marisha: Are you trying to think of bringing back supplies?
Travis: No, I was seeing if I could run there in a night and back.
Marisha: Just to scout it out?
Travis: No, I'm not fucking running over there. Are you crazy? I was just curious.
Matt: Anything else anyone else is looking to do?
Marisha: I guess I can start on the underground bunker. For tonight, I guess.
Taliesin: I'll start on one of the-- oh god, my brain has completely turned to mush.
Matt: Trebuchet?
Taliesin: Trebuchet, thank you. I love the word.
Matt: Go ahead and make a tinkering check.
Sam: What are you guys going to do?
Travis: That mess hall-- is there a gathering quarters for the soldiers?
Matt: There is a barracks built into the stronghold where many of the soldiers sleep. Where there is a common area, with general tables, card games, and things to pass the time. There is a small library, with various books. You get the sense here as you begin to walk around and see the soldiers, since these guys are essentially the defensive reserve for Fort Daxio, and Daxio doesn't see a lot of military action, it's very much a train-and-wait type circumstance. And many of the soldiers, though they have grown a little gaunt in the face from lack of resources, also appear to be emotionally drained from having nothing to do. And this constant stressful uncertainty about their future fate has this air of very low morale within the fort.
Travis: General, please don't take this the wrong way. Do you trust your men?
Matt: "I do. I trust their ability. I trust that they've stayed with me in the face of all this opposition and believe that my orders and requests to stay vigilant in the face of such possible destruction, having been met with continued agreeance that they will follow me as needed to our end."
Travis: And there are none that you worry about, none that have expressed a lack of confidence, none that you're keeping your eye on? Giving you a weird feeling?
Matt: "None that live."
Travis: I like that answer. Shit.
Sam: Oi, twinsies.
Laura: Oi.
Sam: Maybe you should fly up, and if Thordak's going to attack from the air, see where the spot is that he would attack, like a spot of weakness from above?
Liam: Well, that's not a bad idea. We're thinking about tomorrow, though, as well. In the morning, yeah.
Laura: Maybe we should pop into Syngorn.
Liam: Could you take the two of us, Keyleth?
Laura: But yeah, we'll fly up. Let's do that.
Matt: All right, so you guys go ahead and coast up, to do what?
Liam: To see if there's anything of use, see if there's anything to be gleaned from a bird's-eye view.
Laura: Because it's on the cliffside, right?
Matt: Yeah, if you look at the large ravine that is carved through this portion of the mountain there. From your perspective, looking at the map down this way. It is on the western side of the ravine, against the mountain. You guys coast up, looking up. Matching the very height of the mountain, the bluff that leads down into the ravine itself, and you can see over the edge the ocean of the Ozmit Sea that heads off westward. You can see a little bit of the light as the sun comes down to a sunset. You can see it glittering across the waves in the distance. You can see the little mountain range to the north of Emon, peering over the edge. And you can see a little bit of a dark spot in the very distance, over the horizon that you can gather where Emon is. You can see it from this high up. Even though it is but a small spot.
Laura: (sings) From a distance...
Liam: (shouts) What?
Laura: (shouts) It looks peaceful up here.
Liam: (shouts) Sure.
Laura: What are we doing? Do we see anything interesting?
Liam: Not enjoying the view, I start to look down around, is there anything?
Laura: That seems useful, for, like, if we put something on the cliffside or something? Maybe a hideout, somewhere to hide from view, something like that?
Liam: Is there anything we didn't see coming up? Or is it all plain to view?
Matt: Both of you guys make an investigation.
Laura: Almost awesome. 19.
Liam: 23.
Matt: You guys take the next hour or so coasting along the edge of the mountain range, the top of the ravine itself.
Laura: Is it a mountain?
Matt: There are, it is a mountain range and the ravine itself carves through a portion of it, so the right and left side, yes.
Liam: At the 59 minute mark I fly over and sit on the back of my sister's broom
Laura: Is it favored terrain?
Matt: Is your favored terrain mountains?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Then yeah, you get advantage on that.
Laura: 20.
Matt: But still. You do have the advantage at the top of these mountains of a wider range of view. It's good for somebody who's expecting an incursion from flying creatures. It'd be a great place to put a scout, as a warning system, should anything begin to make its way towards the fort from Emon or beyond. There are places where you could in theory drop things down the edges of the mountain that would use the ravine almost like a bowling alley, essentially, large boulders and rocks. Which is a favored tactic of many stone giants and other giants who use mountain terrain to their advantage. But beyond that, there's no other terrain that you think would, outside of you coming up with a creative use of it, there's nothing that is glaring to you as an advantage in the coming fray.
Laura: We could put somebody in a hidey-hole up here. And if they see anything, they drop a stone down to a designated area and let people know.
Liam: Yeah. They could throw out one of those flare-like gem-y thingies. Ring a bell.
Laura: Oh yeah! We have those. A bell is probably the best idea.
Liam: Any of those. You want to take us down? This broom always rides up my ass when I ride on it.
Laura: Oh, because your little wings are dead?
Liam: Yes, they are.
Laura: All right. I'll float us down on my ever-flying broom.
Liam: Ow!
Matt: Okay, so you guys descend.
Laura: I go down pretty slow to make this last a little bit longer.
Liam: Getting close though, yeah?
Laura: What?
Liam: What?
Laura: To take out all of this?
Liam: Yeah.
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: Kill 'em, or die trying.
Laura: That's right.
Matt: Both of you guys, make a perception check.
Laura: Oh, that was so close to a one, but it wasn't! 20.
Liam: 22.
Matt: 22, okay. As you guys come down--
Laura: Oh, wait, no! 26! My math was wrong.
Matt: That's okay. As you guys come down into the bottom of the ravine you make it down safely into Fort Daxio to gather with the rest of your compadres for the evening. You at this point, by the way, Scanlan. You are currently, because you have to be present to designate anybody who can enter your mansion. You are like the one-person homeless shelter. You are bringing through soldier after soldier into there. And they all look confused, bewildered. And many of them stop and be like, "What's going on?"
Sam: Name on the list? What's your name?
Matt: (stuttering) "I am--"
Sam: Name?
Matt: (stuttering) "Are you--? What is--?"
Sam: Listen, man. Do you want some food or not? What's your name? I've got a big list here, there's no girl with you.
Matt: "Trevian Simtin. Please, I'm hungry."
Sam: Do you have a plus one?
Matt: "I have a plus?"
Sam: You're in.
Matt: "All right!" One after another, after another. Some of them seem genuinely spooked and freaked out by the spiritual servants, and avoiding them as they go on. The smell of food hits them, though. The ever-smell of chicken cooking through does catch them. And they all seem to eventually get past their fear of the servants as the fantastic meal of relatively neutral flesh is served to them in your dining hall.
Laura: There's still no veggies, huh? They could probably use some vegetable nutrition.
Sam: I'm sure they boil the chicken in like an onion sort of water.
Laura: Do they? Or is it like a chicken broth that they boil them in?
Sam: They have the fusaka now. They put a little bit of that in. Spices it up a bit.
Travis: They've got a 300-year supply. (laughter)
Matt: All right, Keyleth. Explain the bunker you're building for me, if you could.
Marisha: Should I do it on the inside? In the courtyard, make an underground pod. Think Fallout.
Matt: Right. Is it closer to the wall, or closer to the actual fortress itself, the entrance that leads to the underground pathway?
Marisha: I imagine closer to the fortress, right? On the inside.
Laura: Deep in there.
Matt: So you have a gradual decline near the fortress, in the courtyard, that goes underneath. And then mirrors the curvature of the wall? Or does it travel perpendicular to it and go underneath the wall?
Marisha: I imagine we wouldn't want to go underneath the wall.
Matt: Right, so here's the fortress. With the mountain. Fortress, and here's the wall around it. You're essentially building it in the same curvature parallel to the outer wall.
Marisha: Yes.
Matt: Okay. So you build this bunker, you take the better part of the evening, and probably the next morning or so to complete whatever the spell's maximum effort is.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: Okay, cool. I need you, with the manpower you have, possible with you, Taliesin. Go ahead and make a tinkering check. This is going to be with strength. It's very large physical activity. This is less about your intellect or your manual dexterity, this is about tools and having to apply it. You do have advantage because you have other men helping you with this. But the DC is relatively high.
Taliesin: That'll do. 25.
Matt: 25, okay. While the rest of you are finishing up your events of the evening and preparing to go to sleep, Percy is working tirelessly into the wee hours of the morning. You finish, probably like two hours after midnight, with the rest of your crew sore, sweaty. But you have one functional trebuchet that looks like it could handle many, many shots within one battle and still be serviceable.
Liam: Shirtless, covered in soot.
Marisha: Mm-hmm.
Sam: He wipes his brow.
Matt: As he slowly takes his glasses off--
Travis: Yeah! Takes the water skin and just--
Matt: All the soldiers are like--
Laura: Oh, Percy!
Matt: There you go. You guys take your evening to rest. The next morning, you find yourselves awake. Spells restored. Hit points restored. Allura comes in and greets all of you. "All right, so! I can also bring us back to Whitestone. I've restored the teleportation spell that I had. Thus, what do you wish to do now?"
Laura: Number one. (whispers) Never say "Whitestone" in public, ever.
Taliesin: Around us, especially. We could still do work here. Here's what has to happen now. We need to send word to as many people as possible that we are meeting here for the final confrontation. We have to make sure that work continues here. And then, if there's time, while our forces assemble and things prepare, we have several things we can do in the meantime.
Travis: Right. Keyleth is necessary to get to the Feywild.
Laura: Or Allura.
Marisha: Could I theoretically open a tree and send people in?
Laura: To the Feywild? But how would we get back?
Marisha: No, not to the Feywild. If we need to see someone to--
Sam: Whitestone?
Marisha: Yeah, or Marquet. Or wherever.
Taliesin: We have the stone, as well.
Travis: So it's going to be Keyleth and one of the twinsies go to the Feywild, right?
Sam: Can you do any plane shifting things, Pikey Pike?
Ashley: I don't have it prepared.
Travis: I don't have it?
Ashley: I don't have it prepared.
Travis: You know, there is that fire elemental plane with the last Vestige, eh?
Taliesin: We could. That is absolutely on the table.
Marisha: Could we? Do we have time for that?
Sam: Sure!
Taliesin: It's going to take us a week to get this place even remotely ready for this confrontation.
Matt: Allura at this point, by the way, says, "A week? I don't know if we have a week."
Travis: Why?
Taliesin: What happens in less than a week?
Matt: "The minute that the information of Vorugal's death finds its way to Thordak, what do you think is going to happen? Their vengeance is going to fall."
Taliesin: It's going to take a few days for that to happen, to be set in motion.
Marisha: Are you kidding? I don't know. It could be any minute now. They've been spying on us this whole time. What makes you think it will take a few days?
Sam: Also, throwing it out there. If you guys go to the Feywild, isn't there a chance that you don't come back until a month later or something crazy like that? Doesn't time shift weirdly?
Matt: Make an intelligence check. Add your intelligence modifier.
Sam: Oh! 18.
Matt: 18. And you could technically add--
Sam: I did.
Matt: You added your d12 to it?
Sam: Oh, no, not my d12.
Matt: You could use one of your bardic inspirations to inspire yourself, if you wanted to.
Sam: Sure, why not? I'll do that. All right, 22 then.
Matt: Having journeyed once to the Feywild, and with the little bit of research you've done since then. There have been people who have been to the Feywild who do speak of some sort of temporal anomaly when traveling to and from. So yes, you are certain that there can be some sort of flexibility as to the time spent there versus the time that has transpired in the Prime Material plane. Not a sure thing, but there is some variation to that.
Travis: What's life without a little risk?
Laura: Maybe Syngorn will have control over that. They can transfer back when they want to.
Taliesin: Let's see what we can do.
Laura: They have a huge army.
Travis: And they've got werewolves in their woods.
Laura: I don't know how we'll be able to get word to them.
Travis: You howl.
Laura: All right.
Matt: Allura sneaks in a bit and says, "My only suggestion here is make sure that you do the things that are absolutely necessary for this because we don't know when this is going to kick off."
Laura: Well, we have to get armies here.
Matt: "Then let's do it."
Laura: That's what we're trying to do.
Matt: "All right."
Sam: Well, wait. Don't we need to send word to other places as well? How do we do that?
Travis: Yeah, I don't know how to reach my herd.
Sam: Isn't there a big horn you blow or something?
Travis: No, they wander to and fro.
Sam: You could find them, probably?
Laura: They were wandering somewhere specific, though. Into the riverlands or something?
Sam: We can scry and find out where they are and then send someone as mist-form you, or something, and go catch up with them.
Laura: We'll spread the fuck out and then Thordak will attack and then none of us will be here!
Marisha: All right.
Taliesin: Stop rolling, that's really disconcerting when you sit there and roll at us.
Marisha: Well, how do we know that Thordak will even come here, by the way? He has no reason to come here unless he's deliberately looking for us. Which we have no reason to believe that he cares to come find us.
Sam: Quick list, people. Quick list! Who do we need to contact, Slayer's Take?
Laura: -Ish. Yeah. Bottom of the list, because I don't think they would--
Sam: Ravenites?
Laura: Yes.
Liam: Syngorn.
Sam: Syngorn. That's a big one. That's a biggie right there.
Laura: And that's a biggie because it's also got these soldiers.
Sam: The wolf pack?
Laura: Also there. We can howl.
Travis: The Herd.
Sam: The Herd.
Travis: The Platinum Dragon.
Laura: Bahamut?
Sam: J'mon Sa Ord, sort of? -Ish?
Marisha: We've got that thing--
Laura: Yeah, we've got that whistle. What about Bahamut's people in Vasselheim?
Matt: That's the Platinum Sanctuary.
Laura: Yeah, what about the Platinum Sanctuary?
Travis: That's what I'm saying.
Laura: Oh, I thought you were talking about--
Travis: No, no. I said the word "platinum." I was there. And you robbed me of it. I did it right.
Laura: Sorry, Grog. You're so smart!
Sam: Is there anyone else who's pledged their allegiance to us? Any other band of traveling idiots?
Taliesin: We could ask for help from Kraghammer, as well.
Laura: Yeah, it's so close.
Marisha: I could ask, potentially, my father and the Air Ashari. I'd have a hard time asking the Fire Ashari, there's so few of them.
Travis: Didn't the werewolves want to leave the Feywild, right? They wanted out.
Laura: I think so. I don't know. I think they just wanted out of those woods, but-- Maybe we could find Artagan while we're there. Maybe he could pop over and we'll have an archfey helping us.
Marisha: We also have a 2,000 person capacity here. I mean, we can always push it and make encampments on the outside, but what's our ideal number we're trying to hit?
Sam: 2,000.
Laura: A jillion. As many as we can.
Liam: It feels like it's a risk, but the most bang for our buck, our gold piece, is Syngorn. There's the most people there.
Travis: And as far as we remember, the people of Vasselheim. Their general temperament is Vasselheim takes care of Vasselheim.
Liam: Yeah, that's what it felt like when we were there.
Matt: Vasselheim and the continuation of civilization, and that being the Dawn Cradle, the city that's existed for as long as civilization has, is to be protected at all costs. So while they do and can offer aid occasionally outside of it, not to the detriment of their own defense.
Travis: Right.
Laura: Is that it? Is that everyone?
Travis: We could go talk to that Earthbreaker Groon.
Sam: Where is he?
Laura: Vasselheim. This is a lot of different places in like a day and a half.
Taliesin: We could write an awful lot of letters.
Laura: Yeah. And hopefully they'll show up like Game of Thrones at the last moment. We'll think we're overrun, and then all of a sudden another army shows up, and it's wonderful!
Marisha: Allura, do you have some way of messaging people and sending messages like super quickly?
Sam: An instant message app?
Matt: "Actually, depending on who it is."
Taliesin: Fassbender?
Marisha: Fassbender. He's with Wilhand.
Matt: "To be perfectly honest, if it's a creature that I'm relatively familiar with, I could send it to them instantaneously. Any distance. Across the planes."
Sam: How many people per day?
Marisha: Across the planes?
Matt: "Across the planes."
Sam: How many times could you do that per day?
Matt: I could probably muster it three times.
Laura: Oh, this is major! This is huge!
Liam: Allura, did you ever meet with our father in Emon?
Matt: "Yes, many times, actually. Yes, he was an interesting individual of the council. Especially back when Sir Gregory was with us. But they were friends. Yes, I did meet him."
Taliesin: Well, dwell on that one. Well, that would save us an enormous amount of energy.
Marisha: That would be great! And me, two seventh-level spells.
Matt: Sir Gregory Fence. That was when you first came to Emon. He's the gentleman who was part of the council. You were hired by their father to go and inspect because he went missing.
Laura: Remember demons in the succubus' house?
Marisha: It'll take me a 7th-level spell to get there, and then I'll have to burn my 8th-level spell to get back.
Laura: Well let's send word to them. Then save us the talk.
Matt: "All right, so. You require word to your father?"
Laura: Yes.
Matt: "Who else?"
Sam: Who's next on the list?
Marisha: Bigger allies.
Sam: The Ravenites? The Herd. What about the Herd?
Marisha: I don't think she knows anyone.
Sam: Well, we can describe them?
Laura: It's got to be somebody she knows.
Matt: "I have to have met them."
Sam: Kraghammer?
Laura: Have you ever met somebody in charge in Kraghammer?
Matt: "I have a number of individuals I've met there, yes. I cannot guarantee they'll be eager to jump into this fray. I can try."
Taliesin: That's possible, let's put that on the possible list.
Sam: What about that town that we saved from dissolution?
Taliesin: Westruun, they have the--
Marisha: Westruun was decimated.
Taliesin: They have Fassbender, they could send a soldier with the Fassbender.
Laura: Yeah, they have Fassbender.
Sam: The Air Ashari? Do we need to talk to any of them? You could do that.
Marisha: Theoretically.
Sam: The Ravenites? You don't know any Ravenites, do you?
Marisha: I was going to say, what about Tooma? Who's the dragonborn in Vasselheim?
Liam: Tofor!
Marisha: Tofor!
Laura: Wow, nice pull!
Marisha: Do you know Tofor?
Matt: "Tofor? Yes. Tofor's in Emon right now. "
Travis: She is?
Laura: Yeah, she is.
Matt: Tofor is a member of the Tal'Dorei Council. She's one of the council members, one of the survivors who is currently working with-- apparently, from what you've heard--
Laura: The Clasp.
Marisha: Is the person at the Slayer's Take Vanessa?
Sam: Vanessa, from the Slayer's Take, do you know her, Allura?
Matt: "I've not met Vanessa, no."
Laura: Well, who do you know that's really powerful, that also maybe has an army that could help us? Anyone you know that we don't?
Matt: "I think we've tapped out most of our resources at this point! I've reached out to members of the Arcana Pansophical, but many of them have their own issues to deal with."
Laura: They're dicks, aren't they?
Matt: "No, they're just busy."
Laura: Oh, that one guy we met, he was a real dick, though.
Sam: Any underdark-y type people? Do they like us?
Liam: Long, white hair.
Laura: Purple eyes. He was in Marquet. Is that what we're thinking of? Am I thinking of a different place?
Matt: "I don't know if he's a member of the Arcana Pansophical."
Laura: Just kidding!
Sam: Let's start with Syngorn and then see how it works, all right?
Marisha: Have you ever met my father, Korren of the Air Ashari?
Matt: "I've had no correspondence from the Air Ashari. My apologies. I'm doing what I can."
Marisha: Yeah, no, you're great.
Taliesin: You've saved us a trip to the Feywild and back. Send word that if they can contact the werewolves, the werewolves owe us a favor, I suppose. Not that they would help with that.
Matt: "If that's the information you need sent, that would require me to make two messages. Just to cover both those bases. To their father--"
Sam: Let's just get the father.
Matt: "What was his name again?"
Liam: Syldor.
Matt: "Syldor. Syldor, right. Two messages, to gather the army of Emon. And Syngorn, to return and head towards Fort Daxio."
Laura: Yes, if they could get pop Syngorn over to Fort Daxio, that'd be killer.
Matt: "I don't know if that's how the magic works, but I'll put a message in there for that and to look for werewolves."
Taliesin: As part of the message, that if there's a pack with the werewolves---
Sam: Is that vital? Should we care about that?
Travis: He fucked some shit up.
Sam: All right, sure. Yeah. Why not? Second message: Bring-- what was his name?
Travis: Spike!
Laura: No.
Sam: Indala.
Laura: No.
Liam: Michael J. Fox.
Travis: Ukurat.
Laura: Ukurat!
Marisha: Ukurat!
Matt: "All right. And I'll enquire about bringing Ukurat and the werewolves. All right! I've got some messaging to do."
Taliesin: And when you're back in Whitestone, send the airship our way loaded with food and supplies if you can.
Matt: "Very well."
Laura: Tell them to be on guard!
Sam: Put Kima on there, too?
Taliesin: And anybody who wishes to come fight.
Travis: Kash, Kima.
Laura: On the airship? Or send them through a tree.
Sam: Or Zahra!
Liam: When you write to our father, will you tell him his children need him?
Travis: Gross!
Matt: "I can do that, yes."
Laura: I don't know if that will help at all.
Matt: "I'll call for Kima, I'll bring our allies with us. Either me or Shaun have to stay behind to maintain the illusion, so your choice."
Sam: Shaun.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: "All right, so Shaun will stay behind--"
Sam: Wait.
Taliesin: Yes.
Laura: Yeah.
Sam: That's certain death.
Taliesin: Staying in Whitestone is the exact opposite of certain death.
Laura: He's protecting everyone.
Matt: "Our purpose is to stay to make sure that they do not see Whitestone."
Taliesin: That is the opposite of certain death.
Matt: "All right, I'll get these messages off."
Laura: Oh my god is this happening right now?
Matt: She takes two steps back and puts one finger in the air, and as it curls her eyes glaze over with crackling blue energy. And you watch her tongue click across her mouth like she's speaking quietly to herself. Her eyes come back. "All right, I've notified your father, Syldor." Once again her eyes glaze over with crackling blue energy. Her fingers trace in the air, and it looks like she's speaking--
Sam: Quick, everyone hide when she's doing this! So when she comes back, we'll all be--
Travis: Yes.
Laura: She goes back we're like--
Liam: It's like she's putting on a VR helmet.
Matt: "All right." Her eyes return. "Both messages have been delivered to your father. Who else should require a message?"
Sam: You don't know anyone else on our list, do you? The Slayer's Take, you don't know.
Laura: It might be smart to send one to Warmaster Mikael as well. I know he's in Syngorn as well, but it might be good to have a couple of people there bringing word.
Liam: That's not a bad idea.
Matt: "I can do that." With that, once again the energy crackles and you can see she's trying to find the location of someone's presence. It hits, and she begins to speak quietly to herself. Finishes. "Very well! The army's been notified."
Sam: Just one more message!
Matt: Let me see if she can.
Sam: But wait, what about the Clasp or something?
Matt: Nope! That is all that she can do. Actually, no. She can cast at a higher level, so she can do more.
Sam: The Clasp? Do they like us or hate us?
Laura: They hate us, but--
Taliesin: I think that the Clasp are going to be far more useful once they figure out the dragon has left the city. And I don't even think they necessarily need to be notified of such a thing.
Laura: If the dragon leaves the city.
Sam: All right, then we're good for now. We just keep buffeting up this place? Do we have to plan an ambush? How does this work?
Travis: We go in. Emon, right now. Full ball.
Sam: All right. You and me.
Travis: Full blush.
Taliesin: We could go to the Fire Plane really quickly.
Liam: We're hoping to tempt him here.
Laura: Yeah.
Taliesin: Yes.
Travis: Why are you so anxious to go to the Fire Plane all of a sudden?
Taliesin: There's an object. It's from the Fire Plane. We are facing a fire dragon, which means it's something unbelievably useful or not useful at all. We need ice weapons, we need cold weapons, and we don't have any.
Marisha: And you think that we're going to find those in the Fire Plane?
Taliesin: Either that or in that ship that we left behind.
Matt: You have knowledge of dragons quite well, actually, Vex. You do know that red dragons are not vulnerable to cold, by any means. They're just resistant to fire.
Laura: They're just resistant to fire.
Taliesin: So it doesn't matter, then.
Laura: Are they vulnerable to anything that i know of?
Travis: Insults, cheese.
Ashley: Love.
Marisha: Peanuts.
Travis: Bruised bananas.
Matt: (laughs) Bruised bananas.
Travis: Hey, Pike! Did you know that we have all the Vestiges except for the one in the Fire Plane, and you'll never guess what it is.
Ashley: What is it?
Travis: What is it? I forgot.
Sam: Some plate armor?
Travis: It's some plate armor!
Laura: Of the Dawn Martyr.
Ashley: What?!
Laura: Which might be clutch for you.
Ashley: That might be a long-- I don't know. Allura was saying we don't have time--
Sam: One day! What's one day?
Marisha: You don't know if it's going to be one day.
Sam: Well, when we get there we'll find out! If it's taking too long, we'll pop back! These messages are going to take a while to deliver.
Marisha: I'm not like a Wonka-vator, man!
Laura: We'd have to spend the night there.
Ashley: That makes me a little nervous.
Sam: All right, one night. They've all eaten today. We're fine.
Matt: As far as you know, no there is no vulnerability--
Laura: Fuck, really?
Matt: Just fine with fire.
Travis: Just pure death and destruction.
Taliesin: Well, at least that's a bonus in that means that anything will work as well as anything else.
Travis: That's true.
Laura: Right.
Liam: Can we go back to the plan about how we intend to get Thordak here? We were playing with the idea of fooling Thordak into thinking that Raishan had been killed.
Taliesin: Raishan was going to feed him the information that he thought that we were here, and then vanish.
Liam: And that's it? We think that's going to pull him out?
Taliesin: I think Raishan will be clever enough to give him just enough to get him here.
Liam: Do you think Raishan would be willing to let us hack off a little bit of flesh to send?
Laura: You'd have to ask Raishan.
Taliesin: You'd have to ask Raishan. She might be willing to let me do such a thing.
Travis: Did we establish a way to contact her?
Marisha: We have no way to contact her.
Sam: No wait! Didn't we send her on a mission?
Travis: Oh, we did! She was checking on--
Sam: She was going to bring us back some dude. And we're not even there!
Laura: Oh, fuck! Asum was going to come back!
Sam: To not where we are right now!
Laura: Fuck.
Travis: It was two things. It was Asoon and...
Liam: Asoon?
Travis: Bassoon, whatever. And what was the other thing?
Laura: Some other guy. Was it some other guy?
Travis: Oh, shit nails!
Sam: The last time we talked to Raishan she said, "All right. I'll be back in a day." And then we got out of there.
Laura: Well it's still a day. It hasn't been a day yet. We haven't spent the night here yet.
Sam: Yeah, no. We haven't spent the night yet.
Travis: Oh she was going to Emon to hold up the bluff that everything was cool was Thordak, right? She was going to bluff, and then she was also going to try to bring back Seeker Asum.
Taliesin: It's all right. We can head home from here. Someone has got to go home.
Laura: Somebody's got to go.
Marisha: Some of us can go, and some of us can stay.
Laura: Well, all right.
Sam: All right, I'll go talk to Raishan.
Liam: And you can't leave because you're building, or can you go?
Taliesin: I can leave, we've got one working. If I stay, I'll have two working. If I stay longer, I'll have three working. But I'll go where we're most useful.
Ashley: But you want a chunk of her? Or like, a little piece of her?
Liam: Something, like a claw or something to drop at Thordak's feet. It'll help with the bluff.
Marisha: What makes you think that he would lead the charge to come find us? In his eyes he could just send one of his peons to come smash us.
Travis: Thordak?
Marisha: Yeah.
Taliesin: He's sent all of his dragons and nothing's worked.
Laura: That's the goal. We kill the peons, and then he comes.
Taliesin: And the more he sends, the more we kill.
Travis: What if we go mess up something on the edge of Emon, and then we're like, "Yeah! Fuck you!" And then we take off. Or like bamf back.
Taliesin: I don't believe he'll suffer that much indignity.
Marisha: If we tell Thordak where we are he'll probably come with that wyvern army that almost took out Whitestone, correct?
Laura: That's why we need to have a lot of people here. To fight them.
Travis: Yeah, to balance that out.
Taliesin: And that also means that the Clasp will have an opportunity to take back the city.
Marisha: While he's gone?
Taliesin: If he leaves with his army, yes. If he leaves his army to actually manage the city--
Laura: That's what we talked about.
Taliesin: Either way, it's stretching him thin.
Travis: Is it a bit of a practice round if we go to the Fire Plane? Let's say we get there and it's a total shit show, right? Nothing but death waiting for us. We change our mind, we leave. But at least we see where Thordak's been all this time.
Marisha: And the other thing that we could glean from the fire realm is possibly figuring out a little bit more about the connection he had with it and to the heart stone, ember seed thing?
Laura: All right. Allura, can you send a message to Gilmore, or Cassandra, or Kima even? Maybe just those three. They're the only ones who know about Raishan. Let them know that Raishan is bringing back Asum.
Taliesin: They were there.
Laura: I know, but just to make sure everything's fine with that.
Matt: "I can do that, yes."
Sam: And then we're going to the Fire Plane?
Travis: Yeah. Just give it a look-see.
Sam: Just pop on down for a bit to the basement.
Travis: Yeah! I've got a timeshare there. It will be killer.
Marisha: I'd like to bring Raishan with us to the Fire Plane.
Sam: No fucking way.
Laura: No. What are we going to do? She's not going to come.
Taliesin: She's not going to come to the Fire Plane.
Marisha: She knows it better than anybody else.
Taliesin: She's not going to come to the Fire Plane. But you're right, she does. If I were her I wouldn't come.
Laura: Would you want to go, Allura?
Matt: "What, to the Fire Plane? I mean, I can. My skills are probably better used elsewhere. But whatever you think is wisest."
Taliesin: We need agents on the ground right now.
Travis: True.
Laura: All right.
Taliesin: Things need to move forward here.
Laura: Okay, then you stay here and keep running things.
Taliesin: If opportunities present themselves to bring more people here or to gather more allies, take them.
Sam: Let's pop on down!
Marisha: My gosh, you guys, the Dawn Martyr is in the City of Brass. Which I'm pretty sure is overrun with fire elementals.
Travis: It's just a "myth," though, right? And that was probably written a long time ago which means shit could have totally changed.
Sam: Plus now we have a lot of money. We can buy our way through the Fire Plane.
Taliesin: That works.
Laura: Is this stupid? Are we going to die in the Fire Plane?
Liam: I think it's a bad idea. I don't think we have time.
Travis: Never tell me the odds!
Laura: But there's a Vestige there for Pike.
Marisha: I mean, we can go. We can hit the Fire Ashari first and see if Cerkonos is there and maybe see if Cerkonos wants to help us out?
Liam: If we're all alive in two weeks I'd be happy to go and get armor for Pike, but there's dragons on top of our backs right now.
Marisha: Allura, you're certain as soon as he finds out about Vorugal's death that he's going to seek retribution?
Matt: "I'm not certain, but as soon as he found out about Umbrasyl's, that's when he sent things looking for us near Whitestone. That was when Vorugal and the rest of the armies swept through. That was two days after Umbrasyl's fall."
Liam: We've also totally spilled our spaghetti with Raishan. She's not going to wait, she's going to push things forward. I don't think we have time.
Travis: All right, Vax. Do you have a suggestion in place, then?
Liam: I think that we talk to Raishan. These two chuckle-heads convince her to let us take a pound of her flesh, or ten. Somehow dump it insultingly at Thordak's feet and brace for the worst.
Travis: I'm okay with that, but how do we get in touch with her?
Sam: We can get in touch with her when she goes back to the place that shall not be named. But all of that is going to take days. And we can't do that until the armies have arrived here in Fort Daxio, which could take another few days. I don't know where Syngorn lands when it comes back to this plane. I assume it's not next door. They're going to take days to get here.
Laura: The thing is, Thordak's going to send out look-sees like he did over Whitestone, as soon as he finds out Umbrasyl is dead. It doesn't mean he'll launch an attack, because where is he going to attack? He doesn't know where we are.
Sam: Yeah! And if he's searching for us, what better place to be than on a different plane?
Travis: Let's go to a different plane.
Marisha: Do you think he went to the place which shall not be named because Raishan tipped him off that we were there?
Travis: No.
Taliesin: No.
Marisha: Why did he go to the place that shall not be named, then? Why did he look there?
Travis: Vorugal?
Taliesin: It was a place to be looked at. And they flew over and didn't see it.
Marisha: You think they were just scanning?
Taliesin: I do.
Sam: All in favor of the Fire Plane, say "Aye."
Sam: Aye!
Travis: Aye!
Sam: That was only two! Wow, that's pretty rough.
Travis: No, that was four. They're pansies and won't say anything with their voice.
Ashley: I don't know.
Sam: All in favor of staying say, "cooter."
Taliesin: That's not fair.
Sam: Two to one.
Travis: Let's go! Even if it sucks, we can just come right back.
Laura: We just bamf right back!
Marisha: We can always come back. And I would like to maybe see if we could find out more about the ember seed. Fire Plane!
Liam: I mean there's nothing else we can do today, is there?
Travis: Right. No.
Sam: Feed more soldiers.
Taliesin: Supplies are on the way. Soldiers are on the way.
Travis: Cows eat hay.
Taliesin: Do what you can-- Cows eat hay, neigh neigh. Hey! So we say.
Liam: Gather ye rosebuds, while ye may. Vox Machina is dying.
Laura: If you hear back from anyone in Syngorn or anyone anywhere, will you send us a message?
Matt: "Yes, and I will notify the general of these plans before I head on that way. Very well. Good luck."
Laura: Pretend like we were never here. Let them know. Pretend like we were never here.
Matt: "Understood."
Laura: All right.
Matt: "Stay safe, friends." She turns and leaves the room.
Laura: We are so stupid. This is going to be fun.
Taliesin: Yes! I love it.
Travis: Do we hold hands again?
Marisha: Oh boy!
Laura: No, it's a tree stride.
Marisha: Nope, well, okay. If we are--
Liam: Plane Shift.
Sam: Plane Shift.
Marisha: Hang on, do we want to stop off at the Fire Ashari, and pick up Cerkonos? I think it's not a bad idea.
Sam: No.
Marisha: We are not going to bring along our ally who knows the Fire Plane better than anyone alive?
Laura: No, I think we should. Because they were there.
Liam: Yeah, and you said we can instantaneously jump over, grab him, and shift--
Marisha: Once I tree stride we can, there's that portal there, and we can go through the portal.
Travis: Yeah, yeah. I am a big fan of the tour guide.
Marisha: The tour guide. All right. We're going to tree stride to the Fire Ashari.
Matt: All right. Most of the trees near or within the courtyard of the fort are thin, and maybe like a foot to a half a foot wide, and--
Ashley: Get skinny, get skinny!
Matt: You did see that cluster of brownish-red forest canopy across the ravine. But that's the only real--
Marisha: Across the ravine?
Matt: Yeah, on the opposite side.
Travis: Let's hoof it. I need to stretch my legs anyway.
Marisha: Well, how big was the ravine, like crossing the Grand Canyon?
Sam: How long to get there?
Matt: It's about a third of the width of the Grand Canyon, maybe? It's a big ravine.
Laura: Can you Plane Shift us over to the Ashari? It has to be to another plane.
Marisha: It has to be to another plane.
Liam: Scanlan, can you turn us into a bunch of hummingbirds, or something?
Sam: I can turn a couple of us into some things.
Laura: Just something little? So that we can pop to the tree?
Sam: You two can fly, right?
Matt: It would take you a handful of hours to walk to this.
Laura: Oh, yeah. So let's fucking do it.
Travis: Told you.
Matt: At a brisk pace on foot you'll get there in three hours.
Travis: I put Pike on my shoulders because I'm getting ready for my Rocky training montage.
Taliesin: We'll get as many of us on the carpet as possible.
Marisha: (groans) RIP the carpet.
Taliesin: You should feel bad!
Liam: I should feel bad?
Matt: All right. You guys eventually make your way to the outside of the forest here in the Othendin Pass. You can see, it's a living forest. But the trees themselves, it looks like there was a waterfall that actually breaks down off the top of the cliff that comes down and forms a small pool. Most of it's dried up, but the ground here is damp. And the forest does seem to exist in this climate. However, a lot of the leaves have turned and they're hitting the delayed end of winter, a few months after the Winter's Crest Festival. You find a number of trees that are perfectly serviceable for your spellcasting. You guys wait as Keyleth completes her ritual. You can see the tree suddenly shifts open on the opposite end. You can see the caldera itself, where the Pyrah Ashari exist on the top of this mountainous volcano. You all step through and find yourself now on the cracked, dark, ashen ground landscape amongst the various rock-like structures that house their people. You can see the Cinder Grove in the distance. Nowhere near as tumultuous as the last time you encountered it. And you now stand amongst the remaining Pyrah. You do now see the survivors that you met earlier, and a few other survivors that previously had not been found have gathered. And whereas previously you only thought maybe a little over 20 existed, it looks like maybe there's a good 50 or 60 that actually are beginning to rebuild the Fire Ashari.
Taliesin: We're going to blow it up again, woo! Table flip!
Laura: Look at that! Keyleth! There's so many more people than you thought!
Marisha: There's still kids!
Matt: Like two.
Marisha: Like two kids! One of those days they might grow up.
Taliesin: We're going to take like, 20 of them to the fight. And they'll be fine.
Marisha: (nervous laughter) Come on, kids! Have a sword!
Liam: That's a big "if."
Matt: It doesn't take you long to find Cerkonos, who at this point in time has regrown his arm.
Marisha: Yeah, I knew he'd be all right.
Matt: He approaches now, his darkened skin tattooed, his long hair past his shoulders. He approaches with an expression of surprise and mild confusion. "It is good to to see all of you. I ask, what brings you to the doorstep of the Pyrah Ashari?"
Marisha: Cerkonos, Thordak has taken over Emon. And in the time that he has broken out of the Fire Plane, it seems there is a certain magic that is allowing him to essentially turn Emon into a second Fire Plane. We believe he still has some sort of connection here based on the binding magic that was used on him in the past. Something called an ember seed. Have you heard of this?
Matt: "This does not stir my memory reserves. I'm sorry."
Marisha: Do you remember if Raishan, when she was moving in and out of the Fire Plane, do you remember her mentioning anything about it? Or anything suspicious about wanting to learn about the connection to the Fire Plane?
Matt: "There were inquiries, yes. I was surprised by one so young seemingly to be so interested in the inner and outer planes and their interactions. She found much of her time in solace in the Cinder Grove. She was not quick to pick up the druidic magics, but her research was in depth. She spoke with many elders, myself included."
Marisha: Where is the Cinder Grove? Did we pass through the Cinder Grove?
Matt: The Cinder Grove is in the center of the caldera. That's the petrified forest that is surrounding where the actual tear in the boundary is. Where the Fire Ashari hold vigil.
Laura: Wasn't the ember seed connected to the-- Didn't we knock down some pillars when we came to the Fire Plane the last time? Isn't that part of the reason his hold was broken?
Marisha: It was opened more. The portal got weak when it was around the solstice.
Laura: Right. But remember, we were here for your--
Marisha: We fought Cerkonos, who was essentially a giant elemental. I don't remember us breaking anything.
Matt: No, when you first came here it was part of your Aramente, and you guys just passed through the tear. And you battled Cerkonos and the other druids in elemental form as part of a test. There was some stones on the other side but there was nothing--
Laura: Okay, maybe you just thought that and were freaking out a bit.
Marisha: Yeah, I got a little panicky at one point. Yeah. Thordak was connected by the soul gem. And we know he busted through. You know the Fire Plane better than anyone. We are also looking for the Plate of Dawnmartyr in the City of Brass.
Matt: When you say the City of Brass, you watch his demeanor change. His arms cross, and he leans back into himself. "That is not a place for the Ashari. It is a place of tyranny and greed. It is a unique mix of those who exist there, and if you are intent on going, I am happy to escort you, but it is a different experience than we are used to, and perhaps yourself as well."
Laura: Is it a large city?
Matt: "It is quite big, yes."
Taliesin: This is the direst of situations. Extreme measures must be taken.
Matt: "The choice is yours. You have come this far."
Marisha: How long is the journey to the City of Brass?
Matt: "From the tear, it is about three days' foot travel." Your Plane Shift spell can bring you directly to a location as long as you're aware of it.
Marisha: Right.
Sam: We can go right there. Be right in the center of the city. Land right in Main Street, next to the Reebok store.
Liam: I have a sweater. I've hidden it in Manhattan. Go find it. (laughter)
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: Let's do it.
Laura: It feels like it's going to be really hard.
Travis: I mean, everything we do is, right? I mean every time we've faced a dragon, we go find another Vestige. It feels like the rhythm is right on this. Let's go!
Marisha: Here's the worst-case scenario though. We're gone, we come back, Thordak has obliterated everything, including Fort Daxio.
Sam: Yeah, but good news. We're still alive.
Travis: We're alive! High-five, Scanlan!
Taliesin: The stones don't work across planes, do they?
Liam: The gatestones? No.
Taliesin: But Allura's ability to send messages does.
Matt: This is true. From what she said, yes.
Taliesin: So if things start going very haywire, we can let her know that she is to call us immediately and we will drop what we're doing.
Sam: She could probably figure that out on her own.
Laura: Yeah, whatever we're doing. Even if we're in the middle of fighting some really big fire elementals we just--
Taliesin: Plane Shift.
Liam: Of course, we'd have to get a message to her to tell her that.
Sam: She would probably figure that out.
Travis: Yeah, she'll figure it out. And we've got an amazing tour guide. It's set up for us. Can't fail. 0% APR.
Liam: You big lovable lug. I still think it's a very bad idea. I'll go if you all want to go.
Matt: Cerkonos turns to you, Grog, and says, "I do not mean to be misunderstanding. I will take you to the city, but I will not enter it."
Travis: Yeah. I'm good with that. I mean you'll take us there, right? You'll give us a couple of warnings, maybe point at something if it's terrible, and then you've got to go because it's going to mess with you?
Matt: "I am of no use in that city."
Travis: Now why is that, like you've got feelings about it? Or you're afraid of it? Or you'll be powerless there?
Matt: "Most of all of that."
Travis: Powerless?
Matt: "There are many powerful entities that exist in the city. I am not a man for cultured places."
Travis: You've been before?
Matt: "I've been near."
Sam: Let's just pop in, pop out, guys. What could go wrong?
Taliesin: We're gathering forces at Fort Daxio to fight this dragon. And if you can lend any of your power, or have any power you can send, we'd be forever grateful.
Marisha: Do you think you could reach out to Korren?
Matt: "I could. How soon?"
Taliesin: Soon. That is where we will head immediately when we are done here.
Matt: "All right. Then I will lead you, if you choose to go to this city. And then I will call for your father, we will send what we can spare."
Marisha: Well, if you don't want to go inside, I can Plane Shift us there. We don't necessarily need you, I guess? I mean, we need you, but I'm wondering if you'd be better here.
Matt: "No offense taken. If you wish to continue your journey, I can go and try and round up the Ashari that can fight."
Sam: Let's do that.
Marisha: Do you know anything of where Thordak was held?
Matt: "I did not know Thordak existed until he tore through our people. So unfortunately not."
Marisha: Is there anyone here left that Raishan spoke to the most? A confidant? Someone who might have been aiding her?
Matt: "It's hard to tell. Many who were near those discussions were slain, I'm sorry."
Marisha: Well, that's fair.
Travis: We're good.
Laura: Scanlan, will you be able to do the mansion inside of the Fire Plane? Or did you already use it--
Sam: Sure, right? I can do my magic wherever. I have no idea, I've never been to the Fire Plane.
Laura: No, I mean, but did you already use it today?
Sam: No, I used it yesterday.
Matt: Correct, you would still have the ability to use it today.
Taliesin: All right. I think we've done an enormous amount towards getting prepared for this.
Laura: Does everything over there fight with fire?
Matt: "Not everything. But many things there have fire by nature. Or at least, the ability to live among it. There are many parts of the Fire Plane that you should not traverse. It would destroy you immediately."
Laura: The City of Brass sucks, but we'll be okay going there, ish?
Matt: "It's one of the few places that can support a city, so yes."
Liam: Kind of hot?
Matt: "It is very hot there. The longer you stay, the more difficult it is for such frail beings as us to exist."
Travis: Speak for yourself.
Laura: In and out.
Travis: Pull the trigger, travel agent.
Marisha: Let's do this shit.
Matt: "Stay safe. I will see you soon at this Fort Daxio."
Laura: Thank you so much.
Sam: This was a worthwhile trip already.
Liam: I'm setting my armor to fire resistance.
Ashley: Is there anything else we need to know, to be safe, to look out for while we're there?
Matt: "Nothing which you haven't already seen. Just know there are many denizens there that enjoy the tyranny, so be careful. Don't start any wars."
Laura: Can I say while this whole talk's been going on, that I've been unattuning my coldsnap armor and reattuning my bracers of archery?
Matt: Sure. It will take you guys a short rest to do all that. Plus, with your reattune there. You guys take a short rest while Cerkonos takes a couple of the other nearby Pyrah with him and they head off towards the Cinder Grove. Presumably, to communicate with your father.
Marisha: Cool.
Laura: Can I ask you a question?
Matt: Yes.
Laura: If I have two bows that are awesome, and I'm attuned to both of them, how easy is it to switch in a battle?
Matt: If you have two bows that are attuned to you?
Laura: Yeah. If I chose to attune to the Sky Sentinel and Fenthras instead of the bracers?
Matt: I mean, it's possible. But the idea of having one wielded and one on your back, pulling it out. You're not proficient and fast in bow-drawing.
Laura: It'd be an action to switch them out in a battle?
Matt: Maybe. Probably. You could drop one, but then pulling the other one out, getting it around you, arrow out. It would probably take you an action.
Laura: Cool.
Sam: Let's just go, man.
Travis: Yeah, I'm standing there with my eyes closed and my hands out.
Laura: Hey! That all happened in a millisecond. I was considering things in my brain.
Travis: I'm showing my willingness to go.
Marisha: Let's go. City of Brass, yo.
Matt: All right. So focusing on the City of Brass. You all gather hands. As Keyleth concentrates, you feel the already warm air of the cauldron of this volcanic mountain. You feel a blast of heat surround you, this whirlwind of hot air that causes your eyes to close instinctually. You feel the edges of your skin, the hairs begin to curl. Your brows begin to singe. As you close your eyes instinctually, you open them again. And looking around you see a familiar broken landscape of shattered stone rock, reddish and iron-like in coloration. You see various stone obelisks that are jutting out of the ground from broken and at some points seismic earth that had been pushed up from underneath where gouts of flame occasionally spill out and burst into the sky. The air itself carries a sulfuric and ionized scent to it. You can see darkened clouds of smoke and soot that slowly shift in the distance. Way off towards the horizon, almost the equivalent of a darkened storm in the distance, except it's a sheet of roaring fire. Just taking up an entire quarter of the skyline, miles and miles away from you. You don't know if it's coming closer or further away, but it's frightening. As you glance over your shoulder, you see behind you a glimmer of whatever source of light this land takes into itself reflecting off of dozens upon dozens of reflective metallic buildings and towers and domes. And one large, dark metal wall that surrounds the exterior. You see upon this, what you assume to be the City of Brass. And that's where we're going to go ahead and take a break.
Travis: Shit.
Marisha: Shit.
Matt: Be right back here in a few minutes!
Laura: Oh, right! With the announcement of our winners!
Matt: It might be a little bit of a longer break, we'll be back here shortly, guys. Be patient, see you in a minute. [break]
Matt: Welcome back, ladies and gentlemen. Before we get into the game, we're going to go ahead and announce our winners for the Critical Costumes contest we ran! (cheering)
Matt: Once again, every costume put out there was fantastic. Seriously, you guys, it was one of the coolest things to see, a bunch of characters in our silly little D&D game realized, physically, by other people is crazy.
Liam: It's also, I amass everything and I couldn't get in all the awesome, even into what we put into the slideshow in the episode and in the gallery on Geek & Sundry today. There were so many good costumes and we're blown away by-- I mean, it was a massive amount.
Marisha: A lot came in at the eleventh hour, too, so if you didn't see yours in the slideshow-- we still probably saw, but that would be why.
Laura: Yeah, because we've been looking at the hashtag like crazy.
Matt: Which, by the way, if you haven't looked yet, go look at the hashtag CriticalCostumes and marvel at how many awesome, talented people out there made crazy Halloween costumes. So do it. We're going to go ahead and begin with our personal choices, across the bay. You want to start over here?
Travis: Sure! I chose @couple_cosplay for his white, muscular version of Grog. Grog got abs, y'all. (cheering)
Ashley: I chose the most lovely and wonderful @KinnVelier. Her picture of Pike had the perfect pose, the most wonderful costume, everything was there. Winner, winner, chicken dinner.
Laura: My personal choice was @sara-rokhov! I don't know if I said that right, but she did the costume that was closest to the outfit that we wore in the opening credits, which is really cool because I know that's really intricate, and I saw the sleeves. There was crazy pleated sleeves happening on that costume!
Marisha: Yeah, she got, like, real close.
Laura: It was awesome!
Liam: I'm going to cheat. I'm giving mine to @missbelletrist and @miss_riahne for doing Vex and Vax throwing money around and flipping daggers and climbing trees. Great photos, great costumes, great attitude.
Laura: Yeah.
Ashley: Yeah.
Marisha: I'm going to go with Woodson Schindler AKA @CriticalCorrupt for his Manleth. He did a bearded Keyleth.
Ashley: What?!
Marisha: Oh yeah, it was legit. And his eyeshadow was on point. I just want to say. So @CriticalCorrupt, you're awesome.
Taliesin: Wow, okay! I'm going to go with Karin Rindevall, @karrey over in Gothenburg, for the amazing Percy being very, very busy and at work and reading.
Laura: Upper crust?
Taliesin: And very upper crust. Very fancy. The fanciest. So fancy.
Sam: My choice was an obvious one. It's @cat_cosplay for the cat version of Scanlan, or as I call him, CAT Scan. And for those asking, we're not putting up these pictures right now because we literally just picked them one minute ago, but we'll be retweeting our current, our personal picks of the evening. So you can watch our twitters, or maybe @CriticalRole can tweet them out or something? Okay.
Matt: Yeah, well done. My personal choice is @jettiebettie who did an amazing Ripley. Not just costume and presentation, but the intensity of expression, the personality. It was a fantastic capturing of the character and the minute I saw it I was like, oh, there she is.
Liam: Straight out of Central Casting.
Matt: Yeah, it was amazing. Awesome job.
Liam: So those are our personal picks and we also all picked a third place, a second place, and a first place.
Marisha: Overall winners.
Liam: (dramatic voice) Overall winners. Here they are. Number three: (normally) @kwwins, who is also an artist for us all the time, was chosen for number three for her Minxie/Keyleth transformation pic.
Laura: That was so cool! Good concept.
Marisha: That was so well done.
Liam: Number two goes to @norfrosch who did the amazing Victor with crazy eyebrows.
Laura: So good!
Matt: Yeah, it takes a lot to shame my Victor. Not really, I threw mine together. And then that one, the day after, I saw that picture and went, "Well, damn. I lose." It was amazing!
Marisha: He was like, "Oh, she did way better than I did."
Matt: It was amazing.
Liam: And in first place--
Marisha: We have to go to a commercial break! Stay tuned.
Matt: No.
Liam: Loot Crate!
Laura: Close up on all of us looking at each other like, who's it going to be?
Matt: Oh, god.
Liam: Yeah, so for an amazing Percy in bird mask, both an amazing photo, amazing costume--
Laura: Amazing weapon.
Liam: Amazing weapon, @calahammer is our first place winner. (cheering)
Ashley: That one took my breath away a little bit. Rad.
Travis: (singing) Take my breath away... (a capella version of Take My Breath Away)
Matt: And a gathered round of applause for all those amazing costumes. Everyone did an incredible job. Seriously.
Laura: And just so you know, all of you winners, @CriticalRole on twitter will follow you so you can DM your mailing address and get your wonderful prizes.
Sam: Some of the prizes include shirts that I've worn on the stream, some of which I have laundered.
Laura: Oh, god. Some prizes may include part of my dice hoard.
Taliesin: We're going to send a weird little Halloween cornucopia of weird. It'll be great.
Marisha: We're going to raid our closets. Hook you guys up.
Travis: Hook it up!
Sam: All right.
Matt: All righty.
Laura: Oh no, oh no, oh no! Okay, City of Brass, City of Brass, here we go.
Taliesin: (singing) City of Brass! City of Brass--
Travis: Nobody's with you.
Sam: (singing) City of Brass!
Taliesin: Thank you! Just one Doors fan.
Matt: As you guys take in the intensity of the atmosphere, looking up at the one blaring, bright sun in the sky, locked in that reddish-orange atmosphere above you, you look around as the wind picks up, the heat carrying ash and black soot through, forcing you to wince and keep your eyes somewhat closed. You immediately begin to pull scarves up in front to try and filter this aggressive and caustic air.
Marisha: I'm going to go ahead and cast Protection from Energy on myself with fire.
Sam: Good for you.
Laura: Yeah, right? It's a concentration spell, or else I would've taken it too. You can't do it with anything else.
Matt: Looking as to where that giant wall of fire across the horizon is, you see it begin to merge closer and closer, the edge of that sea, until eventually it comes to the City of Brass, which you see behind you-- this large, amazing, vast city of various reflective, metallic surfaces. You see pointed spires, round domes, and hundreds and hundreds of these buildings that sprawl out beyond the wall that you see on the outside of it. What would you guys like to do?
Travis: Before we go any farther, if we want to pull the ripcord, what does that look like?
Sam: What do you mean, if we want to go back?
Travis: Yeah.
Marisha: We have to, I think, be in a fairly safe space and give me a minute?
Travis: One minute.
Marisha: Let me double check before I say that.
Sam: Are we already backing out of this, Grog?
Travis: No, I'm making sure that we're not like, "Oh, we've got to go! Oh shit!"
Marisha: Nope, I lied. It's instantaneous.
Travis: But we all got to be touching?
Marisha: Me and up to eight willing creatures who link hands in a circle.
Laura: Okay.
Ashley: Okay.
Travis: Okay.
Laura: What's our Jenga?
Marisha: Yeah, what's our code word?
Sam: Super Jenga!
Laura: "Super Jenga" means everybody run towards each other and link hands.
Liam: So "Jenga" means "I fucked up, my name is Vax." And "Super Jenga" means we have to link hands and bounce.
Travis: "Duck, duck, goose" means it's playtime.
Laura: Yeah.
Sam: Let's walk into the City of Brass.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: All right. As you guys begin stepping towards this, and it is hard to gauge distance on this city's size, even from just arriving in this place.The more you walk, the slower its arrival comes as you begin to take in the sheer immensity of its sprawling expanse. You see little occasional bursts of flame off from the opposite side of the wall, some small shapes coasting over, a little glow pass. And as you get close enough, I'm going to have everyone roll a perception check.
Travis: I got this, you guys.
Laura: 27.
Marisha: 25.
Taliesin: 15.
Liam: 27.
Travis: 12.
Sam: Bullshit over here.
Ashley: 21!
Travis: 12.
Matt: Okay. Keyleth, what did you get?
Marisha: 25.
Matt: 25, and you got--?
Taliesin: 15.
Matt: All right, so Keyleth and the twins. You guys, looking ahead, you're beginning to see these darkish shapes moving towards the edge of one of the first gates that you notice amongst the reflective surface of the outer wall. It is a solid door, like two large doors that are affixed to each other with a cross-chain circumstance. You see six figures currently mounting, shifting, and walking along the side of the wall. As you get closer still you can make out: they look humanoid: two arms, two legs. It's hard to make out their size in respect to where you are, and in paying attention as you approach you do notice that some of them have varying shades of colored skin. They wear loose silk outfits: wide, baggy air-filled pants with long robes or vests that dangle below. Muscular. The skin on a few of them appears to be deep crimson or orangish-red. Two of them, the skin actually almost goes to more like a black, a deep soot and ash color. You begin to see more details in the skin. You see horns and large fangs from underneath. You see large, scimitar-like blades to the side. You've seen one of these creatures before. It emerged from the tear in the Fire Plane last time you were there. There are six efreeti that are currently standing guard outside of the gate to the city.
Liam: Genies.
Laura: Basically. They're really powerful.
Ashley: They're very smart.
Sam: Think we can talk to them?
Travis: Yes, let's parlay.
Laura: Should we go and talk to them?
Travis: Only one should talk.
Sam: Why are you all looking at me?!
Liam: Because you have the gift of gab.
Laura: You are really good. Go talk to them, Scanlan. Be super cool.
Sam: Greetings! Hello! Hi there!
Travis: Oh shit, you're doing it.
Matt: As you say this haphazardly from the distance, you see three of them all of a sudden, their attention right over in your direction. Two of them immediately begin to lift up off the ground and their legs vanish into a plume of flame and smoke as they (whoosh) almost like rockets in the sky, heading over in your direction. The other one goes into a run towards you.
Laura: Oh, Jesus!
Sam: Are they attacking?
Liam: You don't know.
Matt: You don't know.
Laura: I keep a hand on the bow, just in case.
Matt: Okay.
Ashley: Steady.
Laura: Steady.
Matt: As you all very nervously sit there and wait, the two that are cruising through the sky go slamming into the ground to the immediate right and left of Scanlan, not far from you guys, leaving these small craters. The flaming smoke, the lower portion of their body poofs outward, scattering ash as you see now their legs, muscular and thick like trunks of reddish-black muscle. They both stand and glance downward at this tiny little gnome by comparison, each of them standing about ten to 12 feet in full height.
Laura: Oh, fuck!
Marisha: The efreetis?
Matt: The efreetis.
Laura: They're so big.
Matt: The one that's running eventually catches up to you and slows his gait and puts his hands behind his back, puts his chin up, and begins walking. You can see now he has these two long tufts of black hair that are braided into this long braid that floats gently as the heated breeze continues to blow past you. As he begins to approach, he looks out among the rest of your group and then down at this tiny gnome that has stepped up to greet them.
Sam: We request passage into your city.
Matt: "What is your business?"
Sam: We are travelling salespeople and we are here to sell our wares.
Matt: "What wares are you here to sell?"
Sam: One item in particular, which could be of much value to the people in your city.
Matt: "Then show me this item of value."
Sam: I don't think you want to see it.
Matt: "Then you don't want to enter the city."
Sam: All right. It's a pet of ours that we've been travelling with. It's right back there. And I point behind us to an empty space.
Matt: He glances over towards the empty space.
Sam: You don't see it? Oh, I forgot. We've made it invisible. Let me drop the spell. And I will cast Major Image, and I am making a goristro, right behind us, that looks a lot like Yenk because that's the only one I've ever seen. (laughter)
Travis: Oh, I love you.
Sam: 20 feet tall, snarling, growling, just a fucking nightmare.
Matt: Okay. So is it just standing there snarling?
Sam: Yeah, looking real mean and ornery with spit coming off of him.
Matt: Okay. All right. At this point, the three efreeti are glancing in that direction. First off, go ahead and make a deception check.
Liam: This is the weirdest day.
Laura: Ever.
Sam: 28.
Marisha: You don't think the day when we were cows was far weirder? That was pretty weird.
Matt: They glance over. They all very intensely inspect from a distance this goristro that has now appeared, that is snarling approximately how far away from you? The range is 120 feet in the spell.
Sam: Let's say 60 feet back.
Matt: All right. The central one looks to the efreet to his left, or to the right of you, gives him a nudge, and that efreeti-- that efreet begins to step away.
Sam: Ah, ah, ah! You don't get to touch our pet. Please allow us entry to your city and we will find someone who can afford to touch him.
Matt: "Hmm." The efreet that you halted takes a few more steps, not paying heed as the one that's in front of you goes, "So you're looking to sell this as a servant. This beast will work as a servant, or does it work in servitude?"
Sam: It works for me, for the moment, and I can get it to work for someone else for a price. But if your man goes over there, he's going to die, because I will tell my goristro to kill him.
Matt: "Hmph. It is rare to see something so small able to control something so vicious and dangerous." And you see him leaning in now, closer to you. You see these tiny little burning beads of red flame as the center of his eyes, against a black iris. You see, as he gets closer, the grin begins to curl across the rows and rows of sharpened, white, gleaming teeth. He says, "You, such a small, easy-to-crush creature, can seem to hold dominion over something that exists in places that would rend your mind asunder."
Taliesin: I reach into the bag, and I'm going to grab a little chunk of dragon and a chunk of the previous goristro that we still have some bits of, and drop them in front of him on the ground.
Matt: (dull thud) (sniff)
Sam: Those were my other pets.
Matt: (slurping) (spitting) He throws them to the ground. He begins speaking in a language that you don't understand. It sounds very much like the slow, rolling fire-bursts of magma pouring down the side of a mountain.
Laura: What is it?
Marisha: Can I recognize it, as a druid who has spent time as a fire elemental?
Matt: You recognize the type. It is the same language spoken by the fire elementals, but you do not speak the language. But the efreet that stepped away has stopped and is taking a moment to look from about a 40-foot distance from the goristro.
Laura: (distressed sounds)
Matt: (loud sniff) And begins walking back toward the other efreeti. The one before you, whose face is still up in front of you, is reading you. His head is about the size of your entire body. And he goes--
Sam: I'll put my hands behind my back and stand up a little taller to meet him.
Matt: "If you wish to walk the city, then pay the toll."
Sam: How much would the toll be?
Matt: "How much do you think the toll is worth?"
Sam: Vex?
Matt: "If the toll is insufficient, and I find offense at the offer, then you will have bigger problems than entry. But generosity goes a long way."
Laura: So like, money? Is it money, then?
Sam: The money that we carry with us is from a far-off land. Will it still be good here? It's gold and platinum.
Laura: Or would you rather gems?
Matt: "Gems are good as well. Money is money. We work and deal with many creatures from many places here. What do you offer?"
Laura: Should I just, you know what, fuck it? I'm going to put the 20-pound bag of gems in his hand.
Matt: He takes it and closes the fingers of his hand around it, then shakes it a little and listens.
Sam: 20 pound?
Matt: He begins to pour the gems out. He takes a very keen look at them--
Travis: Who are you and what have you done with Vex?
Laura: The world is fucking ending, you guys. How else am I going to use these things?
Sam: Who are you right now?
Matt: He pulls the tiny drawstring taut once again. "May you enjoy your time in the City of Brass. Now, I suggest your wineskins be full." And he turns around and the efreeti all begin to walk away towards the entrance to the city.
Sam: Loudly and conspicuously I say  Stanley, invisible! And then he poofs away.
Laura: Scanlan, I think you let a little bit of scry on the ground there.
Sam: Let's just get in the city and buy me some new pants.
Taliesin: I pick up the dragon scales and put them back in the bag.
Liam: (Stan Lee voice) Greetings, true believers!
Travis: We pick up the dragon parts and we move into the city.
Taliesin: That was a very good call.
Laura: Fuck.
Sam: I throw up a little.
Ashley: You did really well.
Taliesin: Always tip the doorman.
Liam: I'm patting Scanlan on the back and wiping his mouth.
Sam: Great, now we're inside this stupid city. Now what do we need to find, a wall?
Marisha: No, we have to-- hang on. Let's do a quick refresher on the impossible needle we have to find in this haystack.
Laura: Oh, wait! Because I took a spell.
Sam: A 'Find Item Anywhere' spell?
Laura: Locate Object.
Sam: Holy fucking shit.
Marisha: Hang on, hold. I brought that spell as well.
Laura: Oh, okay.
Marisha: It has to be within 1000 feet. 1000 feet isn't a whole lot in this really large metropolis, correct?
Travis: We go to the front door, we do it once, go to the middle, we do it again. Totally covered.
Sam: If you guys go 2000 feet apart, that's essentially a mile spread.
Laura: Right? How many miles is the city?
Matt: You have no idea, you haven't walked inside! You've got no idea.
Taliesin: We are walking towards the door. What do we know?
Marisha: So wait, there's a Beacon of Protection for the Chosen of Pelor. It is gathering dust on a wall somewhere in the City of Brass. It was a trophy won by a fire giant in a card game from the Suutan bloodline that once donned it.
Travis: Fuck. We got to go find--
Marisha: It could be hanging on a pub wall somewhere, correct.
Travis: No, it's a trophy. It's too valuable to be in a pub.
Marisha: Do we know where fire giants might hang out? Or anything about the Suutan bloodline?
Travis: It's on somebody's wall as a trophy.
Laura: Maybe we should ask somebody.
Marisha: I mean, it could be in a noble's house, for all we know.
Liam: Do we see anyone who looks remotely like us, who's not from the Fire Plane, here?
Matt: Well you're just now approaching the front gates where the six efreeti currently stand. As the three that have returned, the central one takes his hand up and does this with his finger. And as he does, you watch as the criss-cross chains that hold the gate shut suddenly shift, and you watch dust and ash get shaken free from the chains as they're all suddenly pulled upward through these rings to the very top, and the doors shift open very slowly, giving just enough space for people of your physical width to pass through. Grog, you have to squeeze a little.
Taliesin: Good sir, one question before we enter your city, since you are such a good friend and we look forward to possibly being friends again someday. Where would one find people who enjoy the sport of watching large creatures battle? If you could think of such a thing?
Matt: (laughs) "Welcome to the City of Brass."
Taliesin: I love your answer.
Matt: As you guys walk in, the doors close behind and you watch as the chains that were pulled free, that now dangle loosely, automatically, on their own, strike up like snakes, instantly, and flash back through on the other side. You can hear them retying themselves between the ring-loops to seal off the doorway once again.
Liam: We are in a city where everyone is going to despise us.
Laura: Not necessarily. Act really fucking tough, dude.
Marisha: Yeah, everyone wants to kick our ass.
Travis: Should we get some jail tattoos before we continue?
Sam: I can make us all look really rough and ragged.
Taliesin: I think there's a lot of magic here. Well, no, let's--
Matt: So as you say "let's" and it trails off, you all take a moment to look into the city around you. Marquet offered Ank'Harel, a very beautiful city of ornate culture. This city has been around far longer, and has been constructed by far more intricate artisans since. You see hundreds of buildings of different sizes, all constructed from various types of materials, many of them metallic and brass or bronze in color, reflecting the ever-present sunlight from the sky. You can see buildings carved from dark black obsidian. From other forms of darkened stone you can see natural rock formations of blackened rock and stone jutting outward, where, crafted from that, you can see communities of maybe dozens of buildings and homes that have been constructed from it. You can see towers that are impossibly high, hundreds of feet up in the sky, some broken from previous conflicts and never constructed since. You can see a series of streets that intertwine out before you with these tiny little cobblestones that all seem to have a matching, ruddy, brownish earth tone with a dusting of ash and red earth scattered across them. You see throughout here human beings occasionally. You see dozens upon dozens of efreeti, walking around, crusted with jewelry and wearing fine robes and linens. You can begin to notice quickly that many of these efreeti walk along with some of these humans, these humans walk at their sides, some in chains.
All: Oh, shit.
Matt: You can see a number of individuals pedaling small carts through, also in comparable levels of enslavement. But not all are enslaved. There are individuals from other areas you've never recognized, various features. You see two humanoids that walk around by themselves, their features are human but not. There's something about them that's a little off, but you can't quite pick up what, and they walk off in the distance. There is a gathering of many cultures that make their way through here, but definitely the dominant culture here appears to be one ruled by the elemental fire djinn that you've already encountered.
Liam: The servants, the humans, and I don't know if there's any elves, dwarves, halflings, or anything in the mix, but people who are not from here, how does their health appear?
Matt: Fine, if perpetually uncomfortable in the current weather, which is, for the record, we're hitting somewhere between 110F to 120F in the air at all times here. I'd say, actually, in fact, at this time, I'd like everyone to make a constitution saving throw.
Marisha: Do I get advantage because of the fire resist?
Matt: You're fine. And actually, you having fire-resistant armor, I would say you do not have to make it, Vax. You feel naturally more comfortable in here based on the resistance you've given your enchantment.
Marisha: Do I have to roll? Or am I good to go?
Matt: No, you're fine.
Taliesin: Six! I'm going to use one of my Resolves.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: And slightly better  15.
Laura: 15.
Ashley: Seven?
Travis: 19.
Matt: Okay. For the time you've been here, it's been an unwelcoming atmosphere, but not one that has been so harsh as to press down upon your physical constitution. You all seem to withstand the current atmosphere for now, but you do gather that the longer you are here, the more difficult it will be to endure this atmosphere without detrimental effect.
Marisha: I meant to note I wanted to put my Ring of Protection on and put the cloak away when we took that short rest. I don't know if I said that out loud.
Matt: You did not say that out loud
Marisha: Can I do that now?
Matt: Sure.
Marisha: And it takes some time.
Matt: It's fine. So what do you wish to do now that you've gained entry into the City of Brass?
Laura: Let's find that armor.
Travis: Keep walking. Let's keep walking and see what we see.
Laura: Yeah, we walk the fuck forward. Should we get a little farther into the city or should I cast it right now?
Taliesin: I think the city's huge.
Marisha: Hang on, how long does that spell last?
Taliesin: That's the other question.
Marisha: Grog, could you recognize fire giants if you saw one? Are they akin to stone giants?
Travis: I don't think so. I don't think I've ever seen one.
Matt: You have not seen a fire giant in person in all the time that you've spent on this plane.
Travis: I bet I can pick it out, though, if it's giant and it's made of fire.
Marisha: And you're like, that's a fire giant. All right, yeah, totally.
Taliesin: Ten minutes-- and the other question is if you can change into a flying creature.
Liam: Are there any humans around right now who look like they're not slaves? Who look well-off, relatively?
Matt: Right now, you have not encountered any. You've literally just walked into the city and this is your first glance at the first street that you've encountered. As you guys begin to walk farther into the city, one thing that you do notice, too, is there are these stationary torches that meet at various crossroads. And at the top of these torches there is a ball of flame that is flickering and shooting off spurts here and there, and every now and then you hear one go (flaring) in the distance and that's what you were seeing on the other side of the wall. These flames cause this dancing light source effect throughout the entire city due to the vastly metallic nature of the building construct here. And so as you--
Sam: Sorry.
Laura: Oh, wow. That might be the worst shirt you've ever worn on the show.
Sam: Yeah, I'm out of shirts, guys. 74 fucking shirts. How many do I own? 74.
Liam: Wow.
Laura: Wow.
Laura: You'll be shirtless.
Liam: I'm bringing you a new shirt for your birthday, man.
Travis: "Okay, I farted. It was me."
Ashley: "Okay, I farted. It was me."
Liam: Holy moly. Bring it back, people. I'm specifically looking for a human who is not a slave, who looks reasonably well off.
Taliesin: I'm looking for social gatherings, pubs, and otherwise.
Marisha: I'm going to talk to Vex as soon as we get a hot second, whenever that falls.
Matt: Okay, so as you guys are walking, keeping your eyes out before yourselves, you guys engage in conversation as you continue into the city.
Marisha: All right, so we both have the Locate Object spell. It lasts for ten minutes and we can both fly. We could both cast it and maybe do like a perimeter run, maybe?
Sam: Wait, how long does it last?
Marisha: Ten minutes.
Laura: Ten minutes.
Taliesin: Ten minutes.
Sam: We can get a long fucking way in ten minutes.
Marisha: Yeah, if we're flying.
Laura: As long as, you know, nothing attacks us. Right. That's clutch.
Marisha: Well, I could also potentially Polymorph into something or Beast Shape into something that-- Has there been any type of creatures?
Laura: Flying creatures here?
Travis: In the air?
Laura: Maybe wyverns or something?
Matt: You haven't seen any, at the moment. You have seen, so far, efreeti being capable of flight, both from your previous encounter and the two at the gate that just jettisoned off in your direction before landing.
Marisha: Okay, are they considered humanoid-ish? To where I could Alter Self to look like an efreeti?
Laura: A teeny, tiny efreeti.
Marisha: Teeny, teeny efreeti? No?
Matt: No. From your Alter Self ability? No. They are far too different in size, physiology, and appearance to pass off as an efreet.
Marisha: Are there any humanoids like, like--
Taliesin: A fire elemental?
Marisha: Or like dragonborn, or like what's the thing that Zahra is? I'm drawing a blank right now.
Sam: Wyverns? Lizardpeople?
Laura: Tieflings?
Marisha: Tieflings, are there like any tieflings around?
Matt: You can keep an eye out as you continue walking forward. You don't see any yet.
Marisha: I want to look for the most unsubjugated humanoids.
Matt: Okay, so you keep an eye out as you progress. And you're looking for--?
Liam: Anyone who looks like they're not a servant, who looks like they're maybe getting by well.
Marisha: Yeah, kind of the same thing.
Matt: Okay. Continuing farther into the city. This whole city has this vibrant life to it, from the way it reflects light from the ever-changing, flickering skylight from the sun, to the flames that adorn every single conjunction of roads that make their way through the city, to occasionally, you will see cracks in the ground where a flame will flare out then retract within. Go ahead and make a perception check.
Laura: Can we also keep an eye out for anything flying? I want to see if anything's flying around the city at all.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: 22.
Matt: 22. No more than maybe five minutes into your walk into the city, you do notice two efreeti have begun to follow you from about 20 feet behind. They're both walking and talking to themselves, keeping an eye on you guys. Well, they're about 25, 30 feet behind. As you continue walking forward, you do bring your attention ahead and at the next street junction, which is more like two alleys that collide, you do see two individuals that walk out. One of them is a similar humanoid as to the strange-looking ones you saw go walking by there. They have a thin figure, sallow, elongated features, their hair is wild and red and stringy and upward behind them. Their eyes tend to have a non-human appearance to them, the iris a light-orangish color. They have long white and gold robes and are walking alongside a tiefling of similar red skin to the color of the efreeti here, with deep gray, long hair that goes behind a ridge of horns that curl into almost like ram horns in the front, and the long, gray hair extends to the mid-back. They both walk along side by side, their arms within their robes-- both are wearing matching white and gold robes-- and they each step out from the alley and begin to walk ahead of you guys about 60, 70 feet.
Liam: So it's these two strange beings with strange eyes and a tiefling.
Matt: There's one entity that's the strange being and the other is a tiefling.
Liam: Oh, okay. So one is one and one's another, thank you. I'm going to walk up to the tiefling, like ten feet away. Excuse me! Sorry, can I trouble you for a minute? I've just come to town. I know, that sounds ridiculous, it is, I'm a stranger in a strange land. Could I borrow you just for a minute?
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Sam: I just got to hell, haven't even unpacked my bags--
Laura: No warning, huh?
Liam: That's a 20.
Matt: 20. They both turn and look towards you with a curious glance. The strange, alien-looking one gives a half-cocked grin and shakes his head. The tiefling looks you over for a second. "Stranger, I mean you no offense, but--" And as he looks past you at the rest of the group walking behind you. "You know what, follow me."
Marisha: Oh, shit.
Taliesin: Well, here we go.
Matt: They both continue to walk in the direction they're walking.
Liam: They're together, right?
Matt: They're together, but they face away from you. He's just, "Follow me." And they both continue walking ahead of you guys.
Liam: All right, so I trip along behind them, and then I turn around and to the group I go--
Taliesin: I'm all right with this. This is a great way to die.
Sam: We're following along behind them.
Laura: Yes.
Ashley: Yes.
Travis: Yes.
Marisha: Yes.
Marisha: Can I do like an insight check, like size up this tiefling from a distance and see what they might be about, get any idea about what they might do or be?
Matt: Go ahead and make an insight check from what very little bit of body language you can see. It's going to be very hard to read anything.
Marisha: That's really bad. That's the Gil dice. 15.
Matt: 15? Unfortunately, at the distance that he was from you, about 60 feet or so, and what little bit time he was faced away-- his interaction with Vax was so short, it's a blank slate. Nothing you can read off of him.
Laura: Are they looking and talking to each other at all?
Matt: They're not talking to each other, they're looking, facing away from you, and walking the same pace they were. However, Vex, since you were looking up in the sky, you do see, for a brief instant, a large, avian-like entity--
Laura: What does "avian" mean?
Matt: Bird-like.
Laura: Oh, got it.
Matt: --but massive. And it looks to leave some sort of flame-like trail behind it as it (fiery whooshing).
Liam: (whispering) A phoenix!
Laura: (whispering) A phoenix!
Marisha: (whispering) A phoenix!
Ashley: What!
Laura: Harry Potter!
Travis: Fawkes!
Matt: Make an intelligence check.
Laura: Okay! Oh. Intelligence?
Matt: Yes.
Laura: Ew. Eight?
Matt: Eight? Yeah, it's a flaming bird!
Laura: That's a fucking bird, y'all!
Marisha: So they have birdies.
Sam: So is it one of those-- what were they called, Ashley?
Laura: Ah! Natural 20 on the--
Ashley: Always.
Matt: Just don't do that because it doesn't matter! All you're doing is killing yourself, Laura!
Laura: Every time.
Matt: All right, as you guys continue to follow these two--
Liam: Yeah, where are they leading me?
Matt: Do you guys keep the same distance? Do you catch up with them, do you stay behind, what are you doing?
Sam: How far back are we?
Matt: You're about 60 feet behind them.
Sam: Someone should--
Laura: Get a little closer.
Liam: I'm going to wave them away a little bit.
Travis: I think we're cattle. I'm going to lag. I'm going to drop another 20 feet back from the group.
Matt: Okay. As you drop back from them, you come pretty close to the two efreeti that are following you from behind, and one of them puts his hand out and grabs you by the shoulder and pats you and goes, "So friend, you are--? You are--?"
Travis: What?
Matt: "Who are you?"
Travis: I can't hear you.
Sam: Oh no!
Taliesin: No.
Marisha: No.
Matt: Make a deception check.
Travis: 17.
Matt: "Heh. I like this one. We'll keep him." And he pats you on the shoulder and they both walk--
Travis: Hey! And I smash the Titanstone Knuckles together and I cast Enlarge.
Matt: Okay! You guys hear what sounds like a small crack of thunder behind you (thunder crack sound). As you glance over you can see Grog has swollen to his enlarged size and is now walking shoulder to shoulder with the two efreeti that began to flank from behind. They both take a step back. "I double down on my statement. We keep him." And they keep walking shoulder to shoulder to you. They're not doing anything, they're walking shoulder to shoulder.
Marisha: I stop and turn around and wait for them to catch up.
Ashley: Yeah.
Sam: Oh god. I hang back as well.
Matt: All right, so you guys, hanging back--
Laura: I'm going to try to keep a little closer to the two in the front and try to see if I can overhear their conversation at all if they talk.
Ashley: I'm going to hang back until they come up.
Taliesin: I am not hanging back; I am right in the middle. I'm trying to, like, be that middle point that keeps everything connected.
Laura: This is like when your friends start to drink at the Ren Faire and you're like, should we keep going forward, or what do we do, do we wait?
Marisha: We'll meet you at the axe-throwing, just go ahead.
Liam: To the oubliette!
Taliesin: To the oubliette!
Marisha: To the oubliette!
Liam: Just put it all out on the table.
Travis: So are they keeping pace with me, or are they standing next to me?
Matt: They're keeping pace with you as you're walking. You're walking shoulder to shoulder as the rest of you begin to slow down and catch up except for Vex, Vax, and Percy, who continue forward. We have Pike, Keyleth, and Scanlan beginning to catch up with Grog, and as you guys eventually get to the point where you're walking slow enough that the two efreeti catch up behind you, they keep walking with you.
Marisha: I light up my flame hand and I turn to one of the efreeti and I go: Fist bump.
Laura: Oh no.
Marisha: Pound it, man. Pound it.
Matt: Make a persuasion check with disadvantage.
Laura: Oh, it's at disadvantage. Come on, Keyleth!
Liam: Roll high, come on.
Marisha: What did you want? Persuasion?
Matt: Persuasion.
Marisha: Ten.
Matt: He looks at your fist and flicks it. It does sting a little. It doesn't do any damage but the flame goes out. In fact, it's strange. Normally the flames would stay, but it's almost like he willed the flame in your hand to extinguish.
Laura: Oh shit.
Ashley: I have a question for one of you fine gentlemen.
Sam: Oh boy, we're all getting in it.
Matt: The other one on the other side of Grog, that wasn't interacting with Keyleth, grunts. "Hmph."
Ashley: Do you guys--?
Sam: (imitating efreeti) We're both women.
Ashley: Oh, I'm so sorry. Anyway. Do either of you happen to know where the temple of Pelor is?
Matt: They both slowly look at each other and grin. And slowly nod their heads.
Ashley: You do!
Matt: They turn back and one of them goes, "Yes, we do, actually. Would you like us to take you there?"
Ashley: You can just show us where it is. I think there's going to be a couple more spots we're going to stop.
Matt: "You seem like you are not from around here. It is dangerous to wander these streets unaccompanied."
Ashley: Well, I got this guy.
Matt: "This one?"
Travis: Yeah! Hi!
Marisha: Man, we've been here five minutes.
Matt: He extends a hand next to you, a very large hand, and he says, "Come. I will carry you to your destination."
Ashley: I don't like to be carried. I don't like to be made to feel smaller than I am, thank you.
Matt: "Then let us continue to walk. We will want to take a left at the next big juncture." They both keep walking alongside the two of you. While this is happening, you guys are keeping behind and glancing over your shoulder and seeing the rest of your party slowly gather at the knees of these two walking, haughty-looking djinn.
Liam: (clears throat) Yeah, I was hoping for a little bit of advice about town. This is starting to feel a little kinky. Where are we going? I don't need to talk that bad. Where are we going?
Matt: This is to the tiefling?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: The tiefling looks over his shoulder towards you and goes, "We are going to-- (groans). All right, this just got very-- If you look ahead, one alley, we are going to dart to the right. Follow, quickly."
Liam: Follow you to talk right now?
Matt: "Yes!"
Laura: Okay. I go.
Matt: So they begin taking up their pace a little bit, quickening their walk, almost like a light jog.
Liam: Okay.
Matt: Do you guys keep up?
Liam: Yeah. What the fuck are we doing?
Laura: I don't know, I don't fucking know!
Matt: Okay. You guys look ahead and you see the other three members, the rest of your party, beginning to get farther away from you at a faster pace.
Laura: So it's me and you. Are you coming? Are you still in the middle?
Taliesin: I'm keeping pace, but I'm trying to be at the back end of it. What's happening?
Liam: Percy, we're going to go in the alley up ahead to the right.
Laura: Dart to the right.
Taliesin: Well, all right.
Marisha: I'm going to keep pace with Grog.
Sam: I'm with them, yeah.
Travis: (exclaims) Just trying to be even simpler than I am. Maybe then they won't want me.
Marisha: You're probably making it worse.
Travis: Oh, no.
Matt: Okay. Following up at pace with them, you get past a couple of small intersections and the two figures dart off into this small alley, right off to the side.
Laura: I go.
Liam: I'm going to stealth.
Matt: Stealth by going into the alley?
Liam: Before going into the alley. I mean, I don't know how dark this is.
Matt: What are you stealthing behind?
Liam: Are we in broad daylight?
Matt: It's a pretty-- heh. I'm not going to say it, but the sun is high in the sky.
Liam: Yeah. Okay. (laughter)
Sam: (McCree voice) It's full sunlight.
Taliesin: (McCree voice) It's lunchtime.
Liam: Okay, so no changing in lighting in the smaller alley.
Matt: Correct.
Sam: (McCree voice) It's just turned to PM.
Laura: The efreeti behind us, are they paying attention to us, or are they completely distracted by all of the--
Matt: It's hard to tell. They don't seem to be paying any mind, and when the two figures darted off in the alleyway, there was no--
Laura: Anything?
Liam: And how far away from the other group are we at this point?
Matt: At this point, you're about 80 feet in front of them.
Liam: All right, I stop her and stop at the corner and look around. Do I even see them if I look around the corner?
Matt: The two figures that darted off?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Yeah, they're about 15 feet back and they're both waiting.
Liam: We saw them dart to the right. I don't know what's in there! I go running in with my eyes closed. That's how I do.
Matt: Okay. Percy, do you follow suit?
Taliesin: Oh, yeah, I follow suit, yeah. I'm running in there.
Matt: Okay. The three of you dart in. You guys watch as the three of them vanish into that alley.
Marisha: Do the efreeti react to them vanishing?
Matt: No, but that's about two intersections ahead. The ones immediately before you, the efreet goes, "Turn left. To Pelor's temple."
Taliesin: For god's sake, you two, tell them that you have to meet your owner!
Travis: Oh! Do it. Tell them that we've got to meet our owner.
Matt: "Left to Pelor's temple, small one!" As you guys are coming to the intersection--
Ashley: I'm so sorry, what did you say? Left at where?
Matt: "Right here."
Ashley: We're supposed to meet out master at the temple of Pelor, so--
Matt: "Then I am taking you. Take a left."
Ashley: I'm going to cast a Zone of Truth and ask him some questions.
Matt: Well, hold on a second.
Taliesin: Yeah!
Ashley: Is that a bad idea?
Taliesin: There are no good ideas anymore.
Marisha: It's all bad ideas in Dungeons & Dragons. It's really true.
Liam: Well, what I would have done was--
Marisha: Sometimes you get lucky with a bad idea.
Taliesin: That's all the game is is getting lucky with bad ideas.
Sam: We're Cubs fans walking down Cleveland Boulevard.
Matt: Well, as you begin casting your spell-- because casting a spell is a very physical thing-- you begin to whisper your various divine incantations beneath your breath, and your holy symbol of Sarenrae begins to glow, though diminished this far from the Prime Material plane, still effective. You get partway through your incantation before the two efreeti who are flanking grab Grog by the shoulders and forcefully push, like a giant wedge, trying to shove your entire group to the left down the street. You, being at the immediate brunt of that, basically are getting shoved in the shoulder and off to the side. I need you to make a constitution saving throw to see if you maintain concentration on the spell.
Ashley: Okay, okay, okay.
Marisha: You busting out the Hand Cone?
Sam: I'm busting out the Hand Cone, ready to go.
Ashley: Seven.
Matt: Okay, yeah, so as you're partway through the incantation before it gets completely scattered halfway through and the spell is lost. You still used the spell slot, though.
Ashley: Okay.
Matt: But they're now using Grog as the base point and all three of them are pushing you all to the left forcefully. Scanlan, what are you doing?
Sam: Are these humanoids?
Matt: Nope.
Sam: Okay, I'm going to start singing. I pick one, the stronger of the two, and I'm going to sing at him. Or her, I don't even know.
Matt: You turn around and sing in their face.
Sam: Yeah, yep, singing at them. (singing) I make you want to leave the one you're with, start a new relationship with me. That's how it's going to be, make you go--
Travis: Usher! Usher from 1999!
Sam: A little Usher. I'm going to cast Dominate Monster on it.
Matt: Oh shit, okay!
Laura: Oh god. Do they know they're being dominated?
Sam: Of course, but hopefully it'll give us a getaway.
Matt: What's the DC on this?
Sam: Well, it's my spell, right? 21.
Matt: Jesus Christ, dude.
Taliesin: That's the angriest thing I've ever heard.
Matt: Fucking Scanlan. Let this be a lesson to all DMs out there: be careful about creating magical items that increase spell DC. So that's a wisdom saving throw--
Sam: You can always break it or something.
Matt: Let's not break it, but be careful, be mindful. All right, so, wisdom saving throw. Two on that. All righty. The efreet that is on the left side, the one that is directly behind you-- the other one that's pushing Pike off to the side is separate-- the one that's behind you, as you turn around and begin singing up to it, it stops in its tracks and nods its head to the beat as you're singing and its eyes half-close for a second, and you get the assertion that the spell has taken effect. The other ally is still pushing Grog and Pike and basically scooping you guys into this alleyway to the left.
Ashley: Can I cast Hold Person on that one? I think I can do it on a humanoid.
Liam: But he's not a humanoid.
Laura: But he's not a humanoid.
Travis: But he's not a humanoid.
Ashley: He's not humanoid, never mind! That's what you literally were just talking about.
Sam: Can I command him?
Marisha: All right, am I standing by Scanlan? Are they in front of us now?
Matt: No, they're behind you, basically you got like shoved off at the point. Scanlan turned around and did that as Pike's being shoved off to the side. And Grog, they're both shoulder to shoulder shoving you in that direction. So that was your action.
Sam: I can't also command him to do anything?
Matt: Hmm?
Sam: Can't I command him to do something?
Matt: You can, I'm getting to that point. All of this is happening simultaneously. As you're doing that, singing in the face of that efreet, you just got knocked out of your spell, so you're going to have to take a moment to do that. Keyleth, Grog, what are you doing?
Travis: I'm going to trip and fall flat down onto the ground.
Matt: Okay, so you (grunting) and intentionally fall prone on the ground. All righty. Keyleth, what are you doing? If anything.
Marisha: Oh, I don't want to do something I'm really bad at, which is talking to people. I have ideas. Okay, is this what I want to do, I'm going to do Alter Self and I'm going to change myself into a tiefling?
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: And then I-- oh god this is really terrible, oh my god, I am really bad at deception-- I'm going to turn around and say, I'm sorry, there seems to be a miscommunication. These are my slaves. They are already owned and my property. Release them immediately.
Matt: Okay. So as Scanlan's in the middle of singing a song, and the one efreet stops in their tracks, you turn around and your form shifts. What do you want your tiefling to look like?
Marisha: You know, I don't have a lot to go off of except for Zahra and that one that was in front of us, so I'm going to do Zahra, like a red. You know, a red, with like devilly horns, definitely give it a tail. I want to look intimidating. I want to look like you wouldn't want to meet me in a back alley, but that's where we are.
Ashley: A bad bitch.
Marisha: A bad bitch.
Matt: Bad bitch tiefling.
Marisha: Bad bitch tiefling.
Matt: Which is still, like, an eighth as intimidating as an efreet. But you whip around and you say this, I'm going to have you go ahead and make a deception check.
Laura: Come on, Keyleth! You got it.
Marisha: It's just a straight roll. Oh, god. Oh Jesus Christ. Nine.
Matt: Okay, as you're talking up to the one on the left, as Grog falls forward, he's looking off down and he's going to reach for him as you shout in his face. (scoffs) And palms you in the face with his hand, and I need you to make a strength saving throw.
Marisha: A saving throw. Oh, that was almost so good, that was almost great! 13.
Matt: 13. Basically his hand grabs you and, like, his fingers close around the back of your head, holding you like a ball, and lifts you a little off the ground and throws you into the alley. So as Keyleth gets chucked off to the side of the alley, you're finishing getting pushed off. Scanlan, what are you doing with your command over the efreet?
Sam: I say to him  Hey sweet baby. Look at me. It's all going to be okay if you yell at your friend to let us go.
Matt: The efreet that you control turns around and goes, "Hey! This is not our business. We need to let them go." The other efreet goes, "What are you talking about? They're at our disposal!" He looks back at the first one who goes, "It doesn't matter. Let them go. Now." The other one looks down at you and looks at the other one. That's cocked. And glances down at you, Scanlan, and goes, "What have you done to my friend?"
Sam: I say to him  I'm just a mere slave and-- kill him! Kill him now! Kill him right now! (laughter)
Laura: Oh, no!
Taliesin: Oh, no!
Matt: I need to make a-- actually, for Dominate--
Laura: Get up and run, you guys. You better fucking run away.
Travis: Is anyone else in this alley?
Matt: Right now, from what you can see-- You can't see anything, you're on the ground prone right now. You're surrounded by everyone shouting at each other at this moment. From what you can see, nobody else is in this alleyway at the moment.
Laura: It's crazy city, people fight all the time.
Ashley: They're used to this, this is everyday life.
Liam: Yeah, there are fights on every corner.
Matt: Okay, yeah, so the efreet that you control, who's still staring at the friend, looks at you as you shout this, grins, and grabs the other efreet by the throat and slams him into the wall.
Marisha: Run!
Matt: You just go running? (laughter)
Matt: Down the alleyway?
Marisha: I want to go catch up with them!
Matt: So as it's holding the other efreet against the wall, his thumbs pushing into his throat like (choking), it's reaching up and grabbing the back of the hands, its legs flailing as bits of smoke and ash being cast off, Keyleth runs past, this tiefling fucking running as fast as you can down the alleyway. What are you guys doing?
Travis: Can I pop up, grab Pike, and start running after Keyleth?
Matt: Yeah, so you grab her by the back of the armor and lift her up off the ground. Pike, you start running, but all of a sudden your feet are off the ground, you're running in the air, as Grog is like bounding with you.
Travis: And I'm hoping that as we get towards the door I can shrink back down to go through any doorway that they're headed towards.
Laura: We're heading towards an alleyway.
Matt: There's an alleyway, is what you can see, that Keyleth darts off into.
Travis: Good deal.
Matt: Scanlan, what are you doing?
Sam: I am staying put until my friends are far away. I'm watching them, watching them, back and forth.
Matt: Okay, you watch as the one efreet holding his friend against the wall there is like (strained grunt). The one that's being choked goes, (choking) "What's this?" He reaches down and pulls a blade out of the side and begins jabbing it into the arm of the guy who's holding him.
Ashley: Run. Run!
Taliesin: Run. Run!
Matt: Which does six damage there, and he gets to make a saving throw because he took damage. So he's like, stabbing him in the arm repeatedly. The other guy's like (grunting), still pushing into his throat, and he takes him, lifts him up, and slams him into the other wall, causing him to drop the dagger in the other hand, and begins to push him down towards the ground. You can see his eyes, still intense, but controlled by the spell as he's pushing the other efreet into the dark stonework and you can see it cracking and breaking against the force. The other efreet now is being held against their-- (foreign language) and begins chanting something beneath his breath.
Sam: Oh, shit. They do magic shit?
Taliesin: Yes, they do.
Sam: I thought they were just big and scary.
Taliesin: No.
Matt: So he's currently chanting under his breath and you watch as the words begin to emit, his form begins to shimmer and change.
Sam: How far have my allies gotten?
Matt: If you're glancing around the alleyway, at this point in time, full pace, full round, you see Grog and Pike have just now disappeared around the corner of that alleyway.
Sam: And Keyleth is gone?
Matt: Keyleth is gone. She got there before they did. Actually, you guys would have caught up pretty fast because of Grog's speed. So Keyleth would have gotten a head start and then Grog bypassed her, so you just see Keyleth disappear behind the corner of the alleyway.
Travis: I'll snag Keyleth, too. I've got them both.
Sam: All right. So my work here is done, so I'm going to tip my beret, good day to you both, and I'll Dimension Door into the alley with them or wherever they went. Actually, I don't know that alley, so I'm going to go in that direction the number of feet I think it is.
Matt: Okay, so you'll be appearing at the mouth of that alleyway and you can dart into it. I would say go ahead and make a stealth roll to see if the one who is currently casting even has a glance of seeing you out of the corner of his eye.
Sam: Oh, wow! That's the best roll I've ever done. 21! Stealth!
Matt: Okay. At the moment as you disappear into the door, you watch as the efreet that's being choked, his form turns into reddish-white gas, like a cloud of mist, and escapes the grip of his friend, who then looks up and-- let's see here. Okay, yeah, he's going to go ahead and angrily look up and his legs turn into that burst of flame and begin to rise up. And he begins clawing at the gaseous cloud as you disappear and vanish, leaving them both still fighting. You pull into the alleyway and you guys are all there for a moment. You see the rest of them further down the alleyway now. You continue following them, I imagine?
Sam: Yeah.
Laura: Do we need to hide?
Marisha: Yeah, do these alleyways connect? Does it block around?
Matt: The one that you were pushed into, essentially as you were walking forward, is to the left. You guys continued forward past two more alleyways and then went to the second one to the right that way and so this one continues down and seems to curve around after about 100 feet or so through a series of buildings that are built right next to each other, giving you one pathway that curves out of sight.
Laura: Let's go as far away out of sight as we can.
Matt: Okay, so you guys continue forward down that alley. You hear in the distance the muffled sounds of some sort of weird, echoey scuffle and it seems to vanish into the rest of the atmospheric sound of general wind being blown through tight passages and the occasional flare of flame. You all turn the corner as it begins to curve and suddenly there's another splinter alleyway that descends into stairs and, you guys following the two humanoid individuals you originally followed, continue down that path and they lead you into a small, enclosed room. There's a door that's partially ajar and they've shoved their way into it and disappear inside. Do you follow?
Laura: I think that's the option. Everybody's running for their lives right now.
Matt: All right, so you guys all dart into this same room. As you guys all charge into here--
Sam: We all die.
Matt: Yeah, it's filled with spikes and fire. As you go charging into this room, immediately it's much smaller that I think you all anticipated and it would be Vex and Vax getting there first. You guys charge into the room and your darkvision helps you as you adjust to the change of light, just in time for you to run into the two individuals that had led you in there. This is some sort of a storage room, filled with a series of metallic boxes. And this room could comfortably fit five people. And as soon as you charge, you ram into their shoulder and before you can turn, all of a sudden, you watch as Grog with two other people comes slamming in and you've all very tightly squeezed into this dark space.
Laura: Sorry.
Ashley: I climb and sit on top of Grog.
Matt: As Scanlan comes around the corner--
Sam: Right in behind Grog's butt. Just smooshed on up.
Matt: And you do. Sweaty cheek. Reverse motorboat. It's a terrible thing.
Liam: Is it tight enough that the two strangers are smooshed in as badly as we are?
Matt: Yeah, they're like, (strained) "Okay-- please-- "
Marisha: Is this dark?
Matt: It's dark. There's no light in here, yeah.
Marisha: I lift my hand and I light it up to give us a little bit of light.
Travis: Could we close the door?
Taliesin: Scanlan, close the door!
Sam: (muffled) Why are we in here?
Travis: Are there any windows or anything?
Matt: No, there's just the door you guys entered. It's a storage shed.
Liam: This is a little more than I think I was asking for, but what is there to see in the City of Brass?
Matt: You're asking this right now? He looks at you. "You're asking this right now?"
Liam: So we're out of sorts. We're not from here, obviously.
Laura: Hi.
Liam: Hi. That's my sister. You can tell because she looks just like me.
Marisha: Aw, Grog.
Travis: It was Pike!
Ashley: That's not true.
Marisha: It's a very small room!
Liam: You don't look like many of the larger folk-- thank you, dear-- that we've seen around here either. Are you from here? Are you strangers here?
Laura: How are you not slaves right now?
Liam: That.
Matt: Let me change this to a bit of a calmer circumstance, here-- the tiefling says, "Shh!"
Laura: Sorry.
Matt: "Shh! Close the door!" And it is like--
Laura: Can I climb up on one of the boxes to give more foot room?
Matt: As you all inhale, the door finally closes. Vex climbs up. A minute of quiet passes. Eventually, as silence passes for a bit, you hear a voice, a very soft and gentle voice that you haven't heard yet, break the darkness. He goes, "I think it's safe to speak now." The lithe-looking individual you saw earlier with the wiry red hair and the somewhat reddish-black eyes says, "Well, it was uncommon to see individuals wandering this city with a look of absolute victimization."
Sam: (muffled) We don't look that bad, do we?
Laura: I pick up Scanlan and put him up on a box.
Liam: Those aren't pillows!
Sam: I don't think Grog wears underpants!
Travis: Who does?
Matt: "I'm Senokir. This is Uten, my business partner. We are jewelers here in the City of Brass. And if I'm not mistaken, you now owe us a favor."
Liam: Maybe we could do a bit of business. Percival, you were looking for a jeweler, right?
Taliesin: Well, it's a little far away at the moment, but we could do a bit of business because we have other business to attend to.
Marisha: What caught your attention on us, aside from the utter look of pathetic-ness?
Matt: "Favors are more useful when you're not in chains."
Laura: Yes, this is true.
Matt: "So. Let us wait here about ten, 15 more moments. Let any immediate chance of you running into those thugs pass. We'll have a more private conversation at our place of business, if you don't mind."
Laura: Why do you wear those white robes? Do they signify anything?
Matt: "They signify our freedom."
Marisha: Were you once in chains?
Matt: "Few that come here manage to escape that fate immediately. We found our way."
Marisha: That's ominous. Can I do an insight check? Does that mean he murdered a lot of fricking people?
Matt: Make an insight check.
Marisha: Let's go druid dice. Oh god. Ooh, it's an 18! What was it, insight? Right? 29.
Laura: Whoa, you've got really high insight.
Taliesin: She know shit.
Sam: Whispers! Loot Crate, everybody! Loot Crate is a wonderful sponsor, a fine, handsome company.
Laura: Magic!
Sam: Their theme is magic. You'll get a box of magic shit.
Taliesin: Doctor Strange is part of this one.
Laura: And I think Magical Beasts.
Sam: These are movies that I will never see, because I have children.
Taliesin: In about 15 years, we're going to sit down and show you everything. It's going to be great.
Marisha: Which one was the tiefling, and which one was him?
Matt: The one that's been speaking to you is the other humanoid of strange racial origin.
Marisha: Senokir is the humanoid?
Matt: Yeah, Senokir is the humanoid.
Marisha: Who is, something's off about him?
Matt: Something's different. You don't recognize his race or background.
Marisha: Uten, how long have the two of you been in business together?
Matt: "Shh, let us wait. We will continue this conversation at our establishment."
Laura: Is this your room?
Matt: "No."
Laura: Whose room is it?
Matt: "I have no idea. Which is why we shouldn't stay long."
Ashley: Do you know where those thugs were trying to take us? Or have an idea?
Matt: "I have no idea, but I imagine they would have called in some friends to meet you and you would have found yourselves in a very tough position."
Liam: All right, it's really starting to smell like Grog in here, so why don't we go--
Matt: "A few more moments, please."
Travis: It was really hard not to fight, man. I do terrible when I don't fight.
Matt: "Shh." You wait in awkward silence for the next five minutes, with any sort of sound, utterance, or conversation being immediately shushed by Senokir. Eventually--
Ashley: (fart sound)
Matt: --Senokir perks up and the slightly pointed ears of his form seem to almost twitch. "I think passage is safe. Very well, open the door. Follow us, please." As you guys filter out, they continue, a quick pace, and lead you through a series of winding side streets and momentary pauses to pass as a number of other creatures and individuals walk by. Passing efreeti, passing occasionally some sort of giant, winged, red creature that stalks down the street, dragging behind it a large cart that has bars in it. You can see a number of smaller, almost, I wouldn't say fey-type creatures, but things that are definitely not of this realm, that are all bound by neck irons. You do also see a few small families wander through, laughing, that appear to be humanoid, but once again their physicality is very similar to the individual Senokir. Eventually, you are led back to a simple exterior. It's a back entrance, leading away from this main street. They both enter to this iron doorway. Senokir pulls something from a pocket and glances at the rest of you. He pricks his finger and places it to the edge of this object, some sort of a disk, and it has a small point on one end that he uses to prick his finger. Once he's smeared his blood on the disk, he presses it against the door, and the iron door opens up a little bit. Places it in his pocket. "Come inside, so we may speak, please."
Taliesin: All right.
Liam: All right.
Laura: I want to look in his eyes as we are about to go through and see if-- how honest he looks.
Matt: Make an insight check.
Liam: I mean, everybody in this city wants us as slaves, so it's not really any more dangerous in there than it is--
Sam: Kind of flattering, really.
Laura: 21.
Sam: It's like one of those beefcake slave auctions for charity.
Matt: Glancing at him, he's a very hard individual to read. He has this awkward, stilted conversational cadence to his way of speaking, and whenever he speaks to you, he's not quite looking at you.
Laura: Hey, my eyes are down--
Matt: He doesn't seem dishonest, just hard to read.
Laura: All right. I like your hair. And I walk in.
Matt: Okay. As you guys enter, these wall sconces begin to come to life on their own across the walls. On the inside, you can see this gorgeous workspace for all sorts of small-level metallurgy and metalcraft. Percy, you really appreciate this. You see small furnaces and a number of metals laid out in ingots, some used in different volumes. Many substances and things that you've never seen before. A couple of small boxes to the side of rough, uncut gems, currently at this distance--
Taliesin: My word.
Laura: I walk up and smack Percy on the ass and say, "Feel like making a home here?" and walk past him.
Taliesin: I'm certainly thinking of some plans.
Matt: As the door closes behind and the two individuals walk in, they rummage around and begin finding some small stools and arrange them so they can present to you more like, treat you like a guest. He sets them down. "Please, sit, and we shall speak."
Travis: Okay!
Laura: How long does Locate Object take to cast?
Sam: Well, that's not something you would ask him. I think he's just our host here.
Matt: "I have no idea these words you speak." All right, Locate Object. Locate Object is one action, so it takes six seconds to cast.
Laura: Can I try to cast it as we sit down and see if it's in our vicinity?
Sam: You can cast that shit all the time?
Taliesin: How often can you cast it?
Laura: Well, it's a 2nd-level spell, so I can do it a bit.
Matt: So as everyone's sitting on your stools and getting ready, you close your eyes for a second, concentrate, mutter beneath your breath. You extend your understanding in this dark space around you, waiting for the warmth of any sort of call to the Dawnmartyr Plate. Eventually your mental expansion reaches the limitations of the spell, with nothing coming back.
Laura: Tight, tight, tight.
Matt: As you've all sat down and assembled, Senokir sits as well, hands crossed very pleasantly in front of him. Very up straight, strange head cocked a little to the side. "So you've found yourselves here, out of place, and we've helped you once. We will discuss the terms of our repayment for our aid. But before then, I must ask why you would come here so unprepared."
Marisha: So unprepared? Does the name Thordak ring a bell? The Cinder King? It's a pseudonym, maybe?
Matt: "I have heard this name."
Sam: Alias.
Laura: Did he hang out around here?
Matt: "No. He stayed mostly over the Sea of Fire."
Laura: Hmm. Anywho!
Sam: What about that Plate of--? No? Maybe? I mean, I don't know, what are we here for?
Matt: "What are you here for?"
Marisha: Thordak has escaped into our realm--
Matt: "Good. Keep him away from here."
Marisha: All right, that's what we want as well.
Liam: You have a distaste for the wyrm?
Matt: "No, I just don't trust dragons."
Taliesin: He's currently still linked to this realm.
Matt: "Hmm."
Taliesin: We are trying to take care of as much of it as humanly possible.
Matt: "Heh. Humanly."
Taliesin: As much as humanly possible. Perhaps a little bit more. We are here for the little bit more. We seek powers to help us defeat the dragon.
Matt: "Perhaps I can be of aid. What powers do you seek?"
Laura: What powers can you do?
Matt: "I asked my question first."
Sam: So creepy!
Taliesin: Perhaps it is time to lay it on the line. Time is of the essence.
Liam: Sure, go for it.
Taliesin: Let's make a deal.
Liam: If this goes south, we can just wrap it up.
Taliesin: We seek a set of plate armor.
Laura: A trinket, really. Nothing huge. Somebody won it in a game of poker, I believe? Cards?
Sam: A card game of some sort.
Taliesin: The Plate of the Dawnmartyr.
Marisha: It used to belong to the Suutan Bloodline.
Matt: "Suutan, now that I am aware of."
Marisha: Yes?
Matt: "Does it still belong in the possession of this Suutan?"
Laura: I don't think so.
Sam: Our information says it does not.
Marisha: It was won by a fire giant.
Matt: "A fire giant within this city?"
Taliesin: That is our belief.
Sam: Are there any fire giants in this city?
Matt: "That narrows it down. There are only three that live here--"
Sam: Oh, well that's great!
Matt: "--not under subjugation."
Sam: Happen to have their names?
Laura: Do people under subjugation own a lot?
Matt: "Generally, no. Those that own them, own what they own. So maybe it's one of them. We can go ask."
Sam: Are they close?
Matt: "Relatively. Depending on which one you ask first."
Sam: You could just give us their addresses or something and we could go check it out. If you had a Thomas Guide--?
Laura: Where's Uten? What's Uten doing?
Matt: Uten is sitting back, arms crossed.
Laura: He seems totally chill? This is the way this dude talks all the fucking time? (laughing)
Matt: Completely unfazed.
Taliesin: Depending on how things go, we may even speak of perhaps commissioning some pieces. Your work is astounding.
Matt: He suddenly leans forward, steps up from the stool, and walks over to you and begins to look very closely over your clothing. "Can you afford what I make?"
Taliesin: Possibly. I would like to think so. Depending on how the next few weeks go, there will be much to celebrate, and your work is celebratory.
Laura: Do you require monetary compensation, or is it something more?
Matt: "Depends. I have plenty of money, but you owe me, and if I help you find this giant and this armor you're seeking, you will owe me even more. So. To keep this interesting, how about we go find this armor?"
Liam: You don't even want to hint at what you're looking for?
Matt: "Where's the fun in that?"
Liam: You cheeky bastard, Matthew Mercer.
Matt: "So. To the giant?"
Laura: Should we make ourselves not look like us? Should we maybe look like something different?
Travis: Yeah, how will you keep us from being harassed in the streets?
Matt: "Well, I mean no disrespect, but--" He lifts his hand and snaps the fingers. You watch as Uten goes, "Oh, right, sorry. I got you." He goes rummaging through a case and you hear what sounds like the dragging and clanging of many pieces of small metal. Procures a series of chains and neck irons. Senokir looks up. "There's not much else I have to offer but, for the most part, you won't be bothered."
Ashley: Oh, you love it.
Taliesin: Let me put forward a theory for you.
Travis: You son of a bitch.
Taliesin: I hate those eyes. I can't look at them. I hate you. Whatever deal we make with you here, for the record, none of us will be staying. We may be coming back to fulfill some service, we may be coming back to fulfill some favor, and we will if that is the deal we make.
Matt: "If that is the deal we make."
Taliesin: But the deal we make will not include any of us. Is that understood? Is that agreeable?
Sam: Unless it's for a one-time sexual favor of some sort.
Taliesin: Only with him.
Laura: In which case, take your pick.
Sam: I'm up for that.
Travis: I'm up, too.
Taliesin: Oh my god, you people.
Matt: "I think you will find our arrangements agreeable."
Taliesin: And I may have some things to excite you with, as well. Stop it! I know you've been doing it all game!
Ashley: That was me.
Marisha: He said in accent.
Matt: "It seems we've found some semblance of an accord for the time. Come, place these gently upon yourselves and we'll be on our way."
Laura: Don't you have any white robes you can give us instead?
Matt: "I'm sorry, no. Those come with station, and station requires recognition. None will recognize you here. You'll be found out immediately."
Sam: Should we chain ourselves to each other, or to you? How does this work?
Laura: Check out those chains and see if they're magic?
Marisha: A few of us could look like you, to keep all of us out of chains? Maybe a few exceptions?
Laura: You can get big and then look like an efreeti?
Marisha: I can look like one of them. Very simply. I think we'd all feel a little bit comfortable if some of us were free.
Matt: "Sure. If you are confident."
Marisha: I study him and I change to like a--
Laura: Maybe somebody that is better at talking?
Marisha: I don't have to talk, I just have to look like someone else. That's not that hard.
Taliesin: Oh for god's sakes.
Sam: I'm going to go look at the chains and arcana check them.
Matt: Go for it.
Marisha: I change myself to look like one of him. I'm like, eh? Eh? Passable?
Sam: Oh, 22! No, just 20.
Matt: Just 20? The chains appear to be mundane. They are heavy, they are thick, they are definitely functional, but they are not enchanted.
Sam: I'm going to slap some on.
Liam: I'm going to slip on my ring of invisibility and spend the next 20 minutes attuning to it.
Matt: He looks you over. "Impressive. I think you will get no concern from myself when the other genasi cross your way."
Marisha: (slowly) Do all of you talk like this? Do I also need to talk like this?
Matt: "I don't know what you mean."
Marisha: Never mind.
Travis: I go put the chains on, as well.
Taliesin: I put the chains on.
Laura: I want to put them on, but I don't want to click them. I want to hang them and make them look like they're attached, but I don't want to attach them.
Matt: Okay, make a sleight of hand check.
Sam: They fall to the floor!
Ashley: Are they wrist or--
Matt: There's one for each wrist and then a neck iron.
Laura: 11?
Sam: I'm familiar with these because I have a set in my room.
Matt: Of course you do. The idea is, your hands are chained, and the chains attack to the neck iron about there, so you don't have a whole lot of arm movement, and then the neck iron has a chain from the back that is held. And actually, Uten begins to gather all the chains at the very back and runs them to a singular ring, which is held by him.
Ashley: Can I put on, if I put on my Glove of Storing, does that mean I have to take off one of the gauntlets?
Matt: Glove of Storing, yeah. You wouldn't be able to have both attuned because they're both on the hand.
Ashley: Can I wear one?
Matt: No, sorry.
Taliesin: Just for insanity's sake, before I slip them on, I'm going to take a little bit of gunpowder out of my pouch and sprinkle a little bit in the locks and have some on my hands.
Laura: You're going to blow your little hands off.
Taliesin: Oh, it's going to be awful.
Matt: (Victor voice) "Learn from my mistakes!"
Taliesin: Not enough to blow a hand off, but yes.
Matt: Okay. Vex, you manage to get them clicked on, and as soon as you feel confident, they go (clank) and hang open.
Laura: Oh. I must have not attached them quite right.
Sam: Do you want me to do it for you?
Laura: Oh, no, that's okay.
Travis: Please?
Matt: As all of the chains are attached, some time has passed. You've attuned to your ring. What have you un-attuned to?
Liam: My boots have gone slack.
Matt: So you have the ring on. You're maintaining your altered appearance. Uten takes all the chains and clinks them onto the one ring. Gives it a tug, just to check, and you all feel the tug from behind. "Very well. It seems we are prepared. Come, now, let us all go speak with Whaska."
Liam: He didn't chain me, though, right? Am I chained? There's no invisible floating chain?
Matt: No, he doesn't seem like he's intent on chaining all of you. He just chained those that couldn't pass.
Sam: Whaska the giant. Whaska the giant, right?
Matt: "Yes."
Liam: Is Vex chained?
Laura: I am.
Liam: I tweak her nose and give her a wet willy, and then dart six feet back.
Laura: You fucking dick!
Matt: (chuckles) (laughter)
Matt: "Now come! Uten, come." And he walks out the front door, this time. As you guys are led through the two front doors, as they open, as Senokir pushes them, you see this wonderful thoroughfare in front with a giant fountain that has this molten rock, this lava fountain, that pours out into this large, open pit that descends into darkness below. You see these giant, black, obelisk-like pillars that jut out in the center, and probably about two dozen entities from all walks of life walking through and having conversations and talking, many of which having their own chained slaves at their side. This appears to be one of many central social civil places within the City of Brass. And that's where we'll end tonight's session.
Travis: Did the people that have the people in chains, are they wearing the white robes and stuff?
Matt: Different outfits. It appears that it isn't like, the white robes signify that a person is free. Just for these two, it's a level of station, it seems, in the way they've described it.
Sam: Had we stopped in one more minute, I would have had to take off this shirt, revealing nothing underneath.
Matt: Shit!
Taliesin: Not even his bare chest, just nothing. The void.
Sam: Lava pouring in.
Liam: We'll grab Ashley, run into the fire plane, the armor will be right there, for her visit, and then it'll be done! One shot.
Matt: You're not filming next Thursday, are you?
Ashley: I hope not. That's the first day of that next episode, so I don't have the schedule yet.
Matt: Let me know. If you're not scheduled, we'll try and Skype you in, because I would still like you to continue this.
Ashley: I will. I'll have to Skype, but--
Matt: That's fine. Just having you here.
Travis: Good to have you back, man!
Liam: It's better when you're here!
Ashley: Oh, well, okay!
Sam: It's really better when you here. It's not good when you're not here. In fact, don't watch when she's not here.
Ashley: I felt like, maybe to everybody watching, but I didn't feel like we were playing that long. So you ended the game and I was like, "No! What? We just-- oh."
Matt: It's been four hours! I know. Well, guys, thank you for watching. I hope you had fun, as we do, in this insanity.
Ashley: I love this character so much.
Taliesin: He's my new favorite. The week after Halloween? The week after?
Matt: That's just how it worked out, guys!
Taliesin: I'll never see Victor again. I have a new best friend.
Matt: Guys, you're awesome. You're awesome. I'm going to go home and sleep. Thank you, Loot Crate, once again. Thank you to all you amazing Critters in your amazing Halloween costumes. Still blown away by all of that. Have a wonderful night, and is it Thursday yet? See you next week. [music]

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello everyone, and welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play Dungeons & Dragons. We have a bunch of announcements; try and get through them as fast as possible. First and foremost, Taliesin Jaffe is on his way, he's playing the part of Sam Riegel and being late today.
Sam: Yeah. Clever.
Matt: But he'll be here shortly. And we do not have a Travis Willingham tonight, unfortunately, he is out of town shooting something pretty awesome, so yeah, boo indeed. Not watching Avengers this time.
Laura: That was the only time he's missed.
Matt: That was the only time he's missed it, yeah. And he was not happy. I know. He's like, why is everyone else leveling and not me yet? Nah, sorry dude. Anyway, so we'll miss you Travis, sorry you're not here. Oh, it sounds like we have a Taliesin. Get in there, Taliesin. We have two sponsors--
Sam: Wait, what, Matt? Two sponsors?
Matt: What? Two sponsors. We're splitting this up, is what we're doing. First, the new tonight-only sponsor we have is Puzzle Quest, Magic Puzzle Quest, actually. If you've watched any other programs this week, Me, Marisha, Liam and Taliesin all did a show that was on Tuesday. Before Talks Machina. Game the Game, with Rebecca and Ivan, where we played it, as well as a number of other ridiculous games. But it's great, I grew up playing Magic, it's very much a mutually--
Sam: Oh, Taliesin has it on his iPad right there!
Matt: There you go, and it's facing sideways. But it's a puzzle drop game, but mixed in with the mechanics of Magic. It's free, you can check it out, and they're being awesome, sponsoring us tonight. If you're into fantasy and that type of three-match games, totally up your alley, and if you click on the link in chat, which is bit.ly/criticalquest and try the game out. That's where you can go ahead and find it. So--
Liam: You should totally play that during the Thordak fight.
Taliesin: This is my plan, while you guys are doing your stuff, I'm going to be playing Puzzle Quest.
Matt: Oh and Taliesin, also I have left a sheet there for your updated Cabal's Ruin.
Marisha: Yeah, we have updated stuff.
Taliesin: Wow, you nerfed me. Okay. I'm just kidding.
Matt: No, in working on the campaign guide, and the section about the Vestiges, while also seeing how things played out through the game as we've gone through, there's been a slight balance tweak to a couple of them, most in your favor. Enjoy.
Taliesin: I think you were giving me a little bit of this drunkenly during Westworld, if I recall.
Matt: I think so, actually, yeah.
Marisha: The main thing that has changed on the Spire of Conflux is that I now gain plus one bonus to spell attack rolls and my spell save DC increases by one.
Matt: It's a benefit to you.
Marisha: Yes it is.
Matt: It's a benefit to anybody who uses it in their own home campaign, it is not just specific.
Laura: And Fenthras is a plus five to attack? And plus ten to damage rolls?
Liam: 12 hours of wings, Matt? Thank you!
Matt: All the Vestiges suddenly turn to dust. In your bag. And your tears.
Liam: You have chosen poorly.
Matt: Exactly. So yeah! So aside from Magic Puzzle Quest, we also have our secondary sponsor, Loot Crate!
Sam: You know, guys, I always do a little fun Loot Crate thing, but this week I'm not going to be doing the Loot Crate announcement. This week, my new character that I've been workshopping, Brody Slater! Of Malibu, California is going to be doing the Loot Crate ad. I've been workshopping this, I've been doing some acting coach work with it.
Taliesin: How you never did a rhyme on SNL is beyond me, man, I don't know how--
Sam: It's a showcase for Loot Crate, but it's also a showcase for my acting. (laughter)
Sam: Let me get into character real quick. Yo surf bros and bunnies! December can be a mondo bogus bummer! You want to lock in on a maxed out cruncher, ride an outside breaker, shoot the curl on an epic set, but you can't! It's too cold! The beaches are blown out, the swells are glassy, and you feel like you're getting a sand facial, like some gremlin poser, amirite? Well not for long! Get amped again with December's radical Loot Crate. The primo duds'll get your heart beating like a gnarlatious double spinner, toes on the nose! The geeky gear will make you feel like you're droppin' in on the wedge, pruning out at Pendleton, or taking a face goofy-foot at Sano, outrageous! So don't wipe out, sign up! For Loot Crate! At lootrate.com/criticalrole, promo code "critical role" for ten percent off your first month. Bonzai! All right. (cheering)
Matt: That's pretty good! A little Scottish at the end, though.
Taliesin: Somewhere in Topanga Canyon right now, Dweezil Zappa is bleeding from the nose, going: oh! What?! What?!
Laura: That blonde hair did something for your complexion, though.
Taliesin: Yeah, no, you were glowing.
Liam: No wonder you're in voiceover!
Sam: I mean, we're versatile actors, and I just want to showcase that to the people!
Matt: I hope that's a sneak peek of your character in the next campaign, Sam.
Sam: Definitely.
Matt: Thank you Loot Crate, thank you Magic Puzzle Quest-- Check 'em both out, guys. Couple quick announcements! Talks Machina will be up next Tuesday, and every following Tuesday simulcast both on Twitch and Alpha! So you guys can still get a chance to watch it, the Alpha supporters will still have all the access to it. It's going to be awesome, glad you guys get a chance to follow us along with that and to try out the platform, and enjoy it on Twitch. So yay! So, next Talks will have a couple guests, which you might meet later on this evening, will be joining the next episode this Tuesday at 7:00pm here and on Alpha. You're welcome, Brian. Next up! Next Monday December 12th, from 4:00pm to 6:00pm, there's an extra special holiday season episode of Dick and Johnson happening here. Dick and Johnson Save Everything Ultra Holiday Special-- such a specific title-- going to be a bunch of guests, including Chloe Dykstra, myself, I will be showing up for a little bit, with some ridiculousness in characters, so you guys need to check it out if you haven't already, it's-- how do you describe the game? It's like a shark riding a reindeer shooting a minigun, while waving an American flag and playing D&D.
Taliesin: That's a great tattoo.
Matt: That's a challenge to you guys. Show us your pictures of your great amazing Dick and Johnson tattoo. Wherever it may be on your Dick and Johnson. But tune in next Monday, December 12th, at 4:00 to 6:00pm, check it out, I'll see you there. All right.
Sam: So many announcements.
Matt: I know! We're getting there, we're getting there. New GM Tips came out today! (cheering)
Matt: This week's topic is specifically on running an evil campaign, and curbing modo-- herber-- murder herber-- murder hobo behavior in games. Check out the good times. That's out now on YouTube and the Geek and Sundry website. Also, at the break today, we have a very special video from our good friend Patrick Rothfuss and plays Kerr in the world, as we're helping support his Worldbuilders charity, which has been doing amazing, gangbusters, and they're setting up a specific Critical Role page on that, with a few prizes that we're providing from our end as well for people that enter and donate, that you can win. So he's going to put together a video and information about the page will be available very soon. Go check it out, it's an amazing charity, I've talked about it here before, and the money's being matched, dollar for dollar, by a number of corporations for everything you donate. So check out the break for a special message from Patrick Rothfuss.
Liam: He's a good human being.
Matt: He's a good man. And he wanted to be here tonight but he's unfortunately in a-- I say unfortunately-- fortunately in a tux, at the, I think it's the game-- what? The--
Taliesin: Gamer's Choice Awards?
Matt: No no no no. Child's Play, I think, charity event tonight.
Taliesin: It's the gamer's Shorty Awards.
Matt: So the whole cha-- no, it's the charity! It's all about charity, apparently. Speaking of charity, we have the pleasure of once again, as a fantastic example of this community that's sprung up around this channel and this show, so many of you guys have been so generous, and supporting of all the charities we've spoken of, and other charities you've gone on to find, we have one amazing Critter who is here tonight, named Mark Kuro, who has donated an amazing amount to 826LA in the name of this show-- (cheering)
Matt: --and you guys, so say hello to Mark everyone. Mark, I'm blown away by your generosity, and I think it's a fantastic example once again of the power of community that you've all put together and helping support other people who don't have the opportunity.
Mark: Well, and I also want to thank you guys for the inspiration. I mean, you get to throw inspiration dice around all the time, but when you do it in the real world, it makes a big difference. So I think 826LA is an amazing charity, and I think I would do sort of a Christmas Critter Charity Challenge, for all the Critters out there at this time of year especially, to go ahead and donate to your favorite charity, donate to 826LA in the name of Critical Role, and again, make a difference. World's gotten a little wonky, time for love and generosity is never better than now, so thanks guys.
Matt: I completely agree. Thank you, Mark. Really appreciate it, thanks buddy.
Mark: Kill the dragons, he's got to die!
Liam: He said, he said, Mark said, he's got to die. He's got to die, Matt, he's got to die.
Matt: Well, you know, maybe I gave you a damage bonus, I don't know. Thank you, Mark.
Marisha: And yeah, and as always, 826LA is amazing, and there might be a local branch in your city, I know there's one in San Francisco, I know there's one in New York, I know there's one in Chicago.
Taliesin: You should totally check it out, you can also-- they have web stores, and you should go onto their web stores because there's a lot of really good Christmas stuff that you can buy that's fun and arty and poetry-ish, and kids poetry that you can buy books of that's actually really good, and it's a great Christmas gift, and you're giving to a good cause. It's amazing.
Marisha: Yeah, it's amazing.
Matt: Hell yeah. Oh, and I forgot to mention this too, for the Talks Machina announcement too, while it's remaining on Twitch, also they will have an enhanced version on Alpha in the new year as well, so you'll have that positive element of it, too, and get to see what the platform is capable of doing with that show. So. There you go. Spotify playlists are still rolling out. We had Laura's go up last Friday.
Liam: It was so good, it was so good!
Laura: Did you think so?
Liam: I did, I liked it.
Laura: Is it maybe because you had a song on there?
Liam: Well, that's part of it, but the whole thing was pretty good!
Laura: Thanks, bro.
Sam: It's all Debbie Gibson.
Laura: You had a song on there, too, Sam.
Sam: I did?
Laura: Yeah, I know you didn't listen to it.
Sam: No, I haven't. I will tonight. I'll go down to Spotify, or Geek and Sundry, or wherever you get them, and--
Marisha: Did you ever listen to any of the first playlists that we put out?
Sam: Of course I did! I listened to mine. (laughter)
Liam: You are on a show called Critical Role, where a group of nerdy-ass voice actors--
Sam: My best friends, who I support, by showing up! (laughter)
Sam: No, I listened to them. I read your little blurbs. I did, I did those things.
Liam: Oh, I just got the Christmas spirit all up in my heart. Nice.
Taliesin: Let's get some seltzer, we'll get that right out.
Marisha: Thank you for your click on the Geek and Sundry website, I guess!
Taliesin: Just a click, not a like.
Matt: And, last--
Taliesin: Who is the Spotify playlist this week?
Marisha: You.
Taliesin: Oh, it's me? Oh, that's great.
Sam: Have you done it yet?
Taliesin: Yeah, I know I did it, I did do it-- It's good, it's good music.
Liam: Sam will listen to it in five months.
Matt: Last but not least, me and Marisha are guesting at MagFest in January, 6th to the 8th, MagFest is one of my favorite events and has been for many years, it's a video-game music festival. We're going to have a bunch of panels over there, and there's a bunch of great concerts and shows going on, it's a general awesome, fun experience. If you haven't been before, I recommend it, if you have been, go again! We'll be there. Come and say hi.
Laura: There's also a couple more announcements.
Sam: More and more and more and more.
Laura: I know, I know, but these are good. Well, last weekend was PSX and there were a couple awesome projects that were announced there, which is the new Uncharted game! The Lost Legacy! What what what! I play Nadine, what what what! (cheering)
Laura: And then, also announced at the same time, was Last of Us 2, starring one Ashley Johnson, so we're all very very very excited about it--
Matt: Our D&D show book-ended PSX, that's cool, actually.
Laura: Yeah, it was pretty frickin' cool. And those are going to be a long time before they're out, but you know, it's still really awesome. And then! Finishing announcements tonight with some special, special treats, which is--
Matt: I haven't even seen that.
Laura: A Critical Role hat. Yeah, you've been in here the whole time. This is out, in the store, right now, as well as Critical Role dice! So, I have heard tell that if you get these ordered-- if you live in the United States, at least, I'm sorry international Critters-- but if you live in the US then you should be able to get these before Christmas!
Marisha: Yay! Stocking stuffers.
Laura: Yeah, great stocking stuffers, great under the tree presents too.
Liam: This is a fine-ass baseball cap. On the inside it says: How Do You Want To Do This? Oh, and your head is so small, and my head is so large.
Marisha: And it's all embroidered.
Sam: And it's perfect for when we play all the other Dungeons & Dragons Twitch shows in our softball league!
Laura: Right? So we have a certain amount. And I by the way rolled these dice, before the show, and I got a critical on my d20, so--
Matt: No guarantee.
Laura: They're in the store right now. There's a limited amount, obviously, like it always is, but! As soon as they're gone we're going to order more. But if you want 'em for Christmas, then you know, probably get them soon.
Matt: All righty. I think that's it, right? Okay, good. Wow. Front-loaded them this week. Thank you for your patience, guys. It's all good! Good announcements. Good things. Good holiday spirit kicking forward. And in that same spirit of good positive fun, let's bring it down here into the current dramatic, rocketing conclusion of the Chroma Conclave, for tonight's episode of Critical Role! [dramatic music]
Matt: Welcome back, ladies and gentlemen.
Sam: A lot happened. A lot happened in that break.
Matt: Apparently! I missed most of it.
Laura: Pure chaos.
Matt: I'm so removed from most events at the table before the game starts, I'm like: what happened? What?
Taliesin: Do you phase out so you don't hear the terrible things we say?
Matt: No, I'm focused on the rest of the shit that's happening tonight. Anyway. So, to get you up to speed, our fantastic band of adventurers, Vox Machina, had been battling against the Chroma Conclave, a collection of evil, dangerous chromatic dragons, led by Thordak, the Cinder King, who has been reigning over their home city of Emon for quite some time, terrorising the community, and apparently slowly undergoing a change based on the elemental stone that is embedded in his body that once locked him into the Plane of Fire. You've defeated most of the dragons, and allied yourself with one of the only remaining members, Raishan, the green dragon. You guys have since acquired a number of allies, you made your way to the Fire Plane to the City of Brass, you returned to find Fort Daxio under attack. You managed to defend it, you saved a few friends, returned to Whitestone, and it seems like everything is gearing itself towards the final conflict in Emon, with Thordak the Cinder King. Last we left off, you were meeting underneath Whitestone at the ziggurat, with the current standing council, the War Council, of both Whitestone and this entire endeavor. You decided a couple of people to come with you, and now is your time to spend the next day or so wisely, as the army from Fort Daxio and Syngorn will be arriving at Emon by about sundown the following day. Your airship was in transit to Daxio, and has been rerouted to Emon as well. Everyone is converging to the city. What do you want to do to prepare?
Laura: Oh god, it's all happening!
Marisha: Okay. They're all going to the city.
Laura: So, what time of day is it right now?
Matt: Right now, I'd say about mid-afternoon.
Marisha: Are we still down by the ziggurat?
Matt: Yeah, you guys just finished your meeting at the ziggurat.
Taliesin: I have some guns to repair, because everything broke, and many of these things cost money now.
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: That's small picture. We're big picture.
Liam: How long is the trip, did we say? To get to Emon from here.
Sam: Instant for us.
Laura: Well, we have to go through a tree.
Sam: Or a teleportation circle.
Liam: Then we're meeting with Dad?
Laura: Yeah, he's marching to Emon right now.
Marisha: Are we going to have a meeting spot outside of Emon? We should probably have a plan.
Taliesin: We should probably get close to Greyskull and see if we can enter through the tunnels.
Liam: I think that's our way, yeah.
Sam: Yes, but we do have to rally with your pops, and also didn't we cut loose 55 soldiers to wander free in the desert from Daxio?
Laura: They're meeting the other armies.
Sam: They're just going to form up?
Laura: Trust in them. They're soldiers, they'll be able to find their way.
Sam: Right. But can we scry and figure out where this other army is? Maybe we'll go there? Or maybe we should scry on our old keep and go there. Those seem like two good locations.
Taliesin: I think scrying on the old keep and then letting everyone know-- we don't necessarily want everyone arriving at the same place as well, as long as there's a coordinated movement towards the city.
Laura: They can all start attacking and we can come in from the bottom.
Sam: Sure, but we've told the approaching army nothing about any plan whatsoever.
Taliesin: We can call them if we need to.
Marisha: So we probably want different regiments flanking the city in different areas?
Taliesin: And then maybe the 50 men coming into the sewers to fight.
Liam: I feel like we want to catch up with our father's army before they're anywhere near the walls of the city, because, well, that'd be stupid.
Taliesin: We can go meet them if that's the next move.
Sam: And strategize when we get there? Once we see their forces, and what they have to offer?
Marisha: Percy, do you still have that map of Emon?
Taliesin: Yes, somewhere.
Laura: We should probably talk to Gilmore as well, and let him know that he has to fucking join us.
Marisha: That he drew the short straw. We drew the short straw for him.
Taliesin: We should also collect some other allies, if we're going to head in this direction.
Laura: Of course.
Sam: All right. Do you want to go talk to Gilmore, Vaxy-poo?
Taliesin: We're going to need a painter, you know a painter, we should bring a painter with us.
Sam: A painter? To paint our exploits?
Taliesin: Yes, to paint our exploits. You have that portrait--
Marisha: Once again, Percy, I feel like that's small picture--
Taliesin: Is it small potatoes? Is it really, though?
Liam: We could find a jeweller right now. If that's what you're into.
Sam: I have a man at a casino that I really need to get revenge on.
Taliesin: You might as well get it all done now, because you're not going to be able to do it later.
Marisha: 24 hours left alive!
Liam: Kynan? Kynan!
Sam: All right.
Taliesin: But no, stock up on what-- again, Whitestone doesn't necessarily have a lot for us to gather--
Sam: But we should bring any potions. How we doing on potions? Did you ever divvy up our last several potions?
Laura: I did divvy up our last potions, I feel like it might be smart to get some more, but the only place to really buy any is Vasselheim.
Sam: Is that true?
Laura: I mean it's the only city still standing that we have access to immediately. We don't have a lot of time. The thing is, I feel like people in Vasselheim said they would help us, but I don't know how they'd get to Emon to help us in time.
Sam: I know, an airship! Oh shit, where's our airship?
Laura: It's on its way.
Sam: To where?
Liam: Emon. To Emon.
Sam: Did we say Emon, or did we say Daxio?
Matt: It was on its way to Daxio--
Marisha: They're redirecting to Emon.
Sam: Thank God. We're sending it to a dragon instead of a fort on fire.
Taliesin: It does have weaponry.
Laura: Yeah. It's made to take on things attacking it.
Taliesin: It's designed to help keep him on the ground.
Marisha: Uh-huh, yeah, it's a giant balloon in the air--
Laura: It's not a balloon, actually--
Taliesin: Well, no, it's a giant crystal. It's-- I know I keep saying--
Marisha: I always think of it as a high-tech Hindenberg.
Taliesin: I know. Please don't say that. That's not funny.
Liam: That's a metaphor for Vox Machina.
Matt: There you go. If there ever was one, yeah.
Sam: All right. Besides gathering our forces here, gathering our potions here, and telling Gilmore, where are we going? Let's put it to a vote, as we always do, democratically. Grog?
Matt: "Yes?"
Sam: Grog, where would you like to go? To the army waiting just outside of Emon, or to our old ratty keep with nothing in it?
Taliesin: "I'd like to go to the--" I don't know.
Laura: I don't know what he wants.
Matt: Percy's getting a little strange off to the side.
Laura: Wait, Travis is watching, so he can just text in, yeah. Grog is thinking about it. Grog is thinking really hard.
Matt: He considers it for a second and goes, "Whatever makes me kill things faster."
Laura: That's good.
Marisha: Wait, have we rested?
Matt: You did rest before coming here. You spent the evening in Fort Daxio.
Marisha: And then we teleported. No, Allura brought us here.
Sam: Okay, putting it to a vote. Three choices. Ready? To your dad, to our keep, or to Vasselheim. I don't know why, but it's been mentioned.
Marisha: Hang on, I can scry on our keep.
Laura: Can't Allura send a message to them and let them know what our plan is, and then we don't have to actually bamf there?
Sam: We don't have a plan!
Taliesin: Wherever we go, we can let everyone know what the plan and where we're going is.
Laura: I feel like what we need to do-- okay, here's what I think our plan should be.
Sam: Lead us, O Mighty Vex.
Laura: I feel like we should tell the armies gathering to prepare to attack. We enter in where the Clasp is; we come in from the bottom up.
Sam: So they're going to create a diversion for us?
Laura: Exactly. They take on the armies while we head straight to Thordak.
Liam: Dad creates a shit-storm at the wall, and we take advantage of that chaos.
Sam: We have to communicate this to them.
Taliesin: Easy to do. We just send a message.
Laura: We could send a message, or we could bamf there and then bamf another place. It seems a lot of time wasted.
Taliesin: Yeah, easier just to send a message.
Matt: Allura has been in communication and has been the information hub between most of these individuals.
Liam: How long did we say before Syldor reaches Emon?
Matt: By about dusk the following day.
Liam: Dusk the following day. And you said afternoon right now? So a little more than 24 hours.
Taliesin: We can at least get into there and start communicating with the Clasp.
Marisha: We're not really in good standing with them.
Taliesin: I'm sure they'll be happy to see us, regardless.
Marisha: You think? I guess. Sure. It's like seeing that person you hated in high school after something terrible just happened. Happy for the familiarity.
Sam: But now they're a little bit overweight and they work in an Applebee's.
Marisha: Sure, and it's a little gratifying?
Sam: Yeah.
Liam: They can hate us, and we can deal with that afterward, if there is even an afterward.
Taliesin: They're businessmen; I doubt they hold grudges.
Laura: I'm sure they hold grudges.
Taliesin: Not until after the dragon's been taken care of.
Laura: Then they'll make us pay?
Taliesin: Yes. It's not profitable to kill us before the dragon is dead.
Liam: Also, somewhere in all this fracas, we need you to take care of us with food.
Taliesin: When it's time.
Liam: Right, when is the time?
Taliesin: I think once we're there.
Marisha: It lasts for 24 hours.
Laura: Before we head in.
Liam: In the keep, for old time's sake?
Laura: I don't think that's very smart.
Taliesin: Or in the sewers, for old time's sake. (laughter)
Liam: I mean underneath.
Taliesin: Hopefully, in the keep.
Sam: So we have a clear plan, then?
Taliesin: We have a plan for dinner.
Liam: There's no guarantees, Scanlan.
Sam: Where are we going? That's all I care about right now.
Liam: We're going to hell. Where do you think we're going? It's going to be fucking awful. You're probably going to be dead in 48 hours.
Sam: Yeah, but we'll be together, and I don't think that I'll die.
Liam: You're adorable.
Taliesin: You're going to be in front, if anything.
Marisha: This is the worst of two extremes.
Taliesin: You should scry on Greyskull.
Marisha: Is anyone still there?
Sam: Last time I looked in, there was some movement, or it looked like people had recently been there.
Marisha: Wasn't it Drexel? Dranzel?
Sam: Nope, they're off somewhere else.
Laura: You said by sunset tomorrow is when they'll be at Emon?
Matt: That's when they'll be there and ready.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: If you want more information, you might have to talk to somebody who has that information.
Laura: Right. What we need to do is plan a time that they start the attack.
Sam: Sure. We've got to get there first and suss it out, too. We haven't done any recon. This army of your father's, we have no idea how big it is, if they have archers, if they have an elite SWAT team task force--
Taliesin: How do you feel that will affect our plan?
Sam: If we know we have an elite SWAT team task force, we can take them down with us into the sewers!
Taliesin: I can almost promise you they do not have an elite SWAT team task force.
Laura: They might have some stealthy--
Taliesin: Some stealthy individuals.
Marisha: We have friends of our own.
Sam: Also, if we do any recon, we might know that oh, there's a big thing we need to have taken out before we can even get in. What if our keep is being surrounded?
Marisha: Okay. Hang on. Let me scry on the keep. This will answer plenty of questions, and then we'll go from there.
Laura: Scry away, Keyleth.
Marisha: Did we leave Laina there? Did we leave anyone there, or is it completely vacated?
Liam: It was chaos when we left.
Matt: Yeah, it was absolute chaos. You pushed your servants through. Your staff still currently exists somewhere in Whitestone.
Marisha: I can't scry on a building, correct?
Matt: Correct.
Liam: We fought Vorugal and then high-tailed it out of there; inside and gone.
Marisha: I can't scry on a building.
Taliesin: Can you scry on a plant?
Sam: Can you scry on a dead thing?
Marisha: Can I scry on a plant?
Taliesin: There is a tree.
Matt: Because you are a druid, being a nature-based entity and it is a living creature... (laughter)
Matt: Don't steal my thunder!
Marisha: One that I've had personal communications with.
Matt: I would say, due to the fact that you are a druid and nature is your basis, if it is a specific plant-based entity that you are very familiar with, sure.
Sam: Do we have anything like that at our keep?
Matt: You have a number of trees in the front; you have the garden that you built in Sarenrae's temple.
Marisha: That's what I want to scry on. I want to start there.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: You know how it's always, "you zoom in really fast, and you zoom in really fast--" Can I slow down?
Matt: It doesn't work that way.
Marisha: I can't pull focus?
Matt: In theory, scrying is only supposed to show you what's there. I narratively let a little bit of a journey happen. You can't control the journey, sorry.
Sam: DVR it.
Marisha: It's the worst. Okay.
Matt: All right, so where are you doing the spell?
Marisha: Where?
Matt: Where are you doing your Scry ritual?
Marisha: Not near the ziggurat, if we're still there.
Matt: Right, so are you guys heading back to the castle, then?
Laura: Yeah, let's go to the castle.
Matt: While you guys are heading back to the castle from underneath the tunnels, you are briefly headed off by a familiar dwarven fellow in robes and a crystalline staff: Elementalist Drake Thunderbrand. "By the way, before you leave, we've been working on a few things for you. They should be of assistance to you. Come find me in the common room whenever you're ready."
Sam: Yeah, sure. Wow, fortuitous.
Marisha: I like presents.
Matt: You head to your quarters to do the Scry spell? Okay. Your vision clarifies on dark clouds. Your vision sees a gathering of grayish mists, and you slowly transition through them to see shapes that are either extremely small or extremely distant. Your vision begins to funnel through it quickly, like you're passing over the edge of a waterfall. There's a rush, and you see, as the clouds dissipate, a glimpse of the overhead of Emon. You see the once-gleaming city of white across the Bladeshimmer Shoreline pockmarked with black and tall towers of curling black smoke. You see flames that still burn unfettered, unstopped throughout the town, and what looks from the distance like small clouds of gnats or flies that you realize are much larger flying entities doing small passes over various neighborhoods to keep watch or find food. Your vision jumps again, this time careening down even faster. Below, you can see, from an overhead view, Greyskull Keep. You begin to rush in that direction, and as it gets closer, you can see the same damage it took from the wall from the initial attack of the Conclave. You see elements of rubble around the outside, though it's still pristine, being repaired by the celestial entity that was summoned by Pike shortly after. Your vision jumps again, this time through the repaired stained-glass exterior of the temple of Sarenrae, and it comes to rest there in a moment, amongst the strangely contrasting, peaceful greenery of this temple. There's such a sense of hopelessness and horror on the outside of the city, this one little moment of time here is almost like a time capsule of how things were before. It's sad, but hopeful at the same time. As your vision swivels over to the tree, there in the temple, while contained here for as long as it's been, it seems to be healthy. Looking in the vicinity, most everything seems in place.
Marisha: Do the trees look overgrown? Do the plants look overgrown?
Matt: As much as being away for the handful of months that you have been. They look like they haven't been trimmed or tended to recently.
Marisha: And the temple is intact? It looks like the keep is still intact from where we rebuilt it?
Matt: Correct. It has not fallen.
Marisha: Do I sense any movement?
Matt: Make a perception check with disadvantage through your Scry spell.
Taliesin: No, I can't help. Yeah, no.
Marisha: I rolled two ones. Both ones. I'll say that's just flushing it out.
Matt: Strangely, somehow through a Scry spell, something got in your eye in the temple.
Marisha: I hate it when the VR goggles short out. (laughter)
Matt: You don't know if it's divine energy interference or what, but it stings a lot, and you feel the essence of the spell begin to shiver and quake, and as you try and clear your vision through, it remains blurred.
Marisha: Shit.
Matt: You're still there; your presence is there, but you don't have the capability of seeing anything beyond the tree you're focused on. The Scry spell is focused on the tree, and everything around it has this hazy fog-of-war feel about five feet beyond it.
Sam: Good scry.
Marisha: Good scry, guys. Good scry.
Laura: What did you see? Anything good? Are we safe?
Marisha: It's still standing, for the most part. I saw Pike's-- wait, her celestial being wasn't still there.
Matt: No, it was temporarily summoned for the reconstruction of the ceiling portion.
Marisha: Looks okay. Looks like home.
Liam: Still standing? There wasn't anybody around it?
Marisha: I couldn't tell.
Sam: How's my comic book collection? Is it still there?
Marisha: Burned.
Taliesin: Mint in box.
Liam: That's as close to a guarantee as we're going to get.
Marisha: I told you to get a fire box.
Laura: Do you think Drake would join us?
Sam: Who? Little guy? I'd like to be the shortest on this trip, please.
Laura: Got it.
Liam: You are.
Sam: Oh.
Marisha: Where's Kash?
Laura: And Zahra?
Marisha: Kash was really mad at us last time we talked to him.
Laura: So maybe we shouldn't ask him.
Taliesin: Let's not.
Marisha: I talked to him last time.
Laura: I don't even want Kash to come. I don't even want him around.
Sam: When we walk near his residence, let's walk around.
Liam: That guy is a badass motherfucker, and we do want him.
Sam: I know why you want him to come.
Liam: Well, he's got those brown eyes.
Laura: No, he's got one brown eye and one blue eye, I think.
Taliesin: We are this loopy because we're genuinely terrified, and we're doing everything we can not to go.
Liam: It's called gallows humor.
Laura: I'm going to go ask Zahra if she'll join us. Can I go talk to Zahra?
Matt: Sure.
Liam: I'll go find Shaun, after her.
Marisha: You guys are forcing me into going and talking to Kash, aren't you?
Laura: Scanlan can ask him. It doesn't have to be you.
Marisha: Scanlan?
Sam: Would you prefer me to go? We do have a rapport.
Laura: I do want to ask Jarett to come too, though.
Sam: Oh, I need to go see Jarett. (laughter)
Sam: You're on Kash duty, Kiki.
Liam: Scanlan, do you need a little resolve for this fight?
Sam: I just want to see Jarett. He's our most solid ally, and most dependable friend.
Liam: There's no other reason?
Sam: He's been there for us in our time of need.
Liam: Still no other reason?
Sam: I feel like it would be a big pick-me-up to see him. (laughter)
Liam: Solid. You do that.
Taliesin: I'm going to talk to Cassandra about one last dip into the vaults to see if there's any potions. We know we have to leave them with something in case everything goes wrong, but anything we can take with us will be helpful, and then I have to fix this giant mess of parts that are currently in my bag. I may need to spend a little money. I do apologize.
Laura: Darling.
Taliesin: Okay, just letting you know. It might be a bit expensive to get everything working again.
Liam: Percy, spend it all.
Taliesin: I will not spend it all. I promise.
Laura: I gave an entire bag of jewels to a random efreet.
Taliesin: That was brazen, yes.
Marisha: We got armor out of it, though. It's not like we didn't get something from it.
Taliesin: If anyone asks about the plan, the plan is chaos, if everyone agrees with this. We want to break up their forces as much as possible. We want them sending ten percent of their forces to every edge of the city. They know where we're going; they know we're eventually heading to the center, and he's not going to leave anymore, but we're going to make it very difficult for them. They're either going to be fighting us in every corner, or they're going to be letting the entire city fall back to us.
Laura: I'm going to go find Zahra.
Sam: Splitting the party five ways.
Marisha: I go find Kash.
Matt: Okay. Vex, as you progress up to the secondary floor to the outside of Zahra's room, the door is closed.
Laura: Zahra, dear?
Matt: Zahra, you hear a knock at your door.
Mary: Hello? (laughter)
Mary: What is it, darling? I'm trying to sleep.
Laura: Oh!
Sam: This is where the live studio audience is supposed to applaud. (laughter)
Marisha: You had one job, pit crew.
Taliesin: You had five jobs--
Matt: You had 12 jobs, pit crew.
Mary: Anything in my eyes?
Laura: Not much time to sleep, I'm afraid.
Mary: Unfortunately, I've been buried in books.
Laura: Yes, and plans are moving ahead much faster than we anticipated.
Mary: First off, I heard word about a white dragon. Sister killer! (laughter)
Mary: Yes, we have to go get tattoos. Tell me, what's the news? Catch me up.
Laura: We're marching on Emon tomorrow.
Mary: Oh! I was going to get my hair done. All right.
Laura: That's how it is. All the way.
Mary: I haven't heard much. I've been reading, I've been decorating, and I've been enchanting and making things. Tell me, what's the news with Thordak?
Laura: Well, he's terrible. He's even worse than we thought. Armies are marching on the city, and we plan on coming in from underneath, maybe striking at him where he doesn't realize. And we'd like your help, if you're willing.
Mary: I don't think so. Oh, all right. Yes, I'd love to. I would love to. I've been craving dragon meat since Rimefang, so yes.
Laura: I don't know if we'll succeed, and I'm sure we won't all make it out alive. It's a big ask.
Mary: (sighs) Isn't death supposed to be a wonderful adventure, as well?
Laura: I think so.
Mary: Fuck it.
Laura: Fuck it.
Mary: Fuck it. Durr 'n' durr. Fuck it. Let's do it. Yeah, all right. I've been sitting for too long; I need some action.
Laura: Did you make any dragon arrows?
Marisha: Buy her a drink first.
Mary: I'll get back to you on it.
Laura: I plan on it. So many drinks.
Mary: What next? What do we do?
Laura: We prepare tonight, and we leave tomorrow, I assume. You know us; we don't have a plan, really. I have no idea what's going on. Be prepared.
Mary: Isn't that the secret to adulthood, that we're all winging it? Yes, all right. Good.
Laura: I'm glad you're joining.
Mary: Darling, I'm with you wherever you go.
Matt: With your recently joined into your crusade tiefling ally, you go to gather the rest of your party. Who's going to Kashaw? (laughter)
Taliesin: Kiki, what are you doing?
Matt: You take a long, slow, careful walk down through town to the guard barracks.
Marisha: I try not to step on any cracks in the sidewalk on the way. It's very important.
Matt: It's a warmer and more humid day than you're used to in Whitestone. A couple of insects are out and about. There's a lot of aspects of Whitestone that you're noticing for the first time, because you really want to focus on anything else, and yet suddenly, without warning, you stop and realize you're standing right outside of the barracks. You see that recently there had been a finished training session with the up-and-coming guard, and there, sitting off to the side, partially armored and currently sharpening the edge of his spear, is Kashaw.
Marisha: He's on the outside? Oh shit.
Matt: And he's watching you. (laughter)
Matt: Kashaw?
Sam: Ladies and gentlemen. (cheering and applause)
Marisha: I drop to one knee and start tying my boot. I start retying my shoe.
Will: You're five feet from me. Am I not supposed to see that?
Marisha: Oh my god! Kash! Whoa, I didn't see you there.
Will: Really? Interesting. It was the looking at me that threw me.
Marisha: Sorry, I've had something in my eye ever since this scrying spell earlier. Shit's been blurry. Yeah, no. You're clearly in focus now.
Will: Okay.
Marisha: Hi. Hey, how's it going, man?
Will: Everything's been great. Life's been awesome. What can I help you with? (laughter)
Marisha: Okay, Kash, I'm sensing a little bit of underlying aggression.
Will: Really? It's underlying? (laughter)
Marisha: Okay, look. I know we fucked you. Look.
Will: Why don't you send me out to get some milk and go save the world while I'm out there doing that? What's up there, lady? What? What do you want? Speak!
Marisha: (stammers) I'm trying to think of what to say. Please help us! We're going to die, and we need you. I'm sorry!
Will: I've got nothing to that. Help you what, first of all.
Marisha: Okay, you know how we've been hunting down those dragons?
Will: I vaguely remember it, yes.
Marisha: We've been doing an okay job, because we've killed a few, but now there's the big one that's left, Thordak, and then we might be working with the one that killed all my people, if you remember that there was one that killed them, so now we're working with her, and we're gathering an entire army, and we need as many talented and charming and gifted people that we can get, so I thought-- I'm really sorry we made you be an errand boy. I didn't vote for that, by the way. I was trying to--
Will: Keep babbling. This is fun.
Laura: I'm sweating for her. (laughter)
Sam: This is just how the Patrick Rothfuss conversation went.
Mary: This is how it's going to go with you and Jarett.
Will: Why should I help you? Give me one reason.
Marisha: Why did you bring back Vex?
Will: Because I thought Vax would kill me if I didn't.
Marisha: Maybe Vax will kill you if you don't help us.
Will: Now I'm not really that scared of him.
Marisha: That's not true. You did it because you're a good person. You ultimately want to see change in the world. I know you do. And I know you care, even though you pretend like you don't. So that's why.
Will: In all fairness, dragons bring change.
Marisha: Kash, that's not the type of change-- there are better ways to bring change than through death and destruction.
Will: Who else is helping you?
Marisha: Everyone, and then Zahra.
Will: Z? I'm in. Where is she?
Marisha: Wow.
Will: Let's go. Where is she?
Marisha: Should have led with that. All right, let's go. This way. Glad I spilled my soul and everything, and I just splashed coffee in my face. Come on, Kash. Come on!
Will: On my way. Let's go.
Matt: All right, as you gather your implements of war and your supplies you may need for this journey, you two head back to the castle, a nice, solid six feet between you as you walk.
Will: I'm hitting the wall constantly over here.
Laura: I can't scooch any more!
Liam: You don't have any guests over there.
Mary: We got it!
Will: You comfortable over there?
Mary: You got enough room, Sam?
Taliesin: We're working on getting a bigger cup.
Mary: There's no swiveling.
Sam: I'm going to give a seat just to my cup, because we have the space here to do it.
Laura: We're turning into one person.
Mary: The twinsies will finally be conjoined.
Laura: Sorry.
Matt: Scanlan, you are off looking for Jarett. Go ahead and make an investigation check.
Sam: 18. 28.
Matt: 28. All right. You know exactly the type of people that he talks to. Because he's been put in this position of power within the guard hierarchy here in Whitestone, within the Pale Guard, there's really only three people that he hangs with. One of them's Kashaw. One of them's a guy who you never remember the name of, who's fun. That's the guy you're going to go bother. You go and talk to him for a bit, and he points to one of the few currently functioning, non-destroyed taverns in Whitestone. There you find him sitting there drinking alone; not heavy drinking, in his cups, but staring off at the wall and sipping a midday ale.
Sam: Friend Jarett.
Matt: "Ah. It is good to see you alive and-- right. Hi."
Sam: Just coming to check on my main man J-money. It's J, right?
Matt: "It is, yes. Otherwise, it would be Garett."
Sam: You're right.
Matt: "I'm good. I'm a little nervous, to be honest. I like to shoot things from a wall. I don't like to go through a wall to shoot things, and that's been happening a lot recently, and from what I've been hearing, tomorrow is looking to be a very big day."
Sam: Well, it's going to be quite a fight. Can we count on you to come with us, perhaps?
Matt: "I'd assume that would be the case. I would not want to have all of you disappear into darkness and fire without me yelling behind you, 'don't die!' I figure that's the very least I could offer for this circumstance."
Sam: We would be honored to have you with us, and as you are still technically our employee, there'll be a bonus for you at the end of it.
Matt: "Another bonus?"
Sam: Oh. Yes. I wasn't aware there was a-- yes. Two bonuses.
Matt: "Oh yeah, there was like four bonuses."
Sam: You deserve all of them.
Matt: "Damn right."
Sam: The other thing that we had talked about, did that ever come to fruition?
Matt: "No, it was unfortunate. You see, my sister is engaged recently--" And he stands up and walks out of the tavern, putting a coin down on the front of the bar. "No worries. I'll find you another lady." And he walks outside.
Sam: Oh. Oh, we're speaking in code. Okay. Yes, I need a lady so bad, and you were going to find me a date.
Matt: "You're so much better at this when other people are involved. Why are you so bad when it's me?" (laughter)
Matt: He goes outside and guides you into a shaded portion of a nearby alley and leans against the wall, waiting for you to follow in.
Sam: So. Is she a brunette?
Matt: "We're out of the tavern."
Sam: Okay. I don't know how long to keep the cover going.
Matt: "It's fine. Look, it is very difficult to find anything right now, the way things have been. But I did manage to scavenge a little bit of suude."
Sam: Suude?
Matt: "Yes." And he pulls out a small brown pouch, maybe about the size of a d20, really. Like a little nugget there, and it's tied tightly, and he pockets real fast. "Now, don't ask me again to do this."
Sam: Wait, are you a cop? You have to tell me if you're a cop. Are you a cop?
Matt: "No."
Sam: Okay, good.
Taliesin: That's a myth, for the kids at home, by the way. Just want to get that out there. Sorry. Can't fill their heads with bad ideas. Carry on.
Will: Kids arrested all over town tonight.
Taliesin: Are you a cop? No?
Sam: All right. How much do I owe you for this?
Matt: "No, don't worry about it. Simply the bonus. Whatever you feel you owe me for it. But not again, please. It's harrowing."
Liam: Heroin?
Matt: "Harrowing. It was harrowing to acquire this for you."
Sam: Jarett, thank you for this. Thank you very much. And I'm cool and all, but do you put it up your butt, or snort it, or do you burn it somehow, or wrap it in something, or eat it? I'm pretty cool, but-- (laughter)
Offscreen: Ha! (laughter)
Screen: Ha! (laughter)
Matt: He leans in really close, one eye half-squinted, going, "I will never understand you, Scanlan Shorthalt. You're a smart boy. How do you think you use it?"
Sam: In a pipe of some sort?
Matt: "Sure." And he walks out of the alleyway, really embarrassed that he even did this. The minute you said that, he was like, oh no, I just bought beer for a 12-year-old. He's like, ooh.
Taliesin: I'd like to think that "ha!" was passing that guy coming out of the pub, and getting a second--
Sam: All right, when you get her number, call me or whatever, so we'll meet her later.
Matt: He walks away and puts his hand up with a-- and keeps walking. You can almost see the hanging head shake as he continues back towards where he was in the tavern.
Sam: That went well.
Taliesin: That went very well.
Sam: I got that.
Taliesin: You did that.
Sam: I did it.
Matt: (laughs) Mark down one small pocket satchel of suude. S-U-U-D-E.
Liam: That's for after the dragon.
Laura: It's his own drugs. He's made his own drugs up.
Taliesin: Here you go. Right there.
Mary: He made drugs?
Laura: Well, Matt made drugs.
Taliesin: Put a glove on if you're going to get high if you hold it for too long.
Matt: There is a society out there. People are going to continue to find ways to smoke, swallow, or inhale substances.
Will: Definitely not a cop.
Matt: Definitely not.
Will: Definitely not a cop.
Mary: Sometimes you ride the dragon before you kill it.
Will: (laughs) Exactly.
Taliesin: Got to ride the dragon before you ride the dragon.
Marisha: That's right.
Mary: You've got to ride the dragon before you kill it.
Will: That's right.
Mary: It's going to be great to watch Scanlan take drugs. (laughter)
Matt: How do you think herbalists of previous generations found out which plants are poisonous? Huh? That's bad. (laughter)
Matt: It's culture, man. All right, Percy, we need to make some checks for you.
Taliesin: Actually, do I have to check even if I'm spending money?
Matt: You're spending money to fix it, but--
Laura: How much money are you spending?
Taliesin: How much do we have? Sorry, I'll stop.
Laura: You tell me what you need.
Taliesin: We'll find out.
Marisha: You're the prince of Whitestone. Can't you tap some taxes or something?
Matt: You could, actually.
Taliesin: I really try not to do that. That's a dick move. People are already iffy on these things, I imagine.
Liam: Spend everything right now.
Taliesin: Wow! That made five decisions and landed on a really good one. That's 28.
Matt: Okay, yeah. This is for Bad News?
Taliesin: Yeah, Bad News is the only one that is broken. The rest survived.
Matt: Yeah, that's fine. For Bad News, the original cost I have here... sorry, have to pull up the PDF to remind me, so I get it right.
Liam: Two electrum.
Matt: (laughs) I'd put it about at maybe 500 gold worth of materials.
Taliesin: Oh! Okay. Feel better about that.
Matt: It's not a magical implement, but it is expensive.
Taliesin: It is. It's got a lot of moving parts. And then I'm going to go and talk to Cassandra, quickly.
Matt: All right. As you make your way to try and find Cassandra, she is actually currently in her room talking with Allura. Talking with Gilmore, with Brom and Drake. There's guards rushing in and out. There's a general sense of ramping energy, as everyone is gathering everything they have at their disposal in preparation for what's going to happen tomorrow.
Mary: Where's Raishan?
Matt: (laughs) You can go look for Raishan, if you like.
Mary: No, I just wanted to know.
Matt: You don't know where Raishan is right now. As you enter the room, over in the corner, mid-conversation, Cassandra is currently rolling up some papers and handing them to a guard. Turns and finishes a quick bit of conversation whispering off to the side with Drake. Turns around and her eyes meet you and she goes, "Brother."
Taliesin: My lady.
Matt: "Yes. What can I do to help you?"
Taliesin: We're preparing to leave. We are preparing to have a small strike force go underneath the city and do what we can while the other armies hopefully distract, thin the forces and give us a shot at taking care of this once and for all.
Matt: "Right."
Taliesin: Is there anything left in the vaults, potion-wise? Especially healing potions. We don't want to drain you, obviously, but I thought I would make one last push.
Matt: "We've provided what we can. Drake, and a few of our helpful supporters here in the city have been providing for this purpose. It's not much, but we do have--" and she snaps her fingers and points to Drake. You see he's currently putting together a big leather package. "Oh! No worry." And he lifts it up on the table. You hear the clanking of glass around on the inside of the satchel. He pulls it down a little bit over the front, pushes to the side and you can see there are two cushioned racks that contain various sizes of vials. "All right, we've got three greater healing potions, one basic healing potion. That's as much as we can find, to be honest right now. There hasn't been a lot of trade, and our supply's been limited, and most of what we had has been used by you or folks here in defense of the city."
Laura: You said one basic?
Matt: "One basic. Yeah, regular healing potion. However, I've spent my time, knowing what's coming, and being a focuser of the elemental arts, brewing a few helpful bits here. I wish I had more time, but our timeline has been a bit accelerated." He pulls out the second cushioned grouping here. The vials are different shapes. It seems like the glass has been scavenged from what was available, but the coloration is similar, and you recognize these. You've had these before. These are four potions of fire resistance.
Sam: That's huge.
Laura: That's great.
Marisha: That's massive.
Taliesin: We will be grateful for you till the end of our days.
Matt: "Oh, I count on it."
Taliesin: It may only be a day, but you will have it. (laughter)
Matt: "Just remembered for these in particular, they don't last a terribly long time. One hour. Make sure you don't drink it too soon."
Taliesin: One hour will be all that is necessary.
Matt: "I certainly hope so. So. That's what I am able to provide for this. I'll be there helping with some of the distraction, so we'll figure out some of the details for the specific attack, but we're pulling all that we can for this, and we'll figure out who's going where, who's attacking when and in what way, I guess, if not tonight, tomorrow." And he looks over to Cassandra and nods. "I'm going to go pray." He leaves the room.
Laura: Can I ask a question?
Matt: Yes.
Laura: With potions, do they stack? Can you take multiple ones and get multiple benefits, or is it like you take one potion and that's the one potion you get to take?
Matt: I mean, if they're different types of potions, I'd say they could stack, to a certain degree. If you just begin to chug four potions in a row I might be asking for some constitution saving throws.
Taliesin: Or like a mixed drink, that can get weird, right?
Matt: Yeah. Things might not--
Mary: Long island ice tea of death.
Matt: Yeah, exactly. Some effects might not mingle well or the urge from your body might reject that much ingestion of enchanted fluid.
Laura: Okay. Cool. Just checking.
Marisha: Don't mix your darks with your clears-- Pick one.
Matt: Don't eat the giant toenail at the bottom of the bottle.
Taliesin: Water breathing before fire, never been higher. (laughter)
Taliesin: Exactly. I think that was the-- Yeah.
Sam: True.
Matt: Anything else?
Taliesin: I'd like to just grab Cassandra really quickly and take her aside.
Matt: Okay. "Yes, brother?"
Taliesin: I will only take one moment of your time. I've not had a moment to repay you for my part in all of this yet, and if we survive, I owe you much. And if I don't, seal off the city. There is room underneath. Prepare for siege. Prepare to be a safe haven. Do not be-- do what you can to save the city. Do not get involved in the aftermath of this if we fail.
Matt: "That's actually what I'm discussing with Allura, and the reason she's staying back is to help us continue should such an occasion arise. But I am confident, knowing what you're capable of, that we worry for naught. We're doing our best here, and I know you are doing your best there. Just come back to me."
Taliesin: I will do my best. We've-- for centuries, you must know we have survived as realists. And it is very hot down there and I do not like it. Good luck, see you soon.
Matt: "I need you. Return."
Taliesin: I shall. And I go pack.
Matt: Okay. As you leave, Vax crosses you in the doorway, as Gilmore is in mid-conversation. Right now with-- well, it was with Drake and then when he'd had the conversation, he watched and Drake left and so he was on his way out following Percival. And you caught him.
Liam: Can I steal you for a second?
Matt: "Certainly."
Liam: Over here.
Matt: "All right."
Liam: Hi, again.
Matt: "Hi."
Liam: Remember how we just saw each other a couple of days ago, and I tried to say goodbye, and you told me to promise you that I would see you again?
Matt: "Yes. And much to my delight, you've kept your promise. And you better keep keeping it."
Liam: You know what would help with that? Boy, have I got an offer for you. You want to help us save the world? My family and I, we're going to him. And I wasn't sure the path that would take us there. I thought we might be on our own. But we're back here. And you are easily the most impressive arcane user I've ever met in my life. And I want us all to still be breathing in a week. I can't think of anyone better to stand with us than you, Shaun.
Matt: His eyes look off for a minute. And he reaches up and rubs the back of his neck, and you can see there's still a scar there. He goes, "If I'm to be honest, I've felt a bit useless here in Whitestone for quite some time. I was there when this all began. It destroyed not just the thing I've been working to build for so long of my life, but friends, home, for all of us. So it is my just honor, and vengeful glee, to join you on the siege to Emon, if you will have me?"
Liam: I grasp him by the back of the head. Gesundheit. I'm so glad to have you with us, friend. So glad.
Matt: "Just stay alive. Keep that promise."
Liam: It will be a little bit easier now.
Matt: "Good." And he smacks you on the cheek.
Liam: Good time for a musical quote.
All: (singing) Stay alive.
Matt: He smacks you on the cheek and goes, "Learned that from you. All right then, I guess I've got to gather my supplies and-- Oh, it's been a while since I've seen some-- I've never actually seen combat on this scale before when, you know, I wasn't just trying to run away? So let's see if I can knock off the old dust."
Liam: I'm sure it will be glorious.
Matt: "Oh, I can guarantee it."
Marisha: Plug.
Matt: "All right."
Liam: Let's do it.
Laura: I'm wondering if we should eat a Heroes' Feast tonight, and then just eat one again tomorrow? 'Cause we just don't know what's going to happen during the day anymore. Just a Heroes' Feast every night. Be ready, and just, you know.
Sam: Yep. Do we have the money for that?
Laura: It's, yeah. We're fine.
Sam: All right.
Taliesin: I was looking forward to a Heroes' Brunch, personally.
Laura: Either one.
Sam: Bagels and lox?
Matt: Heroes' High Tea.
Mary: Eggs Benedict with lots of extra hollandaise.
Taliesin: Capers of might.
Matt: What else do you guys wish to prepare, if anything?
Liam: Holy shit, man!
Laura: We have our potions. Should we split them up?
Sam: Who needs fire giant, I mean fire resistance, the most?
Laura: Okay. We have five potions of fire resistance.
Sam: We do?
Laura: Yes, because we already had one. Now, we have two superior, five regular healing, and three greater. What we also have is a potion of invulnerability, which is clutch, and a potion of speed. We need to decide who to give the potion of invulnerability to, because it lasts for ten minutes?
Matt: No, one minute. I'm pretty sure, I'll check, but that's a powerful-ass potion.
Laura: You can't die, right, when you take it?
Matt: You wish!
Laura: I mean, can you take damage when you've got it going? It's like a minute of no damage?
Matt: You take damage, you have resistance to all damage, so all damage you take is halved.
Mary: Should that be decided mid-battle? Clutch.
Sam: That one seems like a specific task.
Laura: That's a specific task kind of thing. So we'll decide that later?
Taliesin: There is an item. And I'm currently holding it, and I don't know if I'm the best person to be holding this. But I'm just going to pass this down the line to see if anyone has an opinion.
Marisha: It's the sword.
Liam: This is too bad, I can't wield this fucker.
Laura: I can't wield a sword either.
Taliesin: It's a dex-based sword, correct?
Matt: The Sword of Dragon-Slaying?
Taliesin: Yeah. Or it can switch.
Matt: I'm allowing it to switch if need be.
Taliesin: So it can be strength- or dex-based. Maybe this is the thing to hand to Grog. And one minute of invulnerability with that is possibly the cruellest thing that dragon will have ever experienced.
Laura: The thing is, if he's raging, I don't know if he'll think to switch over.
Taliesin: Well, it's an attuned weapon.
Matt: He isn't resistant to fire while he's raging.
Marisha: No, but he has resistance to physical damage, and if he takes a potion of fire resistance, is he pretty much covered the same way if he's raging and has a fire potion?
Matt: Possibly.
Liam: I could use this because it's dex-based, if I so choose?
Laura: But you can't do three attacks with it, because it's bigger?
Matt: Well, yeah. You would have one attack with that.
Liam: One attack, but not-- I can't do longsword and then a dagger?
Matt: You could do longsword and then a bonus.
Laura: That's pretty cool.
Matt: Let me check, I don't know if he can do them all.
Laura: Could he do Whisper and then attack with the dragon sword?
Taliesin: I don't know how many items you have attuned at the moment?
Will: Just two, I believe.
Taliesin: So you could go for a triple?
Will: I could. Well, I have my shadow spear. But my nec, so you'd want the nec damage from that, is what you'd be looking for. I don't know if I could wield the two of them together?
Taliesin: It's a one-handed sword, so I'm not sure. What is your--
Matt: It has to be a light melee weapon in both hands, it looks to do this, unless you have a feat to fix that.
Taliesin: Which I do.
Matt: You have the-- Do you have Dual Wielder as a feat?
Liam: Yes.
Matt: Yeah, so yes, you can use the longsword and Whisper in the other hand.
Liam: But it's attunement, so I have to choose something.
Matt: You'd have to chose that over--
Liam: This would supersede Whisper. Yeah.
Laura: What? Whisper is a Vestige.
Liam: I understand that, but this is very strong, and with wings I could go anywhere.
Matt: Do note. As part of the rogue ability-- I'm just double-checking here, but I'm pretty sure-- The attack must use a finesse or a ranged weapon. Technically I'm allowing-- Actually, no, I'm allowing it to be a finesse.
Liam: You're allowing it? You're allowing it?
Matt: Well, because it's strength or dex. I'm sticking to my choice.
Liam: Okay. So it's light.
Matt: It's not light. It's finesse. Meaning you can choose strength or dexterity.
Mary: I have a question. Last time I saw you, you were looking for the Vestiges.
Laura: Yes.
Mary: Did you find them?
Laura: All of them! All of them! Well, all of them that we know about.
Mary: Do you know what to do with them?
Sam: They are all super powerful, and are awesome, and you'll see them in battle tomorrow.
Laura: That's all we know, is that you fight with them. That's all we know. Why, do you know more?
Mary: Is there any information we can glean from Osysa at all, in Vasselheim, of how to use them?
Laura: Well, it would mean traveling to Vasselheim.
Mary: That's true. Is there any way to get there, just quick and bamf in and just--
Taliesin: Last time we went somewhere quick and bamfed in--
Mary: It was a long time?
Taliesin: Things went poorly. But we could speak to her. We could talk to her.
Laura: One of us could go and bamf back. And be back tomorrow morning.
Will: Well, you said you used them.
Marisha: Yeah, we've been using them
Will: So then you know what they do, for the most part, right?
All: Yeah.
Will: Why waste a trip?
Mary: What if there's a way to combine them?
Marisha: We tried. We put them all in a pile... (laughter)
Will: That didn't work? Piling them on top of each other didn't work?
Sam: They didn't become a robot.
Laura: Not as much as we hoped it would, no.
Marisha: Yeah. There are other Vestiges, too, that are out there.
Liam: You have a potion of haste, yeah?
Laura: Yeah, potion of speed.
Liam: What if you gave me that and I gave you my boots?
Sam: Real quick, who needs the fire protection?
Mary: I don't; I'm resistant.
Marisha: If we have plenty of potions, I'll take it so I don't have to use a concentration spell.
Taliesin: Ditto. My plan is to stay away from the fire, but if I can't, that would certainly help.
Will: My plate is partially fire resistant.
Sam: Vex? You don't need it.
Laura: Fire resistance?
Sam: Didn't I give you that? Oh, I gave you cold resistance.
Laura: Yeah. I need fire resistance.
Sam: What did you give me?
Mary: Chlamydia.
Sam: Acid resistance.
Laura: Oh, yeah, that's right.
Mary: Sorry. I was just in Australia. I got it from a koala. I'm kidding.
Laura: I could take off my bracers--
Liam: It's up to you. I don't want to--
Marisha: There's also the discussion--
Sam: What. More discussions?
Liam: You take the boots, I'm on the potion. I have Whisper and this sword.
Marisha: Are we going to try and lure Thordak out of his lair as a challenger?
Sam: No, we're going to sneak into his lair, right?
Will: You're going to corner it.
Taliesin: He's not going to leave his lair anymore; he knows we're coming
Mary: So, just very briefly, what is the plan?
Sam: The plan, as I understated it, is  we send a vicious army to attack at the gates, all over the place, drawing out Thordak's forces in an epic battle. Blood, sinew, and gore everywhere, while we slip under the city, unbeknownst to Thordak, in the tunnels with the Clasp leading us. Leading us right to the center of town where we pop up, and surprise Thordak! He didn't know we were coming! He thought that there was an army at the gates! And we stab him real quick and leave.
Laura: Done. And we also find whatever it is he's protecting and kill that too.
Sam: And at some point Raishan comes and helps us.
Laura: Hey! What's up?
Will: How you doing?
Laura: I'm really sorry. About all of that.
Will: No, it's no problem. It's great.
Mary: I have a question. Do I know about the machine? Have I been told about that? Did Raishan tell me about that?
Matt: Which one?
Mary: The machine that Thordak is building, or whatever the heck he's--
Matt: Thordak, as far as you know, has let nobody down there, Raishan included. And you have no idea what machinations Thordak is--
Mary: But I do know about it.
Matt: I mean, you know as much as they do. It's come up in conversation previously, yes.
Will: And you said we're going into the tunnels? Does anyone know the way through the tunnels?
Sam: The Clasp does. They're an order of rogues and thieves who hate us. But they're going to help us.
Mary: Do you trust them?
Sam: We totally trust them because they are scoundrels and liars. And we have no other choice.
Taliesin: It doesn't serve them to lie to us.
Mary: This sounds like a wonderful plan!
Will: It doesn't serve the scoundrels and liars to lie and be scoundrels?
Taliesin: It doesn't serve them in this moment, no. You know, if you're always a liar and a scoundrel, then no one will ever trust you to do anything, they're only conveniently liars and scoundrels.
Will: I love this plan, this is great.
Sam: (laughs) It's pretty air-tight.
Will: Yeah. I don't see any room for problems. So you want to go in and corner the dragon where he lives and is most powerful--
Sam: Yes, yes!
Will: His back to the wall, and no escape--
Sam: He can escape at any moment, he can fly.
Will: Just us, though? Not the entire army which we are using as a diversion?
Sam: Just a partial group. Yes!
Will: But the scoundrels are going to lead us to him?
Taliesin: Well, he has his own army.
Will: Of course.
Taliesin: So we need to keep his army distracted so we're not fighting a dragon and an army. So those armies will hopefully either distract the armies or; if he chooses not to send the armies to fight the rest of the armies that we've brought, all of our armies also converge on the dragon's nest and then we have everybody there.
Will: You're engaging all of your forces in one play? If he holds his forces back, why not send in skirmishes to see what happens first?
Laura: Oh, I like this plan. He's good.
Taliesin: No, we have people that we can do for that. Although, it's not just one army we have. We have groups of them, technically. I was just--
Will: Attacking in one place?
Taliesin: Oh, no. All around the city.
Will: Is there a weak point?
Sam: Our plan. (laughter)
Taliesin: Don't you laugh! No! No! You don't get to laugh. That scares us. Sadly, the only weak point is--
Liam: We either go with the shitty hand we've been given, or we lie down and let him steamroll over us.
Marisha: Yes, but we can also try and formulate at least a vague plan, so that we all don't die within a single--
Taliesin: I think this is a vague plan so that we don't all die.
Marisha: All right, okay. Let's build off of what Kash has.
Taliesin: If it's too specific, then it's going to go wrong too quickly--
Marisha: Hang on, hang on. He's right.
Mary: Plus we don't know what to expect. We have to be ready for anything.
Will: We feint the city. Send skirmishes in to feint the city so they don't know where the main attack is coming from. They'll have to defend every wall. What you then do-- what you want them doing, because they're defending the wall, they won't know when the serious attack is coming from. Then you send them towards one fortified position. That would draw everybody to the one fortified position, but that's also a feint. And you come in the backdoor. That's always the way you do it. Meanwhile, we'll take the scoundrels and liars. And hopefully they're going to take us to corner the giant thing that wants to kill all of us, in the place where he is the most powerful.
Laura: Yeah, that one!
Taliesin: I'm actually very okay with this plan.
Sam: We should have him with us always! (laughter)
Mary: I totally agree.
Laura: Do it! Let's do that, let's do that!
Will: Let's do that! Okay! Great plan! Oh my god! Who's in charge? Who's leading your ground forces?
Sam: We have no leader. Except we do have a secret weapon: we have a dragon who definitely wants something that we don't know about. Who might or might not be working with us.
Laura: We also have another secret weapon!
Marisha: We have two dragons.
Sam: We have a sword that is a dragon-slaying sword.
Liam: A whole other dragon.
Marisha: A whole other dragon.
Will: We should just kill each other now and just save the trouble. We got to plan something!
Laura: Scanlan, you do remember the flute, right?
Sam: Yeah, I carry it with me always. I use it all the time.
Laura: I wonder how long it'll take? To bamf over when we play the flute? Is it instantaneous or is it like, it takes a day?
Sam: We'll never know.
Laura: We'll find out. (laughter)
Sam: I'll be dead long before it works.
Taliesin: Six months later, "Where is everybody?" (laughter)
Marisha: I told you we were going to die if we didn't have you.
Will: No, you're going to die even with me! But I'm going to be the guy going, "Hey, we could have planned this better!"
Marisha: Right, yeah.
Mary: I think you've given them a really good plan.
Laura: Yeah, no, that's great! Let's do that!
Taliesin: There is no situation that anyone is going to come up with where we're looking good, and this is going to work well. There's just-- there's a dragon in the middle of the city with an evil army and we have to deal with it, and there's just no positive way to deal with that.
Mary: Are we taking Raishan with us?
Sam: Raishan, I feel like she's going to meet us there.
Marisha: It just seems so highly defeatist to already plan for-- you know, defeat.
Taliesin: It's not planning for defeat. It's recognizing that no matter what, ten minutes into it, everything that we thought we knew is going to be wrong anyway.
Will: At least tell me you're not going to send all your forces in at the same time. You're saving a reserve.
Laura: Of course.
Marisha: Okay. Then we need to talk about the forces that are going in. More armies are talented than others.
Sam: We're not sending them all in?
Taliesin: No, we're not. We are going to surround the city.
Will: I need one supreme general who's going to be in charge of everything. Who stays back as we're attacking.
Laura: Daxio is going to do that.
Mary: All right.
Will: And the men trust him?
Laura: Yes. He's the leader of the army.
Will: Okay.
Taliesin: He's all right.
Marisha: Then we need to get this plan to him.
Laura: Yeah, we need to talk to him.
Taliesin: We have communications.
Marisha: So we're going to have waves of assault from one position, have other people flank in from another position--
Will: And you're attacking a fortified city?
Taliesin: Fortified-ish. Well, the hope is actually-- also we have the 50 men from Fort Daxio. We can bring them in underground as well, and just have them pop up--
Laura: And open the gates?
Taliesin: --all sorts of places. Also open the gates.
Will: So you could bring forces with us to come up in the middle of the city?
Laura: Yeah.
Will: That's good. We should have talked about that in the beginning.
Sam: I also think there's a SWAT team that's available to us.
Taliesin: He thinks there's a SWAT team.
Will: You should-- you should talk less.
Sam: Smile more? (laughter)
Taliesin: I think you smile just the right amount.
Mary: I use my Awakened Mind to speak to Kash telepathically. You can't respond out loud, so don't. You know how I feel about Raishan. You know what I've experienced with her. Keep an eye on her. Don't trust her. If you see anything while we're out there, you let me know and we'll take her out. All right, darling?
Sam: Kash, why are you drooling and staring off into space? (laughter)
Will: Was-- was I drooling?
Sam: Oh, just a little.
Will: That's my bad, I'm sorry.
Laura: You were talking so much a second ago, and--
Will: I was thinking about how I can't wait to die tomorrow. Yeah.
Sam: Well, why don't we finalize this plan tomorrow when we meet with the general who will be-- what, commanding half the forces?
Marisha: I think we need to meet with the general, like, tonight.
Sam: Okay. Let's go.
Marisha: Right now.
Taliesin: Meet or telepathically communicate?
Laura: I think we should send a message through Allura. She can just scribble a note and send it to him.
Taliesin: Also that way, he'll have less time, less effort defying us.
Sam: Why-- why not go talk to him?
Marisha: Yeah. I feel like you can't really scribble an elaborate battle plan in a 25-word message.
Taliesin: It's not written down, it's all telepathic conversation.
Marisha: But the Message spell that Allura is using only allows for very minimal conversation. It's not exactly-- She can't have a full-blown conversation with them.
Matt: It's a long-distance Twitter.
Marisha: Yeah. A hundred percent.
Sam: Let's go to him.
Laura: All right, let's go. Right now. I still think we should eat a Heroes' Feast before we go. Just in case.
Sam: When Vex wants to spend money, I'm in agreement.
Laura: What's the difference, really? Just to be prepared.
Marisha: Well, it blows a spell.
Laura: But the day is almost up. It will protect us all day tomorrow.
Marisha: What time is it?
Matt: After this much conversation, it's getting closer to sunset, probably an hour after--
Sam: Oi, Pike! Can you do a Heroes Feast for us?
Matt: "Sure!" (laughter)
Sam: Thanks, Pike!
Matt: "No problem!"
Mary: You're so tiny, I didn't even see you. (laughter)
Matt: Yeah, she then goes ahead and casts Heroes' Feast. Same cost. Same cost as-- It also cost her 6th-level spell slot. Which I'll mark.
Laura: You don't have to, we have party funds for this, dear.
Matt: All right. So Heroes' Feast has been summoned for you guys.
Laura: Did you just give me 800? I'm just pocketing your 800, and I'm putting it in the party gold. So thank you.
Liam: It's the same thing.
Matt: So you guys are going to speak to Allura, then?
Sam: No. We're doing a Heroes' Feast.
Will: I was told there was brunch.
Mary: I was promised brunch!
Marisha: Do we know exactly where the Syngorn army is? How far away from--
Matt: That, you would have to talk to Allura about. She's acting as the information nexus for everyone. It takes an hour. You all have to sit and devour the meal for an hour, for 12 people.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: For your party, your two allies there, and Gilmore, and Jarett, Drake, anybody else you want to bring along. And as you guys, for the next 24 hours--
Laura: And Trinket.
Sam: Do you need it?
Laura: No.
Will: Wait. That was you at the beginning? (laughter)
Laura: Shh-shhh--
Matt: Kima-- you'd have to choose between Kima or Jarett.
Taliesin: Or Kima or Trinket.
Laura: We have to choose between Kima and Jarett to come? Or to eat?
Matt: To eat. You only have up to 12 people for the meal.
Marisha: Kima. She's in the fray.
Taliesin: Yeah. He can stay back, he has a crossbow.
Matt: All righty, so, that being the case, gonna roll 2d10 to see how much everyone's maximum hit points increases.
Sam: Oh, we don't need to do Grog.
Laura: Yeah, we do.
Sam: He's not here.
Matt: That's a really good roll. That's an eight and a nine. So there you go. All of you gain 17 additional max hit points for the next 24 hours.
Marisha: Wow, that's awesome.
Matt: That's actually really, really good. So keep a note on that.
Laura: And then we're immune to fear and poison, right?
Matt: And you're immune to poison and the poisoned condition.
Sam: And we have advantage on wisdom saving throws.
Matt: All right, I'm marking this here.
Will: I feel so much healthier. And the bacon is great. Fresh lox.
Sam: Zabar's.
Laura: I'm so hungry now!
Mary: Hollandaise wasn't that blender stuff, it was the real thing.
Matt: All right, so you finish your meal. You summon Allura, she comes and enters the room. She looks a little frazzled, a little sleepless, but she's keeping it together. "All right, what do you require?"
Marisha: We were curious if you knew the location of the Syngorn army?
Matt: "Yes, we've been keeping in contact. They look to be arriving about early afternoon tomorrow, at a far enough distance from Emon. Their illusionists have been keeping a blanket in front of the army to dissuade any visibility and giving away their position in advance."
Laura: Oh, that's so comforting.
Will: You have numbers?
Matt: "They are at-- let's see here, they're at 2,000 troops."
Laura: Okay. All right.
Matt: "Give or take, and--"
Marisha: Do you know the status of the other armies?
Matt: "Well, that is the Syngorian force and the three Daxio-- the Dusk regiment, the Tide regiment-- The Dusk, the Gale, and the Tide regiments with the Syngorian forces."
Liam: And all together is 2,000?
Matt: "Yes. A little over 2,000."
Will: Are they all foot?
Matt: "They are all foot, yes. Unfortunately, with the time given, and the transition to and from the Feywild, there was an inability to bring with them most of their beasts of burden and horses. Many of them were left to scatter shortly after the Conclave's attack."
Sam: Is there an elite SWAT team task force?
Matt: "I believe that's-- there is one, and they are called Vox Machina."
Mary: I've heard of them.
Will: Are there shields?
Matt: "They do have shields."
Will: How big?
Matt: "Uh, depends on the regiments. I mean--"
Will: Can we form a phalanx, is my question.
Matt: "I-- Yes, that is--"
Liam: He has been training military in Whitestone.
Matt: "Specifically the Tide regiment is a frontline shield phalanx."
Will: And how big is it?
Matt: "I don't actually have numbers on that. You'd have to talk to Mikael on that. The Warmaster."
Will: And they're going to be attacking a fortified location?
Matt: "Yes, the outer walls of Emon are guarded by a wall. The wall has sustained damage through the Conclave's initial attack and there has not been, as far as I know, intent to rebuild, or at least a force to be able to since then."
Laura: So if we could get in, talk to the Clasp, and have them find a way to open the gates, it would help the armies.
Will: Well, that's the thing, is you'd have to hold the gate once it's open. That's gonna be the hardest part. But 50 men could easily do that.
Laura: Plus the Clasp, which hopefully will be willing to fight.
Sam: Hey, where's our stone golem?
Taliesin: Far away.
Sam: He's gone.
Will: How many-- do we know the numbers that are inside the city?
Matt: "Not specifically. As far as the lizardfolk army-- from what we've heard from Asum, from Brom, from Raishan, the estimates are somewhere in the neighborhood of eight to nine thousand, and at least five to six hundred wyverns that are--"
Will: So we don't control the air?
Matt: "Not on a wide scale, no."
Taliesin: We have a single battleship.
Will: We're attacking a fortified location with no siege engines, outnumbered three to one.
Taliesin: Their fortified location also does not have siege engines, just air force.
Marisha: Their air force is also giant wyvern beasts.
Matt: "Now, understand, lizardfolk are not the most hearty, the most well-trained. They're a chaotic force at best and even the bit of unification they've had under Thordak's banner is thin. You've already had luck cutting down a few of their main sources of tactics; I believe the general that you slew outside of Daxio was one of their main organisers. That's a big blow to their tactic brigade. Who knows who else is in cahoots with Thordak since he took power, but we've been, in previous encounters, chipping away at their capabilities. Thordak also does have under his command a number of fire giants that he brought with him from the Fire Plane. However, you also slew their general."
Will: Are they superstitious?
Matt: "Not to my knowledge, no."
Will: Any type of religion; a devil figure in their religion?
Matt: "There are. They exist among many various devils."
Will: I'm wondering if we have the illusionist drop the shield when the army gets there and create an illusion of one of their giant beasts that they're afraid of on one side of the wall. Scatter fear among all of them.
Taliesin: It could work. The big fear there of course is that they work for a creature they already fear quite a bit.
Laura: I think Thordak might be scarier than any of their gods at this point.
Will: Thordak will be busy, hopefully. We want to move them away from the gate so that the 50 men can come up through the city and hold the gate.
Taliesin: I think a carrot would be easier than a stick. I think it would be better to find a force for them to rush toward, than to find something for them rush away from.
Marisha: Do we know how many spellcasters are in the Syngorn army?
Matt: "I do not have those numbers, unfortunately."
Will: That could be interesting.
Taliesin: More carrot, less stick.
Will: You might not even need to see the soldiers, just the dust rising from their boots.
Mary: And the horses charging, if you can make that kind of illusion.
Marisha: We need to figure out how many spellcasters.
Matt: "That would be a conversation with the Warmaster."
Marisha: They can throw down long-range, large, covering spells.
Sam: Let's go talk to the Warmaster.
Laura: Well we don't know where they'll be exactly until tomorrow.
Matt: "Have that conversation at the ready."
Marisha: All right, hang on, how about this? We know that they're to arrive in Emon by the afternoon. We can just try to connect with them in the early morning and march in with them, then split when we get closer to the gates.
Taliesin: And then meet the 50 men at Greyskull Keep.
Will: Do we have access to anything that goes boom?
Taliesin: A little bit. Do I have anything possibly still leftover at Greyskull, any of my supplies?
Matt: You do have a small cache of blackpowder at your disposal. It's about a cask.
Taliesin: I make it myself, half the time.
Will: A cask in the right place against an already damaged wall could punch a hole.
Taliesin: It could.
Will: And if we're underneath, and the foundation is already weakened, we'd be trapped but the army could get inside.
Taliesin: Do you still have that siege arrow or is that gone now?
Laura: I do, I have a siege arrow. And Grog does extra damage against buildings and walls.
Matt: "Yes I do!" (boom) slams his fists together, and as they hit you hear what sounds like a very localized sound of a rockslide. Just like (boom).
Marisha: Rad.
Taliesin: So we do have a siege arrow which will basically do the damage of-- It's a wall-shatterer. It's designed to bring down stone.
Laura: So it damages stone, specifically? The siege arrow?
Matt: Yes. It damages anything that is liable to siege.
Will: And it can be fired by anybody?
Taliesin: Yes, but it is weirdly weighted and she's probably the one you want firing it.
Laura: I'm a really good archer.
Will: I remember, when I brought you back from the dead.
Laura: Yeah, oh my god thank you so much.
Will: You're welcome, not a problem.
Mary: What am I, chopped liver? I get nothing? I think it was both of us, I believe.
Will: That could be interesting, though.
Taliesin: Yes it could. I'd forgotten about that.
Will: Well because what they'll be expecting is for 50 men to come in and hold the gate. What if holding the gate is actually a distraction? And then we punch a hole through the wall and go in the back door.
Laura: Yes. I like it.
Will: But we're going to be in the tunnel, we're working about the top right now.
Mary: But if we can scatter their forces front and back, we'll have the center to come in underneath, and that way if they figure it out they'll have to come from either side.
Will: The 50 men holding the wall, the chances of any of them getting out are slim, but they're going to know that going in.
Laura: These guys are legit!
Sam: We are the worst people.
Laura: Apparently! Which is terrible. It really, really is.
Will: It's the end of the world, they know what's happened.
Mary: You've been dealing with dragons, we've been thinking about it.
Marisha: I'm still concerned we don't have enough air support for the 500 wyverns.
Mary: I think we might have to let that go.
Matt: Allura chimes in and goes, "As far as I understand, that's part of the reason you're bringing the mages with you."
Marisha: Yes, well I'm thinking--
Taliesin: Ground to air.
Will: How big is the airship?
Marisha: I wasn't wanting to necessarily tap into this resource unless necessary, but I think it's necessary. I can contact the Air Ashari and have them specifically on air support.
Liam: And they can get themselves here quick, like you?
Laura: They can go through trees, instant!
Taliesin: It can hold two dozen people on that ship, right?
Laura: We need all of the Ashari.
Taliesin: It's about three cannonade?
Mary: Is there anyone that could put an illusion on the airship to make it seem like another dragon?
Sam: I could put a slight illusion on it but it'd be pretty easy--
Will: I'm just wondering if there's a way to draw their air force to the airship and then blow it up?
Liam: We also supposedly have a green dragon as an ally.
Sam: Oh yeah!
Laura: I fucking forgot the Ravenites said they would help us, too! I just remembered.
Sam: Well, we sent word to them, didn't we? Didn't we send word to everybody?
Matt: You sent word to a few specific entities, not the Ravenites.
Laura: How long would it take?
Taliesin: Vox Machina, swearing that they're going to call you back for four years. (laughter)
Laura: Fuck. Are they too far?
Matt: They're like a continent away.
Will: Wait, you can bring in air force?
Marisha: I can contact my father at the Air Ashari.
Sam: Do that. We also need to contact Gilmore.
Will: If you control the air, you control the battle.
Matt: "Gilmore is accompanying you, and I believe Kima is going to come along as well".
Taliesin: We also have your friend.
Matt: "The airship we don't know quite exactly where it is and when it will arrive. I don't know if we can count on it being there by the time you make this assault, but they're going there as soon as they can."
Taliesin: It has cannonade as well and it is designed to hold sieges in the air, so it will keep many of them busy, and they're not that bright.
Will: If it's not coming though, you can't count it among them.
Taliesin: We can't count on anything.That would be--
Will: Huge.
Marisha: Can you message Korren?
Matt: "I've not met Korren."
Marisha: Oh, shit.
Matt: "If you could take me to him--"
Marisha: Uh-huh. Yeah, right. Yes. Because we're not leaving until the morning now. Sure, yeah. Oh man (gasps) who wants to go see my hometown, you guys?
Sam: (dubious noise)
Marisha: Okay. You know what? I wasn't looking at you, Scanlan. Okay. I can show you where I went to school!
Mary: Keyleth, we need to get back here as soon as possible.
Will: You went to school? (laughter)
Liam: That was catty.
Taliesin: We were like back in school suddenly, that was great!
Will: I formally apologize.
Taliesin: That went so John Hughes, so quickly. (laughter)
Laura: Are we expecting you back tonight?
Mary: And the rest of us can rest, yes?
Matt: "Rest and prepare for everything you can, for tomorrow this happens." (liquid pouring)
Taliesin: I swear if you're aerating wine under there I'm going to be so upset. (laughter)
Will: I just saw it out of the corner, it was great!
Matt: All you had to do was ask, I'm working toward getting the break, buddy!
Sam: (sigh) Feels so much better!
Mary: Before we go to bed, I would like to talk to Vex very quickly.
Matt: As you guys are going to prepare to make your way to the Air Ashari, Zahra pulls you aside.
Mary: Darling?
Laura: Yes?
Mary: I have major concerns about Raishan. I don't know that we can trust her, I just want you to keep your eyes on her. While you were gone, I tried as hard as I could to glean anything from her, and the closer I thought I got-- I found out that I knew nothing about her. And she knows everything about me.
Laura: She knows everything about all of us, dear.
Mary: Don't trust her.
Laura: Not even for a minute.
Mary: Don't trust her. If it comes to it, I'll go down taking her out.
Laura: I'd rather you didn't.
Mary: So would I.
Laura: I have to do it, I have to insight check Zahra to make sure she's really Zahra!
Sam: Oh shit.
Matt: Make an insight check.
Liam: No that's good. That's good.
Laura: I love you.
Liam: Pretty good.
Taliesin: I can also say there's an easy way to do this--
Matt: Turn that way real fast.
Taliesin: Just go downstairs.
Sam: (in surfer accent) Hey guys, don't forget December's theme is "revolution!" Featuring items from Assassin's Creed, Mr. Robot, Firefly and more! Don't forget to go to lootcrate.com/criticalrole, and enter 'critical role' for 10% off, my bruh!
Matt: That's the worst use of Seeming I've ever seen! (laughter)
Matt: All righty.
Laura: When did you even speak to her?
Mary: While you were gone. You know I've been spending time-- she's been down in the ziggurat.
Laura: Yes?
Mary: So I've seen her. I've seen her form, as I guess you have as well.
Laura: Yes.
Mary: After Rimefang, I sort of became obsessed with dragons.
Laura: I know the feeling. (laughs)
Mary: Yes, it's a wonderful feeling, isn't it? But I also know that she was part of it, and the minute a dragon says 'trust me' is the minute you don't.
Laura: Especially her.
Mary: Especially her. So while you were gone, I tried. I tried to find out as much about Thordak as I could.
Laura: Just know that we don't trust her.
Mary: All right.
Laura: I don't even know if she's really sick.
Mary: I actually believe her in that respect. But Thordak is the only one that can cure her, and if that's the case-- if she believes that-- then we are nothing. We are expendable to her the minute she sees Thordak. That's the carrot that he has put in front of her, is that 'I will heal you', and he hasn't done it yet. I don't think he will.
Laura: I don't think he really can.
Mary: If he does, we're fucked. That's all.
Laura: You're not alone in this, at least.
Mary: Good. That's good.
Laura: She's not our friend.
Mary: She can be persuasive. Thank you, darling.
Matt: You separate for the evening to gather your mind, gather your supplies and prepare for the coming battle. While the rest of you find yourselves resting for the evening, Keyleth and Vax find yourselves walking towards the Sun Tree to make your journey.
Marisha: Is Allura coming with us, too?
Matt: If you want to ask her to come with you.
Marisha: I thought she was.
Matt: I'm sorry, yeah.
Marisha: She doesn't have to.
Matt: You're right, no, she goes with you.
Marisha: Okay, come on, Allura, let's go!
Matt: "Of course! Certainly."
Marisha: It's great, we have these really great crepes that we make. It's like our hometown special.
Matt: "If there's time, I would love to have some. Don't know if we'll have time."
Marisha: Okay, okay!
Matt: So you all walk your way down to the Sun Tree. You open the portal. Immediately on the opposite side you see-- as it is nighttime in this part of Exandria's hemisphere-- what looks to be a beautiful, simple village made of curved wood, almost dome-type structures, but not huts, there's no thatch. They're really well-crafted, long, intricate strips of wood like it's been grown to a specific shape. It creates these interesting domiciles that are all built, you see beyond that, on the edge of a sheer cliff, and the minute you step through the wind hits you. There is a strong wind immediately on the outside of this tree, and you feel your cloak being blown to the side. You look over behind the tree that you just stepped out of, and it's another cliff that vanishes into darkness below. The Air Ashari village of Zephrah lies at the very top of this mountain range. For a brief second, you get vertigo, glancing over your shoulder. Keyleth steps through with a big smile on her face. You see Allura step through, and as soon as she sees this happen she clasps and keeps her hair down, not wanting to be like you right now with your hair (blowing) in the wind. You take a few steps toward the village. Probably close to 100 homes at most, built into the mountainside. It goes up into a hill with trees that surround the outskirts of it. You see small lights that are lit throughout so it has this firefly feel glimmering through. As soon as you step maybe ten or 15 feet from the tree, the wind just stops.
Liam: What happened to the wind?
Marisha: I mean, we're Air Ashari, we don't have to live in a hellscape our whole lives! Come on, we control it, it's great! (sighs) Doesn't it smell good? It smells so fresh up here, you know? You don't have to deal with the pollution down there. Oh look! Over there, that's where I learned to shapeshift into a squirrel for the first time--
Matt: "Keyleth? Keyleth. We're here on business--"
Marisha: Yeah no, then let's start walking!
Matt: "Please lead on."
Marisha: Okay, yeah. And over there was the first time that my dad taught me how to fly. He just pushed me off the cliff--!
Liam: I have my hand on her back and I just start--
Matt: (laughing) Pushing her forward? You eventually make your way back. There are a number of trees that are grown through some of the buildings, or buildings are built around them, or from them. It's a very beautiful, simple, natural-looking series of structures that are all so smooth in their design that it was obviously bent with some druidic magic to craft this space. Currently there is nobody you see visible walking through the city, most everything is closed off for the night. The little lantern-like lights you saw before are coming from the inside of these buildings.
Marisha: It's a quiet mountain town, everything closes at like five, it was actually annoying growing up.
Mary: You live in South Pointe?
Liam: That explains so much. (laughter)
Marisha: I told you it was remote!
Matt: I want both of you to roll a perception check.
Marisha: 14 total.
Liam: 22.
Matt: Okay. As she's talking and you guys are walking, you notice a little dark spot, just covering past the stars, arcing quickly in your direction.
Liam: I spin her around and tilt her head back. What's that? Do you know what that is? Is that normal?
Marisha: Do I know what that is, is that normal?
Matt: Once you see it, you recognize the trajectory of it. This is a person rocketing toward you.
Marisha: Oh, that's a person! (laughter)
Marisha: No really, is this normal?
Matt: It's normal for you, because this is a person riding a skysail.
Marisha: Oh, it is normal for me? Oh, like a--? Yeah!
Matt: As the person swoops up and then lands-- it's a sort of glider. It resembles a pogo stick in the fact that feet are placed on top of it, and elements are grasped on the side. It's a large, leather-winged structure that immediately folds up and is held like a staff to the side.
Liam: Whoa, that's nifty! Hi!
Matt: Standing before you is Korren, your father.
Marisha: Dad!
Matt: He looks surprised. He lands in a very aggressive, coming-to-see-what's-going-on-type way, and as soon as he looks, "Keyleth! I wasn't expecting--"
Marisha: Hi! Village looks great! I see you guys have been keeping up with the landscaping, this is awesome. Hi, how are you?
Matt: He hugs you, but it's a tense hug and he pats your shoulder. "We're good. I--"
Marisha: What's wrong?
Matt: "Well, things as they are, I know you're probably here for not a passing visit. Am I correct in this assumption?"
Marisha: I mean, I guess you could say it was going to be passing in that we don't have a lot of time. We're here to ask for help, for the Air Ashari's aid.
Matt: "We were waiting for specific word based on our last conversation. We have ways of finding information about what's going on in the world, with the armies that have been mounting making their way towards Emon we've been keeping a watch on the gathering energy toward the west coast of Tal'dorei. We were preparing ourselves. So if you've come to ask for our aid, we're ready."
Marisha: Why do I sense trepidation in your voice?
Matt: "Because we know what we face. Because my daughter is going to war against something that we watched tear through the countryside not long after you were born. I'm just concerned as a parent. That is all."
Marisha: You sent me on this path to prove myself worthy and a hero. I'm following what I thought you wanted of me.
Matt: "You are, and I'm proud of you. I just want to do what I can to help safeguard that."
Marisha: I will continue my duties as I promised from the beginning.
Matt: "Of course".
Marisha: As those supersede being your daughter.
Matt: "Of course."
Marisha: And I am here for unfortunate reasons, and I wish I wasn't. We need the best. We need as many of the top soldiers that we have. I'm looking at you, at my people, for air support. There's about five, maybe six hundred, maybe even more wyverns covering the city. So far we don't have a lot of options.
Matt: "We know wyverns well, that's the good news. We can probably facilitate this request."
Marisha: I was hoping maybe some of the best nature manipulators could create a hazardous storm ahead of time? See what we can do to take out as much in bulk.
Matt: "We can do that. Yeah."
Sam: (whispering) She went to school.
Marisha: I know, I got educated!
Matt: "We can do that. When is this set to happen?"
Marisha: Tomorrow afternoon.
Matt: "All right, we'll get our conjurers together and begin building a storm front. We'll send it mid-day tomorrow. Then what sign should we look for to enter the fray?"
Marisha: Oh shit.
Sam: Just anything.
Liam: A flare, we have flares. Kiki, we have flares.
Marisha: We have flares. (laughter)
Matt: "Very well." (laughter)
Marisha: We're spitballing this as we go, dad. So we can work on a sign together, right?
Matt: "Sure, I mean, if we're creating a sky of rain and darkness, just make the sky itself a sign."
Marisha: I can do that.
Matt: "All right. Something I'd know, something I'd recognize."
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: "We'll go in there and tear as many of those wyverns as we can to the ground."
Liam: You're not alone, there is an army of elves marching as we speak.
Marisha: The Syngorn army.
Matt: "We've seen them traversing. Their illusions are strong but their illusions are faced towards the city. We have the luxury of knowing their magic. So, yes."
Marisha: With all due respect, if you have seen through their illusion, does that mean-- I'm sure many of Thordak's spies could do the same?
Matt: "It depends on who he has on his side. I hope that's not the case."
Marisha: Yeah, me too. Are you going to come as well?
Matt: "I do not wish to live in a world where the dangers that continue to press upon the free peoples of this or any land draws my daughter to the front lines to fight, kill, and possibly die, and I stay back and do nothing. So yes, I will be there." MARISHA What about Zephrah? What about the village? Who is going to watch it while you're gone?
Matt: "We have enough to spare for this and protect our people. Besides, as you well know, the protections in this village prevent wayward fliers."
Marisha: Okay. This is Vax, by the way.
Matt: "We've met."
Marisha: Yeah, you have.
Matt: "Good to see you."
Marisha: He came with me. So--? Yeah. See you tomorrow, I guess?
Matt: "See you tomorrow."
Liam: A great many people are grateful for your aid, as am I.
Matt: "And I'm grateful for yours."
Liam: You're a good man.
Matt: "Prove to me you're one as well." (laughter)
Taliesin: Cleaning the shotgun.
Matt: "But we have a lot to plan, I'm sure you do as well."
Marisha: Yes.
Matt: "Good night." He pulls you in and kisses you on the forehead, and gives you a long look.
Marisha: I just give him a big hug in response.
Matt: He holds you there for a second, then looks back over at you as he's holding her.
Liam: I just nod my head.
Marisha: I miss you, Dad.
Matt: "I miss you, too. When all this is done, do you still intend to finish your Aramente? Do it quickly. Come back to us, please. You're missed."
Marisha: You have my word. I won't let you down.
Matt: "I know. Anyway." He slams on the ground and the leather flares out into arcing-looking fingers, and he steps on.
Marisha: Are these the new models? They've really upgraded them.
Matt: "No, you've just been gone for a while."
Marisha: Have I been gone that long?
Matt: "You've been gone a while."
Marisha: Well, they look great!
Matt: "Thank you."
Marisha: Okay, all right, okay, bye.
Matt: "Good night." As the wind picks up under him, the skysail begins to lift and glide off. He heads back toward the village.
Liam: That is fucking cool. We should get out of here.
Marisha: Yeah, we should.
Liam: Allura?
Matt: "Yes, I believe we should. Well, it was nice to meet him."
Marisha: Yeah, that's right. Sorry, I should have introduced you, I guess.
Matt: "I was waiting." (laughter)
Matt: "As are the expected pleasantries of diplomacy. But it seems you had it all taken care of, so it's fine."
Marisha: Sorry, I got distracted by talking to you as my father and not as Allura!
Liam: It was so weird though, you were standing directly behind him. (laughter)
Matt: "It's all right, don't worry, it is a bit cold, if we could get back please?" She's rubbing her shoulders and arms a bit.
Marisha: That was my dad, let's go.
Matt: All right, you guys head back, exiting out the Sun Tree, making your way back.
Liam: I catch her by the arm. I can't wait to come back. Let's go!
Marisha: When we come back, I'll have to show you the first time I--
Liam: Let's go! Let's go, please! (laughter)
Matt: You make your way back to castle Whitestone, preparing your materials, your weapons, your minds and your disposition for the coming war tomorrow.
Taliesin: I have a quick thing!
Sam: Shit, Taliesin, shit!
Taliesin: I knock on Vex's door. I have a bag, and I go to Vex's door and knock on her door.
Laura: Hello, who is it?
Sam: It's a bag of dicks.
Taliesin: You're terrible. It's me, I have something to show you.
Laura: (faux surprise) Percy?
Taliesin: No, I'm an evil green dragon, let me in.
Laura: Are you here for our later talk?
Taliesin: No this is a very-- open the door, I have something to show you.
Laura: Fine. I open the door completely naked!
Marisha: Ooh!
Laura: What was it, dear?
Marisha: (laughs) It's a power play, I love it!
Taliesin: I don't remember but it was mostly to head in this direction. Can I come in?
Laura: Sure, of course! Would you like to talk before, or after?
Taliesin: I open the bag. (laughter)
Taliesin: I pull out the first bottle. This is called Dire Heart. I pull out the second one. This we simply call Courage. I pull out the third one. And this is a snow mead. And this is Green Tear Whiskey.
Liam: Drink the Courage one now.
Taliesin: We're going to start with the Courage and not talk about dragons. And I run in and shut the door. You just stepped on the whole thing, didn't you? (laughter)
Matt: That was beautiful!
Mary: I can't wait for the artwork! (laughter)
Taliesin: I will be expecting labels for all of them.
Liam: You can't always be in control, Percy.
Taliesin: No, I can't. It's beautiful.
Mary: Not when Vex is around.
Matt: Awesome. While you guys rest, most of you rest for the evening, we're going to go ahead and take a restroom break. We'll be back here in a few minutes to continue the story. Stick around for the break for a wonderful video message from Patrick Rothfuss about the Worldbuilders charity that we're supporting. Information will be coming up here shortly. See you in a bit! [break]
Matt: And welcome back, everyone, to Critical Role, as we come back from the break. We will have a winner from the chat room giveaway from our friends at Wyrmwood. We are giving away an awesome English Wych Elm Burl Personal Dice Tray winner if you guys were in chat. It's actually, this is really cool. If I pull it out of the box there. It's got a leather interior, it's awesome. And it goes to Jaanro. (cheering)
Matt: So we'll get that to you very soon. Go ahead and make sure to contact some of the crew here, or the mods, and get your information to get this out to you ASAP, so congratulations. And thank you once again, Wyrmwood, for making this possible.
Marisha: And by ASAP we mean as soon as we get out the other 20 packages we need to get out and then you're in the queue! Welcome to being in line.
Taliesin: It's like the kickstarter you didn't sign up for. It's coming!
Marisha: I didn't want this.
Matt: All right! So, coming back into our game. Get my music situated here. [very loud music] Oh my, volume! So, as you all slowly come to consciousnesses the following morning, well-rested for the most part. You gather your supplies, you prepare whatever else you prepared before, making your way to the coming battle. So, what do you guys want to do?
Sam: Go to the coming battle?
Mary: Yes.
Matt: All right, if you have all your things situated, you wait throughout the day, anxiously, eating your meal, looking to--
Liam: Why is the music so--
Matt: The music is intense here.
Liam: Is he here now?
Sam: I attack Zahra!
Mary: I use Witch Bolt on Scanlan!
Taliesin: It's like that random Final Fantasy encounter just happened and you're like, I only got ten feet.
Marisha: I just got out of the shop. Just got out.
Mary: And in that moment, we fall in love.
Will: If it's the final fantasy, why are there 14 of them?
Marisha: Every J-RPG.
Matt: We're fixing the audio. (loud wind instruments)
Matt: I don't think this is mine, either.
Sam: Is this just a radio station that we're picking up?
Will: You're listening to the sounds of Whitestone.
Mary: On WNBC radio!
Will: This is dragon radio. Giving a shout-out to the Conclave, Vox Machina...
Matt: Okay. I think we're at my tracks. Okay. Thank you for your patience. I need my music. It's just a thing; I need to have it there. I can't focus and dungeon master if I forget the music. What? So, thank you, guys. Pushing through the day, working through the antsiness of the coming conflict. Allura, communicating back and forth, gets word that the forces have gathered, temporarily set up camp to arm themselves and prepare for the battle once sundown hits. Warmaster Mikael Daxio is awaiting your arrival.
Laura: I have a question. I have a question. I'm going to attune the Boots of Haste that I took from my brother just now.
Liam: That your brother gave to you.
Laura: That my brother gave to me. And if I un-attune my Coldsnap Armor, do I just lose the cold resistance?
Matt: And any sort of armor bonus that it gave you. I mean, you would still have the armor. Like, if it's leather armor, it would give you a bonus of two to your AC. But if it's a plus two armor, you would lose the plus two on top of the actual armor.
Laura: That's a big drop. I'm going to take my bracers off, then.
Matt: Okay, so you're doing two less damage per attack.
Laura: Yes.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: That's smarter. That's wise.
Mary: I'm going to attune my Charred Dark Staff.
Matt: All right. Good.
Marisha: And I'm going to go ahead and attune to my cape, instead of my ring.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: I'm attuning the dragon sword, and I want to use it a little bit just so I don't get pantsed in the moment. Does it work all right; am I all right with this? It's awfully large.
Matt: It's bigger than what you're used to.
Liam: Yeah.
Will: Do you want to spar?
Matt: But even still--
Taliesin: It won't do a bonus to him. He's not a dragon.
Liam: I mean, I'd like to, but do we have time?
Matt: You could give it a shot.
Liam: Yeah, sure.
Matt: All right, so the two of you square off briefly out in the streets just outside of the guard barracks.
Laura: I whisper in my brother's ear.
Liam: What?
Laura: Just be careful because-- What? What?
Liam: Nothing. What were you going to say?
Laura: Be careful; I think he has a grudge against you.
Liam: For what?
Laura: Just go. You'll be great.
Will: Am I fighting you or your sister?
Liam: It's really the same thing, at all times.
Mary: I use Awakened Mind and I say, Kash, go easy on him.
Laura: (laughs) Oh, shit.
Will: We're going easy. I just want to make sure that you and your blade are one before you go into battle. It's a bad time to find out you don't know how to use it.
Liam: I poke him in the knee with my sword. (laughter)
Matt: Roll an attack.
Liam: That is-- Is this a sneak attack?
Matt: No.
Liam: No, it's just 28.
Matt: All right, so yeah. So, as you say that, he smiles, and before you even notice, you hear a ping! and you feel a slight vibration into your lower pauldron, and you look down and the sword has not hurt you, but it has definitely pierced the plates behind the armor and he's showing, he's posturing that he already has availability with the blade between your armor.
Will: Interesting.
Liam: I jump back five feet. (laughter)
Will: I Flame Strike! No, I'm kidding. (laughter)
Liam: Evasion!
Will: Just jump right to it.
Matt: "Where's Vox Machina?" "Well, um. They killed each other. It's weird." (laughter) So as you both stand there, in a moment, squaring off, the tension still in the city from the coming event, but people are starting to look out and gather. They're having a "Morpheus is fighting Neo" moment as people are starting to pull others from nearby buildings, and gather in a small circle around.
Marisha: Yeah, I go up to Vex, and go  why-- Why is this happening? Is this happening for, like, a-- Did they tell you-- Did they tell you the reason?
Laura: They're fighting over you, darling. They're fighting over you.
Marisha: I can tell-- I've been with you for a long time. I can tell when you're lying to me.
Laura: They both professed their love and now they're fighting.
Marisha: Now you're patronizing me.
Liam: (calls) We're really not that far away! Are we going to do this? You ready?
Will: I'm ready when you are.
Matt: Who's making the first move?
Liam: Me. Are we doing initiative or attacks? I don't even know what this is?
Matt: The initiative was whoever said "me" first, so.
Marisha: I didn't know how badly I wanted this until now.
Taliesin: Boy, I did.
Liam: Oh, man, what are we fighting to? Here we go. So that is the first and that is-- I'm going to use Luck.
Marisha: You're about to fight a fucking dragon! You're fighting Kash!
Matt: You do realize-- You only have-- You're spending your Luck for--
Liam: I spent it already. Just so we're clear, everybody-- I'm going to switch back to Liam-- This is a game! This is a game. Which camera's on me? This is a game!
Will: Your fun is wrong.
Mary: Your fun is very wrong.
Liam: So it's an 18.
Matt: An 18. What's your armor class? With your shield?
Will: My armor class is 20.
Matt: As you go to strike with the sword--
Liam: That's the first one.
Matt: Yes. With your sword. And so now you're attacking with your--?
Liam: Natural 20, with Whisper.
Matt: With Whisper, okay. All right. So, as he swings with the sword, with your shield you deflect it off to the side and you're about to bring your spear through for your own strike. However, he's suddenly much closer than you expected, and you feel the blade shirk the side of the armor. So for the purposes of this, we're not rolling damage because it's to spar--
Liam: Thank you.
Matt: But the blade hits and pokes just enough where you know that's maybe-- That's where the kidney is.
Will: Right, okay.
Matt: And in that brief moment, you see the little creeping smile up the side of his mouth. You go ahead and roll your attack now, Kashaw.
Will: 18.
Matt: Plus?
Will: Plus, well, if I'm using my-- I don't want to use the shadow spear. Should we use-- Let's not do nec damage on him, let's think. It's just a regular plus two, right?
Liam: So what is he at?
Matt: 20.
Liam: Nope.
Matt: Well, it's a plus two spear. What's your attack bonus altogether?
Will: Oh, with the attack bonus is plus ten.
Matt: So that's 28.
Will: 28 to you, yeah.
Liam: Oh, that definitely hits.
Matt: Yeah, so, after you get the blade there, there's that moment of posturing. How do you deflect him off?
Will: I think, yeah, the blade comes in, he's got his spear, so as the blade comes in, he slaps his arm away and just takes it right lightly across the chest so it just cuts into the little bit of fat.
Matt: Just-- (slicing noise). You back away and you see two of the mantle-like dark feathers of your armor, the very tips just go-- (puff)
Will: And then I look at you and go  one-one. (laughter)
Mary: I cast Eldritch Blast, two beams, right in front of either one of them.
Matt: As you guys are having this moment, all of a sudden the ground detonates before you. In a haze of greenish-white arcane energy, you see now these small basketball-sized concave blast craters in the ground before each of you, and right off to the side you see Zahra standing, staff in one hand, hand before her with the other.
Liam: Oh, you do have two different color eyes. They're so nice.
Mary: I use Thaumaturgy to go fire with my eyes.
Will: We're just playing.
Mary: All right, boys. Enough. I appreciate it.
Liam: All right, we'll play slap and tickle later.
Mary: Your fun is wrong. Play slap-tickle later. Let's do this.
Liam: Anyway, sword works. Sure.
Matt: All right, you sheath the sword. So you guys gather the rest of your materials together.
Taliesin: We still have that spare sword that was just that standard rapier that was just in the bag before from the general, correct?
Laura: Grog has the Bag of Holding, and I don't know what's in it.
Taliesin: I think we have it. We still have just a very standard nothing, where it's barely a plus one--
Matt: Yeah, it's barely enchanted.
Liam: What'd you need it for?
Taliesin: Just in case someone gets close enough to me that it's complicated.
Liam: I have a shortsword, but that sounds better.
Taliesin: It's probably better. It's whatever Stonefell had.
Matt: Shortsword is dex-based, so you're going to probably want to run with that.
Marisha: I need to roll really fast to recharge my Spire. So I'm going to do that, real fast.
Matt: All right. And actually, you should roll to recharge your wand.
Marisha: It goes all the way up. It is full again.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: I rolled four plus four.
Matt: Twice, actually, for two nights of rest, so.
Will: "My spire's full."
Mary: "So is mine."
Sam: Seven. So I'm back up to normal.
Matt: Okay. All righty. As you guys are preparing, Gilmore comes out. He's usually dressed in his usual casual flowing robes. Or his wizard tracksuit-type outfit. The outfit you see on him, it's more ornamental. And it's, specifically more so than you've seen him wear, it has a very similar design and presentation of some of the more noble individuals you saw wandering Marquet, Ank'Harel in particular. He seems to be going more ceremonial than you're used to seeing Gilmore.
Laura: What color are the robes?
Matt: Oh, they are very much purple and gold. He keeps to his aesthetic. But the design is definitely ceremonial; different than anything you've seen him wear.
Marisha: Wow.
Liam: Full Bollywood.
Marisha: Yeah, that's what I was thinking about!
Sam: Is it his old boy scout uniform or what?
Matt: It's a long mantle that travels down to the lower part of his torso, where his arms come out from these long sleeves that come to a fine point at the ends. He still has all of his jewelry on, but where the belt is you can see it's a very thick, heavy belt that like ties to a bow in the center, almost like a reverse kimono that comes to a square point. And the robe itself drops low and flows behind him as he walks. It's really pretty. As he walks in, he's holding himself with the Gilmore air, but you can still see a bead of sweat down his head and a little bit of nervous energy. "Very well, I guess today's the day."
Taliesin: Be pleased.
Sam: How are we going to get there?
Matt: "Be pleased."
Will: Are we speaking to the general first?
Sam: Yeah, we're going there first. But not via a tree, we have to go via something else.
Laura: Why not via a tree?
Sam: Is there a tree on the battlefield where they are?
Laura: Well, it's not a battlefield.
Marisha: I will be able to find out when we scry. If not, we'll have to talk to Allura. I'm going to scry real quick! Scrying Eye.
Matt: Who are you scrying on?
Marisha: Can't hide from my scrying eyes. Your dad. What's his name? Syldor, okay.
Taliesin: Syldor the inevitably disappointed. That's his full title.
Matt: Okay, you scry Syldor. You have a bit of a flash of green, lots of green, endless green. Your vision jumps into a familiar warm home. You see Syldor nervously sitting with his daughter on his knee, and they're talking. Syldor is back in Syngorn. Syldor isn't a fighter, Syldor is a diplomat.
Taliesin: Oh, that's fair.
Laura: Right, right.
Will: Did you see them? Where are they?
Marisha: Happy and healthy and comfortable by a fire.
Will: The whole army is happy and healthy and comfortable by a fire?!
Marisha: No, he's not with the army is what I mean. Oh shit. I thought he was going to be with the army.
Taliesin: It's okay we have plan B. Let's go deal with plan B.
Marisha: Okay, I'll scry again.
Taliesin: Or we can make Allura do it.
Marisha: Allura, do you know where they are?
Laura: She can take us to Daxio?
Matt: "I don't know specifically where they are." And she sits for a second and sets up a rush job of a scry ritual, 'cause now she feels she's been put on the spot. But she puts it together.
Marisha: Can I help her a little bit?
Matt: Yeah, you give her a little aid. You pay it back to the last time you helped her with a scry spell, back when you first met in Emon. And her eyes blink over white again, cloudy. And she returns. "All right, I see Mikael and the army gathered, and there is a very energetic air to them. They're looking restless. I can bring eight of you with me."
Sam: Well, are there any trees near them?
Matt: "There are, yeah."
Marisha: The problem is it generally has to be a tree that I'm familiar with.
Sam: If you go with her, you'll be familiar with the tree.
Marisha: It doesn't work that way.
Laura: Question, if you go and you open up a path to the Sun Tree, can people on this side run through the Sun Tree?
Marisha: Can I? That's an excellent question, can I?
Matt: Wait, so if you Transport via Plants--
Marisha: Like if I go with Allura and then open a gate through the Sun Tree, and they're just ready to rock.
Taliesin: Do you have a Sling Ring?
Marisha: Oh, damn it. Fucking lost my Sling Ring.
Matt: It does; it connects the plants on both sides. (cheering)
Marisha: Hey! I'll do that. Does anyone else want to go, just in case?
Laura: Yeah, the eight of us need to go. And then how many is that left?
Matt: "That would leave--"
Sam: Four?
Matt: "Then Grog, Pike and Gilmore. And Kima. And Jarett. Yeah, we could bring everybody."
Laura: And Drake?
Matt: "Is Drake coming?" And she looks off to the side, and you see this little figure running down from the castle at the top, carrying all this shit in his arms. "Hold on! I'm--" And you watch him just eat shit. He just tumbles; scatters. Gets up and is like, "No one saw that!" Picks it back up, runs back down and catches up.
Taliesin: Are we supposed to get something from the-- Oh god, we were supposed to-- Weren't we supposed to grab something earlier? My brain is just turning to mush.
Sam: We got it already.
Taliesin: Oh, we got it already; never mind, that's right.
Laura: Yeah, yeah, yeah. He gave it to us.
Marisha: Where's Raishan, though?
Liam: Yeah. Are we going to talk to what's-her-butt?
Sam: She'll find us. She's not our problem. She's not our problem. We're not babysitting a dragon.
Taliesin: In fact, if anything, the less we speak to her at this point, probably the better.
Will: And you're sure she's coming?
Matt: "Don't worry; she's coming." And you hear another dwarven voice from the side, as you glance out you see there's standing not too far from you, arms crossed, Larkin. (cheering)
Liam: Buddy! Where have you been!? I've been fucking worried sick! You were there; you were gone. How'd you even get back here?
Marisha: Vax, please, don't--
Liam: Listen, I'm fucking with you. All right? What's up, green bean?
Matt: "So, are we ready for this?"
Taliesin: No.
Matt: "Didn't think so. Let's do it."
Sam: So you all go; I'll stay with these ragtag group and sit by the tree and get ready.
Laura: All right.
Marisha: All right.
Matt: Allura grabs you, and takes Kima, and the rest of the group that she can, and over time you guys manage to get-- we'll say for the sake of brevity here-- everyone back over to the war camp itself. And it is a fair-sized war camp. And what's interesting is as you're within this camp, you look up, and in a similar way, the illusion barrier that surrounds Whitestone, that very, very faint shimmering effect, is present, but it's much stronger and it's much more visceral in the way that it alters the visuals. It looks like the sky is this perpetual shifting kaleidoscope of colors. The blue sky becomes green, becomes purple, becomes red; it just constantly shifts like the surface of a pond that's been perpetually rippling. And you see on the outskirts of the war camp, this rotating guard of illusionists that are taking time to just restore and maintain this illusion, as everyone else is eating, polishing their weapons and armor. You see a mix of elven warriors, elven archers, and, very similar to the Daxio soldiers you met earlier, but armor of different crests, signifying the different regiments. It doesn't take you too long to eventually come upon, and be led to, the tent where Mikael is, the Warmaster himself. The Warmaster, I do not believe you've met before, personally. As you enter and look within, you can see the Warmaster-- It sets you off at first, because he does resemble his son. His son, who you did not have quite a positive experience with. He's an older elvish man. His hair just past shoulder-length, but pulled into a very, very tight ponytail in the back, with a few strands that fall in front of his face. He has a very, very strong jaw for an elf. He's a thick and well-built warrior and holds that with both a strength, and commanding respect, and everyone around him definitely looks up to him. You can immediately see why he's the Warmaster and how he's held that position for so long. And you also wonder, one, how his son fell so hard, and two, how it must have affected him. But in that instant as you enter, he's in the process of having a conversation, and they have a layout of what looks to be a brief sketch of Emon in its current state, with a few things here and there marking where most of the gathered elements of the army, whatever you'd call it, the defense of Emon, exists. And as you all begin to enter the tent, he goes, "Oh, hello. I know of you, and I've been expecting you. Allura has been kind enough to fill me in, in bits and pieces, but as far as I am to understand, you're our strike force?"
Laura: The elite SWAT team, heading in there.
Matt: "Good to know this. We've been walking for quite some time, and the soldiers have had a bit of rest. If we could, we would take an additional day, just to put it at our most capable, but it seems time is not at our beck and call in this situation, and as such, when the sun is down, I think that is the agreed-upon time to strike."
Sam: At sundown. All right, sure. Yeah, yeah, sure.
Taliesin: Most of these soldiers have, at least, night vision, some form of darkvision, I assume.
Matt: "Most of the Syngorian army does, and we have quite a few at Daxio that do as well."
Will: (flatly) How are you going to attack?
Laura: This is Kashaw.
Will: Hi. How are you going to attack?
Matt: "Pleasure to meet you as well. So. We have broken up the regiments into five different segments. We're going to separate, leading into the initial strike. We're going to simultaneously hit the four main gates, the north, south, east, and west side. The easternmost gate has already received quite a bit of damage. With all the simultaneous strikes, we're hoping to draw most of the army to the outer circles of the city. We're going to utilize this time to then shift our forces southward and instead push towards a singular gate in a southward position, while they're scattered in that direction. If I'm to understand what Allura has told me, you are going to be entering from underneath the city?"
Taliesin: That is the plan.
Matt: "And attempting to facilitate the opening of one or more of these gates in doing so?"
Laura: That would be swell if we can, huh?
Matt: "That would be."
Taliesin: We haven't really discussed it, but--
Laura: No, no, no, but we have talked about doing it.
Taliesin: Or even breaching the south gate alone would be-- If all four gates are being--
Will: Any time we go out and we attack a gate, they're going to bring all of their forces to that gate. What they're not going to be suspecting is a wall being ripped down. And once you open a wall, you can't close it. You can close a gate.
Laura: What's the weakest wall?
Matt: "That would be the eastern wall."
Taliesin: It's also near Greyskull Keep.
Mary: Oh, that's the arrow that you're going to use, yes.
Matt: "While we are not in a position to use siege weaponry, we do have most of our mages at our disposal, and they have prepared a modicum of siege-based arcane spells at their disposal. So I do not think piercing the outer wall will be an issue. It's what lies beyond it that our focus is going to be: sow confusion, separate and destroy. They are not a very well-organized army, and most of the creatures we've seen wandering the skies do so with nothing but bloodlust and the intent to rend and tear as their main driving force and goal. So, utilizing that technique-- And we've discussed, you'll be entering the walls; we'll be pushing forward, phalanx method with those that are shielded. We will be piercing through and scattering from the inside, breaking their ranks as much as possible, and doing our best to stay out of the skies, using alleyways, using small streets. We don't want our men being plucked out from the middle, from their air support."
Laura: We will have air support.
Marisha: I called in assistance from the Air Ashari, from the north. They're maintaining the skies.
Matt: "The Ashari are aiding us as well?"
Will: Do you know how many?
Marisha: Did dad tell me how many?
Matt: He said roughly a hundred.
Marisha: Oh, shit. Thanks, dad. Roughly a hundred.
Will: If I can make a suggestion? If you get into the city, don't move through the alleys. You're going to scatter your forces. Move into the city and fortify a position. So then you've opened a gate inside the city. Move the command center inside the city, and defend from there.
Matt: "That is indeed part of our push, however, we are rather vulnerable from the air. So with the Air Ashari giving us air support, that will allow us the ability that we need to push forward as a singular unit, from unit to unit, in its own right. You are entering from where?"
Sam: The sewers.
Laura: Yes. We have a secret entrance in our keep, if we can still access it. If not, there is an entrance to the sewers towards the water. We were told of it by the Clasp, right?
Sam: I've also used a tunnel to get out, at some point.
Marisha: That's right, when you were looking for Kaylie.
Matt: That was Westruun.
Sam: It's the same sewer system, though, right?
Mary: It's the same basic layout of a city, yeah, right?
Laura: Wait, wait, the Traverse Junction. What's the Traverse Junction?
Matt: "The Traverse Junction is-- was-- is, as far as I know, still attached to the Lyceum, but--"
Sam: The Lyceum's unguarded!
Matt: "The Lyceum is partially destroyed, and is filled with the remains of the enemy."
Sam: I remember that.
Laura: That's not what I meant, then. That wasn't the thing that I meant to say.
Marisha: And we know Thordak has made an underground basin. He only emerges when someone challenges him, or offers their loyalty.
Mary: Were we supposed to meet the Clasp in a specific place?
Sam: We've just got to get to a sewer.
Mary: So we just need to find a sewer and then we're going to reconnoiter with-- Is that the right word? Anyway-- with the Clasp. And at that point, we shall make our way through--
Matt: All right.
Will: And that's when the thieves and liars will take us to the thing that's going to kill us all? We're very excited about the plan.
Matt: "I can tell."
Will: Yeah. Do we have the 50 soldiers we need, or do we need to ask them for 50?
Sam: Did they ever show up? Did the 50 soldiers from Fort Daxio show up?
Matt: "I had heard that Daxio had fallen. There are survivors?"
Laura: Well. There were. There were about 55 soldiers.
Matt: "They haven't found their way to us yet, then. We'll keep an eye out."
Taliesin: They might be headed towards Greyskull, if I recall. I believe they were heading there.
Laura: That's true. They should be crossing paths very shortly.
Taliesin: 50 men can move quietly.
Laura: So after you cut through all of the lizardmen like butter, you'll make your way to Thordak?
Matt: "That's the intent, to push in towards the Cloudtop. And, based on how well you and/or any of the air forces have been able to puncture the defenses, push in towards the creature itself and unleash everything we have at the beast. As far as I know and have been told, from some of the remaining members of the Council, they have a few members still within the city. I believe Tofor Brotoras, Seeker Asum, and Brom Goldhand are still within the city."
Sam: Well, not Asum. We know where he is.
Laura: And Brom.
Mary: I thought Brom was at Whitestone.
Laura: Don't say that word out loud.
Mary: I said it to you, quietly.
Laura: Yeah, very quietly.
Taliesin: We'll gather what we can. We don't really know what's actually in there, yet.
Marisha: And we can't trust anyone within the city limits.
Matt: "Understood."
Will: Do you have a time frame? For your attack?
Matt: "We are intending, once the men have been fed, once the men have been able to rest and prepare their armaments, we were going to attack upon sundown, yes."
Will: And you plan to breach the city when?
Matt: "Hopefully within the first hour of the attack."
Will: Really?
Matt: "That's the intent."
Will: How far do you think we can make it in the tunnels in an hour?
Taliesin: Pretty far, to be honest, especially if we're-- Well, no that's--
Sam: 20 blocks.
Will: You making that number up?
Sam: Yep.
Will: You just pulled that out of nowhere.
Sam: Absolutely.
Taliesin: It's the highest number he knows. Grog's not here; I have to do something.
Sam: An hour-- We can probably make it, I don't know, we can make it deep into the city, but not all the way to the center, can we?
Taliesin: No, not in an hour.
Liam: It's a maze in there. But the tunnel from our keep in, if it's intact, was not that far.
Matt: "If you were to traverse the tunnel system in advance of our attack, that would perhaps aid us in syncing our maneuvers."
Sam: So we should go now.
Will: That would be the goal, is to act as point for the entire army.
Matt: "That would indeed be the goal."
Laura: So, what, the minute we pop out, we send up a flare?
Matt: "Some sort of a sign. Hopefully something not quite as easy to read as a sign of aggression. We've taken much care to not be seen this far."
Sam: Or we could just wait for sundown and then go, knowing that they're going to strike at the same time.
Taliesin: We go now.
Sam: No, I mean, once we get in there, we wait until we pop out, until it's getting dark outside.
Liam: I mean, what kind of symbol do we send up in a sky full of wyverns?
Laura: What if we're not in position by sundown?
Marisha: The Ashari are already looking for a symbol. I plan to be aiding them. They should be helping us with--
Sam: What about a storm?
Marisha: Well, there will be a storm.
Will: Wait, there's a storm coming?
Sam: Can you make one?
Matt: As you guys actually glance over, you can see in the eastern sky, past the Iron Seat Ridge, there is an extremely dark, building stormfront that is just looming, miles off in the distance.
Marisha: See? Told you.
Sam: What about-- Kiki, what if you just made some lightning strikes to signal the start of the fight?
Taliesin: I think nature itself is going to make some lightning strikes.
Marisha: Well, I've got my whole Skywrite thing. I've got my whole Skywrite thing; I can make a symbol in the air out of clouds, which isn't as terrifying as everyone has thought it is in the past. We just need to pick a symbol--
Laura: It just has to be subtle, something your dad will recognize, huh?
Mary: A phoenix or something.
Will: How is the storm going to affect your attack, is my question.
Matt: "We are trained to undergo warfare in many different forms of terrain and weather."
Mary: My concern is that if we wait until this storm comes in, the sewers will be flooded. We need to go in now before the storm gets here.
Will: But if we get lost in there and the storm comes, it'll be flooded while we're in there.
Sam: The storm isn't a real storm, isn't it Air Ashari?
Laura: No, no, no, it's Air Ashari.
Taliesin: But it's still a real storm.
Matt: "If there is rain to come with the storm, that is fortuitous, for much of the city still burns. But fire we can quell with a storm would be helpful."
Marisha: It's a-coming man. It's coming.
Matt: "Right, good to know this."
Liam: Well, let's go.
Sam: To Greyskull Keep?
Marisha: Look for-- Keep your eye on the sky.
Matt: "I will have two of my hawkeyes keeping an eye at the clouds"
Marisha: There will be a symbol. It will be super obvious when it's determined. You'll be like, "Oh, of course, it couldn't have been anything else". When you see it.
Matt: "I look forward to solving your riddle. You as well, stay safe."
Marisha: Don't know what the fuck it's going to be. It could be a big "VM" for Vox Machina, I mean like you know-- We could be like, Now! Fucking attack!
Liam: Are there clouds overhead now? Above the city.
Matt: If you look up, it's-- the weather over here's been fairly clear. There are a few wispy white clouds, but nothing that is indicative of a storm, yet.
Taliesin: If the storm has taken the city, there will be a break in the storm, of a perfect circle, where we are attacking--
Will: The eye of a hurricane.
Taliesin: The eye of a hurricane. If it is not a force, we can certainly look for it.
Liam: And if the skies are clear, they'll not be clear.
Taliesin: It will be a nice column that will--
Matt: "All right. Then--"
Will: Look for the stillness in the storm.
Matt: "We shall. Travel safe, travel swift."
Mary: Safe journey.
Matt: "You as well, good luck."
Sam: Be pleased. Remember, the plan is chaos.
Laura: Total chaos.
Will: Chaos can work.
Taliesin: Chaos works very well.
Laura: We make our way to Greyskull.
Taliesin: Back to Greyskull.
Matt: All right. As you guys make your way towards Greyskull Keep. Walking through, as you see rows and rows of soldiers of different walks of life, all part of the alliance of Tal'Dorei between Syngorn and Emon. Many of them watch as you pass, some just curious as to what regiment you belong to, and you get a couple of occasional looks of recognition.
Laura: I wink.
Will: Dale? Where you been, man?
Matt: "Wait! Kash?"
Will: What the hell's going on?
Matt: "Going to die today, what are you doing?"
Will: Pretty much the same thing man, how's Anne?
Matt: "Anne's not doing too well."
Will: Aw, I'm sorry to hear that.
Matt: "Yeah, she was in the city when the dragons attacked."
Will: No! She wasn't.
Matt: "Yeah."
Will: Oh, that's horrible!
Matt: "It's okay, we're going to kill them today, right?"
Will: We're getting there buddy. Good to see you, you're looking good.
Matt: "Good to see you too, you too!"
Will: All right, I'll see you later, man.
Matt: "All right."
Will: That was-- I haven't seen that guy in forever. So bizarre. Sorry, let's go.
Sam: Small world man, small world.
Liam: And we're walking and we're walking and we're walking.
Taliesin: I feel like I've had that awkward four minutes of like every con ever. Oh god!
Matt: As you guys exit the side ranks of the current encampment, as they are all preparing, the sun itself growing maybe about two hours out from touching the horizon, you can see, in the distance, on some of the outer embankment and small structures that litter the walls of Emon's surrounding fields, you see Greyskull Keep, a very welcoming, longtime coming return. As you stay low to the grass, I need you all to make stealth checks
Laura: Oh shit. Oh shit, oh shit. You roll a 20. And then you--
Marisha: Oh, natural 20!
Matt: Nice!
Sam: Natural 20 right here as well.
Marisha: Really? Eh! Natural 20 bros!
Taliesin: Natural 19, I haven't added yet.
Marisha: Fuck you.
Mary: Ten!
Laura: Should I cast Pass Without a Trace on all of us? Is it too late? Can I just add it to everybody's if I cast it now?
Matt: As you guys were going stealthy, I'll say sure. Because you would have known, at this point to do so. If you want to spend your spell slot to do that, sure.
Laura: I do.
Liam: And that's plus ten, right?
Laura: Yeah, it adds ten to all of your rolls.
Mary: 20.
Liam: 35, now.
Laura: 30.
Taliesin: 35, 35 with the plus ten. 35.
Matt: All right. As you guys all stay low and guarding each other, keeping an eye out to make sure nobody is giving too much away. You manage to go unnoticed--
Marisha: (coughing) Sorry, I so inhaled my spit, keep going.
Matt: Don't do that. That's bad.
Will: Make a breathing saving throw.
Marisha: (coughing) I'm still dying for a second. Go on, guys.
Liam: I rolled double ones. (wheezing)
Matt: You guys make your way to Greyskull Keep, front door's open. Like, partially ajar. Not locked.
Liam: I move in, forward.
Matt: Okay, you head inside first.
Liam: I'm going to poke my head in first.
Matt: Make a perception check.
Liam: 27.
Matt: You take a moment and look around, listen carefully. No sound.
Liam: So far so good. I'm going to move further in. And continue to-- I'm going to check for traps.
Matt: Go for it. Investigation check.
Liam: Fine, sure, investigation is an 18.
Matt: Okay. Nothing appears to be trapped here. If anything is out of place, you know this area pretty well, so.
Laura: We're making our way to the doorway, we peek in now.
Mary: Is it very dark in there?
Matt: There are no current set torches or candlelight whatsoever, there are a few openings that bring some light in. Specifically from Sarenrae's temple. But other than that, it is pretty dark in the hallways.
Mary: Can I see anything with darkvision?
Matt: With darkvision, you're fine. As you guys glance around and begin to scatter throughout the keep, you can see signs that it has been lived in. People have been rummaging through, there is no sign of any food whatsoever in the keep anymore, there are a number of bowls and anything of any remote value has either been taken or is left used and unwashed. But after doing a quick scan, there is no one inside Greyskull Keep. Apparently--
Liam: Like, the whole place?
Matt: Yeah.
Liam: So all the way up the stairs, to our bedrooms, to his laboratory, all that's clear?
Matt: All of it's empty, but a lot of things have been taken.
Sam: Can I go in the kitchen and just sort of sense magic, or do an arcana check or something, to see if there's any--
Matt: There is a Detect Magic spell, if you have that.
Sam: I don't have that.
Matt: Then you would be hard-pressed to detect if it's present necessarily.
Marisha: Is your poop still around?
Sam: My poop is still there, it's just inert. It's just poop.
Laura: Did somebody steal the poop?
Sam: Oh, is it still there in the jar that I left it in?
Matt: Actually, there is a broken jar on the ground. It looks like somebody discovered it and wasn't quite sure what it was, and then discovered what it was.
Mary: This isn't pudding! (laughter)
Liam: This single scoop tastes funny.
Mary: Gelato? (retches)
Matt: The behavioral patterns of the way things are left, it looks like people have come in through, rummaged, grabbed what they needed to survive, or what seemed of value, and left. And things they didn't understand, or didn't see value in, they left behind. Most of your workshop has been ransacked.
Taliesin: I figured.
Matt: Your cask is still there. And a few esoteric tools that they didn't really understand, or too big to maneuver, are still there. But most of your toolset is gone.
Taliesin: Grabbing what's useful, and maybe as a lark I might try and run a wire from my inert glove to Cabal's Ruin to see if I can actually get the charge to travel through it if I punch something.
Matt: If you want to use one of the charges, you can try that.
Taliesin: Yeah, I'll use a charge-- I'll hold. I'll find out in the moment, won't I?
Matt: Yeah, that you will.
Marisha: Try it on the day.
Will: Is this your castle?
Sam: Yeah, this is our house. This is our keep.
Taliesin: It's a keep, not a castle.
Mary: This is lovely. It's a little cold.
Sam: But it's seen better days.
Mary: But the bones are good.
Will: Lot of space.
Sam: It's a fixer-upper.
Mary: Good location.
Liam: I'm going downstairs to the entrance, and I'm going to check it out. And use Divine Sense at the entrance.
Matt: Okay, make an investigation check.
Liam: All right. That's good. That is a 24.
Matt: Okay. Divine Sense doesn't trigger anything off. Nothing gets you riled up in that sense.
Liam: Feathers are in place?
Matt: Indeed, yes. Except the two that were cut earlier from Kashaw. But you do find the hidden entrance, or the exit I guess you could say from the keep, left as it was, untouched. The seam still smooth, covered in dust.
Liam: Nothing hinky with it?
Matt: Nothing hinky, no traps.
Sam: Let's go down to the secret path. We're in a hurry now, we've got to get into the city.
Taliesin: Oh, I show Kashaw the cask, by the way. I have some powdered death, if you like. This will explode very loudly.
Will: How much damage?
Taliesin: You know, I've honestly been too nervous to ever find out. Because everybody who plays with this loses a limb eventually.
Will: Is it heavy?
Matt: You hear this faint echoing voice in the back of your head that says, "Learn from my mistakes..." (laughter)
Will: I say we bring it.
Taliesin: That's my plan.
Sam: Can I just give you a quick note? Planning Kashaw is very staccato. He's very clipped. I feel like when you're just talking normally, you're so warm and pleasant. But when you're planning, you get this voice you use that's very grating. I'm just saying, try to even out your tone. Do some breathing exercises, breathe from the diaphragm.
Will: (breathes) Let's go. (laughter)
Taliesin: To the tunnels.
Matt: All right. Grog happily takes the cask under his arm.
Laura: Don't drink that, Grog.
Matt: "Oh come on! One--"
Laura: No, none of it. No-- (laughter)
Matt: "Okay."
Mary: He could fart explosives if he did.
Sam: Matt's Grog and Matt's Trinket are very similar.
Matt: To be fair. You guys all-- single-file, because this tunnel is not very wide, it's maybe four feet wide-- you make your way through and it's a long, musty tunnel. It smells of damp earth and dust.
Laura: We need to pass out these healing potions before we get anywhere.
Liam: Well, why don't everybody bunch up for a second then?
Laura: Yeah.
Mary: Is there light in there? Do you need light, are there torches?
Matt: There is no light.
Mary: I cast Light.
Laura: All right, we have three greater healings, five regular healings, and two superiors. Who needs what?
Taliesin: I'll take a greater.
Liam: Superior, please. I'm weak as fuck.
Laura: All right, take one.
Taliesin: I'd like to take a greater as well, because I'm always far away.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: "Greater for me." Grog raises his hand.
Laura: He wants one? MATT "Please."
Laura: You want a greater or--
Matt: "Yes, please."
Laura: Okay, we have one greater left. Five regulars, so I'll pass out regulars to-- Do you need any? You, you--
Will: I should be okay with healing, but if you'd like I'll take one.
Marisha: I'm all right. I still have a couple.
Mary: I have one normal, and two greater, and one superior.
Laura: There's one superior left. Oh, you already have a superior?
Mary: I have a superior, two greater, and one normal.
Laura: Oh shit. You have a fuckton of potions!
Sam: I'll take a superior and one of them fire resistance, please.
Laura: Take the superior, Scanlan.
Sam: I need the stuff.
Laura: Zero superior and four fire potions. I'm taking one of the fire potions as well, so that's three fire potions left.
Marisha: If I could have a fire potion?
Laura: Yes, two fire potions left.
Mary: Should Pike have a fire potion?
Laura: Pike has fire resistance.
Mary: I don't know, I've only met her once.
Taliesin: I would love a fire resistance potion, if one exists.
Laura: Of course darling, whatever you need.
Will: No, I have fire-resistant plate, but I'd love a healing potion, if you have an extra.
Laura: You want to take two regulars?
Will: Sure.
Taliesin: I'll take the fire resistance. All right, one fire resistance.
Matt: As you guys are awkwardly passing this down this singular tunnel, having to almost chain it back and forth.
Marisha: I load up Grog's camelback with healing potions.
Laura: Now, the potion of invulnerability. Is there someone specific we need to give that to?
Matt: "It sounds really neat."
Sam: Why don't we give it to Grog for now?
Taliesin: Well, Grog already halves all of his damage.
Liam: Grog, if we give it to you now, you can't drink it now. Not now. You have to wait.
Taliesin: Quick rule point, if he already takes a lot of half damage, if he takes the potion, it doesn't really affect?
Laura: Does it quarter the damage?
Matt: No. He just likes being invulnerable.
Taliesin: It should go to Vax.
Liam: I didn't wanna--
Taliesin: Because you're gonna get close.
Liam: I'm gonna get up in his shit.
Taliesin: So you should take the potion. It doubles your HP, double your HP.
Liam: I just wanted you to be able to pl-- excuse me? Can I have that, Grog?
Laura: I still have it. I didn't give it to him.
Liam: Can I have that, please?
Matt: "What do you want to give me?"
Laura: You don't have it, Grog. You don't have the potion.
Matt: "Oh--"
Liam: He's holding a wood chip.
Taliesin: Where did you find a purple wood chip down here? That's, oh--
Matt: Travis just texted me saying he does not have resistance to fire, which I knew. So if anyone would like to--
Laura: Oh! Okay, well then he gets the last--
Matt: The last one is Grog. He takes it and is about to open the cork.
Laura: No, no! Grog, wait for when we start fighting Thordak.
Matt: "What can I drink?"
Laura: Some ale.
Matt: "Okay."
Sam: Use your magic canister.
Matt: (whispers) "Mayonnaise." (laughter)
Mary: I would also like to evoke Fiendish Vigor.
Sam: What's that?
Mary: Which means I can cast False Life on myself for one hour, yeah?
Matt: Yeah, yeah.
Laura: Do you do it now?
Mary: Well, we're about to go in.
Sam: It's gonna take us an hour to get to the center of the city.
Mary: All right, right before we go in, I'll hold it. Grog, give me a drink! Just one small one! Just a shot. Don't look at me like that, I just want a shot.
Matt: It's like an urn-type cask, and he holds it over to you, and it's just filled with mayonnaise.
Mary: Ah-- It's so delicious, thank you so much. No, all right.
Matt: "Sour, isn't it?"
Taliesin: Sweet, bitter, angry.
Mary: It's good. It's only four or five days old.
Will: You pull out your whiskey, but Kash is already naked. (laughter)
Taliesin: I hand the bottle to Kash.
Sam: Let's go!
Laura: I'm gonna give-- I don't know if Pike has any healing potions, so I'm gonna give her a regular healing potion just for something.
Marisha: We're going out like we came in!
Liam: We're in a little tunnel passing things up and down in a little single file.
Taliesin: Eating mayonnaise out of a jar.
Marisha: Kash, pass the trail mix. Pass it all the way back.
Mary: I smell a new sponsor!
Taliesin: Mayonnaise?
Matt: You guys eventually find your way towards the end of the tunnel that leads to the ladder that leads you into the alleyway on the outskirts of the southern edge of Emon. You make your way up-- Well, it leads you through an outhouse, an alley. You've been here before.
Liam: I'm gonna, yes, I'm gonna peek through the pooper first. Let's see what I see.
Matt: Perception check.
Liam: Yeah. Okay, that's fine.
Laura: We know where the entrance to the tunnels are, though.
Liam: I'm just looking for anything unexpected, 27.
Matt: It is empty and still chained.
Liam: Are there poos?
Matt: No. It is chained shut for that reason.
Liam: It's clear.
Sam: Should I-- Before we go out there, should I Seeming us as lizard people? Yes?
Laura: Can you do it to all of us?
Sam: I can do eight. Wait, is that right?
Marisha: Do we? What time is it? What time of day is it?
Matt: It's maybe like, at this time? After travelling this far in Emon, you're maybe 40 minutes from sunset.
Sam: Want to be lizard people or no?
Will: Has the storm hit?
Matt: The storm is getting closer.
Taliesin: I think that we will not act like lizard people, and also anybody who can see through, there are like--
Laura: Lizard people can't see through that.
Taliesin: They are idiots. But they also--
Sam: All we need is a second to get some confusion.
Taliesin: They're used to seeing humans, though, and as long as we scatter and are fearful they'll--
Matt: "I don't mind being invisible. That's not an issue. Meaning I can make a number of us invisible if you want to go--"
Laura: How many can you?
Matt: "Not all of you, obviously! But like, if some of you wanna go as lizardfolk or somebody else can--"
Laura: I want to be invisible!
Liam: Invisible, please.
Sam: You've got a ring that makes you invisible!
Liam: I'm busy with other things. Also, it's maybe time for another Feast? Isn't it?
Taliesin: We're still good, I think.
Liam: It's about sundown. When we did it last-- We did it before beddie-bye.
Sam: But that takes an hour, we're not gonna sit here in the sewer eating a fucking--
Liam: We cannot fucking fight Thordak without a Heroes' Feast.
Marisha: How long has it been? Is it almost up?
Will: 40 minutes until battle.
Matt: Well, I mean, you guys-- It's about 40 minutes until sundown.
Sam: We don't have time.
Laura: Can we eat a really fast feast?
Taliesin: McFeast.
Marisha: When did we eat the feast last night? About this time? Are we about to expire or can we push it? Was it a midnight snack?
Matt: You guys would choose the most optimal time, since there was no rush to eat the feast.
Laura: Yes! We would have.
Matt: You would have been like, well shit, let's do it at 6:00 because we're fighting-- That's probably when you guys would've. So you probably have until the end of the evening.
Liam: Three or four hours-ish.
Matt: There would have been no benefit to doing it earlier.
Taliesin: This is going to be over before that. These things move quickly.
Sam: Am I turning us into lizard people?
Laura: Some of us, but I'm invisible because of Gilmore.
Marisha: Are we making an above-ground jump to the underground tunnels again?
Will: Someone knows where they're going, right?
Mary: Where's the Clasp? Are we going to meet up with them at some point?
Taliesin: Once we're down there, they'll know we're here.
Marisha: How far is the tunnel jump? How long do we have to be above ground? I'm asking because I might be able to make some holes in the wall to cut us into other tunnels and not have to go above ground at all.
Matt: When you recall Garthok leading you through Emon to get to the Clasp entrance, you had to be above ground for probably about 20 minutes.
Marisha: 20 minutes?!
Will: That's a lifetime above ground.
Matt: A lot of it was spent slow because you guys were stealthy, jumping from alley to alley and being very stealthy. If it was a brisk pace, it could be as fast as ten.
Marisha: That was to the entrance to the Clasp, not the entrance to the sewer system, right?
Matt: Correct.
Laura: We could just pop down to a sewer. Do we see a sewer hole?
Matt: If you want to go inspect, you could look for one.
Sam: Then we have to find our way through the sewer that we don't really know how to get through. We should find the Clasp entrance.
Laura: This plan is smart. Wait, once we get to the Clasp, then we have to fucking talk to the Clasp.
Sam: Yeah, for a second.
Laura: All right.
Mary: They're going to help us, right?
Laura: It's all on Scanlan; he's very charming. Kash, don't talk when we're in there.
Will: I won't speak. Remember that time I saved your life?
Laura: It was wonderful, and I'm very grateful.
Will: No, we're good.
Laura: I'm very glad you're here, though.
Will: Thank you, that's very sweet.
Matt: "All right, are we lizarding and then invis-ing?"
Laura: Yes, and then we're going to go quickly to the Clasp entrance.
Sam: All right, I'll make us all lizard people, even the ones turning invisible.
Laura: No! I don't want to be a lizard person.
Will: Invisible lizard people!
Taliesin: We need someone who can turn invisible.
Sam: Except for myself. Myself, I'll put the Hat of Disguise on.
Matt: And you're attuning to that?
Sam: It's an attuned?!
Liam: Only if it says it. Does it say it?
Sam: Do I have it? I gave it to you.
Taliesin: And I gave it back. That was a long time ago. Years.
Sam: Fine, I'll make myself a lizard person, too.
Will: An invisible lizard person.
Liam: A little lizard person.
Mary: Sam, I can do me.
Laura: Don't waste a spell.
Mary: I'm not. It's an invocation.
Matt: Seeming affects how many people?
Sam: As many as are near me when I cast it. Any number of creatures, it says.
Matt: That is awesome! Seeming is broken!
Sam: Seeming is broken.
Taliesin: How appropriate that we're going to be underground lizard people in the city of Los Angeles.
Marisha: Yeah, it's very appropriate.
Taliesin: It is our best urban myth. The lizard people of Los Angeles.
Will: That's not a myth. I have a friend who knows somebody who saw one.
Taliesin: That's true!
Sam: I make them all very skinny, not-well-nourished lizard people. Except for me. I'm pretty big.
Matt: You now have a cluster. As Gilmore begins his incantation for the Invisibility spell for him, Vax, and Vex, you guys all watch as each of your forms become these emaciated lizardfolk, except for Scanlan, who is this much shorter, but Wolverine-stocky-looking lizardman.
Sam: It's a glandular problem.
Mary: It's the mayonnaise.
Matt: You hear Gilmore chuckle mid-incantation. (chanting) "You're ridiculous." (chanting) He finishes the incantation, and Gilmore, Vex, and Vax vanish.
Liam: Can't see us, motherfucker!
Taliesin: I suppose the invisible people will lead the way.
Sam: Let's go!
Will: Who knows where they're going?
Laura: We do; we all followed Garthok.
Will: Okay. Can we see the invisible people?
Matt: No.
Will: Then how the fuck are we going to follow you?
Taliesin: We also know.
Matt: You guys begin to make your way through, out of the alley--
Laura: I tug on Kash's little braid behind him.
Will: Aw, come on! I hate that.
Matt: You guys make your way into the street, out of the alleyway. It doesn't take you long to find an entrance to the sewer. You do occasionally hear the distant, ominous (wing flapping) of a wyvern rider or two doing a pass over this portion of the city. A lot of the buildings on the outskirts have been damaged even further from last time you were here. A number of the buildings have doors torn off the hinges, signs of struggle on the outside. It takes you only a couple of minutes before you find a grate, a drainage runoff for rain in the city that leads into a subterranean sewer system. It is a little bit out in the open. It's between two buildings, but right on the cusp of the street itself, so you'll have to be quick about it.
Mary: Let's go.
Will: Who's opening it?
Liam: I am.
Taliesin: Invisible person opens it and then somebody invisible keeps watch.
Laura: I'm keeping watch.
Liam: I'm checking for traps, just in case. Natural 20.
Matt: That grate is so not trapped, like, holy shit.
Liam: It's brand new.
Matt: No one's ever trapped it, yeah, man. You could sell that. Like it was day one.
Liam: I lick it. There's nothing; it tastes clean.
Matt: No, it tastes sweet, actually!
Liam: All right. Is it locked?
Matt: It's not locked. It's wedged a little bit in there.
Laura: Grog, help! Lift!
Will: Quietly!
Laura: Stealthily.
Matt: "Okay! Shh!" He walks over and reaches. As you're down there, he walks over, not seeing you, reaches on each side of you to get to the grate. Are you going to try to get out of the way?
Liam: Yeah, I'll roll out of there. It seemed like you had a little story you wanted to tell. Yeah, I roll out of there.
Matt: You dart out just as he lifts it off. You hear the creaking of metal, the bars bend slightly as the strength imparted by the Titanstone Gauntlets cause him to easily pry this thing off the ground. You can see there is a somewhat eroded ladder, set of rungs, but it is functional.
Liam: How far down, with darkvision?
Matt: About 20 feet. It seems to open into a chamber or sewer system.
Liam: I spank him on the ass and say  I'm going in, follow me. I drop in.
Laura: Wait, Grog! Put the grate down very quietly! I whisper in his ear.
Liam: On tiptoes. Standing on his knee.
Matt: You guys all head down there with Pike in tow, Gilmore following, invisible.
Laura: Once we're down in there, I bamf Trinket out of the necklace.
Mary: I use Beast Speech. How are you, Trinket? It's been a long time.
Matt: "Yes. I'm scared."
Mary: Don't worry. You know Vex loves you very much.
Matt: "It's why I'm here."
Laura: I love you very much.
Mary: We'll look out for you, darling, we will. Thank you for coming and helping us. Thank you.
Laura: And for being such a badass!
Matt: (grunts) "Smells weird."
Mary: Kiss him on his--
Matt: It's cold. It's damp.
Mary: I love him.
Matt: You guys continue up the sewer system. It's been a dry spell for a month, at least. It hasn't rained in the past couple of weeks. It rains fairly often here, so the system itself doesn't have a lot of drainage going through. That'll change soon, I'm sure.
Liam: I'm 40 feet ahead the whole time.
Matt: Make a perception check.
Liam: 22.
Matt: Okay. About ten more minutes into travel, you're starting to get fairly close to game time, when things begin. You do hear some whispers up ahead.
Liam: Hold on. Vex.
Matt: It sounds like four different voices are all conversing.
Laura: I creep up next to him.
Liam: In one location?
Matt: A little ways ahead, out of sight. You're not sure of the source; it's echoing from ahead.
Liam: Listen with me.
Laura: What are they saying?
Matt: Roll a perception check.
Laura: I'm going to roll the Critical Role dice. Oh man! Oh good, that was good!
Will: There was a second where you thought it wasn't going to be good!
Laura: Where's my piece of paper? Perception. That is a 28.
Matt: So while you hear the whispers, it's too distant for you, Vax, to make out the details. Vex, as you hone in your ranger attentiveness, you've studied lip-movement, you've read lips so much to the point where any dis-enunciation, you can fill in the gaps. The conversation sounds like, bits are talking about the relocation of people, timing, "it's too dangerous," "we have to move further west," "the tunnels are down," "now now now," and you hear a bunch of footfalls.
Laura: Running away from us?
Matt: Running in a direction, you can't make out if it's towards or away, right now in this moment.
Liam: Do we pop out now and talk to them?
Matt: You now see what looks to be seven figures step into the center of the walkway where you are, walking away from you, in the direction you were traveling.
Will: Is anybody still invisible and/or lizards?
Matt: You are all still lizards and three of you are invisible.
Laura: And they're heading towards us?
Matt: They're heading away from you, in the direction you were going.
Laura: Okay.
Liam: Wait if I go?
Laura: They hate you.
Liam: Wait.
Matt: Three of them stop and turn, "Wait, shh!" It's really quiet, they've all just stopped.
Laura: Are you true to Emon?
Matt: Stillness, no movement. One of them goes and pulls a blade out very quietly.
Liam: I used to be one of you. I used to be Clasp.
Laura: And then I took an arrow to the knee. (laughter)
Taliesin: That may be the funniest that's ever been.
Liam: So fucking meta. (laughter)
Taliesin: Joke has been waiting for years.
Marisha: Yeah, what's up, 2014!
Laura: Remastered!
Matt: You made it funny again!
Liam: She's in the game.
Sam: Are you invisible?
Laura: Yeah, we're still invisible.
Taliesin: We're friends of Garthak.
Laura: Garthok?
Taliesin: Garthok.
Laura: You're invisible, and you're far back.
Matt: Also, all the figures that were stopped are slowly crawling in your direction. And one of them goes, "It's lizardmen. Turn away."
Laura: It's not lizardmen. Magic.
Liam: It's a ruse.
Matt: Make a persuasion check, with disadvantage.
Laura: Oh no!
Matt: Because you're two voices coming out of the ether right now! They just see a cluster of lizards in the shadows and voices going, "No, we're okay!" (laughter)
Will: "We're not lizards!"
Matt: "Don't worry, guys!"
Laura: I rolled a 20, and a one.
Marisha: Shut up.
Liam: Also one.
Marisha: You also rolled a one?! You both rolled fucking ones?
Liam: "Cacaw, look over here!"
Matt: The one in the front goes, "Shit! We have to close it! Run, run!" And all seven just start running in the direction they were going.
Laura: Oh, fuck, what do we do? Somebody--
Mary: I go running up! Wait!
Laura: Drop Seeming, drop Seeming! Drop Seeming, Scanlan!
Liam: I'm running after them.
Sam: Okay, okay! I'm dropping Seeming.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Please, wait! We're not lizardmen.
Sam: You're still invisible.
Will: We're not lizardmen!
Mary: Please, wait! Please, do not be afraid. We are with you.
Sam: Oh, sorry, you're freaky-looking, so-- (laughter)
Mary: I understand that! I'm not a lizard person, and I have a very high persuasion!
Matt: You do. Double ones is a rough situation. They have bolted very quickly, and they are not showing any sign of slowing, and you just hear the footprints go (stepping sounds).
Laura: Shit.
Mary: Shit.
Marisha: Move fast.
Will: We can't catch them?
Matt: Well, you're keeping in pace. So, if you guys full bore, double dashing--
Mary: How far away are they?
Matt: They're beyond your visual sight right now in the darkness.
Mary: Are they more than 30 feet?
Matt: Yes, they are.
Liam: I shout out after them, I know Garthok, he'll recognize me!
Marisha: He also kind of hates us, I think.
Liam: Don't care.
Matt: The, mm... Double one, man.
Liam: Okay. Okay.
Matt: Yeah. No, they're still running. They're still running.
Laura: We're still running after them.
Matt: Okay. You guys follow them for the next ten minutes or so, and you're roughly ten minutes from sundown, game time, before you hear a door slam ahead of you.
Liam: I want to move to that door.
Marisha: I immediately stop and start looking behind me. Does this look like we just ran into a trap?
Matt: Make a perception check. Well, this would be more of an investigation.
Liam: Are they catching up behind?
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: Okay. 21 total.
Liam: I'm checking the door, too.
Matt: Okay. Looking around, it's hard to see. The sewer has slowly given way to a non-sewage tunnel system that looks like it has existed for a long time. This is reminiscent of some elements of the Clasp's tunnel system that you've seen before, though you haven't really been to it this far south in the city.
Marisha: Okay. I stand back before I run in with the rest of them. I don't want to get us all in a corridor.
Mary: Can we investigate the door?
Liam: I rolled a 28.
Matt: He's currently doing that right now. You rolled a 20?
Laura: I like that you're talking to Matt through the earring.
Liam: I'm not talking to Matt, I'm-- (laughter)
Liam: Laura Bailey, busting my balls since 2000 and something, every chance she gets. But she "loves me with all her heart!" (laughter)
Liam: Don't touch me! 28! Support you left and right, and this is the thanks I get?
Matt: The door is locked, and the door is trapped.
Liam: Scanlan. Will you come up here, please? I've got my hand on my earlobe for a fucking reason.
Sam: I'm here, what do you need?
Liam: I need you to talk us into this fucking doorway.
Sam: For what, are we still trying to get this Clasp? Ten minutes has gone by. All right, great.
Liam: Talk to the fuckers on the other side of this door. You can talk to anybody.
Sam: I knock, knock, knock on the door. And I say, oi, I know you can hear me in there. Sorry for the scare. We're friends, and we're here to help you get a lot of gold.
Matt: Make a persuasion check with disadvantage.
Sam: Because it's through a door.
Matt: And because they--
Marisha: Because we're assholes.
Taliesin: You should try and sell them drugs. I think that would go well.
Laura: Oh, sell them drugs!
Sam: 28.
Matt: I can guarantee you, they don't have any.
Taliesin: No, he's got them, he can sell them off.
Matt: They're the Clasp.
Liam: They're straight-edge, I know.
Matt: Oh, totally.
Will: You still don't know if you put it up your ass or smoke it. How are you gonna sell it?
Sam: I'll find out from them.
Matt: There's a pause, and then a voice comes through and says, "So. Who are you? What do you want? What leaves you the possibility of wandering these sewers unstabbed?"
Sam: First of all, you, or members of your organization, know us. We are from Emon. We are Emonites. Emonies? We're locals. We've traveled these sewers before, among you. And we will again tonight if you help us find our way to Thordak. We are super-powerful superheroes who are gonna kill a dragon and give you half the gold.
Laura: Half the gold? Half the gold? Holy.
Matt: There's another pause. Ten, 20 seconds. 30 seconds. Then you hear a winch go (clacking, tink). Then you hear (door opening sound) and the door just ever faintly opens, and just a single face pokes through, hood up. "So. You're allies against the dragon?"
Taliesin: Absolutely.
Matt: "How many are you?"
Sam: Well-- (laughter)
Sam: About a half dozen, let's say.
Taliesin: Twice a half a dozen.
Laura: I think 12-ish?
Sam: Ten, ten? Some are animals, some are invisible. Six to 12.
Matt: "We stand 30 strong in this room, crossbows drawn. Make no mistakes, we will be watching you. One false move, you'll all have a bolt in the back of the skull. Walk with us, we'll see if what you say is true."
Liam: I use Thieves' Cant to knock out the phrase, "No bullshit," on the door.
Matt: You see his chin move and grind for a moment.
Sam: I did that with my penis. (laughter)
Matt: Make a deception check. (laughter)
Mary: He thinks you're cute.
Sam: 20.
Matt: 20?
Laura: I like that he goes-- and it's a 20.
Matt: Yeah. (laughs) You see him go-- and slowly back away. The door opens wider, and as you enter the room, you can see there's roughly 30 people in various dark bits of dress. The Clasp had a uniform, or at least a uniform style to them, when they were within their safe space. While that still exists, all of them look tattered. They look underfed. They look sleepless. And they all look driven. And it's that cornered animal look that both is welcoming and also a little scary. And as you all walk in, they all very intently keep their eyes on you, their crossbows at their side. They're all surveying you and taking in and-- You can definitely see them accepting that you are powerful in comparison to maybe many of the others that they've encountered. And that also scares them. It would be like, 'Good. Fuck,' at the same time. And as you all walk in, in this sullen atmosphere, the one that was talking to you pulls his hood back, and you see it's a younger man, probably in his late 20s, but his face is just currently wrecked by some sort of a disease that's just scarred over.
Liam: Where is Shenn?
Matt: "You want us to take you to Shenn?"
Laura: No.
Taliesin: There's no time, to be honest.
Liam: Where is he?
Matt: (sighs) "He's probably by the volcanic pocket. Looks to me-- at least from the word on the street-- there's something going on. Something's going to be happening tonight, and the Clasp is getting ready."
Will: Yeah, we've got about ten minutes until all hell breaks loose. So if we've got to do this, we've got to do this now.
Laura: We've got to get to where Thordak is.
Mary: Is he by this volcanic surge?
Matt: "That he is. (sighs) Travel fast. Travel light. Follow me." Puts his hood back up, and goes into a run.
Will: Go running.
Mary: Naruto.
Matt: You guys all gave chase, at this point, as fast as you can. Poor Pike is like (panting).
Laura: Grog picks her up, come on!
Matt: Grog picks her up, as he does. And she's still like, running in the air before, "Whoa! Okay. Thanks." And puts her on his shoulders, and they're running together. Pike has to duck low a couple of times as she almost gets her head knocked off on the low bridge area. Following him as fast you can, it's around the corner, down low corners. He's quick. And you can see why certain people within the Clasp rise quickly, in that messenger format, is they can get around the city like that. You begin to get to a point where you see a few grates up above you, passing 20 feet up. You start to see more and more sewer openings. And you hear in the distance the sound of cracking thunder.
Mary: (whispers) The storm's coming.
Sam: As soon as we get out, Keyleth, you have to make a storm or something--
Marisha: Yeah.
Sam: Or a VM or something, right?
Laura: She can probably do it through the grates.
Sam: Okay. Hurricane.
Matt: As you continue to run, you can hear up above, too, what sounds like just the energy itself is gathering into a loud cacophony of screeches and roars. It sounds like the populace that is keeping guard over the currently ruled, tyrannically held city, the wyverns are restless. They see something happening, there's something brewing. And now, not just those below understand, but those above are starting to get the sense that things are not right. It's beginning. You begin to feel and hear bits of rainfall beginning to come through the grates, just up ahead. The little bit of light that peeks through, you can see the droplets now hitting as you run past, overhead. You hear another bolt of lightning and thunder in the distance. And another (lightning crack). The storm is getting faster and more successive and it's definitely landed in Emon. You continue to push forward--
Mary: How far are we?
Matt: You shouting ahead of--?
Mary: How much longer?
Matt: "You feel that?"
Mary: Yes.
Matt: "No. Do you feel that?" And you start to realize, as cold as it is up there, as it has been in the past, these tunnels are growing warmer, and warmer, and warmer. "We're not far now." And he's still running.
Laura: As I'm running, I'm dipping arrows in poison.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: I've got six.
Matt: Okay. So go ahead and mark those--
Laura: Six vials of poison. So that makes six arrows or does that make--?
Matt: Each vial can make three poisoned arrows.
Laura: Three? However many I can make during this amount of time. Because I know it only lasts for an hour. So on the tips.
Matt: So per vial is three hours.
Laura: Awesome!
Matt: It's hard to do while running at this fast pace, so I'd say you could get maybe two vials done, to be honest. Because in order to keep up, it's a full sprint. You're racing against time for this. It's like, running as hard as you can, and like-- (laughter)
Matt: It's a little hard.
Laura: It's one of those things I meant to do earlier.
Sam: Just got to finish knitting this sweater. (laughter)
Matt: Eventually, you begin watching as these tunnels, you see collapsed portions of it. You see the falling rocks that are gathered. You feel the air itself become humid, become temperate and uncomfortably warm. The sweat begins to drip down your brow, and what you recall being the dry heat of the Marquet deserts is now being matched or exceeded by the wet, damp, humid underground air of the subterranean tunnels of Emon. You dart around the corner and follow him around this curve, and it's the first time you see a break in the rock, where a vibrant, bright orange stream of molten rock is now pouring down, past into some basin below the walkway. And you see him more carefully walk around it. And now this pathway has gone from an original Clasp tunnel to, essentially, a haphazardly carved or left over and barely functional tunnel that has been wrecked by this slow incursion of volcanic activity. You have about two more minutes of running before he comes to a stop. And you hear now, what initially was just the rousing of local lizard creatures and denizens of Emon, the now-ruling class, the lightning is every few seconds. And you hear one loud, ominous, rumbling roar echo through the sky. And it's a familiar roar. You heard it once, before the fall of Emon. The storm has awakened, or at least got the attention of the beast, the tyrant that now resides over the city of Emon. And he is not that far from where you stand. The young man pulls his hood back again and points up, and you can see that there's one tunnel that leads up out of the sewer. Part of it is jutting outward, and it's a slippery pouring of rain now just gliding off of it and slopping into mud on the ground. Most of the rungs have been rent off or fallen through the erosion, or the impression of this tectonic shift in this localized area. He points up. "This is the closest I can get you but I don't know how you want to climb. Good luck." And he turns around and darts back where you guys came from.
Mary: So he's guiding us up and out?
Matt: No, he's gone.
Sam: We've got to get up. So wait, there's a pipe to climb up?
Matt: It's a three-, four-foot-wide tunnel. It used to go straight up, but now parts of it are (ground cracks). It's a little crooked and some of the initial climbing rungs have eroded away.
Laura: Can we parkour up?
Matt: Certainly. Go ahead and make acrobatics checks, both of you guys.
Mary: Can Grog throw us up?
Marisha: Is there a grate ahead of us? Can I see the sky?
Matt: There is, but it doesn't-- it looks partially off.
Liam: 33.
Laura: 34.
Matt: Both of you guys, in a networked-twin-type near-ballet in its execution, darting up in tandem, both using each other to push off as you hit each edge, you make your way to the very top in this crisscross fashion, then one of you gets up just in time to hit the grate as the other one hits the other side, sending it onto the ground outside.
Liam: Perception check. For anything nearby.
Laura: By the way, I was totally going to say I was putting Trinket back in the necklace before you started saying all that, I was just-- It went into it right away.
Matt: Okay. Not a worry. Trinket is in the necklace.
Liam: 29.
Laura: Oh, I want to perception check too. Just because, you know, that 29 isn't going to see everything.
Liam: No, you've got to get 30, right?
Laura: Yeah. No, this is a 23. So-- (laughter)
Matt: You guys both look out. You, Vex, looking around you, you can see you are in the street. And you can see there are a number of buildings around: single-story, second-story, some of them long-collapsed and burned. Some still have flames on them that the rain is attempting to put out, but the fire is fighting back. You, Vax, see the same spread, and off to the left of you, a familiar sight. The Cloudtop District wall and gates, maybe a couple hundred feet off from your current position. You can see beyond that just a singular, black column of smoke, with the occasional flicker of red embers just drifting up through, fighting against the storm itself. The rain may fall, but it doesn't seem to last long enough to hit the ground of the Cloudtop. You see mist and steam begin to rise up; the rain is evaporating before it can even get close. You also see above the gate what looks to be a few dozen small, dark shapes. You take a moment to focus before you can see what looks to be-- what were once people are now blackened husks that have been left up on chains; decoration, if you will, for the outside of the Cloudtop. It's a warning, or a celebration of Thordak's rule. You see, on the outside of that gate, two large, armored, alert fire giants, wielding long, thick, square, black metal blades that themselves have flames engulfing. And they are both standing there, just shoulder to shoulder, looking about, on high alert based on the current chaos of the circumstance.
Liam: What's between us and them?
Matt: It's road. It's just bare road. You have buildings to each side, you're just now emerging from the alleyway, and you are in the center of the street right now.
Liam: How far are they from us right now?
Matt: They're a little over a hundred feet.
Sam: Two fire giants?
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: I pull Vex out of view--
Laura: I mean, we're invisible.
Liam: I know, I don't want to be heard. We've got two fucking giants up here, guarding our path--
Laura: About a hundred feet off, clear view.
Sam: There's no more tunnel down here, right?
Matt: No, it goes for another five or six feet, and then it is just wrecked, it's collapsed, ruined--
Sam: We cannot spend our energy fighting these guys. We have to distract them away and move in past their position.
Marisha: I can conjure an elemental. Will it--?
Sam: And one of them will chase it.
Laura: Is it possible to get up and over the wall, away from them?
Liam: Three of us are invisible, but not the rest. How do we get by?
Sam: Is there a gate behind the line?
Will: Can we hear this conversation?
Sam: You can hear half of it.
Taliesin: Two fire giants guarding the gates. We have to get rid of them.
Will: Can we get into a building on the other side?
Taliesin: It's just a wall, it's defensive. We can get over the wall, perhaps.
Marisha: What kind of wall is it?
Sam: 30 feet high?
Matt: It is about roughly 30, 35 feet.
Laura: Can I peek my head out--?
Matt: Oh! It is a solid, thick, stone wall. It is designed as a second-tier defense from siege warfare against the palace and the--
Marisha: Can I use Stoneshape to stoneshape us a hole through it?
Matt: You know that it's pretty thick. You're familiar with the wall. You guys have traveled to and from the Cloudtop before. Let me see, where's Stoneshape--
Liam: Extend the tunnel?
Laura: Or I can fly up to the top of the wall and drop the rope down?
Marisha: The problem is, I don't know how far the tunnel has collapsed.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: No more than five feet in any dimension. No, it's thicker than that.
Mary: Where do you need to go beyond this?
Sam: In there.
Marisha: I took-- Okay, here's the thing  I took Move Earth. I can try and tunnel us through. But that's a pretty big spell.
Laura: Well, what if--
Matt: Move Earth also takes a while.
Laura: What if I come out, I fly, I move down away from the fire giants, I fly up to the top of the wall and drop the rope down? So everybody can climb up?
Liam: But nobody's invisible but ourselves.
Will: It's too much of a chance, they're going to see you.
Mary: They're going to see you. How far away are we from them?
Matt: You're about a hundred feet.
Sam: I can make another three of us invisible. But that's still not enough.
Marisha: Do fire giants have any reason to attack lizard people?
Matt: You don't know.
Laura: Maybe make lizard people and then pop over--
Sam: I've just burned a 5th-level spell making us lizard people once for no fucking reason.
Liam: And that's dropped at this point?
Sam: Yeah.
Mary: You need a distraction.
Sam: We definitely do.
Mary: Let us do this.
Sam: You two?
Will: Two of us have to stay.
Mary: Let us do this.
Laura: What?!
Mary: Let. Us. Do. This.
Will: We don't have any time.
Marisha: We need you guys. We need-- we need you.
Mary: You can do this without us.
Sam: Are you going to go out and draw them away?
Mary: We'll try and meet you if we can. In the meantime, call your people. Do it now.
Sam: Absolutely.
Mary: I cast-- I invoke-- I use a cantrip Mask of Many Faces. As a lizard person, I go ten feet so I'm within 90 feet, and I cast Evard's Black Tentacles on the two fire giants.
Taliesin: You've got to go out the tunnel first.
Marisha: I grab Kash by the arm really fast, and I just say, thank you. And I give him a kiss on the cheek.
Will: We're way past that.
Marisha: Just shut up and appreciate it! Go!
Mary: Before I go running out, I grab Vex. I love you, if I can find you, I will. If not, stay alive.
Will: I grab Vax real quick. Hey!
Liam: Yeah?
Will: Two things.
Liam: What's that?
Will: First  it's one-one. And second  don't get us all dead.
Liam: All right, cutie.
Will: Good luck in battle.
Mary: So I go running out. Lizard face. Once I get out of the tunnel, Mask of Many Faces, lizard. I just go walking up. Within 90 feet, I cast Evard's Black Tentacles, hoping to hold them.
Matt: Okay. As she's doing this, anyone else doing anything else? Are you--?
Sam: I put on Gloves of Climbing to climb up the thing.
Taliesin: Spiderwalk.
Will: Kash just stands with his back to them, guarding them as they're going up the wall, spear at the ready.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Are you brooming it? I'm holding onto the broom.
Matt: Okay. You guys go up there.
Laura: I drop the rope down so Grog and Pike and everybody else can go up.
Matt: Easy enough. You all eventually get your way up to the top and duck in an alley. I need you to roll stealth checks.
Taliesin: We still have that--
Laura: Pass Without a Trace that I cast? Yeah--
Matt: All of you would, since it hasn't expired. It's an hour concentration.
Sam: 27.
Laura: Can I cast it again?
Matt: No, I mean it's still on. It's an hour concentration. It'll last until--
Taliesin: 21.
Matt: Well actually, you cast it right before you guys got to the keep, right?
Laura: Right, at the keep.
Matt: No, no-- Yeah, so you do not have it currently. I'm sorry.
Marisha: 18.
Taliesin: 11.
Laura: Do we get advantage because we're invisible?
Matt: The invisible folks do, yeah.
Laura: Ah okay, good.
Will: (chuckles) Invisible folks.
Liam: 31.
Laura: 21.
Sam: 27.
Matt: All right. And-- okay. You guys manage to dart up-- you notice-- First off, the wyverns are now coasting by and scooting over the sky, in groups of ten at a time. And you can see now as the bolts of energy are starting to hit-- Off in the distance, you see a flash and (lighting strikes) as one gets taken down by a bolt of lightning. The wind is now picking up and beginning to swirl. You watch as they're having a hard time flying and being harried by the elements, just darting around and slamming into them. One of the fire giants sees movement over in your direction (speaks in Giant), and starts walking that way as you begin to emerge in your lizard-person form.
Sam: Can I quietly inspire Kash?
Matt: You can if you like.
Sam: (singing) Kash! King of the Universe! Kash! Ah-ah! He is the best of us!
Will: (singing) And his hair was parted in the middle-- (laughter)
Matt: Take your d12 inspiration die.
Will: Where's my d12?
Mary: You just hold on to it.
Will: My gosh-- Oh! Yeah, I'm just holding it. (laughter)
Matt: So, as you walk forward and lift your hands up, clutching the staff, you watch as these black ethereal tentacles burst out of the ground, slam into the ground, and attempt to wrap around the legs and lower body of these giants. What is your spell DC?
Sam: It's been a while since she's played, guys.
Mary: 18.
Matt: 18, all right. The fire giant-- oh! Nope! A two and a three on their dex save. (cheering)
Matt: All right. Yeah, so they're both restrained and they take 3d6 bludgeoning damage, if you want to go ahead and roll that.
Mary: 3d6? They're restrained! And it's 3d6 bludgeoning damage, which is ten.
Sam: Both of them? You just restrained two fire giants?! Holy shit!
Taliesin: Ten is on the good side of 3d6--
Matt: You watch as it pulls them back, their swords are held at bay, their wrists are bound by these tentacles, and both of them are being crushed by it. And the other one-- No one here speaks Giant, except for Grog.
Will: I speak Giant.
Matt: You do?
Matt: You and Grog hear it, and it just says, "Under attack!" in Giant. And as they're both being held there, as you're holding them in place, they take the damage. What are the rest of you guys doing?
Marisha: I immediately, right above us, create a little eye-of-the-hurricane. And you know when it snows and there's a moonbow? A rainbow? I do a little bit of a moonbow situation.
Laura: Okay, are we trying to keep stealthed and then letting Zarah and Kash--
Sam: I think we just go.
Taliesin: We're going to pass them.
Marisha: And then we run!
Matt: Okay. You guys all bolt towards the-- there's a 15-foot gap between these two giants right now. And you're rushing across this, like a double-dash, you get just to them as it comes to their go.
Laura: I thought we were up and over the wall.
Sam: No, no. We were out of the pipe.
Laura: I understand.
Matt: Yes. At this point, as Keyleth runs and creates this moonbow in this clearing in the sky, the wind suddenly doubles in speed in the air, the bolts come down at twice the pace. You watch as rooftops are exploding. You see wyverns being struck and thrown to the ground. You see small funnel clouds begin to form in portions of the city, as the cloud itself is beginning to draw. And you start seeing a similar dark speck to what you saw in the sky before, coming to land before you-- You see distant skysails flickering in and out of the storm, control over this. As this is happening, as you guys are running with that symbol, you hear far to the left a large explosion sound in the distance. It sounded like an impact against a wall. You get the sense that it has begun. You guys rush up to the edge of the door just as the two giants are going to attempt to break free from the tentacles. That is dexterity. Strength or dexterity check against your save DC. So that's going to be helpful, so strength is much better than the dex. Not with a three! Or a seven. I'm rolling as bad as I did on--
Mary: Stay right where you are, boys!
Matt: Both of them just still locked in place. They both try desperately, staring down at you and growling, you can see the strain as the tentacles are pulling on them, their swords burning--
Mary: Welcome to hentai! (laughter)
Matt: --and you're keeping guard there, at the ready. What are you guys doing? You're at the door now.
Sam: Grog! Can Grog punch through it? I don't--
Matt: "Yes, I can!" And he goes for a full swing against the door-- Yeah! Oh, man! Okay.
Liam: (in Grog's voice) Surprise, gents!
Matt: Basically. So that's double-damage with Siege to the door. Yeah. That is just with his fist, not even using his axe, just his fist against the door. The first hit, he dealt 26 points of bludgeoning damage. For the second strike, he brings up the axe now, as he dented it inward, and swings with it. Ooh! That's 32 points of damage to the door. You watch as the fist slams between the doors, and they're large, large, heavy wooden doors you're very familiar with that have metal reinforcements on them on this part of the gate. The fist slam causes them to shudder at the impact and shake, but the chains still holding them in the inside are taut. The axe comes by. As it hits the edge of the wood and the iron, the wood splinters, the iron bends, and the hinges actually (impact) off of one, and the gate slams off the side, off the top hinge, and you all have to try to dart out of the way as it swings past. Oh, man! It's not quite big enough to hit all of you, and I would say the ones that're at the front line would probably be the twins and probably Keyleth. You'd want to stick with them. Well, you'd be back because of the storm cloud-- Yeah. And Grog, definitely. So the twins and Grog, I need you guys to make a dexterity saving throw. Natural 20 for Grog! (cheering)
Liam: Would Evasion work for this?
Laura: 28.
Liam: That's a dex save. All right, it's just 20 with me.
Matt: Okay, it's fine. You guys all duck out of the way as soon as the door slams into the mud to the side, the giants still restrained. You all begin to charge into the space without thinking. As soon as the opening's there, you dart in as the giants are restrained. And you guys, what are you doing at this point? The giants aren't going to be held for long.
Mary: Kash?
Will: Can I cast Geas on one and have one attack the other?
Mary: Swing away, Kash.
Will: Am I allowed to take control of one of them?
Matt: Oh, I will see what the-- casting time is one minute. So that's ten rounds that you have to cast that spell-- It's not much of a combat spell, really.
Will: Because they're flame giants, right? Does a Flame Strike work on them? Or are they susceptible to flames, or no?
Matt: That is up to what you might expect.
Will: Then let's give it a try. We're going to try to do a 5th-level Flame Strike and see what happens.
Matt: All righty! Go ahead and roll 4d6 radiant damage. Both restrained, so they have disadvantage on the save. Yeah, no.
Will: I also still have my inspiration, too.
Sam: It won't help here.
Will: I know. Okay, it's okay. Yeah-- well, no. It's awful, I-- It's 13. Yeah. 13
Matt: All right. They both take 13 points of damage. They take no fire damage, they're both immune to fire. The flames do nothing, but the radiant burst in itself does singe the exterior of their bodies. You see them rock with pain as the blast of light, a column that shoots at them, bursts into them, has taken effect. Not as much as you would have wanted, but an effect nonetheless. You, who are still maintaining concentration on this spell, what do you want to do?
Mary: What is the radius of Witchbolt? If I drop Evard's and hit-- they're 15 feet apart from each other?
Matt: They're 15 feet apart from each other, yes.
Mary: I just don't know what the radius of Witchbolt is. Can I hit both of them with it?
Matt: With Witchbolt? With Witchbolt, as a--
Taliesin: You'd need a ten-foot radius to hit both of them.
Matt: It's going to be a tough call. Let me see-- Witchbolt-- No, no. Witchbolt hits one creature.
Mary: Only hits one creature?
Matt: Yeah. You can still maintain a concentration spell and do instant spells, if you wanted to.
Mary: Yes! So then I will hold Evard's Black Tentacles and use a cantrip of Eldritch Blast and Agonizing Blast? Can I do that?
Matt: Yeah, it's part of the ability. So, yeah, you can do that. Make three spell attack rolls.
Sam: Three spells?! She's so powerful!
Matt: It's all against one guy or it's--? How are you splitting it up?
Mary: I'm going to hit two on the left, one on the right.
Matt: Two on the left, one on the right. Okay. Go for it.
Matt: Your spell attack bonus is--?
Mary: Plus 12, so 15. Plus Agonizing Blast--
Matt: That only adds to damage.
Mary: 15.
Matt: So the first one you fire at? It arcs past and hits the door behind, hitting the where the already damaged door fell off the hinges.
Mary: It's 20--
Matt: That hits. Go ahead and roll-- So you've hit one, now roll for hitting the other.
Mary: Oh, natural 20.
Matt: Okay! So go ahead and your roll damage on that. Roll your d10 plus seven. What's the first one?
Laura: 2d10?
Matt: No, it's 1d10 for the first roll, next one is the critical.
Mary: That's a ten.
Matt: And roll one more time.
Mary: Plus my charisma?
Matt: Correct. Add that in there. So go ahead and roll for your critical now.
Mary: Six. Plus my charisma, which is eleven, right?
Matt: Great! So you blast both of them and they're still held in place. You guys run past. They're both taking hits from Zahra, but they're both more focused on the people that are being led through the gate they were ordered to watch. And--
Liam: How far are the twins from the giant?
Matt: You guys just ran through into the--
Liam: Right through?
Laura: We want to take sneak attacks on both of them.
Matt: Go for it. And five and a seven, they cannot make their checks for shit.
Laura: First one hits. And then 21, does that hit?
Matt: Hits.
Laura: Okay, do I get three attacks-- oh, no, no, no, I'm not clicking the boots yet.
Liam: 21. So 21 hits?
Matt: 21 hits, yeah.
Laura: Augh, what's happening?!
Liam: Okay, so the first one was-- All the dice, all the dice.
Laura: So, 15 for the first hit. 22 for the second.
Liam: 36 for my first, and eight for my second.
Laura: And just keep running.
Matt: And keep running, okay. All right, so you guys lob those attacks as you're rushing past, you guys see-- actually, both of you guys roll perception checks.
Will: 14.
Mary: 12.
Matt: 12. You just make it-- you, Kashaw, out of the corner of your eye, you notice the buildings that were on fire, the flames that were burning amidst the storm, you watch as one of the flames leaps out of the house. And a number of other flames begin to rise up as living, flaming entities that are making their way towards you. And you can quickly see that this is about to become--
Will: Awesome.
Matt: --awesome. (laughter)
Matt: But as you see Vox Machina running into the Cloudtop District and disappearing into the surrounding clouds and fume.
Will: May the gods be with you.
Liam: Totally minor, I didn't add my regular bonus for dex and all that, so add another eight to my damage.
Matt: Okay, got it.
Mary: So they're leaving.
Matt: You got them in.
Mary: Go! Go! We'll find you if we can! In the meantime, my love, shall we have some fun?
Will: Let's do this thing, baby!
Mary: Yeah!
Matt: You guys hear the distant sounds of battle conflict inside the wall and far beyond. You hear, in the distance, the weird, vibrating fuzzy echo of hundreds and hundreds of voices shouting in unison. The battle's upon Emon. However, that moment quickly shifts as you're walking through this volcanic fume; the air itself is sulfurous, and there are gouts of poison that spill forth from cracked earth. You can see points, little bursts of glowing, molten rock that break through the surface and pour and then cool and create these small, miniaturized volcanic spires. You can see the burned, destroyed, crumbled remnants of the buildings-- the noble houses, the beautiful mansions that used to make up the entirety of the Cloudtop District. The homes that you'd look at and think, "God, one day it'd be great to live in something as beautiful as that," reduced to ash and cinder. Your run slows as you begin to see this large crater wall that lifts up through the smoke, a lip that then vanishes over the edge where the smoke is pouring out like a thick column, a slow-moving, stationary tornado of black that pours into the sky. As you watch, two large, bulbous, scaled red arms shoot forth from the center, as one long, unfurling dragon neck rises up. You see the red crystalline brow itself, like jagged daggers of flame burst across the face as it rises up beyond the smoke. The teeth, impossibly long and pointed for something of this size. The eyes, not red, not yellow, but burning beams of pure white light, like a small sun exists in each eye. As it lifts its whole form upwards out of the hole, the wings unfurl, the wind itself pushing all the smoke out, clearing the Cloudtop for but an instant, to see its massive, swollen form. You also notice that within its chest, this large, thick scar, but no crystal. Just a large, bulbous, grown-over, thick piece of scaled scar. As it stands towering above all of you, peering over the distance, not even noticing you at the moment, surveying the chaos around in Emon, its face drops, and you hear this voice gurgle up from within. Sourceless, almost, in its immensity, in its encompassing nature, it says, "It appears that we have guests. Where are you?" And that's where we'll end tonight's episode. (cheering and screaming)
Marisha: Can we all take a nervous swig of our fire resistance potions? Like, right now? Like glug, glug, glug!
Matt: It's to the instance where, right now, there's so much going on that Thordak is having this Superman moment where he closes his eyes and hears all the screams in the city at once. So you don't know if he knows where you are yet, or has seen you, he just knows that something's here. And that's where we're going to pick up next session.
Liam: Double-fisting them, gulp gulp!
Taliesin: Smoke 'em if you got 'em! I'm going to vape-- I'm going to vape my fire resistance.
Matt: I'm pretty sure you can get that at Critical Vapes.
Taliesin: Oh yeah! You can get that there.
Mary: Critical Vapes!
Laura: Shout out!
Liam: Merry deathmas, everyone.
Taliesin: Merry deathmas.
Sam: What happens to Kash and Zahra?!
Matt: They're currently preventing you guys from having to deal with Thordak and two fire giants and a bunch of elementals.
Sam: But how do we know what happens?!
Taliesin: We don't die.
Matt: Don't die and you'll find out.
Will: The Kash and Zahra show, starting next week on Wednesdays. (laughter)
Matt: If only.
Laura: It's just a buddy cop movie.
Mary: We're in a really old Mustang the whole time.
Will: He's a little bit country; she's a little bit dragon. (laughter)
Taliesin: I would watch the fuck out of that.
Matt: Yeah, I would. Oh my god. That's the best version of Dallas I've ever heard of. Which has an RPG book.
Will: No!
Matt: Oh yeah.
Sam: You can roleplay Dallas?
Matt: Yeah! I'm trying to find a copy of it. But anyway, that's neither here nor there. We'll be here next week for the showdown with Thordak the Cinder King in the center of Emon! You guys, you avoided a lot. You beelined to Thordak.
Laura: We were out of time!
Matt: We would have gone into this next time. I was preparing for Thordak--
Mary: Always rely on tentacles.
Taliesin: If anime has taught you anything--
Matt: Don't tell the internet that.
Mary: If anime has taught us anything--
Matt: I know! No, I was expecting this Thordak encounter to either happen next week or in the first two weeks of January when we come back from the break, I wasn't sure when. You bypassed a bunch there.
Will: Great way to end the year, though.
Matt: It is a good way to end the year!
Liam: (singing) Here comes Cinder Claus, here comes Cinder Claus, right down Cinder Claus Lane!
Mary: Yeah, it's just the two of us and the fire giants!
Will: While I sit back and watch her kick some ass!
Taliesin: I thought you were dead, Fred!
Marisha: You told me they were dead!
Liam: We need Brian Blessed now!
Taliesin: We need Brian Blessed! We need Brian Blessed for everything!
Matt: I don't disagree with this.
Taliesin: He might be down.
Matt: We'll see you guys next week for this crazy showdown. Rest well, thank you Loot Crate and Magic Puzzle Quest for being our awesome sponsors for tonight's episode. Thank you all for your patience. Thank you, Will and Mary, for joining us.
Will: Thanks for having us, you kidding? Thanks for having us back.
Mary: Thank you so much!
Marisha: Thanks for sacrificing yourself. Hopefully you're not dead.
Will: It's the only show where you can walk by, "Hey, thanks, hope you're not dead."
Laura: Are we allowed to say, Brian, that they're going to be on Talks Machina?
Brian: (offscreen) Yeah!
Mary: So we're going to be on Talks Machina on Tuesday. With that Brian Foster man!
Sam: Are you going to be on Talks Machina?
Matt: I don't know.
Laura: No, we can't know his secrets just yet!
Sam: But if you were on Talks Machina, then you could do this whole fight on Talks Machina. (laughter)
Matt: I've been on a lot of Talks Machina recently, and I could probably use a Tuesday night off.
Mary: Yeah.
Will: Yeah.
Matt: Especially to prepare for this.
Laura: Plus I don't want to know any secrets before we go into this fight.
Matt: I wouldn't tell you any secrets regardless, which is why I'd be a very boring guest next week. I'd be like: I don't know. That's a great question.
Marisha: You Don't Know  The Show.
Matt: Exactly. All right, guys, thank you so much, guys. Thank you guys, have a wonderful weekend. We'll see you next Tuesday for Talks Machina and Thursday for the finale, possibly, much love and is it Thursday yet? See you soon. [music]

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Sound: 
Matt: Welcome back, guys. I hope you enjoyed your-- your holiday. Hope you enjoyed your new year and are ready to tackle all the chaos this year has coming. Both fists forward. So, missed you guys. Last we left off was a little crazy, but before we get to that circumstance, let's go ahead and start with our announcements. Yay! (cheers) First and foremost, our first episode of the year is sponsored by us happy to be back. We have no sponsor tonight. (cheers)
Marisha: Happiness!
Matt: So sponsored instead by viewers like you. So... Thank you. But, yeah, so other announcements we have. Me and Marisha will be running from this episode tonight to pack and leave at a super early, pre-dawn flight. Pretty much, or at dawn flight, to MAGFest. We'll be there getting in later tomorrow, and be there this weekend. So, those of you who are going to MAGFest, we'll see you there. We have--
Laura: Is that what it is, just a lot of magazines?
Matt: Just a lot of magazines.
Taliesin: People, US Weekly.
Marisha: Oprah.
Matt: We pretty much got in there only because of the article in Game Informer. That's the only reason we were invited. No, MAGFest is great. We have a Critical Role panel tomorrow evening that me and Marisha will be doing, and other fun stuff Saturday and Sunday. So, look for us in the schedule and we'll look forward to seeing you guys at the actual event. Travis, you wanted to mention something real quick?
Travis: Yes! I wanted to give a quick shout out to Kathy Creshe, Creshaw, I don't know how to say it.
Taliesin: That was a good shout out.
Travis: From Pennsylvania.
Sam: Big fan of the show?
Travis: We love you, from us, to you.
Laura: We read your email.
Travis: It was wonderful.
Travis: Sam!
Sam: Uh, yeah, tonight's sponsor is Critical Role, as you said, we have lots of stuff. Lots of merchandise available in the store. The logo shirt, mugs, patches, nail wraps, hats, key chains, and necklaces are available and if you didn't see it over the Christmas break, we have the Gilmore shirts and the "How do you want to do this?" shirts and you guys know this, we have a big Spanish speaking fan base, and I wanted to give them some love, so I thought I'd do our ad tonight in Spanish. Two notes, two notes, I don't speak Spanish, and second note is my neighbor's son translated this for me. So, he's in Spanish Two. Should be pretty basic.
Travis: Not, "He's Spanish too."
Sam: No, he's-- he's a sophomore in high school. Hola, me llamo Sam Riegel. Aqu est mi perro. Se llama Travis Willingham. Una broma. Te gustan las camisas t-shirt? Espero que s porque tenemos dos camisas t-shirt para vender en nuestra tienda. Una es color morado. Es para Gilmore's Glorious Goods. (laughter) La otra no es morado, es gris. Tiene el slogan de Matthew Mercer, which is... Como quieres hacer esto? (laughter) No cuestan muchos pesos. Tu vas a ir internet y comprar ahora. Gracias por favor! (applause, cheers)
Travis: Muy bien!
Marisha: Yay for Spanish Two!
Taliesin: High school Spanish is the official language of Los Angeles, well done.
Travis: A future translator will then, like, show up?
Sam: I don't know.
Taliesin: It'll be insulted. Actually, yeah, it'll actually Google translate and will be like, I refuse to even touch this.
Sam: It's for our Spanish language viewers. -There are many.
Travis: That was great.
Matt: This is true. Thank you so much. Anyone else? Oh, I want to announce real fast too. We received quite a bit of Critmas gifts after we had filmed the Critmas episode last month. So, as we're slowly retrieving them from the mailbox, me, Marisha, Taliesin, and possibly anybody that's available at the time, Liam, Laura will be doing a Periscope opening of the rest of those gifts in the next couple of weeks or so. Be announcing it ahead of time, so pay attention to that, but it is coming. So, don't worry. We'll be getting to your presents and thanking you for all your awesome unnecessary generosity. You're so wonderful and we'll let you know once it's happening. Anybody else have any other announcements they want to make?
Travis: Hands up!
Sam: Uh?
Travis: Hands up!
Matt: Alright, great. That being the case.
Marisha: I don't know--
Liam: I don't know what this--
Matt: Let's go ahead and dive in. To the first 2017 episode of Critical Role.
Taliesin:  Do you believe in life after--  (growling, screaming)  (electricity crackling) 
Matt: Hello, everyone, and welcome back. So, getting us up to speed with the current circumstance that we left off at the end of last episode. Vox Machina, the main adventurers, spending the better part of this past year under the shadow of the Chroma Conclave, a group of ancient chromatic dragons that have banded together, seemingly under the banner of Thordak, The Cinder King, a great red dragon that had been sealed in the fire elemental plane for a number of years. Newly released and carrying with him what was called a soul anchor. A magical artifact made from the heart of a fire primordial that had begun to cause him to mutate and swell and become something beyond what he was. Also driving him apparently insane. As he dominated the countryside of Tal'Dorei, along with the rest of the Conclave, you gather artifacts of great power called the Vestiges of Divergence under the guidance of two sphinx allies. You travel between various planes and gathering these artifacts gathered allies and prepared for this climactic confrontation in your home city of Emon, now partially brought to ruin and flame. You assembled an army. You snuck beneath the city. You arrived within the center of the Cloudtop district nearly under the nose of Thordak's defending hordes, and through a climactic seeming sacrifice by your friends Kashaw and Zahra, were allowed to pass directly into the Cloudtop heading off Thordak before he could emerge from his subterranean lair and lay waste to the armies as they pushed inward towards his lair. 
Travis: When you say it like that.
Matt: There you all did battle with the great colossal Thordak, The Cinder King. A well prepared fight rolled out and while there was much danger, you all persevered and managed to, using the vestiges, destroy the soul anchor once it was revealed within the body of the great red dragon. His form rescinding and withering back to its regular, seemingly withering size. You-- it attempted to flee back into its lair, but the rather rapid and temporarily winged rogue, Vax'ildan gave chase and dealt a finishing blow to the great red beast midway through its cavern towards its lair. There you were joined briefly by your sister and an ally you had made through this circumstance, Raishan, one green dragon. The member of the Conclave that seemingly had made a tenuous alliance with you as her goal also was to destroy Thordak. Aiding you in the battle, Raishan followed suit and upon the corpse of Thordak laying cut, bleeding and dead in the center of this cavern, she wished to take her end of the deal you had made. To be left alone with the corpse for a moment to acquire some secret knowledge that apparently she was seeking from the dead dragon. Upon releasing the energy from the scroll which she had utilized the incantation from, you decided that vengeance being your oath as a paladin and the history that you have with Keyleth and Keyleth's people that died under the guise of Raishan's initial plotting with Thordak to not let this creature stand and attacked it. Both you and your sister, just as Keyleth began to arrive. The rest of the party slowly staggering behind. Raishan sneered and went further back into the cavern. You all gave chase into this dark, volcanic tunnel system which then opened up into a large, red flaming cavern filled with lava pools and rivers, and apparently a handful of red eggs, it looked like scattered throughout this room. Thick dark red crimson scales with crystalline formations pouring out of the sides. Very similar to Thordak's primordial dragon form. Upon finding not Raishan, but just this empty space, you looked up to see a series of arcane summoned meteors suddenly given form, rocketing from the ceiling of the cavern and slamming into the floor dealing some of you a pretty dangerous blow and sending you scattering across the floor a bit. Vex being thrown across the way. You all managed to survive as at the end of the last battle, I'd forgotten that you had made your save and you actually, your bludgeon damage was halved, so Vex is conscious, though still hurting.
Sam:  Whoo 
Liam:  Whoo 
Matt: As the dust settles and you all take stock of what had just transpired, you see the snout of the green dragon pull up into what appears to be a series of dark volcanic exhaust tunnels that seem to be like a hive network of-- of honeycomb type tunnels that just spiral off all through the ceiling, and that's where we left off in the last sequence here.
Sam: Geez, Louise.
Matt: Which, previously, behind if I'm--if I'm correct, and I believe I am, and if not, internet, it's fine, we'll--we'll do the narrative. We have the three of you in the room. We have Percy, Scanlan, Pike and Gilmore rushing up behind as fast as they can. Grog and Kima had stayed behind to finish up one of the more recent battles and Jarret is just not going in. He is not in a place to follow suit. "You got this, you got this. Do not worry, it's okay."
Liam: Before we ran into the bigger chamber, Gilmore and Jarret had caught up with us if I remember correctly.
Matt: No, they did not.
Laura: Oh, they hadn't gotten to us.
Liam: I remember that they did.
Matt: No, they would have gotten into the chamber with you. Only the three of you made it into the chamber.
Liam: That's what I mean.
Matt: They got into the tunnel, but they hadn't got up to your guys. The speed in which you guys all got there was basically just Raishan and the three of you, then the attack happened. Raishan rushed in, you rush after her. Everyone else has kinda been left in the dust. They're not too far behind you, but things be as they may. We begin tonight's episode at this next round of combat. Continuing where we last did.
Laura: Oh, God, oh God!
Marisha: Jesus Christ.
Travis: Oh God, oh God, oh God.
Matt: So--
Sam: Why from there? You're fine.
Taliesin: No, stop, don't.
Marisha: Yeah, police.
Matt: So, at the top of this combat round, technically, Percy, you have the initiative on this. You are continuing to push through this-- this hallway. You haven't quite even, at a double dash, you can hear explosions in the distance and then you guys watch as suddenly smoke, silt and ash come flying through the tunnel from within immediately followed by the sound of these large, heavy, banging explosions. Some sort of heavy impact, a series of impacts seem to have detonated deep within the tunnel and immediately set everyone in the vicinity on edge knowing that something is still transpiring in a very dangerous way deeper within this tunnel.
Taliesin: I am throwing on my mask and I am running into the room. I'm actually gonna be spider crawling. I'm gonna be on the-- on the walls so that I'm-- yeah. I don't want to be in the line of anything that happens.
Marisha: That's awesome.
Liam: Spider Percy's my favorite Percy.
Matt: It's just the feet, Percy.
Marisha:  Spider Percy, Spider Percy 
Matt: You can if you want, if you really want to.
Sam: He's like walking like this?
Matt: Yeah.
Taliesin: Running.
Sam: Cool!
Taliesin: This ain't Dr. Strange, this is--
Liam: He's doing this and nothing's happening.
Taliesin: Out of fluid, you know.
Liam: If anyone can make it, it's you.
Taliesin: I know, I got to make-- I got to make Spider-- Spider Percy.
Matt: So, anyway, that ends your turn. You--you run past on the side of the wall, as the ash begins to settle around you as you run past, kind of preparing your weapons for a coming confrontation, you glance out to your right and see there the smoldering wreckage of red scales and dragon blood that was once Thordak, the cinder king. You see that and down it's about-- You keep running. You can see a gentle glimmer in the distance of a battlefield, but you're not quite there yet.
Taliesin: Okay.
Matt: Okay, the top of the round. The three of you finding yourselves in this circumstance. We go to the lair actions. So, these lair actions are--
Laura: Oh God.
Matt: Of Thordak's lair, as this is not Raishan's lair, but even though Thordak is dead, the lair itself has its own natural, naturally occurring dangers.
Travis: Damn it!
Matt: So.
Sam: What? That don't make no sense, man. Thordak's dead. His lair dies with him.
Matt: Over time! Maybe, you don't know.
Travis: His home security system still pays for it.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Exactly, yeah. It's-- it's on a recurring subscription plan. So, there will be--
Taliesin: How do I pee?
Matt: The lava that you had just landed across. So, Vex'ahlia, as you are knocked from the explosions of the meteors from landing on your back, and just barely getting back up to your feet, your vision comes back as you see the stream of lava that's just barely pouring past. Very slowly begins to...
Laura: I back up, I back up.
Matt: As it opens and sprays here at 20 foot radius.
Laura: I climb back up and I bump an egg.
Matt: I'm going to bring out my templates.
Taliesin: No.
Laura: This is gonna kill me, isn't it?
Matt: This will explode and all three of you-- I need you all three to make dexterity saving throws.
Marisha: Oh, boy.
Taliesin: Yay.
Marisha: This is great.
Laura: Cool. This is-- is this--
Taliesin: First roll of 2017.
Laura: Oh, wait, I'm hasted.
Marisha: Twenty total.
Sam: Twenty total's good.
Marisha: Yeah!
Laura: Seven.
Liam: Twenty-seven.
Matt: Okay, that's fine. So, as it is a hotter, more dangerous vicinity here, the damage is higher, but you all managed to make your saves, so you're only taking half damage as you all avoid from the spray of magma that just bursts out and splashes in your area.
Liam: Evasion keeps me at zero, yeah?
Matt: Yes, because you have your rogue evasionness, and it's three ones, alright.
Laura: Yay.
Taliesin: Yay.
Matt: So, that'll be 18 points of fire damage reduced to nine. (indistinguishable dialogue)
Marisha: I mean, I'm not, you know.
Laura: Still terrified.
Marisha: Taking it for granted. (talking over each other) Yeah, yeah, something like that. Or five, it's debatable. Depends on the health of the people.
Matt: Next up in the initiative order is Raishan.
Laura: Oh, good.
Matt: So, as the splash happens, you glance up and you can see what looks to be a series of maybe a dozen or so of these volcanic lava tubes that kind of are these-- these caverns roughly the size of a very low live, kind of pushed in cat-like Raishan. You see the head and the tail kind of hanging out the side as Raishan begins to mutter some sort of an incantation under her breath. You hear the echo... (whispering incantation) Between the room as it kind of quivers for a second. And her form just vanishes.
Travis: Damn it.
Liam: But we saw where she was before she went into--
Matt: You did.
Sam: Fight over, that's it. That's great.
Laura: Oh my God, she-- she ran away.
Sam: Alright, let's mop up here and go home.
Travis: Punk ass, Raishan.
Marisha: The air ate her.
Matt: I guarantee you that's probably not the case. No.
Travis: You're saying there's a chance.
Matt: Yes. Alrighty.
Marisha: Dude.
Taliesin: Just shunned her into invisibility.
Matt: Great. That brings us next to Keyleth's turn.
Laura: Keyleth, just kill her. Find her and kill her so we can get--
Marisha: Whereabouts was she last?
Matt: Last you saw was up in this cavernous area roughly in this portion of the ceiling.
Marisha: But we can assume she probably went invisible and then moved.
Liam: Yeah.
Marisha: I could do Faerie Fire on her, but I mean, I don't know where she is and it's a 20 foot cube. It'd probably be a waste. So, instead, I'm going to cast Call Lightning at fourth level, and go fire elemental.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: How's that work?
Laura: It's an ongoing-- Lightning is an ongoing--
Marisha: Yeah, it's a concentration. Yeah, I can make it--
Sam: So it just exists there? -Ready to strike?
Taliesin: Like a ghostbuster.
Sam: Cool.
Matt: So, as you watch Keyleth's eyes flare with this bright electric kind of blue yellow light, as the ash and bit of dust that has been kind of plummeting from the ceiling from the impact of the meteor swarms and the movement of some now not seeable dragon amongst the ceiling caverns. It gathers into this swirling storm that begins to build and form across the top domed portion of this cavern. As it does, you watch bolts of electricity... Arc through the storm as Keyleth's form then whooshes into a burst swirl of flaming energy. Her physical body now becoming a swirling fire elemental. You wish to move or you're gonna stay where you are?
Marisha: I'm going to take a few steps back and-- question. Can I look up and see if, like, the clouds are kind of shaping around like a, you know, roughly dragon shaped body? That make sense?
Taliesin: She's looking for disturbances of the force.
Matt: Sure.
Marisha: You gave me that "this is bullshit" look.
Taliesin: Roll a 29.
Marisha: Oh, that's not bad. With perception, perception. Sorry, I'm so nervous, 26.
Matt: Twenty-six. Glancing about between the dust that's falling, the movement of the storm that you've gathered at the roof of the ceiling, you don't see anything that identifies the location of a dragon now.
Marisha: Yeah, so it's fine. So, I'll take a few steps back.
Matt: So you're about right there?
Marisha: Yeah, oh, oh.
Taliesin: Wow, it's weirdly mirrored. Okay, that took me a second.
Marisha: It's totally mirrored.
Taliesin: Yeah!
Laura: Oh!
Taliesin: Yeah, I know, cool.
Liam: Your screen is flipped.
Laura: That's crazy.
Marisha: It's fine. It's not a problem.
Taliesin: We have the same view you do.
Laura: It's actually, no, I think it's better, because we're looking at it from his perspective.
Taliesin: So, we can say like, "move us down," and they'll be towards him now. Yeah.
Marisha: I'm sorry, so move me--
Matt: Further in?
Marisha: Yeah, down-- down.
Sam: Towards the lava or away from the lava?
Marisha: Right there, down one more. -Other way.
Taliesin: South.
Laura: Oh my God.
Marisha: South. Yeah, that's good, that's-- that's good.
Taliesin: There.
Matt: Good, alright.
Laura: Where's our pointer?
Matt: Where's your laser pointers guys?
Taliesin: Where are our pointers? We need new pointers.
Laura: It's been three weeks, Matt.
Matt: It has been, I know.
Sam: We've forgotten how to play.
Matt: That's okay. Alright, so--
Marisha: It's like inverted controls.
Taliesin: I'm taking Diva.
Matt: Now, is that your turn?
Marisha: Yes.
Matt: Alright, finishing Keyleth's turn. That brings us to Gilmore who's rushing up past--
Laura: Come on, Gilmore.
Matt: Keeping up his pace as much as he can. "Oh, boy. I know you guys take me to the nicest places." And he's just jogging as best he can. Rushing into the ash cloud as another one pushes through. Some of the wind tending to push and causing swirling little dust devils of ash and cinder. That's gonna end his turn. Vex, you're up.
Laura: Oh.
Matt: So you glance up.
Laura: I glance up.
Matt: You see all this happening, what are you gonna do?
Laura: I'm gonna get on my broom.
Taliesin: Get on up.
Laura: And I'm gonna take a health potion.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: So...
Matt: Regular health potion?
Laura: I have a Greater.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: I have one Greater. So, that's a what? 4d8?
Matt: A Greater is 4d4 plus four. Remember you guys are pretty low on any powerful potions at this point. You used most of them, so, yeah.
Laura: Yeah, yeah, I had a Greater left. It's jack shit. Ten, ten whole points.
Matt: There you go, ten points of healing. On your broom.
Laura: I'm gonna go back towards the entrance. Post up to the entrance, like off the ground as far as I can get.
Matt: That's about as far as you can get. You want to stay hovering or just like there on the ground?
Laura: Hovering! Stay off the ground and can I--
Matt: Are you going up ten feet or 20 feet or are you staying just above the ground so you're not standing on it?
Laura: I'm gonna go up ten feet.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: And if I can be a little bit further away from Keyleth, that'd be clutch.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: I mean, I don't know if it'd be clutch, but it would be helpful. Can I look up, and see if I can see like, dust coming down from any of the holes, to see if Raishan is moving around in the holes on the ceiling--
Matt: Roll a perception check.
Liam: There's a storm cloud.
Laura: I know, I know. Is this pertaining to dragons so I would get advantage?
Matt: Sure.
Laura: That's the same thing.
Liam: Two 13's.
Laura: So, perception, so that's 26.
Matt: Okay, so glancing about, unfortunately, the gathering of the Call Lightning cloud combined with the other dark ash-filled interior, you don't see anything that signifies the location of a dragon. You do glance over and you notice that where you landed previously, one of the eggs was pretty much just destroyed by this-- 'cause it was the area of the meteor swarm where you guys were hit. So, all gathered here, so this egg right here by where you were, is currently just crushed inward and filled with rock.
Marisha: And--
Laura: Really? Is there anything oozing out of it?
Marisha: Yeah, what's--
Laura: I should have looked at it before.
Matt: It's hard to see, it's far away, but it looks like the egg has been destroyed.
Laura: Destroyed?
Sam: Destroyed?
Laura: She doesn't care about the eggs.
Sam: Or she didn't destroy it.
Liam: Not the Mama!
Laura: Okay, so I've got-- I'm so sorry.
Marisha: That's true.
Travis: So, it's covered with rocks.
Laura: I don't know where my notes are to see what my spells were from before. I didn't have it set up cause I'm a horrible person.
Marisha: But that was from the lair action.
Sam: Yeah, that wasn't her.
Laura: Okay, this is-- this is the last one. Oh, I didn't do like any spells before. So, I'm gonna cast-- I'm gonna cast Cure Wounds on myself.
Matt: Okay. What level?
Marisha: Yeah, but does she care or even not care?
Taliesin: We'll find out.
Laura: I'm gonna cast it at third level.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: So, that's 1d8-- 2d8 plus my spell casting modifier.
Matt: So, a 3d8 technically.
Laura: 3d8?
Matt: Cause if you're casting at third level, it's 3d8 plus your spell modifier.
Laura: Okay.
Travis: That's good, that's good, that's good.
Marisha: This is turning into a Jerry Springer episode. Is she or is she not the mom?
Laura: No, my modifier, which is my wisdom. Ten plus-- Jesus Christ, I'm sorry! Ten plus--
Taliesin: Three weeks, man.
Laura: Thirteen points heal.
Marisha: It's like riding a bike, riding a bike.
Liam: Three weeks to stew, everybody.
Matt: Alright, there you go. At the end of your turn-- Actually she's gonna do--
Taliesin: It's like riding a bike with pen and paper.
Matt: Okay. You feel this strange, sudden warm tingling sensation separate from the healing spell just in your vicinity. Almost like a warm breeze just kind of passes through you. That's it.
Sam: Oh, boy.
Matt: End of your turn.
Sam: What does that mean?
Laura: I don't know.
Sam: You've been cursed forever.
Travis: It's a bloody fart.
Taliesin: Farting dragon. Invisible farting dragon.
Laura: What if that was a baby dragon?
Liam: I'm gonna take to the air. I'm going to-- do I still feel hasted yet?
Matt: You-- yes, you do.
Liam: I'm going to fly past my sister and slap the one Greater healing potion I have into her palm.
Laura: Oh, thank you.
Liam: Oh, Superior, excuse me.
Laura: What?!
Liam: And then I'm going to curve around over Keyleth and stab the egg there with the Dragon Slayer blade.
Sam: Oh, boy.
Matt: This one?
Liam: Yes.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Stabbing eggs?
Taliesin: That should give you a Dragon Slayer bonus also.
Matt: Go ahead and roll for attack.
Travis: Isn't that poaching?
Liam: That is 29.
Matt: That hits.
Sam: Go home Travis, you're drunk.
Travis: I'm working on it.
Laura: The babies will help us though. What if the babies are cute? -Can we raise them?
Taliesin: No.
Marisha: You want to try and Daenerys this shit?
Taliesin: We can raise them by setting them on fire.
Marisha: We each get one, you guys.
Liam: Twenty-six.
Matt: Twenty-six points of damage. Alright, you take the blade as you rush up and then hack through it. The blade only gets a few inches into the tough outer exterior of this egg and you have to push and carve through and you do carve a-- a sliver through the egg's shell and a little bit of deep, brownish-maroon liquid begins to spill out of it, but that's-- it's not a heavy amount of damage to the egg.
Liam: I'm gonna take Whisper and take that further.
Matt: Go ahead and roll for a secondary attack.
Liam: That is 28 to hit.
Matt: 28, that hits. I'll mark the eggs that are damaged and destroyed. This one is...
Liam: That's a total of 15.
Matt: Oh, that's not working too well. Good to know. Total of what?
Liam: Fifteen.
Matt: Fifteen, okay. With that much damage, the egg begins to crack even further. More of the liquid begins to spill. The blade pulls through and you can see, as you tear a chunk of the actual shell of this egg off and it falls, you have punctured some sort of thick amniotic sac. That's what the fluid that's spilling out of it, but you haven't seemingly touched any sort of flesh or creature within, but the egg is currently has a section that is exposed.
Liam: And I have--if I'm still hasted, I have a lot of movement left, so I'm going to fly and hover about 15 feet above the egg towards you, towards your DM tape on the side there.
Matt: Over here?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Fifteen feet in the air.  I have 120 feet of movement total hasted.
Laura: So, we were lining up? We're seriously lining up?
Liam: No, I'm all the way over there.
Laura: No, you're in a line.
Liam: That's not where I want to be. I want to be--
Matt: I know, I'm-- I'm calculating how much movement you have.
Liam: I'm arguing with her, not you.
Matt: Ah, no worries.
Liam: Cause that's what we do cause we love each other.
Matt: You can get right there.
Liam: Okay. Fifteen feet in the air.
Matt: Fifteen feet in the air?
Liam: That's not the egg that I'm talking about though.
Laura: Look, I'm talking about--
Liam: I'm talking about the egg closer to Matt.
Laura: Yes, there it is.
Liam: There.
Laura: That one!
Liam: This is where I want to go.
Laura: That's where you are, dude.
Liam: That's over there?
Laura: Yeah, it's reverse.
Liam: It's the--it's the flip screen is-- I don't want to go there. I want to go across from everybody. It's the flip.
Sam: Guys, just don't look at the TV. Look at the screen.
Matt: Over this way?
Travis: Closer, Matt?
Liam: I'm gonna kill you all.
Matt: Bare with this, new tech. New year, we're making this work.
Liam: There, there. The egg that's there.
Taliesin: I have a brilliant solution for this for next time.
Matt: So, from there-- yeah. You wouldn't be able to make it there.
Liam: Literally, in game.
Sam: Invert controls.
Travis: It's like a jet fighter.
Marisha: Battleship.
Taliesin: We can Battleship it. Next time, next time, we'll just have a row of letters and a row of numbers. -Says move me up to L7.
Laura: I can't use inverted controls.
Sam: I only use inverted.
Laura: Really?
Taliesin: Isn't that a great idea?
Matt: Destroyed.
Taliesin: That was amazing.
Matt: This egg has one crack in the side there. Okay.
Laura: Did you just mark on your cool eggs?
Travis: He's using dry erase.
Matt: Wet erase and, you know. It's fun.
Taliesin: It's either that or lick them.
Sam: How many more times are we gonna play with dragon eggs in a year?
Travis: Did you have us on tiny plastic eggs?
Matt: Yeah, so I ordered way too many. I put a bunch in my cart to make sure that I-- I didn't know which one to get and then forgot about it, came back and was like, "Oh shit, I got to order that." Ended up buying like three bags full.
Taliesin: What am I gonna do with all these eggs?
Matt: We'll have egg plastic giveaways. That ends your turn, Vax? Alright. At the end of your turn, Vax, you feel the effect of the haste potion dissipate and your body, all of a sudden, goes from this hyperactive, very familiar mode to extremely lethargic and you find yourself having to fight to catch your breath. So, you can't take any actions next turn. -Can't do anything.
Laura: Oh, it's the potion.
Matt: It's the potion, it's not the boots.
Liam: The boots, right.
Matt: Kima is trying to keep up pace with you, Grog. You're still in your large form. How long's that last for?
Travis: Let me check. Enlarge: 10 minutes.
Matt: Yeah, alright, so you're like bounding through. Kima's falling behind. As you guys both enter, and continue past you hear the explosions in the distance and all of a sudden, the rolling of smoke and ash rushes past you. The smell doesn't bother you cause you've had the smell of burning beard hair most of this close to your nose. What was once your great bush beard is a little tighter to your face now.
Travis: What? You've taken a few dragon fire breaths to the face. The fact that you have any hair is by the grace of your ancestral history. That Dwarven belt you have.
Travis: I know, that's why it's so precious.
Matt: But are you just going full sprint to catch up with everybody?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: Alright.
Travis: I'll just roll it. I still have Pike with me, right?
Matt: Pike is coming with you, yeah. 'Cause you picked her up. so you're just running with Pike. Kima's just like, "Damn it!" Left in the ash. You, while you were behind, you, with your full speed, being faster than everybody else in this group, you almost catch up entirely to Percy and Gilmore and pretty much on their initiative count going forward, or at least of the arrival count in the next round. That finishes your go. Let's see.  You were after Vax, right?
Travis: Yes, no, no, I was right before Vax.
Matt: Right, so I got a little out of order, sorry, my apologies. Alright, so anyway, it wouldn't have made a difference. So Kima goes for a run. Pike. Is Pike doing anything on your back?
Laura: Yes. Pike's gonna heal you.
Travis: Who?
Laura: You.
Travis: Me?
Sam: Ran away.
Laura: Yeah, she's--
Liam: Oh, wait, she's with him.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: He's carrying her.
Liam: Nice.
Travis: I got a little backpack.
Marisha: I was just gonna say, is she Yoda-ing you?
Travis: Yeah.
Marisha: Is it like a Yoda situation, that's awesome.
Travis: The force. That was terrible.
Matt: That was pretty awful, actually. (talking over each other)
Sam: Hi, I'm Yoda.
Travis: I think that's his brother, Carl.
Laura: She's gonna cast Cure Wounds at third level on him.
Taliesin: That Seagulls song is so great.
Laura: So, that's three d8's.
Marisha: One of the best things they've done in a while.
Taliesin: One of the best things they've done in a long while.
Laura: Ooh, that's pretty good. Sixteen plus her page, her modifier. What is-- oh, that's--
Travis: Wisdom?
Laura: That's my page.
Liam: Clerics are--
Matt: Wisdom, wisdom. Five, so add five to that.
Laura: Plus five, 18. -Twenty-one.
Matt: There you go.
Travis: Thanks, Pike.
Laura: "Oh, you're welcome, Grog."
Liam: You know.
Laura: Well, you know.
Matt: Scanlan.
Sam: I will run... my 25 feet, and then pop a potion. Just a normal potion of healing 'cause that's all I got.
Matt: So, that's a 1d-- 2d4 plus two.
Sam: Okay. Ooh. 2d4 plus two?
Matt: Yep.
Sam: Five.
Matt: You heal five hit points.
Sam: Great, I'm up to 70.
Matt: Are you-- are you doing anything else on your turn? Are you dashing?
Sam: Can I use my action to dash?
Matt: Yes, your action to move again, essentially.
Sam: Okay. I will do such a thing cause I don't even know. I'm just following people and--
Matt: Yeah, you're a little bit behind and you're pretty much-- Grog has caught up to you, and you guys are just behind Gilmore and Percy at this point.
Sam: Okay, I'm in front of Grog still?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: Damn. (laughing)
Matt: Well, he was running while you-- (breathing heavily)
Sam: Objects in the mirror are gigantic.
Matt: Okay, at the end of your turn--
Sam: I die. 
Matt: Vax. You, as you fly over with your wings in the air, looking down at the egg. You feel this sudden warm wind pass through you.
Laura: What is that?
Marisha: Fuck, is that her?
Matt: You don't quite-- it seems sourceless, but it just seems to fill you and leave.
Laura: Does it feel good when it happens or does it feel like--
Matt: It's just different. It's already a hot, like you're all sweating in here, so the fact that you feel something, like, warm briefly comparatively to the temperature around you is what catches your attention. It doesn't hurt or damage you, but it just seems strange.
Taliesin: I don't like any of this.
Marisha: I don't like any of it.
Sam: It's menopause. (laughing)
Laura: It's natural.
Liam: You ruined the surprise.
Travis: I cast Menopause on you.
Liam: I'll pretend like I suffer it myself.
Matt: Okay, good.
Travis: You bastard.
Matt: Percival, we're up at the top of the initiative.
Taliesin: I'm running my way in there.
Matt: Alright. So... Alrighty. Percival, at a full run. If you go full run, you'll manage to get just barely inside the cavern about there.
Taliesin: Okay.
Matt: Right there.
Taliesin: That'll do.
Matt: So, that'll be your turn. There's still a bonus action if you have any use for it, so.
Taliesin: I don't really have-- Mostly I just want to use my bonus action to take in everything and look around and have a-- have a good, good serious look. In fact, I'll even take a perception roll if I can have one.
Matt: Go for it.
Taliesin: Okay.
Sam: Just a good sit and think.
Taliesin: Let's get-- okay, no never mind. That's pretty good. Wow, it has been a while. -Twenty-five.
Matt: Twenty-five. Glancing around, you see a fire elemental that briefly startles you as you kind of whip around in that direction, but you recognize--
Marisha: And like, it's got antlers, and I'm like... (grunts)
Taliesin: I love Hannibal too, it's great. Okay. Eggs, dust.
Matt: Yeah, you see eggs. One is destroyed and just leaking out and like a series of boulders and what looks like some sort of a large, concave impression on the top. There are eggs scattered throughout the area. There's a giant storm cloud gathering in the roof of the cavern, and there is the large pool of lava with the small pool over there. You see occasional glimmers of what look like coin in the distance.
Taliesin: Can you put me, like, on the wall just cause I don't think I'd be-- I was still spider crawling so even on top of the little wall thing, if you want.
Matt: Sure, I'll put you there. Sure, why not, Percy?
Taliesin: Thank you.
Matt: You're welcome.
Taliesin: That makes me happy.
Liam: How high is it to these holes in the ceiling from--
Matt: I'd say it's about 60, 70 feet up?
Laura: Okay.
Taliesin: Cool, cool.
Matt: Yeah, the whole cavern's kind of domed like this. Alrighty, then, that's Percy's turn. Another lair action's going to transpire.
Sam: Oh. This one's a good one. This one heals everybody.
Matt: Yeah. There is a fissure that erupts over in this side of the room. The ground kind of cracks open and this-- You've seen it happen once. A plume of poisonous gas fills this space here.
Laura: It's okay, we're immune to poison.
Matt: Let's see. I need-- I need you, Vex, to make a constitution saving throw.
Laura: Even I'm immune to poison? Oh, no.
Marisha: Really? Even with Hero's Feast?
Sam: Oh, no.
Marisha: Oh, shit.
Laura: I got plus two for the ring. So, 11.
Sam: Eleven.
Matt: Okay, good, I'll keep that in mind.
Taliesin: That's a number.
Matt: Okay. It is now...
Travis: What does that mean? What does it mean?
Laura: Slowly my skin starts to melt off my body.
Matt: Yeah, you just-- the cloud kind of fills the area and you start coughing, that's it. It hasn't gone your turn yet, so, it is now Raishan's turn. Legendary actions are restored.
Taliesin: I hate all of this. Oh, good, I was worried about her legendary actions. 
Marisha: Are you being facetious?
Taliesin: I don't know what that means.
Laura: Who's turn is it right now? -It's Raishan's?
Matt: It's Raishan's turn. Deciding what to do. Okay.
Taliesin: I don't know the meaning of the word.
Matt: Um...
Sam: This is fun. Just good, clean fun.
Matt: Percival.
Sam: Oh.
Matt: As you're running along the wall, and you glance in the vicinity, you see the cloud of poison kind of burst from the ground and you're just out of the range of it. I'm sorry, it's just within your range from where the--
Taliesin: I'm wearing my mask.
Matt: Yeah, you have your mask on.
Taliesin: I don't know if it actually helps, but there we are.
Travis: You look fabulous.
Matt: So, as you're standing kind of amongst this-- this fume, you see this within this, this cloud, a kind of strange burst of very, very faint light in your area and you feel, even in this heated room, a sudden surge of heat within your kind of torso region and then it fades.
Laura: What does it mean?! It's freaking me the fuck out.
Travis: She's blazing us, ya'll. She's lighting us up.
Laura: What if it's like--
Travis: Doesn't Hunter's Mark feel like something sometimes?
Laura: Oh my God, that's right. What if she's like marking us for death or something?
Matt: You now can faintly hear what sounds like... There are footsteps moving through the tunnels, but you're unable in the current chaos and the obscured vision to see where it's happening but there is movement happening above you throughout the cavern.
Taliesin: My save versus magic would not help with this at all. Cabal's Ruin would not help with this. Okay, just check.
Matt: Okay. That ends Raishan's turn. That's gonna bring us to Keyleth.
Marisha: Okay. Really unsure of what's going on, so I'm just going to...
Travis: Laser pointer right here.
Laura: Laser pointer.
Marisha: Thank you. I'm gonna go to that egg right here that Vax was wailing on.
Matt: Yep.
Marisha: And try and finish it off.
Matt: Okay, you move up and as you get to the edge of it, you can see now the light that your body's giving off. So, the fire elemental is glinting off of piles of gold and platinum that are kind of gathered around the egg. About a third of it is still submerged in volcanic rock and has been placed here for quite some time.
Laura: Don't let me die, I need to loot.
Matt: You can see the crack in the exterior of the egg and the kind of thick purplish amniotic fluid that is slowly dribbling down like a-- like a slow moving molasses or sap from the wound left behind by Vax.
Marisha: I'm gonna do two slam attacks.
Matt: Go for it.
Marisha: Multi attack. Uh, wait. Those were both nine's. Which is-- so 15 total. -To hit?
Matt: Fifteen to hit? It does hit, yes.
Marisha: Okay, and that is--
Matt: Only because he pre-damaged it to that point. You're basically attacking through the shell of the egg. Removed a portion of its armor, so otherwise--
Taliesin: You're punching a dragon fetus right now.
Marisha: I am totally punching a dragon--
Taliesin: That's like so eggs benedict.
Marisha: Plus six, so that's a ten. Fourteen, eighteen damage.
Matt: Okay. So, you plunge your flaming fist into the fluid. You hear it immediately sizzle as your fist goes into it. You punch something dense on the inside. (groaning)
Laura: Oh, you punched a baby dragon.
Liam: Good.
Laura: "Good."
Marisha: Okay, that's my turn.
Laura: In the head.
Matt: You did both of those slam attacks?
Marisha: Those were both-- those my attacks.
Matt: You rolled a 15 and a--
Marisha: I rolled two nine's and I have a plus six.
Matt: Oh!
Marisha: I rolled both of 'em twice.
Matt: Oh, oh, so you rolled 15 both times.
Marisha: Yes.
Matt: Got you. Then how much damage did you total?
Marisha: Eighteen.
Matt: Eighteen from both attacks?
Marisha: Yes.
Matt: Okay, cool. Alright, so, with both slams, the first fist goes in and slams and hits something. The second time you reach in and slamming, you grab it and pull out, as you kind of yank out of the egg just a little bit, you see what looks like the snout of a very tiny Thordak essentially. But whereas the red dragon you saw Thordak, that was like partially volcanic, crystalline with the burning eyes, this creature is seemingly made from pure primordial fire and rock. This is a whole new form of dragon.
Marisha: He made them clones.
Laura: What if he made-- what if it's one for every member of the Conclave?
Marisha: How many are there?
Laura: There's five eggs, but one is crushed and that would be Raishan and there would be nothing in it.
Sam: What?
Marisha: Wait, are we sure there was nothing in it?
Laura: I don't know.
Marisha: Do you want to go check and see if there was something in it?
Travis: Covered in rock, we can't see.
Marisha: Are there five-- there are five eggs?
Sam: Or he was making their own basketball team.
Matt: There are five eggs that you can see currently.
Liam: And they're all red, they're all red.
Matt: They're all red, yes.
Laura: Okay, well, they're all red. Maybe they're all Thordak's.
Marisha: They're little clones?
Taliesin: If they're clones, maybe it's literally five new breeds of dragon.
Laura: Oh my God.
Travis: Only one way to find out.
Marisha: Yeah, only one way to find out. -Let's bust open another one.
Laura: Is it still alive?
Taliesin: What do you call the little chocolate eggs?
Laura: Is it alive?
Marisha: Is it alive or did I kind of kill it by--
Matt: You kind of killed it. It's currently limp in your grasp.
Sam: Hey, you killed a dragon.
Laura: Good job.
Marisha: "I did it! I got one!"
Matt: Keyleth, the dragon snapper.
Taliesin: This is the like the Westworld version of killing a dragon.
Sam: How do you want to do this? Sunny side up. (laughing)
Taliesin: Benedict.
Matt: Perfect. You still have some movement, Keyleth, if you want to move still.
Marisha: I do, don't I. I want to start heading towards Vax.
Matt: Towards Vax this way, okay. What's your movement in fire elemental form?
Marisha: Fifty feet.
Matt: Fifty feet? You get about there, however, unaffected by fire and--
Marisha: And I'm, like, hovering.
Matt: You're comfortable in this.
Marisha: It's like a spa.
Matt: Kinda yeah. -It's tingly.
Marisha: It's like a hot spring.
Matt: It's perfect. Alright, that ends your turn. Gilmore, just at a full run gets up to the side here, and is kind of flanking. He enters the space, pushes up against the wall and just kind of surveys the territory. He looks spooked but also kind of in that, "Well, we're here" type mentality. Looks about the room and goes, "Everyone all right? Please tell me everyone's all right." (coughing) (whimpering) "Great." That ends Gilmore's turn as he just arrives. Grog. (roars) You just come sprinting in.
Travis: Can I smack Shaun's ass as I go by? Going, "Come on, Shaun."
Matt: Sure.
Liam: Shaun breaks in half.
Matt: You aren't stealthy, and as you run by, Shaun sees you about to swing and goes like, "Fine." Whack! Might have dislocated his hip. He's like... (strained laugh) "I'll charge you later."
Laura: That's gonna be a bruise on the ass for sure.
Matt: You get about there and you are-- Pike is technically on your space, kind of clutching to your shoulders. We'll say back here. Little Yoda backpack.
Travis: Do I get any additional movement or am I just here now?
Matt: You are a little bit behind everybody. You've just now caught up to everybody, and that's-- Just your full double run and you just arrived at the edge of the map.
Travis: "I'm here. Let the piatas begin."
Sam: "Okay, what's a piata?"
Travis: "I don't know, I thought it was a celebration. -Is it not?"
Marisha: You should ask Sam.
Sam: Hola, me llamo Sam Riegel.
Marisha: Yeah, there you go.
Taliesin: Donde est la biblioteca?
Matt: Alright, that'll bring us to Vex's turn.
Laura: Oh, okay, alright.
Matt: At the top of your turn, the poison has filled your lungs and while you suffer no damage, you are incapacitated. You are just in a coughing fit, almost falling off of your broom. Like sliding off to the side and just... (coughing) And you just can't do anything.
Laura: I can't do anything?
Matt: Nope.
Laura: It was a whole fucking turn?
Matt: Yep.
Laura: Gone.
Marisha: So, both the twins have no turns.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: The poison has completely filled you to the point where you're seizing. You feel the muscles tightening up, and--
Laura: It's not hurting me--
Matt: It's not hurting you, but you're unable to do anything.
Travis: Sulfurous gas. It wrecks your shit.
Liam: Welcome to Hot Pepper Gaming.
Laura: That's good, because you know what? I didn't have anything planned and it would have been a cluster fuck like last time, so fuck it.
Matt: Vax. You currently are just kinda like... (gasping) Taking a breath, your vision kind of blurs for a moment and you can see the double vision trying to align. It comes in to focus and you see Keyleth's fire elemental form kind of gliding across. You see the edge of your sister currently shadowed against this cloud of toxic, sulfurous gas that is spewed up from the ground. You can hear her coughing in the distance. You see a bunch of your allies now beginning to just show up on the outside of the room's kind of lit interior, and it takes you the full round to kind of catch your breath.
Liam: No movement either, yeah?
Matt: Let me double check actually. I'm pretty sure... Let me see here.  Can't move or take actions until next turn, so no. Alright, so that ends the end of Vax's turn. Let's see, at the end of your turn. There is going to be...
Liam: This is fucking-- (indistinct whispering)
Sam: Did I--did I get a turn? No, I did mine already.
Matt: Yeah, we're gonna get to yours.
Liam: I'm still in the same position 15 feet up that I was.
Matt: You are, yes. Yeah, your wings are just like... Grog, you see this kind of faint glimmer of energy around you and you instinctually kind of like... (grunts) (growls) But no temperature change. Nothing seems to happen.
Travis: Do I smell anything?
Matt: You smell sweaty gnome on metal armor.
Laura: "Sorry."
Travis: "Honestly, really? I mean, come on."
Liam: "I'm just a little nervous is all."
Travis: "Did you eat mustard pretzels before this, my god?"
Liam: "Maybe."
Laura: "You know how they make me calm."
Travis: Calm?
Sam: Double Ashley is the best Ashley.
Matt: Kima's running, desperately trying to catch up. But she's not quite in the battlefield yet. It's Pike's go.
Liam: Pike, Pike, it's your turn.
Laura: Okay, okay.
Liam: Yeah, let's buff everybody.
Laura: Yeah, so she's gonna cast-- what she should do mass--
Marisha: Is there anything that could help with the stuff that has been magically cast on us?
Taliesin: We don't actually know what's been done.
Laura: Oh, on everybody and it's 30 feet. How far-- Can she move up and get-- How many people can she get in a 30 foot cone?
Matt: A 30 foot cone?
Laura: A 30 foot radius.
Matt: From where she is, it's six squares.
Liam: But she can move forward.
Matt: She can move 25 squares right now. She's been on Grog's back. She can kind of like leap off and--
Liam: But she could get closer to--to Vex, right?
Laura: Vex and Percy and Grog?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: She's right here, she can move this way or this way or wherever you want.
Laura: Let's-- okay.
Marisha: Here, guys.
Travis: Here's a pointer.
Marisha: Laser pointer.
Liam: If she gets near Vex, then she can get Grog, Gilmore, Percy.
Laura: Maybe like in that area?
Liam: Yeah, yeah.
Laura: Or like, no.
Liam: Closer to Percy.
Laura: Yeah!
Matt: This-- she'll just be on the outskirts of getting Percy and can get all the rest of you guys.
Liam: Keyleth as well?
Taliesin: She doesn't really need it.
Liam: Why not?
Matt: She can just catch Keyleth.
Laura: Yeah, sweet, that's great. Then she casts Beacon of Hope from there.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: What did that do, oh, that was--
Laura: That gives you advantage on wisdom saving throws, death saving throws, regains max number of hit points for healing.
Matt: Or it would, possibly.
Sam: Oh, shit. There's interferon.
Liam: Gilmore stabs Vax.
Laura: I'm hitting him with the laser.
Sam: Don't blind our DM.
Taliesin: I can't see the die, I'm gonna assume it was an natural 20.
Matt: I'd roll again. There we go, that's we're looking for. Okay. It's a natural 20, so yeah. There is a burst of greenish blue arcane energy that just kind of... around Pike as she tries to cast the spell. The spell fizzles.
Marisha: She got counter spelled.
Laura: Oh! I hate her!
Travis: We're in a no magic zone.
Laura: No, it's just--
Sam: No magic works here. Don't even try.
Laura: Alright.
Travis: Just ruins everything I was gonna do.
Laura: Great.
Taliesin: It's okay, she burned a counterspell.
Laura: Great.
Matt: Scanlan, your turn.
Sam: I move as far as I can.
Matt: You...
Sam: Did I make it in?
Matt: Running up, you're like just on the outskirts. You get caught up right about there in the center of the room. That's as far as you can get.
Sam: Alright. Can I yell out?
Matt: Yes.
Sam: "Where's Raishan?"
Laura: (coughing)
Liam: "Ceiling."
Travis: "I just got here."
Liam: "She's in the fucking ceiling, man."
Sam: "She's in the ceiling?"
Liam: "Yeah."
Laura: (coughing)
Liam: I'm sorry  Alien. Ceiling!
Marisha: They're in the walls. The goddamn walls.
Matt: It would have taken you moving action to get there. You have a bonus if you want to take it.
Sam: Bonus? Bonus, I will-- shit.
Taliesin: You'll shit?
Sam: Bonus.
Liam: True to form.
Sam: No, I'll heal myself again. I'll do a second level.
Matt: Healing Word?
Sam: Healing Word.
Matt: Go for it.
Sam: So that's 2d4 plus--
Matt: 2d4 plus six, yeah.
Marisha: Oh, yay.
Sam: Twelve, okay.
Marisha: That's better, that's good. Good job. Good job.
Sam: Gerd jerb.
Taliesin: Gerd jerb.
Sam: Great, I'll take it. Back up to something.
Matt: Perfect. Let's see here. That ends Scanlan's turn. Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: Alright, I'm gonna use Animus and I'm gonna take some potshots at that egg that's on the other side of Grog.
Matt: Over here?
Taliesin: Yeah. Is that one of the dead one or is that the--
Matt: That was the one that Keyleth just punched.
Taliesin: That you just punched through?
Marisha: Uh-huh.
Taliesin: Okay, in that case, I'm gonna keep--
Matt: You see no other eggs where you currently are.
Matt: Except the one that's right over here. You could technically fire at the one that's across the way.
Taliesin: I'm gonna actually start walking along the wall. This way as far as I can go.
Liam: Oh, he's sticking to it, yeah.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Marisha: That's cool.
Laura: Hey, look, an egg.
Taliesin: And I know, like, I'm too close to shoot at that egg, but I can shoot at--
Marisha: It's like an Easter egg hunt.
Laura: But you're above it. Aren't you high on the wall?
Taliesin: Technically, I am far away enough from it that I shouldn't--
Matt: Do you want to go further on here or on this alcove here?
Taliesin: Further like-- like this direction. I want to head this way.
Matt: Okay, so you're moving across the wall. You end at about there at full movement.
Taliesin: Okay, and I'm too close to the egg to get a clean shot at it right now, right?
Matt: Well, I mean--
Taliesin: I've got some height, so.
Matt: Yeah, you could--
Taliesin: I'm using a one-handed, so. I'm gonna fire with Animus. I'm gonna take three pot shots at it with Sharpshooter. Shot number one. Yay, that could have been terrible. -26.
Matt: 26 hits.
Taliesin: Should I just roll all three and then do damage?
Matt: Sure.
Taliesin: Okay. 26, um, 14.
Matt: Fourteen does not hit.
Taliesin: That's fine.
Marisha: Oh, man. 
Taliesin: And 16.
Matt: Sixteen does not hit.
Taliesin: Okay, I'm firing really terribly, but that's okay.
Liam: Hanging off a wall.
Taliesin: Hanging off a wall, this is new. Let me get my dice. That's alright. Twenty-three points of damage plus four psychic damage.
Matt: Okay. Alright, so, first shot. It pierces through and actually cracks part of the egg. You can see it's almost like a spider spiral where the egg interior cracks inward. It pierces and a little bit of dark liquid begins to pool out of it. That's as much as you make as the next two shots seem to ricochet off of its hard shell.
Taliesin: Alright, that's my-- Yeah, I'm just gonna use my bonus to reload and take some more shots.
Travis:  Dancing on the ceiling   Oh, what a feeling 
Sam: Best music video.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: It's like a piata. No s?
Matt: Okay. Suddenly, the entire lair begins to shake.
Travis: Shit.
Taliesin: Goddammit.
Matt: Like this tremor begins to emanate from the ceiling portion of this. Pieces of rock begin to... Fall from the ceiling. I need... The guys who are flying, so, Keyleth, Vax and Vex, don't worry about this. Everyone else, I need you to make a dexterity saving throw.
Sam: Even me, I'm barely in the room?
Matt: It's a big radius.
Sam: I got one foot out. What is it dex--?
Matt: Dexterity.
Taliesin: That's better.
Travis: Ten.
Sam: Seventeen.
Taliesin: Fifteen.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Five.
Matt: Five, okay. -Pike...
Laura: Oh, I'm sorry.
Travis: Grog both lose your footing and plummet backward. Gilmore rolls a natural 20, he's fine.
Laura: Hey!
Marisha: Hey!
Matt: "Oh ho. Great dodger, since I was 12." Yeah, Percy, you mange to just barely hold on without losing your the--
Taliesin: Thankfully my spider sense tingled.
Matt: Oh!
Marisha: Oh!
Matt: I almost want you to just go home for that.
Taliesin: Now I'm gonna fall.
Travis: A whole bunch of cheese here.
Matt: Yep. Okay. That ends the lair action.
Laura: Next turn with disadvantage. (laughing)
Matt: It is now Raishan's turn.
Laura: Oh, that was a lair action?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: Oh, Jesus.
Travis: We should just call that Raishan's turn.
Matt: Nah. You watch as through the cloud of lightning that's kind of swirling, a small dragon-like form just pierces through momentarily. It's still see-through. You can see the rest of the swirling storm around it, but it's enough of that Predator-like appearance, where it just shapes and shimmies, or shimmers through the vicinity. It shimmies through. As it does, you watch this claw kind of lift up as this low echoing voice... (whispering in foreign language)
Laura: This is all of us with the light. All of us with the heat.
Taliesin: Okay, what is this?
Laura: It's gonna do something, I know it.
Taliesin: We're-- we're all--
Matt: Okay, 30 foot cubes.
Taliesin: We're all just gonna turn inside out and that'll be the end.
Travis: We'll all turn into chickens.
Taliesin: It's gonna be like John Carpenter's The Thing.
Travis: And then the eggs will turn into big chickens.
Liam: First, we'll all mash together.
Taliesin: And then get separated out into equal piles.
Laura: Oh, geez.
Matt: Yeah, 30 foot cube. I can only get-- she can only get Vex, Pike and Grog, but I need the three of you to make a constitution saving throw.
Travis: Constitution?
Matt: Yes.
Laura: Damn it!
Taliesin:  Constitution   Come on 
Liam: Yeah.
Laura: So, that's good. I don't get any bonus though. Twenty-one?
Taliesin: Nice.
Liam: Oh, thank God.
Travis: Twenty-seven.
Matt: Okay, and Pike?
Laura: Oh, oh. You roll for Pike.
Liam: Okay. She gets the meteor. I hope it's good. -It's a one.
Laura: Oh, no!
Matt: Well, Vex and Pike both failed.
Laura: Oh, that's as high as I get without a natural 20, man!
Matt: It's a spell DC of 22, I'm sorry.
Sam: Whoa.
Matt: You and Pike both suffer 57 points of necrotic damage.
Laura: Fucking shit!
Travis: Oh, fuck.
Matt: Grog, you take half as much. So, it'd be 28. Twenty-eight points necrotic damage. Suddenly, you feel the very air itself go gray. The color is taken from your vision and your life force is drawn out of you through Abi-Dalzim's Horrid Wilting.
Sam: Horde wilting?
Matt: Horrid wilting. The air is drawn from your lungs. You feel your skin crack and tighten against your skeleton.
Marisha: Adele Dazeem's--
Matt: Adele Dazeem's Horrid Wilting. (laughing)
Travis: Amazing, yes. Change it, don't ever say it right.
Matt: That's what it is now going forward.
Laura: Man!
Sam: Are you alive?
Laura: No, I'm-- I'm unconscious, so is Pike. -Both of us.
Matt: Oh, shit. Well, Pike is not unconscious. (gasps)
Laura: Pike came back.
Matt: Wait, did her armor get used last battle? -I don't think it did.
Laura: It didn't?
Travis: It got used once, where was it?
Taliesin: Previously, in a previous battle.
Laura: Against?
Taliesin: Fire giant.
Laura: Oh, yeah.
Taliesin: How do I remember this? That's horrifying.
Matt: The fire giant of--
Taliesin: At the battle at the--
Liam: In the fire fort.
Matt: To the fort, yes.
Laura: Oh, at Fort Daxio.
Liam: Yep, yep, yep.
Matt: You are correct.
Laura: Okay, so Pike's alive.
Matt: With how many hit points?
Marisha: Jesus, that was an eighth level necromancy spell.
Laura: No, no, no, she got five hit points.
Matt: So, Pike is at five hit points.
Laura: And are there any eggs within 15 feet of her?
Matt: Nope.
Laura: Is there a Raishan within 15 feet of her?
Matt: Nope.
Laura: Well, then, fuck it.
Matt: But Vex plummets out of the poison cloud off of her broom, slams into the ground and clatters, spinning and falling to the ground not moving.
Laura: Thanks for knocking over the little cube too. I like that added.
Taliesin: Backhanding it, no less.
Travis: Damn.
Matt: Alrighty.
Travis: Are there lasting effects from Adele Nazeem's wilting? Like are we halved or anything?
Matt: From what you know, no.
Laura: "From what you know."
Travis: It just sucks right now is all I know. Everything just sucks.
Sam: Jesus!
Laura: Yeah.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: So, that-- that is gonna end Raishan's turn. The form is still somewhat visible, though, transparent. It took her full movement to even get to that point.
Marisha: And where is she, she still on the ceiling?
Matt: To give you a position, right now...  It's right there.
Sam: Forty, fifty feet up?
Matt: Though transparent. It's 50 feet up.
Travis: Fuck.
Taliesin: Oh, don't do that then.
Laura: Oh, I just remembered.
Taliesin: You left the gas on.
Travis: And she's 40, 40 up?
Matt: Fifty feet up.
Sam: Mm-hmm, mm-hmm.
Matt: So, Keyleth, what are you doing?
Marisha: Okay. I can still see her a little bit.
Sam: This is a dragon fight, guys.
Matt: Yeah, you can barely make out the-- the outline.
Marisha: Okay, so since she's in my cloud, I'm going to kind of like, do one of those sideways arcing lightning strikes. Just... and arc everything right towards that bitch.
Matt: Great, go for it.
Marisha: She just takes damage, right?
Matt: For Call Lightning, no, you have to roll-- No, sorry, a creature has to make a dexterity saving throw. So, what's your DC?
Marisha: Twenty.
Matt: Twenty?
Laura: How many lightnings are heading towards her?
Matt: Nineteen. Total of ten plus nine.
Marisha: Yes!
Travis: Wow!
Matt: That's 4d10.
Marisha: Yes, it is!
Sam: Whoa.
Matt: Lightning damage.
Marisha: Yep, yep! 4d10. -Okay, I rolled that.
Taliesin: You rolled well.
Marisha: I rolled okay. I actually rolled-- did roll real well. You're right, I rolled well. Nine, nine, 18. Plus eight, that is 26 damage.
Matt: Nice. You watch as the form tries to pull itself back into the cloud, the cloud lights up with this crackling reddish pink electrical energy that then turns to a bright burning red as it arcs past and slams into her. You watch the energy arc across the body of Raishan, the dragon. (snarling)
Taliesin: Does she have to make a concentration save?
Matt: She does.
Taliesin: To remain invisible?
Matt: Yeah, she's fine.
Travis: "Yeah, she's fine." Fifty-seven.
Marisha: I still have movement, right?
Matt: You do, yes. Your full movement, you haven't moved yet. You just pulled it down in that one moment.
Marisha: I am going to head towards the egg that got cracked open that's in the center there.
Matt: Over there?
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. You can go all the way over to it.
Marisha: Can I do a bonus action to like, examine?
Matt: I mean, you can make a perception check and look at it. If you want to rummage through it, that'll probably take your action.
Marisha: Okay, I'll do just a perception check right now.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Twenty-three.
Matt: Okay, as soon as you rush up and get a glance at it, you can see that a lot of the dark, purplish maroon fluid that filled most of the egg is just coating the outside of the egg's shell and there are a series of rocks and pieces of rubble from the initial meteor swam impact that has just sundered this egg. It's about half the height of the others, it's just all that's been kinda collapsed inward. This egg is ruined.
Taliesin: So, we have two ruined eggs at this point.
Marisha: And no sign of a--
Sam: And one almost ruined.
Marisha: And no sign of a dragon baby?
Matt: Nothing you can see.
Marisha: Alright.
Taliesin: Might be just deep in there and flattened.
Marisha: Flattened, yeah, that's my turn.
Taliesin: Could have just been a bad egg.
Matt: Ending Keyleth's turn, that brings us to Gilmore. Gilmore watching this happen, watching Vex go down. Let's see what he does here. (indistinct muttering)
Marisha: Oh, that's funny.
Taliesin: Like five of them in here. Do something about this.
Matt: Okay, as Raishan's form is up there he goes, (sighs) "Not today, not ever!" And releases his hand like this and you watch as a burst of strangely shifting rippling arcane energy similar to the same ripple that is shrouding Raishan seems to kind of scatter up in that direction. He's going to attempt to...
Marisha: Come on.
Matt: With his successful dispel magic, Raishan-- the form becomes completely visible now. The invisibility has worn off. And is now standing completely visible. As this happens, Raishan... (snarls) "I will enjoy eating the flesh from your bones."
Sam: Oh. Did she say "balls"?
Laura: Yeah, definitely.
Matt: Definitely said balls. No.
Marisha: Dragon delicacy.
Matt: Gilmore is then going to... Gilmore goes from excitement to "Shit."
Travis: Not my balls!
Matt: He's going to-- knowing the tactics that are being used, he's gonna try to spread out form the rest of the group. Over here towards the destroyed egg across the wall. That's going to end Gilmore's turn. This brings us to Grog.
Travis: Uh, can I get up, please?
Matt: You can.
Taliesin: Get on up.
Laura: Get on up!
Travis: Can I see Vex sprawled out?
Matt: You do, yes.
Travis: Yeah, can I run to Vex?
Matt: Sure.
Travis: (humming) I have one really-- what's the really big potion? -Is it the Superior?
Liam: Superior.
Travis: I have one of those. Can I shove it in her gullet?
Matt: You can, it'll take your action to do it.
Laura: Oh. You don't have to Grog, it's okay. I mean--
Travis: Okay, I want you to reroll a character. Here we go. I'm going to take my axe and-- Yeah, I shove it in her mouth.
Matt: Superior, that is 8d4 plus 8.
Travis: Oh, I got to roll it?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: Oh, gee-- oh man.
Laura: Wait, 8d4. (indistinct) Whoa, 17.
Travis: Twenty-four.
Liam: Plus eight.
Travis: Thirty-two.
Laura: Thirty-two? That was insane, Grog!
Matt: So with that, your eyes come into focus, Vex, as you feel the clatter of glass against your teeth, the vial being pulled from your mouth. You kind of cough for a second. Come into conscious as Grog, in his giant form, cradling you like a tiny baby in his one giant mitt. Just kind of smiles.
Taliesin: It's like a Terry Gilliam movie.
Laura: "Thanks." (snarls) (laughing) Go rage!
Matt: Alright, don't forget you do have a point of exhaustion, as you've gone-- unless you've continued your rage this whole time, which you can, so never mind.
Travis: Yeah, just rolling through.
Matt: You got that now. You're just like a freak.
Travis: I might have chipped a tooth...
Laura: All good. All good, all good.
Travis: Like Mentos and Coke.
Matt: You're like drink it, drink it. Alright, great, that ends Grog's turn. Vex, you are conscious, prone, but conscious.
Laura: God, okay. Fuck. Can I shoot from my laying down position?
Matt: You can, I'd say your attacks would have disadvantage.
Laura: Okay, then I'm gonna get up on my knee and shoot up. Cause I just wake up and see her right above me, don't I?
Matt: Yep, you do.
Laura: Alright, then I'm gonna try to-- Oh wait, I already used Brambleshot, or at least, I tried to today.
Matt: You did, yeah.
Laura: So, I'm gonna shoot her.
Matt: Do it!
Laura: Can I Hunter's Mark her first, though?
Matt: You certainly can.
Laura: Hey! I don't get sneak attack. Nobody's near her, right?
Matt: That was-- that was great. Gilmore rolled a 19 on the dispel.
Laura: Nineteen?
Matt: Yeah, that was really good.
Laura: Oh, that's what I rolled.
Matt: Oh, did you?
Laura: As well.
Matt: Nice, look at that, you and Gilmore just synchronizing.
Matt: And 19's your total?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Misses.
Laura: Fuckin' A. That one, I hope, 28.
Matt: Hits.
Laura: Okay, so 28 on the second one. Oh God, what's happening?
Marisha: I don't know.
Laura: Sixteen plus three points of lightning.
Taliesin: I'm not gonna play that game, man. Not playing. I'm not playing this game no more. It's not the time.
Matt: Did you include your damage for it being a dragon?
Laura: Yes.
Matt: Alright. So now you can see Raishan emerging from one of the volcanic caves. The storm's swirling around her, as she begins to pull back into it, you fire two arrows. One gets lost, the other one-- (snarling) Into the side of her throat.
Laura: Can I move-- can I move...
Matt: You move three squares.
Laura: Can I get on my broom?
Matt: You get onto your broom, yeah.
Laura: Like move a one square away.
Matt: One square?
Laura: Yeah. Away from Grog and Pike, yeah. Like that makes any difference, but--
Matt: Okay, perfect.
Taliesin: It's a start.
Laura: Thanks, Grog.
Travis: (snarls)
Matt: Ends Vex's turn, Vax, you're up.
Liam: Okay, just to clarify, so looking at the minis. The back side's to me, but really, her face is poking out of a hole, right?
Matt: Like the front half is.
Liam: Front half of her and she's-- and she's at the roof which is 70 feet up, so maybe her head is down, like, five feet out, ten feet out, something like that?
Matt: Roughly, yeah.
Liam: Alright, I want to, and I'm--I'm back, right? -After...
Matt: You have now-- Yeah, you've regained your composure. However your other potion has now worn off. -You are no longer--
Laura: Invulnerable?
Liam: I want to fly--
Laura: Oh!
Liam: Go ahead.
Laura: My hasted had worn off, right? I just assumed it had, okay.
Liam: So, if I'm 15 feet up and she's, maybe, 65 down, I'm within range for sharpshooter already.
Matt: Technically, yeah.
Liam: So, and-- and last question. When you do-- for duel wielding, action-- bonus action, but you told me once you can reverse that and do bonus action and action. I think.
Matt: The bonus attack is part of your attack action, so it's actually after your--
Liam: Never mind then. I'm gonna fly straight at her face, and I'm gonna shove the Dragon Slayer sword into her mouth and I want to try to sever her fucking tongue out of her mouth.
Sam: Oh!
Laura: Whoa!
Liam: Terrible. Whisper, I'm gonna do the same thing with the bonus action. That is 26.
Matt: Twenty-six to hit, that hits. 
Liam: Ten plus four, psychic damage 14.
Matt: Fourteen points of damage. Okay, so you go for the tongue and you get the blade up to the mouth. Suddenly, her looking down and having a very, very wide view of the entire battlefield is very advantageous from her perspective. She sees you out of the corner of her eye, she turns to try and snap at you, and the jaws come down and catch the blade. So, it doesn't go for the tongue, but you use that momentum to glide it up the actual tooth and jam it into the gum. You manage to slam up there and the blood spurts out from the wound and-- (snarls) Rears back and so now you're kind of flying up by her face now.
Liam: I should have like 10 or 15 movement left with 60 for wings, yeah? If I was 15 feet up and she was a little less than 70?
Matt: Fifteen feet up, yes, but you're also coming at an angle, which, you lose distance on that.
Liam: So am I at zero?
Matt: You're pretty much at zero, yeah.
Laura: Ooh, like right in front of her face.
Travis: Just stay there like Tinkerbell.
Liam: Okay. All done.
Matt: That ends your turn.
Travis: You are grounded.
Matt: At the end of your turn, she's going to use another legendary action. To do a tail attack against you. She pulls part of her torso out for a moment, and her tail whips out in your direction to try and slam into you. That is a 19 plus, what is it, 32.
Liam: Don't think that hits actually. So I'll use Uncanny Dodge.
Matt: That's gonna be 24 points of bludgeoning damage reduced to 12, so there you go. Alright, that brings us to Kima's turn. Kima finally arrives.
Marisha: Kima!
Sam: Hey!
Travis: Slow poke!
Matt: "Seriously?" That's her turn.
Travis: That Holy Avenger's real heavy.
Matt: So that brings us to Pike. Actually, no at the end of Kima's turn, let's see here. Raishan's gonna use another legendary action to attempt another tail attack against you, since you're within range. -That is a...
Liam: 10,000.
Matt: Twenty-one to hit.
Liam: Shit, it just hits.
Matt: Just hits? Okay. Seventeen points of bludgeoning damage. Yeah, go and halve that. She's used all of her legendary actions for this round. Okay.
Travis: All legendary-- did you hear that?
Matt: Pike.
Travis: Pike's up.
Laura: Okay. I think we should do... But okay, if she does Flame Strike can she focus it on the ceiling? Or does it have to be on the ground?
Matt: No, it can-- I'd say-- let me pull it up real fast here. It roars down from the Heavens in all locations, so it doesn't come out of the floor, it comes out of the ceiling, so yeah.
Laura: Okay. So, it's her level five spell.
Liam: Okay, aim it at--
Laura: At Raishan? At Raishan's butt, not at Vax.
Matt: Raishan currently, only visible, is about maybe 10 feet or so of-- actually pulling out the tail attack, I'd say about 15 feet. So if she's careful, yeah, she could probably hit Raishan and not hit Vax.
Laura: Pike is always careful.
Travis: So careful.
Laura: She's the carefulest.
Matt: Fair enough.
Laura: Okay. So, wow, that's a really big-- Sixty feet, damn.
Travis: That's good shit.
Laura: So, that's 4d6 plus 4d6 radiant.
Matt: It's gonna be close. Yeah, roughly about 55 feet up on the ceiling. With that 60 foot range, she can just hit Raishan with the column, so yeah.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: So that is 8d6 damage.
Laura: Okay, wow.
Matt: Go ahead and roll that. Raishan makes a save--
Laura: I roll five and you roll three.
Matt: So a dexterity saving throw.
Laura: Oh, just kidding.
Matt: Twenty-seven, I'm pretty sure that saves.
Laura: No, I want to roll some. I roll, I'll roll three. You roll five. 
Liam: Eighteen.
Laura: Thirteen.
Matt: And also makes a concentration check from your attack earlier.
Laura: Thirty-five.
Sam: No.
Laura: No.
Sam: Thirty-one.
Laura: Thirty-one.
Matt: Thirty-one?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: So half that to 15. Fifteen points of damage.
Marisha: Benefit of the doubt.
Matt: Alright, cool, got it.
Laura: Why half?
Taliesin: She made her saving throw.
Travis: At 27.
Matt: Sorry. So, you just barely move out of the way as you watch a familiar gathering of radiant energy up in the ceiling. You see the glimmer in the corner of Raishan's slick eyeballs recessed within the green armor-plated face. of the dragon as all of a sudden-- A great column of fire and radiant energy blasts Raishan in the side of the face.
Laura: And she's gonna back up towards the opening towards the entrance a bit. -Yeah, like right there.
Matt: Right there? That's as far as she can get right there. Cool.
Sam: Does she have a bonus action?
Laura: She's got a bonus action.
Sam: Heal herself?
Marisha: Is it Healing Word?
Laura: Oh, yeah, she can, right? 'Cause she can use a level two or less. So, yeah, she'll do a level-- she doesn't have any level two's left. She'll do a level one Healing Word on herself.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Oh, God, she's at five hit points.
Sam: Yeah, I know.
Taliesin: Not anymore.
Laura: She's--she's Pike though. This is what she would have done.
Taliesin: She's now at--
Laura: I think.
Taliesin: What does the level one Healing Word do?
Sam: It's 1d4 plus five or something like that.
Marisha: It does an additional d4.
Laura: Oh.
Marisha: Right? No, sorry, just one d4.
Laura: One d4 plus five, so yeah, seven.
Taliesin: So, she's at 12 hit points now.
Sam: Double dig!
Laura: Yeah.
Taliesin: That's better.
Marisha: Double dig!
Taliesin: That's--
Sam: What's that look, Matt?
Travis: Seven points of healing, so yeah.
Matt: Cool, does that end your turn?
Travis: Yep.
Liam: Yep.
Matt: Good, Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: Okay. I don't know, man, this looks rough in here. I don't want to be in here. (laughing) I'll move forward and to the left a bit.
Matt: That's about as far as you can go.
Sam: Sorry, to my right. To the right, four to the right. Oh, man. It's a rough fight. But we're winning, right, now, guys? We're winning, we don't need any help, do we?
Laura: (gasps)
Liam: Did you forget?
Laura: I totally forgot!
Marisha: How could you forget? It's like all I've thought about.
Travis: I will cuddle you, I will cuddle.
Laura: I even wrote--
Taliesin: He's not gonna do it until Ashley's dead.
Laura: I wrote a limerick.
Marisha: Ashley is almost--
Sam: You wrote a limerick?
Laura: For you.
Sam: For me? To do what?
Laura: Wait, wait, I forgot I did it. "Have you heard tale of Scanlan, the bold? He won't tell us his age, but he's old. With his blade, he's a slayer, with the ladies, a player, but if he picks up the flute, he's pure gold."
Marisha: Hey! (applause, laughing)
Sam: Alright, so I'm gonna do Lightning Bolt.
Laura: Goddammit! (laughter)
Sam: I will-- I assume that Scanlan feels strange with a brass flute touching his lips, because he's never played one before.
Matt: This is true.
Sam: But does it still come out just as beautiful and pure as always?
Matt: Roll a performance check.
Sam: Okay.
Laura: I'm so nervous, I'm about to cry.
Sam: Thirty.
Marisha: Oh!
Matt: In the midst of this chaos, the rumbling of the room, the sound of the lightning and thunder in the clouds, the falling of rock and soot from the ceiling is drowned out by what sounds like the most beautiful clear flute. It just trills... (whistling)
Sam:  Call the dragon  (all humming)  Call the dragon 
Matt: You finish the song as you watch the brass glow. It begins to kinda give this-- this weird shine around it that begins to emanate this kind of additional warmth and light from it and then it dulls and the brass goes to a very tarnished dark metal material.
Taliesin: It's Amazon Prime. It's gonna take three days but it's gonna be here.
Sam: I've played better.
Matt: You watch the flute ping in the hallway behind him. -So that's your action.
Sam: Okay. As a bonus, I will-- Boy, everyone's dying, right?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Sam: Pike's near me, so I'll turn and give her a level two Healing Word.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: As well. And I will sing to her:  I've got Mythcarver in my pocket   Got that sunshine on my feet   When I dance and prance around you   You just stop   Hoo! 
Marisha:  Hoo! 
Sam:  And I dance so very handsome   And I sing phenomenally   There's just something bout that gnome   That makes me smile   Woo! 
Marisha:  Woo! 
Matt: Alrighty.
Matt: Pike takes her inspiration die.
Sam: Uh, no, not inspiration, healing, healing. So, wait, I got to roll or she rolls?
Matt: You roll for her.
Sam: Okay, ooh. Oh, boy. (groaning) (laughter)
Sam: Eight.
Matt: She heals eight points.
Sam: She's up to 20!
Taliesin: She can almost drink.
Marisha: She can drink next year.
Matt: Alrighty, ending Scanlan's turn, brings us to the top. Percival, your turn.
Taliesin: Okay, I'm going to... Yeah, this is fine.
Sam:  Can't stop 
Taliesin: I'm going to-- this is fine. I'm going to take some shots with Animus at that awful bastard at the top of the cave. First shot, and I'm not making it a sharpshooter shot, I'm just shooting. That's good too. Oh, that's not bad, 24.
Matt: 24 hits.
Taliesin: Alright.
Laura: Look at all those pots of gold in the corners.
Taliesin: That's 13 points plus five points of psychic damage.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: And another shot.
Travis: Shot.
Taliesin: And that's, uh, that's-- Oh, that's not bad. That's two points of psychic damage to me.
Matt: Oh, buddy!
Sam: He's already unhinged.
Taliesin: So that's 54. So, that was like thankfully, just an ow! I'm just putting it away. I'm just gonna try and pull-- pull out the big gun and take one last shot while I'm-- while I'm-- well, actually, no, that knocks out my attacks, doesn't it? Cause it's a psychic damage.
Matt: Well, I was gonna say, the psychic damage doesn't negate your attacks.
Taliesin: I don't have time to switch guns. No, cause the psychic damage knocks that out if I recall.
Matt: No, psychic damage doesn't affect the way--
Taliesin: So, do I have time to just try and get one more potshot out or am I--
Matt: Was Bad News prepared?
Taliesin: It was fine, it was working fine.
Matt: It was fine.
Taliesin: Yeah. Nothing's broke, well, now...
Matt: Now it is, yeah.
Taliesin: Now that's broken, okay. So, and now Bad News, here we go.
Liam: Come on, Golden Snitch! Do it!
Taliesin: Natural 20!
Laura: Yes!
Travis: On cue! (cheering)
Taliesin: Thank you, baby. Okay.
Matt: So, that'll hit.
Taliesin: Yeah, let's-- let's take-- Let's take--
Sam: Weird critical things here?
Taliesin: I don't do any weird critical thing other than doing a lot of damage.
Matt: Correct.
Taliesin: Although, where's my-- I do have, okay, so-- That does a lot of damage. (talking over each other)
Marisha: Amazing.
Taliesin: Double dice.
Travis: Come on, you deranged--
Liam: Find one thing and do it well.
Taliesin: Not bad, okay, that's-- 31 points of damage.
Matt: Alright.
Taliesin: That'll do.
Matt: Very nice.
Taliesin: Yeah, it's 4d12, plus six, so. And now I'm gonna hide behind that dragon egg.
Matt: Alright, so you move behind the dragon egg right there.
Taliesin: Yep. Oh, and that means I get a grit point back ah-ha! I can actually do a thing, that's good. Okay, alrighty.
Sam: So, things are turning around ever since that limerick.
Liam: Watch this, I'm gonna get turned into pulled pork right now.
Matt: Well, it's the lair actions now. So in this one...
Taliesin: The Earth itself turns against us. (rumbles)
Matt: From beneath your feet, Grog, you feel and you look down just as the rock splits and a spray of-- a tiny geyser of molten rock just sprays outward. You try and move out of the way in time, but sprays across you, Pike, Scanlan and Vex. So I need you guys all to make dexterity saving throws.
Laura: You want to make it for me?
Sam: Natural 20, 25.
Matt: Whoo! That'll do.
Taliesin: There's nothing natural about 25. Purely artificial, you've had work done on that 20.
Sam: This is LA.
Taliesin: This is LA.
Marisha: Lot of LA things right back to back. -It's overwhelming.
Taliesin: Man.
Travis: 21.
Matt: 21? Succeeds.
Laura: Twenty.
Matt: Succeeds, Pike?
Liam: Eleven for Pike.
Matt: Pike does not succeed.
Sam: 20, 25.
Matt: Succeed, alright, so, you guys who all succeeded, you take 12 points of fire damage. Half of you are resistant.
Sam: So six.
Matt: Just six. Pike takes 12 points of fire damage because she's resistant even though she failed her save.
Laura: Okay.
Marisha: Oh, that's good. That's good.
Laura: So she's still up.
Sam: She's still alive!
Taliesin: She's still alive.
Sam: Because of me, let's just go on record and say that.
Taliesin: I'll go with that.
Liam: Can you say it in Spanish?
Sam: No, I cannot.
Taliesin: Pike.
Sam: Yo no soy Marinado. Alright, that brings us back to Raishan's turn.
Laura: Oh God, oh God.
Matt: Gets her legendary actions back.
Travis: It's cool, you can just go.
Matt: Given the current circumstance...
Taliesin: No. No.
Matt: Raishan is going to unleash...
Travis: Handshake?
Matt: She's going to unleash a full round of attacks against you as you are right up in her face and stabbed her in the gums and avoided the entirety of her meteor swarm and you also attacked her.
Taliesin: In defense, she had some corn stuck in her--
Laura: Yeah, he really was helping. It'd been there for like--
Matt: And she appreciates that, but the rest of the stuff is still a problem.
Taliesin: I'm trying not to say anything.
Matt: That is 22 to hit with a bite.
Liam: That just hits, Uncanny Dodge.
Sam: Maybe you should remind her that we have a deal. We're supposed to be working together.
Matt: 22, well, yeah, so they all hit.
Sam: What happened to our deal, Raishan?
Liam: The first one is Uncanny and then the rest are--
Matt: Correct, so the bite attack is halved. Which is good. That'll be 22 points of piercing damage and you got the warm tingle earlier, right? You also suffer ten points of poison damage.
Sam: Ten points of poison?
Laura: Even though he's immune to poison?
Matt: He's not immune to poison.
Laura: He's not?
Matt: No.
Liam: Not from that-- so that our Hero's Feast does nothing.
Laura: It was Dispel, she dispelled our Heroes' Feast. That's what that fucking shit was.
Travis: Oh!
Liam: Is that the total--
Matt: That was the bite attack. So that whole attack is halved. The poison damage and the piercing you took is halved. The claw attack...
Sam: There was a shimmering and you didn't feel anything.
Matt: 26 points of piercing damage.
Liam: Vax is falling. (gasps)
Sam: Oh, no.
Matt: And the tail bats you on the way down. You guys watch as the darkened wings of Vax go limp and he just plummets.
Marisha: Oh, boy.
Sam: That's gonna be--
Matt: Roll a d20.
Laura: Oh, God.
Liam: Is this a death save?
Matt: No, this is a trajectory.
Marisha: Oh my God, please don't land in the lava.
Matt: You smack right into the edge, but not into the magma river. You hear the cracking sound of bones breaking upon impact and the wings themselves broken. Feathers falling and burning within the molten rock. The wings slowly fold in and curl like a spider dying and vanish.
Liam: That sucks.
Sam: Forever?
Laura: No, not forever!
Taliesin: He just went unconscious.
Matt: And with that...
Taliesin: Something's gotta be done about that.
Travis: You are Anakin on the riverbed.
Marisha: Totally.
Taliesin: Magma is practically like your arch nemesis to be fair.
Liam: I don't-- I don't know.
Matt: Raishan is going to move. (pieces crash) (shouts)
Matt: Kima, no!
Marisha: Poor Kima!
Sam: Bye. I just got here! (indistinct talking)
Matt: Alrighty. And as she emerges now, after knocking you out of the air, wings fully out, Raishan... (snarling) "You're next." And then swoops over and is now floating over the lava pool over that way. And appears to be preparing for something.
Liam: Have I got any automatic fails in a death save?
Matt: Yes, you did fail a death saving throw from hitting the ground.
Liam: Hitting the ground?
Matt: Yes.
Sam: As she does that, I yell out, "Could you be more specific? Who is next, who? Oh, we didn't see who you were looking at over here. No? Alright, guess we'll find out."
Travis: I was so preoccupied, I missed it.
Matt: That ends Raishan's turn. Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: Okay, so Keyleth, pretty pissed off from seeing her boyfriend spiked from the sky. I'm going to kinda get a few, well, no, I guess I can stay here. Kind of above the lava create a swirling angry lava vortex of lightning and fire and I'm gonna hit her again with lightning.
Matt: Okay. Make her save. Save 12 plus nine that is 21, which does save.
Marisha: Yeah, she saved.
Matt: So takes half damage, so 14 then halved.
Marisha: Okay, not too bad. Twelve, 14 plus seven, 21 total. Half damage.
Matt: Okay, so ten points of lightning damage.
Marisha: Not great.
Matt: Okay, did you want to move or you gonna stay where you are?
Marisha: Um...
Taliesin: You can't heal as a bonus action, can you?
Marisha: No, I can't do anything. Does-- does Vax look like he's about to fall in the lava?
Matt: Vax is approximately one foot from the edge of the river.
Sam: One third my size.
Travis: Is it flat or is it...
Matt: It's slightly domed in.
Marisha: Do you have flame resistance right now? Yeah, you said you're flame resistant.
Taliesin: On the armor.
Marisha: Okay, so I'm gonna use my movement then. I'm gonna be very careful to make sure I touch the armor, the Raven Queen armor and I'm going to see if I can just fire elemental like roll him away from the edge a little bit.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: The armor is set to flame resistance.
Matt: Yes, it is.
Travis: I thought you were saying you were gonna like roll him in the lava.
Marisha: It's been nice. (talking over each other)
Matt: I will say-- I will say the touch of a fire elemental ignites whatever it touches. It's kind of the essence of the element.
Marisha: But he has fire resistance.
Matt: Right, which means he'll take half damage from any fire that you deal. However, being the fact that you are in control of your form you're not trying to hurt something, I would say that you could carefully push him aside and I'll allow you a death saving throw as opposed to just taking straight damage.
Liam: Okay.
Matt: I'm making a--
Liam: I'm rolling an advantage.
Matt: An advantage because of your armor, yeah.
Liam: Twelve, succeed. So, we're good, we're good.
Marisha: We're cool, we're good.
Sam: Here, let me help you. Oh God, I killed him.
Liam: I feel like in another dimension this didn't go so well.
Matt: So you kind of roll him over...
Marisha: That would be the most Keyleth thing to do. I love you so-- oh God, I killed the thing I love.
Sam: Oh my God, George, I hugged the puppy really hard.
Liam: No, no, no!
Marisha: I'm sorry, George.
Matt: You barely move him, you only get him five feet from being so careful. You could have moved him further, but he would have-- been ignited in the process.
Travis: Oh my God.
Taliesin: I got that extension so bad.
Matt: Does that end your turn?
Marisha: I'm gonna then take a few steps back away from him now.
Matt: Okay, back this way, back where you were?
Marisha: Yeah, yes.
Travis: You would have turned into a vestige.
Taliesin: I don't got to pretend I'm (indistinct).
Matt: Okay, that ends your turn?
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. At the end of your turn. Raishan is still overhead and casts a spell.
Liam: Duvet, Duvall?
Travis: Duvet.
Matt: Alrighty. You watch as Raishan over on the edge... her front claws begin to form this strange geometric sigil in the middle of the air and each corner of it is a different color. Green, orange, yellow, red, purple, blue. And suddenly this giant burst--
Sam: Can I try to counterspell her?
Matt: What's the range on that?
Sam: 60 feet, am I just there?
Marisha: Come on, Scanlan.
Laura: Oh God, Scanlan.
Travis: What is she casting?
Matt: She's within range!
Laura: Oh, God!
Taliesin: Please, please! Please kill it!
Matt: d20 add six.
Sam: Eighteen.
Matt: You rolled an 18?
Sam: No, I rolled a 12.
Matt: You rolled a 12, that's an 18 total? It is a... Hold on a second.
Taliesin: God, I can't breathe.
Matt: I'm pretty sure...
Sam: I get a plus two for--
Matt: Right, oh, I know. The sigil-- as the burst of colored light begins to spray forward, you watch as it just... (cheering)
Laura: Scanlan! MVP!
Liam: Vax wakes up for two seconds, says, "You da man!" and then lies back down. (laughter)
Matt: Shit. I never get to use Prismatic Spray.
Travis: That was a day ruiner, right? Day ruiner. (talking over each other) There's no chance that was like a healing spray, was it?
Liam: Probably not.
Travis: Like the gesture of surrender?
Liam: It was kind of like rainbows.
Taliesin: It's the angriest Captain Planet-- it's just the worst--
Marisha: Like the most fucked up Care Bear stare.
Matt: Alright, so, as the spell dissipates... Raishan angrily...
Sam:  You got eggs and you gonna lose 'em   You got eggs 
Laura: Oh God.
Matt: Alright, so that ends-- that ends Keyleth's turn. That brings us to Gilmore. Now, Gilmore over here is-- what else does he have left in the tank here? He's gonna do a level four Lightning Bolt.
Taliesin: Chromatic spray.
Sam: Chromatic spray could have been many things though.
Taliesin: Yes, but they're all bad. -It's a wheel of death.
Sam: And they're all bad. One of them's like 70 points of...
Marisha: Yeah.
Taliesin: Of just-- just goop.
Marisha: Each color is like bad.
Matt: Gilmore is going to...
Taliesin: It's a great way of dealing with people who are-- who are attuned to deal with you. (indistinct talking)
Taliesin: You were looking at that for a while.
Sam: Yeah, I was, it was good. -It looks good.
Taliesin: It's really good. -It's very you too.
Sam: Rainbow colored.
Matt: Sorry.
Laura: Check out those Gilmore t-shirts.
Matt: I know, sorry, I'm checking to make sure he can do this cause this is what he's trying to do.
Liam: Gilmore's wearing one right now.
Sam: Hey, Laura, are those key chains laser etched?
Laura: Why, they are! It's so funny you should ask.
Sam: Wow, what about the--
Laura: So precise.
Sam: Did I say the key chain or the necklace? What about the necklace?
Matt: So, Gilmore-- Gilmore runs up. And just vanishes from his place and instantly blinks up over into this area using his misty step as his bonus action. And looks upward. "How do you like it?" Raises his hand and pulls this way. You watch as this necromantic energy begins to gather around his hands. A familiar spell to you, Keyleth. As you watch the diseased blackened veins up the side of Raishan's body begin to spread and grow momentarily and kind of begin to-- to dig their way into her throat. She begins to pull backward, unfamiliar with this sudden internal pain. Rolls a natural 20 for her save. But regardless, that's still--
Laura: I like how he genuinely looked kind of disappointed though that he rolled a 20.
Travis: I think he's just--
Laura: It made me-- it made me feel great.
Liam: He's a really good actor.
Sam: See, we're not even gonna need the flute guy.
Laura: I hope he shows up. I hope he's not like...
Taliesin: No, a month from now he's gonna show up.
Travis: Attacking like his carry-on?
Sam: He's at TSA right now. "I have nothing else metal on me. I don't-- oh, I'm bronze."
Matt: Seventeen points of necrotic damage to Raishan with the save. That's Gilmore's turn there. That brings us to... Grog.
Travis: Me?
Matt: Yes.
Taliesin: Your dragon-based humor is way too tight right now.
Travis: Can I run over with Shaun?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: Can I attach the Chain of Returning to the axe?
Matt: Yes.
Travis: Then, can I swing it really hard and go, "Yeah, catchphrase!" and throw it up. (laughter)
Matt: Yes, you can.
Travis: Good, reckless, please.
Matt: Yes, you may.
Sam: Laura.
Travis: That's a natural 20.
Marisha: Whoo!
Matt: Oh, shit! Alright.
Travis: Oh, and with the brutal critical, I get two additional...
Matt: Yeah, two additional d12's to that, so roll the die first. Plus don't forget you double the necrotic die.
Travis: Yeah, I do double it?
Matt: Yeah.
Liam: Yes!
Travis: That's a six, so that's 12. I'm enlarged. Where's the triangle, who took the triangle?
Laura: I don't-- here you go.
Taliesin: You got like valley girl on that. "Who took the triangle?"
Travis: That's 29 and then two additional d12.
Matt: Correct.
Travis: Nine, 38. Ten, 48.
Matt: 48? Okay.
Laura: Did you double those extras? Do you double those dice as well?
Travis: No.
Laura: Okay.
Travis: Brutal critical, you get two additional damage die on my roll.
Matt: Okay, so, as you rush up, "Catchphrase!" and throw the axe sideways. It arcs upward and Raishan is currently kind of reeling from the dispel and angrily yelling into the room in draconic. Gets partway into a phrase, just finishing... (roaring) The axe just jams into the side of her collarbone and front torso area and... The axe is still kind of wedged there, are you gonna pull back?
Travis: Yeah, I'll pull it back.
Matt: So go ahead and roll your...
Taliesin: I don't know why you're looking over here for that.
Travis: Yeah, I got it. 23.
Matt: So, yanking the axe, dislodges itself and you catch it. You see it's covered in Raishan blood. As you pull the axe back, you watch as something just, like, a flash of arcane energy around her, and some sort of spell, uncast by her, just seemingly automatically just kind of surrounds her and her flying begins to speed up.
Laura: She got hasted?
Marisha: But how?
Laura: How?
Travis: I didn't know I was this powerful. What the fuck happened?
Laura: How did she get hasted?
Liam: Well, we'll find out.
Laura: What if the brass dragon's helping her?
Taliesin: Or what if the eggs are helping her?
Matt: Yeah, you have maybe 15 more feet.
Taliesin: I don't know, I just like putting things out there.
Travis: Rolling towards that end of the map as far as I go.
Matt: This end, sure.
Laura: That end of the map.
Travis: Can I go that way? Yeah, that's cool. -Cool.
Matt: Great.
Laura: Oh God.
Matt: That puts you at the end of your turn. She's gonna use legendary action. At this point in her kind of, sped up form, she begins to... (chanting) And there's a slight ripple again in the air similar to what Gilmore did towards Raishan early part of the battle. Let me see the...
Taliesin: We're making some bad groupings there, by the way, people.
Matt: Yeah. You feel a kind of a strange warmth and tingling sensation within your body, Scanlan.
Sam: Oh, what, me? But I didn't do anything.
Taliesin: You relieve yourself gently.
Laura: Did you just pee?
Taliesin: I cast Tinkle.
Sam: I don't get to save or anything, it just happens?
Matt: It's not a save, it's against an effect on you and she rolls to-- just like how you roll to overcome her spell's counter spell, she gets to roll to overcome whatever effect is on you with dispel magic.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: So, that's gonna be the last of her legendary actions.
Laura: She just dispelled all of us. Can we bust out a feast right now? -Just like sit down.
Taliesin: We can make eggs benedict. We have the makings for eggs benedict.
Sam: Does that dispel my fire resistance as well?
Matt: No, it only affected the Heroes' Feast.
Sam: Okay. You'll have to explain that sometime.
Matt: Vex, you're up.
Laura: So, giving a potion to somebody is a full action?
Matt: Yes. Cause you have to basically get there, open it, grab them and help them swallow it to have the effect take place. It's a pretty involved action.
Sam: That means we don't have advantage on death saves either. Right, wait.
Laura: Did we ever?
Sam: Yeah, we did.
Laura: Oh, that's from Beacon of Hope. That's gone anyway.
Sam: Is that gone, okay?
Taliesin: Yeah, that got eaten.
Laura: Okay, then I'm gonna fly down to my brother. And I'm gonna cast Cure Wounds on him at fourth level, so that's 4d8.
Sam: 4d8? 
Laura: Oh, 19 plus eight, wow, 27.
Sam: Wow.
Liam: Thank you.
Laura: You don't got no wings anymore.
Liam: She dead?
Laura: No.
Liam: Oh, shit.
Laura: Get away from the lava. And then, I'm gonna fly away from the lava. -Up.
Matt: This way?
Travis: Towards Matt.
Laura: Yeah, towards Matt. Up and towards Matt.
Matt: Up and towards me.
Laura: Kind of away from Pike. Actually, let's go, oh God.
Matt: This way?
Laura: Yes, yes, what you just did. That way.
Matt: That's about as far as you can go right there. Okay.
Laura: And I get a bonus. I can do something with a bonus. I'm gonna re-Hunter's Mark her.
Matt: Yeah, cause you--
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Alright, so Hunter's Mark reapplied.
Laura: Oh, wait! I can take a potion for myself as a bonus.
Matt: Yes.
Laura: I'm gonna do that.
Matt: Alright, go for it.
Taliesin: Yeah. -Get it.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: Just a regular potion?
Laura: Just a Superior.
Matt: Oh, right.
Laura: That my brother gave me.
Matt: That is an 8d4 plus eight.
Laura: It's a four.
Travis: Easter egg.
Laura: Seventeen plus eight.
Travis: You have one more dice to roll.
Laura: I do?
Travis: Yep.
Laura: Ooh. So, 21 plus eight, so 29.
Matt: Nice.
Sam: You healed yourself that much? Jesus, that's a big potion.
Laura: Yeah that was, I rolled really well.
Taliesin: I may make one for the table.
Laura: I didn't trust that I would roll that well.
Matt: That ends your turn, Vex?
Laura: Yes.
Matt: Vax, you're up.
Liam: Okay, so half my movement just to get to standing, right?
Matt: Correct.
Liam: Okay, I'm gonna throw Whisper, Flame tongue. Raishan should be within 60 feet, yeah?
Matt: Uh, yeah.
Liam: Okay. -Seventeen for the first.
Matt: Fails.
Liam: Second is 22.
Matt: Twenty-two just hits.
Travis: That's it, that's Raishan at 22.
Liam: Ten.
Taliesin: 22?
Marisha: She's 22.
Matt: How much damage?
Liam: Ten.
Matt: Ten points damage.
Liam: And I'm going to use my remaining 15 of movement to go diagonally away from Raishan.
Matt: Diagonally away this way?
Liam: Away from-- diagonal.
Matt: Here?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Okay, that's as far as you can get there. Okay. That ends your turn. That brings us to Kima. Let's see. Kima rushes in with Holy Avenger, and looks over at the distant dragon and goes, "Oh, shit. Who's hurting?"
Laura: Everyone.
Sam: I'm fine.
Laura: "I am, I don't want to say anything though, but I kind of am. I feel kind of shitty. I--I feel like shit."
Liam: "Um..."
Laura: "Um..."
Sam: "I'm kind of bleeding from my ears, but, whatever."
Matt: Kima as an action is gonna cast a...
Laura: "I can deal with it. It's no big deal."
Matt: I'm gonna say third level Cure Wounds.
Liam: Matt, my wings are toast, right?
Matt: Yeah. That's 17 points of healing to Pike.
Laura: Okay, thank you.
Matt: I think Kima's just gonna go at a full run. (indistinct talking) Right, that ends Kima's turn. There is a flash of light in the tunnel behind you guys. As a sudden burst of kind of... a whitish orangish energy that briefly halos Kima, Scanlan, and Pike's forms. As you watch, a brass talon... (cheering) A brass talon, that since it was used as the top of our tree, I forgot to bring its base, but he'll be acting there.
Taliesin: It was a beautiful tree.
Laura: Hey, look, he's standing!
Marisha: He's standing.
Taliesin: You've been drinking, brass dragon.
Laura: Oh, J'Mon, you looking good.
Liam: J'Mon!
Laura: J'Mon!
Taliesin: Have you been working out? You look like you've been working out.
Matt: He watches as they arrive and kind of bully their way past the entrance. "I was wondering when you'd call."
Sam: Glad you came!
Travis: Nothing cool, nothing cool with that!
Taliesin: Swipe right, swipe right!
Travis: Sure is glad you're here!
Sam: We're happy to see you?
Travis: No court speak here.
Sam: How-- how was the flight?
Matt: Actually, I broke my platforms, so I'll just have to use my imagination for some of this.
Sam: We need modeling clay, quick!
Taliesin: Fishing wire, we can just string it from the top of the set.
Marisha: Yeah, yeah, just attach it to a string.
Matt: There we go. J'Mon, they kind of stomp their way into the room, stepping over you, Scanlan. Stepping past you, Vax. Nestles in, kind of surveys the territory. "A different color than I was expecting." And releases a blast of fire breath upwards in the direction--
Travis: Smoke 'em if you got 'em. C'mon, J'Mon.
Laura:  J'Mon 
Taliesin:  J'Mon 
Matt: That is a 23. Okay, makes the dex save, so Raishan pulls out of the way with a benefit from the haste spell. However it does still take damage. Half damage from the spell. That's 16d6 damage.
Laura: Wow.
Travis: 16d6. Well, that might actually help.
Liam: Nobody expects the Marquette inquisition.
Matt: That is 58 points fire damage, half of that to 20... 29, whoo, pardon me.
Laura: Did you just burp or did you just--
Matt: I did.
Matt: Twenty nine points of fire damage to Raishan from Devo'ssa's Flame breath. J'Mon Sa Ord, as you know.
Travis: Wow.
Matt: She makes a concentration check. Succeeds.
Travis: Damn it.
Matt: So, the haste remains viable. Okay, that ends J'Mon's turn. Pike is up.
Laura: Okay. Pike...
Marisha: Go on, girl!
Laura: She's gonna cast Mass Healing Word. Can she get the most people in her radius?
Matt: What's the range on it?
Laura: It is a 60 foot radius.
Sam: Radius?
Matt: Yep, that's the biggest radius, it'd be right there. In the center, just under J'Mon's giant brass dragon wing.
Laura: Okay.
Sam: It's not gonna heal Raishan, is it?
Laura: No.
Matt: No.
Laura: Heals only people she wants. It's up to six creatures.
Matt: Up to six creatures, who do you choose?
Laura: Who all's--
Taliesin: Raise your hand if you would-- you would like to be--
Laura: So, that's--
Liam: Grog is within range.
Laura: Grog and her. So, that's Grog, Pike, Vex, Vax, and Percy.
Sam: Well, hey, if you can do six.
Laura: And Scanlan. "Oh, sorry, Scanlan, I didn't see you there."
Sam: "Well, I'm behind a dragon, honey, it's okay."
Laura: Oh, he's gonna dispel this shit.
Taliesin: I don't think she can.
Laura: Okay, she's gonna do this.
Sam: Wait, can she do it on herself as well?
Laura: Yeah.
Sam: Okay.
Laura: Nine.
Sam: Nine-- nine points?
Laura: Yeah. That's a bonus, I know, I know, okay.
Taliesin: Nine is good.
Laura: There's not really anything else right now.
Taliesin: Technically, it's 9 times 6, so you did a lot of healing.
Laura: All of her major spells were used.
Liam: Still in the game.
Taliesin: Nine times six is a lot.
Travis: Nine points, okay.
Taliesin: That brings me up into the 60's.
Sam: Decadent.
Marisha: Just a-- a nice southern California day.
Taliesin: Fifties.
Laura: And then, can she-- does she have any movement left?
Matt: No, that was her full movement to get there. (indistinct talking)
Laura: That's true. She's gonna duck as much as she can under J'Mon.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: For protection. And say, "Oh, you look very nice, thank you." (laughing)
Matt: There you go.
Laura: "Thank you for helping us."
Sam: At this point, I feel like you guys are better at Ashley than she is.
Laura: No, shut up.
Matt: Alrighty.
Taliesin: Cast of thousands it takes to play Ashley.
Matt: Ending Pike's turn, Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: Oh, oh, shit, I should have been thinking about what I--
Matt: Yes, you should have.
Sam: Okay. I will-- I will-- I will shoot some stuff at Raishan of it all.
Matt: Do it, what are you doing?
Sam: I'm gonna shoot Lightning Bolt at Raishan. From my dick. (laughter)
Marisha: Yes.
Matt: So, as you begin creating your incantation and thrust your hips forward, J'Mon Sa Ord turns their head beneath the wing in your direction and arcs a brow, surprised.
Sam: Like, yeah, this is happening.
Matt: As the bolt of energy streaks forth from your groin in the direction of the dragon. That is a 15. It's going to use one of Raishan's legendary resistances to resist it. So half damage.
Sam: Okay, fine, whatever.
Travis: "Fine, whatever."
Sam: Okay.
Travis: Feel the heat.
Sam: Wow.
Sam: 35 halved.
Matt: 35 halved.
Sam: 17.
Matt: That's a good roll.
Sam: That is a good roll. It was mostly sixes and fives.
Matt: Alrighty. And do you wish to move or you gonna stay where you are?
Sam: Oh. No, I would like to move. I would like to move forward a bit still within the-- the Devo'ssa range.
Matt: Like by Pike and Kima over here?
Sam: Yeah, oh, can I move to the other side of Devo'ssa?
Matt: Yeah, you can move just underneath, running between the legs and get about there.
Sam: And yeah, shoot, is anyone else-- how's Gilmore look?
Matt: Gilmore is standing and seems to be doing alright, but seen a lot struggle from the last battle and is currently about... You can see a little bit of blood dried and curling from one side of the mouth. Hair is mussed up and looks to be a few burn marks across the skin and is kind of a little out of breath, but is standing.
Taliesin: It's the level two Mike Tyson's punch out.
Matt: Yeah. Gilmore's roughly half out.
Sam: Okay.
Taliesin: I knew that would break you.
Travis: I love that reference.
Sam: So I will use a Healing Word on Gilmore. Why not? 'Cause I don't want to use any-- I got one more Inspiration, so I'm not gonna use that yet. So, yeah, I will-- I will heal Gilmore.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Oh, yes, sorry, I got to roll. Nine.
Matt: Total nine, great, alrighty. That ends your turn?
Sam: Yes, yes, yes.
Matt: Alright, Percival, you're up.
Travis: Nice job.
Taliesin: Okay, I don't have it marked down that I burned my action surge, but I think I burned my action surge.
Matt: You did, yes.
Taliesin: But I still do have two points of Cabal's Ruin. -If I recall.
Matt: You do, yes.
Taliesin: Okay, just making sure. Alright, so, I'm going to-- from my little vantage point, take a shot with Bad News. See how this goes, and I'm gonna burn a Grit for advantage. Let's do this.  Yeah. I mean, that wasn't fine, but we could do better. Yeah, that's already better.
Travis: Come on.
Taliesin: Thirty points to-- 30 to hit.
Matt: Thirty does hit, yes.
Taliesin: Alright. Let's use these, they're sparkly. Two 12 plus six plus, I'm gonna throw 2d6 worth of electric. 2d4 worth of electric. Learning how to use-- Oh, 1d6, no, never mind, here we go. So, let's add. Empty out Cabal's Ruin. That's awful.  10 points of damage plus 6 points of lightning damage.
Travis: How's that terrible, that's not terrible.
Taliesin: For me.
Laura: For him.
Matt: You watch as you send the last bit of the charge through the cloak as the energy shoots up your arm into the gun and as you fire, it travels with the bullet and bursts into this kind of weird, reverse shock wave and the energy returns and slams for a second time into Raishan's body.
Taliesin: Nice, I have one more shot. So, I'm gonna take my last shot although there's no more electricity. That's probably not gonna hit. That's 18 to hit, that does not hit.
Matt: It does not.
Taliesin: That does not hit. But at least it doesn't backfire.
Matt: It hits the side of the hide and ricochets off the dragon's skin.
Taliesin: I'm gonna start running. I know you don't have the little plastic thing, but I'm feeling a little clumped over there, so I'm gonna start running up the wall at an angle, so probably three up and three-- three up and three side.
Matt: We'll mark you at 25 feet up on the wall. Just keep that in mind. Okay, ends Percy. Top of this now is another lair action.  (indistinct talking)
Sam: No, he could do that.
Matt: Alright. 
Taliesin: It's like watching some very, like, complicated...
Marisha: Like, chess.
Matt: The magma over here begins to bubble and you watch as one of these strange protrusions from the rocky ground begins to bow upward and then crack open as another familiar cloud of gas begins to spill out in this area.
Travis: But you're totally immune.
Matt: Vax, Vex, Scanlan. I need you guys to make constitution saving throws.
Sam: Nope.
Laura: This is just the worst.
Matt: J'Mon.
Laura:  J'Mon 
Matt: Does make it, yes.
Sam: Four.
Laura: Fourteen.
Liam: Eighteen.
Matt: Okay, you do make it.
Liam: Eighteen.
Matt: Eighteen, yes, the two of you manage to succeed. Pike as well?
Taliesin: Oh, yeah, medicine won't heal it.
Laura: Hold on.
Travis: That's gotta make it.
Liam: Thirteen.
Laura: Fourteen.
Matt: Okay. So, this cloud is still kind of permeating this area. Obscuring it slightly. Ending that now it is Raishan's--
Sam: Wait, what did I do, what happened to me?
Matt: You rolled a four.
Sam: Yeah.
Matt: So, when your turn comes around next...
Sam: I die.
Travis: I'll let you know.
Matt: No, you'll just be coughing and incapacitated. The coughing fit that this poison gas creates is so bad that you can't do anything but hack.
Travis: It is called LA Smog.
Matt: Yes. Now, being Raishan's turn. Still hasted, pardon me. Raishan is going to dart backward... and snatch up this one egg with her claws. Grabs it and kind of carries it up underneath.
Marisha: Bitch cares.
Laura: She does care!
Marisha: She cares!
Laura: Let's kill them eggs.
Taliesin: Care Bear stare!
Sam: Wait, maybe she's just trying to be a good mom.
Taliesin: She's gonna throw it at us.
Marisha: Google Donkey Kong.
Taliesin: She could go all Donkey Kong on us.
Marisha: Yeah, yeah. (indistinct talking)
Laura: (yells)
Matt: So, that's 20 to get there and back to grab that. She kinda swoops down, grabs it. Moves forward ever so slightly this way, and... No, from back here. Is going to release a giant burst of poisonous gas outward, affecting-- Kima shrugs it off, Pike shrugs it off. Grog, you shrug it off cause you resist the dispel that didn't work earlier. Gilmore ate the Feast earlier and is also unaffected. However, I need...
Laura: Gilmore didn't get the Feast.
Matt: That's right, cause you can only have so many people eat from it. Alright, I need Gilmore, Vax, Vex and Scanlan to all make constitution saving throws.
Sam: What about Devo'ssa?
Matt: Yes.
Taliesin: Wow. That's not happy. Such a pretty die.
Laura: Did you say Pike? Did you say Pike as well?
Matt: Pike didn't get dispelled. So Pike is immune.
Sam: I got a nine, Matthew.
Matt: You got a 9?
Sam: Constitution?
Matt: Yes.
Sam: Nine.
Matt: Not you, Percy.
Taliesin: I didn't have to roll. I'm just mocking him.
Matt: Vex?
Laura: Fourteen.
Matt: Okay. You guys and Scanlan all suffer 83 points of poison damage.
Travis: Oh my God!
Marisha: How many?
Matt: Eighty-three.
Laura: Eighty-three.
Matt: Gilmore.
Taliesin: (laughing) Gilmore makes his save roll with a 19 plus three.
Taliesin: So, he gets 40.
Matt: Thanks to your heal earlier, Gilmore is still standing with two hit points.
Laura: Wow.
Sam: That makes two of us, friend. I'm at two hit points as well.
Travis: How y'all doing?
Laura: We're unconscious.
Sam: Did our-- Our bronze brass dragon get hurt at all or no?
Matt: Brass dragon. But it is here in a minute. Rolls a one on its saving throw. Gonna use legendary resistance to make the save. So he only takes-- they only take--
Taliesin: Can you arc lightning?
Matt: 41 points of damage there. Okay. So, as this billows forth...
Laura: Twins go out together.
Matt: So, Vax, he falls unconscious. Vex, you fall unconscious, fall off the broom, hit the ground. Taking four points of bludgeoning damage, you suffer a death saving throw from the impact.
Laura: From like a teeny little ten foot fall?
Matt: 10 foot drop on your head.
Laura: That's fucking stupid.
Matt: It's only a--
Laura: She was sitting stupidly!
Matt: It's only a d6 bludgeoning damage, but when you're unconscious while falling, you now realize the downside of flying all the time.
Laura: Damn it!
Travis: Didn't you put air bags on that thing?
Laura: I did, I have a helmet on. Did you-- I put airbags in the witch's hat.
Taliesin: It's a football helmet.
Travis: That's right, it's magic, it goes...
Sam: Yeah, I forgot to tell you, the witch hat is magic.
Taliesin: Full of balloons.
Matt: As the poisonous breath billows out and everyone's coughing and falling over, you watch the twins fall unconscious, Raishan kind of grins. "You've got a few surprises, I see, but you're not the only ones."
Laura: Oh, no, does she have more surprises?
Travis: I think that's what she meant, yeah.
Laura: I hope that's not--
Taliesin: There's cake and ice cream upstairs.
Sam: "I have more surprises." "Guys, I think she has more surprises."
Travis: That's literally what she just said.
Laura: I just thought maybe the breath was the surprise.
Matt: And then is going to use the rest of her movement to whip over here.
Travis: Damn it, damn it, damn it. Why'd she have to leave? I just wanted to give her a high five.
Taliesin: You need to heal the living hell out of these people.
Laura: Damn it! She's carrying...?
Matt: She's carrying two eggs underneath.
Taliesin: Which means she obviously can't do claw attacks.
Matt: She still has 40 feet of movement.
Laura: That's true.
Matt: And is going to turn back, and flies there.
Travis: Didn't pick up anything else?
Matt: No, she grabbed the two eggs and is positioning. Alright, that ends Raishan's turn. Keyleth, you're up.
Taliesin: Can you heal?
Marisha: I'm wondering if I should drop this and start doing beefier stuff now.
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: I think now's the time.
Sam: This has only injured Vax so far, so...
Laura: Me and...
Taliesin: The twins, they're both unconscious.
Sam: Oh, great.
Taliesin: With one death saving throw already failed.
Sam: Great.
Laura: No, just me.
Marisha: Okay, I am going to move from--
Laura: And Pike's like out.
Marisha: Over the lava like this direction.
Sam: She's got some cantrips.
Marisha: Geez, I can't tell.
Matt: Which way?
Marisha: This way, this way. See the laser pointer? No, no, no, I had it. I had it and it went away. -Okay.
Matt: Over here?
Marisha: No, it's-- yeah, over there.
Matt: Over here?
Marisha: Uh-huh. And how far away is Raishan from me now?
Matt: I'd say roughly 30 feet, 35 feet.
Marisha: Okay, move me like one more closer to her.
Matt: There you go.
Marisha: And how close am I from the twins now? I can't see.
Matt: Twins, you're about 30, another 35 feet from them.
Marisha: Okay, let me move five more feet so I can be within 30 feet of the twins.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Okay, now I'm gonna drop my--
Matt: Well, with both twins, you'd have to move there. You drop your form?
Marisha: Drop my form.
Matt: Alright.
Marisha: I hope this is not a terrible idea.
Matt: I'll put you there.
Taliesin: We're at that point.
Marisha: We're at that point. This is Dungeons and Dragons!
Taliesin: This is dungeon and dragons.
Marisha: I'm going to bust out the Spire of Conflux. So I'm gonna bust out the staff and be like, "You bitch." And then aim it. I'm gonna do chain lightning and can I try and hit her and the two eggs and maybe like, since I still have the storm going, like, it just looks cool? (laughing)
Matt: Sure.
Laura: Doesn't it--?
Matt: Raishan saves. The eggs cannot save technically, so go ahead and roll damage.
Laura: Don't you get the lightning attacks too? If you're doing chain lightning, you still get the other lightning's that are there?
Marisha: I have to choose to make an action. It's still there, but I can either like do other things or choose to do--
Laura: I understand.
Marisha: Sorry, I don't do the-- 10d8.
Taliesin: Do you need some d8's?
Marisha: I have one, two, three, four, five... I think I'm good, I'll just roll five twice. Oh, God, oh, God. Did she save?
Matt: Yes, she did.
Marisha: But the eggs didn't?
Matt: The eggs did not.
Marisha: Okay, that's not phenomenal. Three, six, nine, ten-- nine, ten, eleven. Plus four is 15 plus... Okay, okay. What'd I say, 15? Twenty-five, 29. Thirty-six total.
Taliesin: Oh, wait, wait, wait.
Marisha: Oh! Oh, and I get to reroll this one. Thirty-six, no, thirty-eight.
Matt: Thirty-eight, okay. That would be 29, no, sorry. No, from 30, 19. Nineteen damage to Raishan and the two eggs-- You watch as the bolt hits, arcs through her, arcs through the eggs. You see the eggs still carrying them, no visual.
Marisha: It didn't do anything to 'em?
Matt: Well, nothing you can see, no.
Marisha: Nothing I can see. Maybe I like microwaved 'em inside. Like nuked 'em. Might have nuked 'em.
Travis: Might have been like Vision and you made 'em super strong.
Marisha: Yeah, or I turned 'em into little Vision dragons. You know, one of the two. Okay, and then for my bonus action, I'm going to do a Healing Word on Vax.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: I'm just gonna do it at first level. -Sorry.
Liam: No, hey.
Taliesin: It's back up.
Marisha: Three plus (indistinguishable) so nine total.
Liam: Thank you.
Matt: At the end of your turn, watching you form over, hit her with lightning, hit the eggs and all of a sudden, breath come back to the lungs of Vax on the ground. Raishan, "Not so fast." Still clutching the eggs, her front claws kind of form this small spiral as the air grows surprisingly cold causing this mist to form around the extended ends of her claws. As she puts her arms forth, casting Cone of Cold outward from her.
Laura: I wonder if they're elemental, like, amplifiers.
Marisha: The eggs?
Taliesin: I think, I think maybe they're--
Travis: Just eggs?
Taliesin: No, no, I think she may be on to something.
Matt: That's going to be... I don't know if it's going to hit.
Taliesin: No, no.
Matt: Does not hit Gilmore. However, I need Scanlan...
Sam: Would I be able to counter spell this or-- or am I already in a cloud of smoke and coughing?
Matt: Oh, you can't technically move cause you're doubled over.
Sam: I'm already in the cloud, right?
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: Okay.
Laura: You're in the cloud, but you can be restored. Cause you've been backed up.
Sam: Oh. Backblaze?
Sam: You're slowly becoming me tonight.
Taliesin: Can Gilmore dispel or-- Just throwing that out there. I know you're playing a lot of hands here.
Sam: You're so handsome and charming all of a sudden.
Matt: What's the range on that? Unfortunately, Gilmore's just out of range. 60 foot range.
Taliesin: Goddammit, okay.
Matt: Good looking out though.
Taliesin: I'm trying.
Matt: So that is Kima, Pike, J'Mon, Scanlan, Vax and Vex all making constitution saving throws.
Laura: I'm unconscious.
Matt: So, you take another death save.
Laura: Cool.
Taliesin: Goddammit. We need to fix that.
Laura: I've got one save left.
Taliesin: Please, we got to fix that.
Sam: Did I-- wait. Vax-y poo, did I give you my cold armor? I mean, Vex-y poo.
Laura: Yeah, you did, but it's not attuned.
Sam: You're not even using it?
Matt: And even then, even at half damage, she's unconscious.
Laura: Well, I am, I'm just not getting cold--
Matt: So you're at two death saves on impact. You're unconscious again to zero. -You take...
Sam: I rolled an 11.
Matt: An eleven, yeah. So you take 43 points of cold damage.
Sam: I'm so dead.
Travis: No, no, unconscious.
Matt: Unconscious.
Laura: You're unconscious.
Sam: Negative 41.
Matt: Both roll for Pike.
Laura: It doesn't matter what you're negative.
Travis: Unless it's your total hit points.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Roll for Pike if you could please.
Laura: Well, I wouldn't count it, but yeah, that was-- that was bad. It was better when I--
Taliesin: Well, not anymore.
Laura: What is this, what is this? Constitution, what is this? Five! Cause I suck.
Matt: Pike takes another 43 points of cold damage.
Laura: Pike is unconscious.
Sam: The gnomes are down. Well, at least we got Kima.
Laura: Whoa. The two-- the twins and the gnomes are out.
Sam: Yeah, whoa, we're down four?
Taliesin: We're down four.
Sam: Whoa!
Laura: This is serious, you guys.
Sam: Don't worry, Devo'ssa's here to give one shot of 28 points of damage. Come on, Devo'ssa, do something!
Travis: I would hit the dragon cause it's low enough, but it's on the other side of the map.
Matt: Alrighty, so that's the end of Keyleth's turn. It's now Gilmore's turn.
Travis: Come on, Gilmore.
Laura: Do you have Mass Cure, Gilmore?
Matt: Gilmore does not cure, unfortunately, that's not his specialty.
Travis: What about Razzle Dazzle?
Matt: He's used a lot of his spells. (sighs)
Taliesin: I have nothing.
Travis: Can he cast like--
Sam: Oh, wait! Shit. No, that was poison. He shot-- Raishan shot poison at us, right?
Taliesin: No, cold.
Laura: Cold the last time.
Sam: No, the cold this time. The previous time it was poison.
Matt: Yes.
Sam: Never acid though.
Taliesin: No, never acid.
Matt: Gilmore rushes around J'Mon almost as a defensive stand point, but also kind of taking in the circumstance. Watching this blast of cold air come through. Kind of looks around, seeing everyone on the ground. It's like, "Oh God, oh God." And in a fit of rage and needing to lock this down, just gonna go ahead with what he has left at his disposal to release a... All he can really do is a lightning bolt. Which Raishan rolls a one.
Laura: Oh, good, good.
Matt: Uses legendary resistance to resist it.
Laura: I have to pee so bad, I got to get up.
Sam: How do you want to do this?
Matt: I know. Ten points of lightning damage to Raishan.
Laura: What I'm scared of is that I'm gonna be away from the table when I actually die, but I have to pee.
Matt: Go pee, it's fine.
Laura: Just don't kill me while I'm not at the table, okay, Matt?
Matt: Do my best.
Sam: Hey, when she gets back let's all be crying.
Laura: (offscreen) Don't-- I heard that! (laughter)
Taliesin: You are the worst person. Two seconds longer.
Matt: Grog.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: Actually, no, oh, thank you so much.
Taliesin: Oh, yay.
Matt: Thank you, thank you, thank you. Beautiful. They found my base.
Taliesin: Wow, look at all those minis that are flattened. Wake up our healer.
Matt: Look at that. Looks much more majestic when it's up in the air. Oh God. I'm juggling here. Stay on there! Alright, so, at the end of that turn... there's two more legendary actions from Raishan. She has four, she has four. To cast a Melf's Acid Arrow at Gilmore. 
Sam: (snickering)
Travis: Wait, where did Gilmore go, I can't see.
Matt: He's underneath.
Sam: No one said D&D was easy, guys. 
Matt: Okay, a ranged spell attack. So, yeah, that hits. So that is 4d4 acid damage against-- That's five. Five, ten points of acid damage. Gilmore is now also down.
Sam: Oh!
Travis: Is that five total?
Taliesin: Five down, we have five down.
Matt: As Gilmore runs past the dragon, Raishan just with this almost underhanded, flips her claws out and this one little greenish dart of arcane energy slams into Gilmore's chest. And he just falls to the ground.
Taliesin: We're so fucked.
Matt: Burning into him like alien blood.
Travis: This is some kind of horrible record.
Laura: Gilmore just went unconscious too?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Travis: Sit down.
Laura: Oh, no!
Sam: Kima, Percy, Keyleth. It's up to you.
Matt: Grog, it's your turn.
Sam: Oh, wait, Grog! I forgot Grog.
Travis: Hey!
Taliesin: Is there anything you can do to fix this?
Travis: I have a question.
Matt: Yes.
Travis: So my speed is 50, but I don't know if I ever thought of what my speed is enlarged-ish. It's not double, right? I don't really have a card for it. It doesn't say anything about my speed.
Matt: Wait, for which one, on the--
Laura: If he was enlarged.
Matt: If you're enlarged, no, it doesn't increase your speed at all.
Travis: Yeah, okay.
Matt: You're still 50, you're bigger--
Taliesin: Fuck.
Travis: So, from where I am, if I wanted to head towards you, how far could I get?
Matt: You could get... That far there.
Travis: That does fuck all.
Taliesin: That-- yeah.
Travis: I could throw the axe but Pike's unconscious. -I'm gonna run to Pike.
Sam: Start saving shit.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: And I have the middle potion available.
Laura: The Greater?
Travis: The Greater.
Matt: Alrighty, so you're gonna use your action to administer the Greater healing potion to Pike. Alrighty, go for it.
Sam: To Pike.
Travis: How many-- How many is that, I don't remember.
Laura: That's 4d4.
Matt: Yeah, 4d4 plus four.
Travis: Okay. Four. Four, that's two. Hey, seven and a four is eleven. Fifteen. Fifteen points to Pike.
Matt: Fifteen points to Pike.
Taliesin: And she still has her turn coming up.
Laura: Yes.
Taliesin: Oh, okay, okay, that's good.
Laura: But she has basically no spells left.
Sam: She's got no spell slots. Does she have any spell-- higher level spell slots open?
Laura: She's got a fourth level spell.
Taliesin: And then she can burn a fourth to heal somebody at a fourth level. She can heal you at a fourth level because you need healing now.
Matt: That ends your turn, Grog?
Matt: Vex, it's your turn. I need you to make a death saving throw.
Taliesin: Goddammit.
Laura: I could die.
Taliesin: Yep, this could be it.
Sam: This is the last one?
Laura: This is my last death saving throw.
Taliesin: This is it.
Laura: No advantage, no nothing.
Taliesin: Oh God fucking damn it.
Laura: I'm using-- no, I'm not even gonna say it. (groans)
Laura: I failed it.
Matt: What'd you roll?
Laura: Five.
Matt: Five. There, on the banks of the lava flow in Thordak's lair, the breath escapes Vex. Her body going still and unfortunately not cold because of the vicinity of the flames, but Vex has fallen.
Taliesin: Okay.
Matt: Vax.
Liam: Death save.
Matt: With advantage.
Liam: I made it.
Matt: Made it? That brings us to Kima. 
Travis: Fuck. 
Sam: Holy shit. 
Matt: Kima, who's-- Pike is now conscious, correct? From the potion.
Laura: Pike is conscious with 15 points.
Matt: Kima's panicking watching all this happen and seeing this happen in the distance. Looks to Gilmore, looks to Vax. She kind of frustratingly just throws the sword at her side and reaches down and does a level two Healing Word to Gilmore. That is 12, so Gilmore is back and conscious.
Marisha: As a bonus action, so can she heal someone else?
Matt: Alrighty. That ends Kima's turn is now--
Marisha: Does she happen to do-- that's a bonus action. Can she do it twice?
Matt: That was-- that was not Healing Word, sorry, Cure Wounds.
Taliesin: Goddammit.
Matt: She's going to move, stepping over his body, "Keep it going, friend." Leaps over him. Two, three, four, five. And she kind of runs past, pulling the sword out again, looks up at the dragon and says, "Alright, show us what you can do, buddy. There's a lot riding on this." After Kima is J'Mon. They look down at the running Halfling. "Dire as it may be, that's why we're here." Let's see if he gets his breath back. Nope. They did not get their breath back.
Travis: Shit.
Laura: Just-- bitch-- bitchslap Raishan.
Marisha: Kaiju battle!
Liam: Take your earrings off, come on.
Matt: Rushes up and-- Goes right up into Raishan's space.
Laura: Yes!
Sam: Dragon on dragon.
Laura: He has a base now? When did that happen?
Travis: While you were peeing.
Laura: That's great.
Matt: So, just rushes up into Raishan. You feel the wind kind of blast past as the wings of J'Mon Sa Ord, Devo'ssa, pick them up and they rush around strafing the side of Raishan and unleash a barrage of attacks against her. That will be-- First one is 16, no. Bite misses. Three and a two, really?
Laura: Really?
Travis: No, no, no, no.
Marisha: Come on, man.
Travis: I don't believe it.
Marisha: Come on!
Travis: I don't believe.
Sam: Look at all the notes, look at all the notes.
Travis: I don't believe it!
Matt: Three, two and one. That is ridiculous.
Laura: You know why this happened? Cause you took so long to call--
Sam: Yeah, I know, I know. They got-- they got bored waiting at home and yeah.
Matt: So.
Sam: It's me, it's on me.
Matt: As J'Mon rushes up and unleashes, Raishan, who is slippery at best, and really, really, really creepily deceitful at her worst, dodges to the side, so, she's in the shadows and the cloud of the storm in the air to kind of hide her form as J'Mon reaches out and starts slashing Raishan, who's now has this kind of wild look in her eyes of now mounting victory. From a moment of fear earlier, she manages to avoid the first two strikes and the third one, the tail slaps against the side of Raishan's body. Whack and smacks to no effect.
Travis: Jesus.
Matt: That ends J'Mon's turn. It is now Pike's turn.
Liam: Pike, how close is she to--
Sam: Book!
Taliesin: Book?
Matt: Pike is about 25 feet away.
Liam: She's gonna run up, kneel down, wait, kiss Vex on the forehead, and say, "Not like this, buddy," and cast Revivify for her last spell.
Travis: It is her last.
Matt: Revivify is touch and she's coming up from unconscious prone which means she doesn't have the movement to get there to touch her.
Liam: Pike is unconscious?
Matt: Oh, no, she was-- she was--
Travis: Pike was not unconscious.
Marisha: She was not unconscious, she was up.
Travis: She was up with 15--
Matt: Oh, oh.
Laura: She had 15. -But she was--
Sam: She was lying down.
Laura: She was lying on--
Matt: So, she was prone. She was prone.
Travis: Oh, why didn't I just pick her up?
Matt: No, so she can move. She can't get there.
Laura: That's okay.
Matt: It's a touch spell.
Liam: Who's she near?
Marisha: How much time does Revivify need?
Laura: A minute.
Taliesin: Oh, under a minute. Oh, well, she can make her way--
Laura: She's got Sprinter's Boots on! She just texted.
Matt: Had she used them recently?
Laura: We didn't use them in the last fight because we didn't realize she had 'em.
Matt: The internet will let us know.
Laura: Well, I-- we didn't use 'em in the fight with Thordak.
Liam: She didn't know she had 'em so we didn't use 'em.
Matt: Right, right, so.
Sam: Do you have any other healing spells that can work at a distance?
Liam: She's dead.
Marisha: She's dead. She's gonna do Revivify.
Laura: For Pike, though.
Taliesin: Yeah, like.
Liam: So the Sprinter's Boots do nothing, I mean, I don't know.
Matt: The Sprinter's Boots will let her double her movement for a round.
Liam: So will she get there?
Laura: She's writing in all caps "Sprinter's Boots!" (laughing)
Liam: Alright, so Revivify.
Matt: Alright.
Taliesin: Oh my God.
Matt: Now, this is mid-combat. -For the purposes of this--
Laura: Oh God.
Sam: How long does it take to cast?
Liam: It's instantaneous.
Taliesin: Less than six seconds.
Liam: One action, instantaneous.
Marisha: Yeah, she did lay out less than six seconds, man.
Matt: I understand. So, this-- this is going to be a rapid resurrection skill check.
Laura: Oh God, really? Okay.
Matt: So, but this is only from Pike because it is a singular roll. So.
Laura: Can Ashley roll, do you want to roll Ashley?
Matt: As Pike rushes up, what does Pike utilize to implore Vex's soul to return?
Sam: Liam, you answer. 
Liam: My gosh. She grabs a dagger out of Vex's belt and cuts off a lock of her hair and presses it into Vex's hand. "It's not time, it's not time for you. No." 
Matt: Go ahead and just roll a d20.
Laura: She's-- oh! Oh, no! Should we read that?
Travis: No.
Matt: A ten? As the glow from the outside of her form that just radiates with the armor itself, centrally focuses itself into her holy symbol and is sent down the arm. Each piece of the plate mail glowing in succession like a series of chained lights as it reaches the fingers, touching the bottom of her fingertips to Vex's torso. The air seems to go dark for a moment around her body before it pulses, and with that, you watch as her jaw moves ever so slightly taking in, once more, the warm air of Thordak's lair.
Marisha: No one else die.
Matt: Pike, want to do anything else? Bonus action?
Liam: Geez, I don't--
Laura: Oh, she should take-- she should take a potion or something.
Travis: Yeah, heal herself please.
Laura: She's got a-- she's got a Greater healing-- Pike has a Greater healing potion that I know of. So she can take it.
Matt: Okay. So that is a 4d4 plus four.
Travis: This sucks!
Taliesin: I'm almost of the thinking that she shouldn't take it just because-- -Well, no, she's got--
Laura: She's got 15 points.
Taliesin: Well, I mean, but anything hits her-- half the things that hit her are gonna even kill that and that's a revive from death.
Laura: That's true.
Marisha: Yeah, but it's on her, right? Yeah, I see what you mean though.
Laura: Should she wait, should she hold it?
Sam: They're in control of her.
Taliesin: Yeah, you do it, you do it, you do it. I'm overthinking this.
Liam: Yeah, we're talking about getting people back up. At this point, not healing cause any hit is lethal. So getting someone on their feet.
Travis: I got some potions cause I never use 'em, but...
Matt: Yeah, you guys have been hording potions for a while. You've been burning through all of them from these two encounters.
Travis: I've got all the ones I've never used.
Liam: Who's on the ground by Grog?
Taliesin: You.
Liam: No, I know I am, but who else is that?
Taliesin: It's Scanlan, Scanlan's on the ground still.
Liam: Is someone up besides me?
Laura: Well, I want-- it's an action if she-- if she gives it to anybody else. She can't, she can only take it as a bonus action for herself.
Travis: Go.
Liam: Go.
Laura: Oh, that's really good though.
Marisha: I wonder how bad Raishan is looking.
Taliesin: He hasn't said the phrase.
Laura: Nineteen.
Matt: Okay, nice. Alright, at the end of Pike's turn, Devo'ssa, J'Mon Sa Ord, is gonna use two legendary actions to attempt a wing attack.
Taliesin: Thank God.
Travis: Come on, come on.
Matt: He is now like just assailing Raishan with their wings. So, Raishan has to make a dexterity saving throw. That is cocked, try again. No, that is a failure. Raishan's gonna use the last legendary resistance to resist that. So instead takes...
Travis: Fuck!
Matt: That's...
Marisha: She's burned through all of her legendary resistance?
Matt: Seven points of bludgeoning damage and is not knocked prone. That would have messed her up. Okay.
Travis: Is not knocked prone?
Matt: No, she is not, she's safe. Okay, that brings us to Scanlan.
Laura: We just gotta get out of here.
Sam: Fail.
Matt: That's a death saving throw off Scanlan. Alrighty, that brings us to the top of the round. Percy, you are in the back of a wall.
Taliesin: I'm taking...
Matt: The curse of the unscathed!
Taliesin: You know, I was gonna take shots at the eggs, but I give up. I'm taking just shots at Raishan.
Matt: Okay, go for it.
Taliesin: Come on. Don't be stupid. -That's stupid.
Marisha: Pretty stupid.
Laura: Oh my God, we're all gonna-- I'm not gonna say it. -We're gonna--
Travis: Don't you-- shh!
Laura: We're gonna get through this, you guys. We're all gonna get through this.
Travis:  I gotta get through this   I gotta get through this   I gotta get 
Taliesin: Yeah, so I've got-- that's a-- that's a-- -That's a gun jam.
Marisha: Fuck.
Matt: Really?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Laura: Fuck.
Taliesin: Hold on.
Laura: Oh my God.
Taliesin: That's a bad gun jam. I'm talking bad, they're both bad gun jams. Alright, I've got one weapon left that can just barely make it, so I'm just screaming to the world. Here we go.
Matt: So you're pulling out Retort.
Taliesin: Yeah, Retort is out and that's a 23.
Matt: That hits. Two more attacks on that, right?
Taliesin: Only one more because I took an attack with Bad News.
Matt: That's-- well, Bad News takes an attack to reload.
Taliesin: But-- no, the first shot went--
Matt: Right, but usually, it's action.
Taliesin: Right, so I have two more-- I have two attacks with Retort. -So, that's--
Matt: That hits.
Taliesin: That's um, oh, that's nice. Fourteen points of damage.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: And... Oh, that was so mean, that was almost a natural 20. -Twenty-four.
Matt: That hits.
Taliesin: Ah, 16 points of damage.
Matt: Nice.
Travis: Nice.
Matt: Let me take some concentration checks on that. Yep and yeah.
Taliesin: And I'm going to reload, and I'm going to start running across the wall away from the fray.
Matt: Around this way?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: So, you get about there.
Taliesin: That far. Getting out of the way.
Matt: Okay. That ends your turn. It is now back to a lair action.
Sam: Great.
Travis: Fuck.
Matt: The ground in the center here quakes and cracks open as a familiar burst of magma-- -Everyone in this vicinity.
Laura: Goddammit.
Matt: I need Vex. Vax, you're--
Liam: Well, I gotta go, I've got one success.
Matt: Right, but you're still unconscious, right?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: So, you just take-- you just lose a death saving throw. As the magma bursts and sprays around, so you take one. I need you to make a dexterity save. -I need Scanlan--
Sam: I lose another death save.
Matt: You lose another.
Laura: You got one left, Scanlan?
Matt: I need Pike to make a dexterity saving throw.
Travis: Me too, right?
Matt: And you too, Grog.
Sam: He's got high dex, right? Right?
Laura: Well, this, you know what?
Matt: Gilmore does not make it.
Travis: That's not bad.
Matt: I'm rolling shit for damage, that's good. Wow.
Sam: What'd you roll, Laurs?
Laura: I rolled an eight for Pike.
Matt: Okay, so--
Laura: And a one for me.
Matt: Okay, ten points of fire damage to each of you halved, so you both take five.
Laura: Okay, I'm unconscious.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: This is so fun, you guys, I love this fight.
Sam: Let's go-- oh.
Laura: Pike's at 29.
Travis: I rolled a 19.
Matt: A 19, okay, you succeed, so you take half damage. So you take five, but you're resistant from the potion, so half that, so two. Two points of fire damage.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: Alrighty. It is now Raishan's turn.
Marisha: So not good.
Travis: I just want to go flip the table over.
Matt: Hasted. Raishan, by the way, from the attack from Percy, the damage, you can see Raishan is now visibly bleeding. Parts of the scales are torn. You can see now, at a close up vantage point, as much as the previous dragons you've battled have had a lot of resilience, Raishan's taken a fair amount of damage, but seems to not be quite as physically hearty as what you previously faced and is looking visibly hurt. Raishan is going to begin the round, turning to the rest of you. "I have business elsewhere, and you're being really obnoxious. Stay down." And glancing over is going to go ahead and with both of her hands, again, release another... She is almost out of spells. Cone of Cold.
Laura: Oh no, this is gonna be Scanlan.
Marisha: Fuck.
Matt: That is-- I need-- -So, Scanlan--
Travis: No!
Matt: Scanlan is...
Taliesin: God fucking damn it.
Matt: Frozen, covered in ice, locked in place. A solid gnome bereft of life. Motionless on the ground.
Sam: I died as I lived  hard. (laughter)
Matt: Gilmore takes--
Travis: I heard him say that before he died.
Matt: Gilmore loses a death saving throw. Vax, you take another damage to your two failed death saving throws. Pike needs to make a constitution saving throw. Grog, constitution saving throw.
Laura: Was I in there?
Matt: You were, so you also--
Travis: Twenty-four.
Matt: Twenty-four, you succeed.
Travis: Plus 10 for constitution.
Laura: That's good.
Travis: Fourteen.
Marisha: Jesus.
Laura: Eleven for Pike.
Matt: Okay, that's 30 points of cold damage to Pike.
Laura: Seriously?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: She's unconscious.
Taliesin: Yep.
Matt: Pike is unconscious.
Taliesin: That's where we're at.
Laura: We're-- we're-- I don't know how we're gonna get Scanlan back.
Taliesin: I--I have no-- there's no--
Marisha: That'll be a later question?
Taliesin: That may happen.
Matt: So Pike is down.
Taliesin: You have a plan?
Sam: I have a plan. It involves me humping a lot of angels in heaven.
Taliesin: Okay.
Matt: Watching this carnage, you watch as the spell finalizes the blast of cold arcane energy just careening forth and then fading. The ground itself, which is now, normally glowing orange, is now covered with a very thin sheet of ice and you watch steam rise up from the contrasting heat and cold from the spell effecting the surrounding atmosphere. As the mist dissipates, you see a big toothy grin curl across Raishan's face. Little bit of dragon blood curling past her teeth from the wounds that she's suffered. Glaring nervously over at J'Mon Sa Ord, who has taken nearly no damage at this point and is currently up in Raishan's face. Raishan says, "Well, I'm afraid I have to get to the rest of my day. Die amongst your friends as you should." And just tears off of J'Mon and goes into a full hasted fly away.
Sam: Does J'Mon get--
Liam: Attack of opportunity, J'Mon.
Matt: J'Mon does, J'Mon is gonna make a bite attack against Raishan. With a natural 20!
Sam: Does that grapple?
Travis: Are you serious?
Marisha: Does that grapple?
Matt: It does not grapple. But that is...
Marisha: She'd have to do a concentration check, right?
Matt: She will, yeah. That is 18 plus eight. That's 26 piercing damage plus she's immune to poison. She takes no poison damage. That's 28 points of piercing damage to her.
Taliesin: (whimpering)
Matt: Concentration check, oh, she's fine. It's ten plus 14, so, yeah, she's fine. So, the haste does not dispel, however, J'Mon bites out and takes a huge chunk of flesh as the teeth just scrape across the back of Raishan's wing and shoulder like... (snarls) But manages to pull away and at a full 160 foot flying speed hasted and just disappears down the hallway.
Marisha: Should've done that, should've done it.
Matt: Into the ashes and shadow behind. Keyleth, it's your turn.
Marisha: Okay, she has 120 foot-- or she just went 160 feet?
Matt: A 160 feet, yeah. 
Marisha: Is she--  But she wasn't-- Fuck me, oh my God, okay. Can I still see her through the tunnel?
Matt: No, she is outside of your dark vision view radius and there is no light in the tunnel ahead and it is a slight incline. You just watch her just... Disappear into the dark tunnel. Currently have no bead of sight on her.
Travis: Smoke the tunnel, dude. Maybe you get her, maybe you don't. I'm gonna shut up.
Marisha: It's a range thing. I mean, could I try and-- fuck. -This is really bad.
Taliesin: Yes, it's really bad. 
Marisha: She's so far away, dude.
Sam: J'Mon can chase her.
Laura: But he's there and--
Taliesin: And she's so much faster than him. She's hasted.
Travis: Don't worry, I'm gonna take off at a run and--
Taliesin: Yeah. He can only go probably half her speed.
Travis: Picture Butterbean running down an empty street.
Marisha: 'Cause my-- my question is--
Sam: Jarret's still up there.
Marisha: She didn't necessarily--
Laura: Just waiting, crossbow loaded.
Travis: He's just like... (whimpers)
Marisha: 'Cause could I try and move up and then do a long range Wall of Stone spell? To try and collapse the tunnel before she gets out? It's 120 foot.
Matt: A 120 foot range? The spell from where you are currently, which is over here, she went 160 feet even further away from you than she was, so she'd be beyond the distance of the spell unfortunately.
Travis: Cause if you miss, you trap us.
Laura: Yeah, and then we can't get out.
Marisha: No, I mean, I can't-- I mean, I could get us out again, but--
Laura: A bunch of dead people, you could get a bunch of dead people out?
Marisha: I know. Okay, wow.
Travis: Indiana Jones and the Last crusade.
Marisha: This is really bad. Okay, I will use...
Laura: That wasn't her last spell, by the way. She's got three spell slots left.
Marisha: Who's-- yeah, who's really close? Who's like one away? Who's like really bad?
Laura: Close to death?
Marisha: Yeah.
Laura: He's closer to death than me.
Liam: I'm two failures.
Sam: Is Pike down?
Laura: Pike's unconscious.
Travis: Oh, she is?
Sam: Get Pike up.
Laura: I'm one fail, he's two fails. Scanlan's dead.
Taliesin: Who's got healing spells? Wake up whoever can heal.
Laura: I've got Cure Wounds if I'm awake.
Taliesin: So, get her up.
Liam: I can heal people if I get up.
Marisha: Okay, it doesn't matter. Can I kinda jump and make my way over like, this kind of...
Taliesin: Fuck.
Marisha: This-- can I cross this tinier lava right there? Kind of like, or is that a pretty far jump?
Matt: I mean, you have to still jump. So you have to make an athletics check.
Marisha: How far of a jump is that?
Matt: It's about six, seven feet. So make an athletics check.
Marisha: Sure, why not? Why not at this point?
Laura: No, Keyleth, no.
Marisha: Well, that was a natural one.
Travis: On what, on what?
Sam: Just moving.
Marisha: Just trying to jump across what should have been literally anything else.
Travis: How many hit points do you have? How many hit points do you have?
Sam: It doesn't matter, she's not even gonna get over to anyone to heal them.
Marisha: 60.
Laura: I don't know, man, lava.
Travis: One six or six zero.
Taliesin: Six zero.
Sam: She's fine. But no, she's not necessarily fine.
Laura: Lava has a new rule now.
Matt: Well, not a new rule, the actual rule.
Travis: The actual rule that we didn't use the very very first time. But we felt it last time.
Matt: So, as you rush over trying to help, you go to leap, but your foot catches what you thought was solid volcanic rock. Unfortunately, it's brittle and broken and it slips beneath your foot. In doing so, you only get about three feet before you plant the lower half of your body straight into the lava.
Laura: Oh my God.
Travis: (laughing)
Matt: That's 53 points of fire damage.
Laura: 53!
Sam: You're alive!
Laura: Get up, get out, you can get out of it. You've got seven points left.
Taliesin: You died as you lived.
Marisha: A fucking dumbass, yeah!
Travis: I can't see! It's just a wall of tears.
Laura: Can she get out of the lava or is she just in?
Marisha: Can I get out now? I'm trying to use my movement or am I gonna die if I get out?
Matt: You're essentially prone in the lava. You rolled a one to jump and you basically went...
Laura: Belly flopped into lava.
Laura: You mean, she's gonna take damage trying to get out of it?
Marisha: Can I get out?
Matt: You're technically prone. The rest of your movement will get you up and out, but it'll just get you out of the lava.
Laura: At least you're out.
Liam: Get out, get out.
Matt: So, you'll get out and you'll be just on the edge there.
Laura: Oh my God.
Travis: This is the best.
Laura: This is the worst!
Matt: Wow!
Marisha: I was like, as long as I don't roll a one, that shouldn't be that hard-- okay.
Taliesin: Oh, look, someone left a metaphor on the ground. (laughter) Don't step in it or anything. Oh God, it's everywhere.
Travis: Oh, shit.
Matt: Wow.
Taliesin: Well, this could've gone worse.
Matt: Wow!
Taliesin: Yeah!
Marisha: Okay, I'm out of the flame.
Matt: This whole thing's a metaphor for 2017.
Laura: Does J'Mon Sa Ord have any healing spells?
Marisha: And I reach over as a bonus action and do a Healing Word to-- to Vax.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Just--
Matt: What level?
Marisha: I don't know.
Travis: Come on, stay with it. -Stay in the fight.
Marisha: Level one. Oh, that's good, that's four so, nine points.
Sam: Nine points.
Travis: He wakes up!
Matt: Vax is now conscious.
Marisha: No, I'm sorry ten points, that's ten points.
Matt: There you go.
Laura: Sweet, even better. You're double digits. Scanlan, we've got to just-- we've got to get Scanlan back.
Taliesin: There's a lot of work that needs to happen.
Travis: I got her, I got-- I got Pike.
Taliesin: Who's up?
Sam: Grog is up.
Taliesin: I mean, who's next?
Travis: I think it's me.
Laura: It's Gilmore.
Travis: No, it's Gilmore.
Matt: So, Gilmore gets up. Kind of looks around. "Where did she go?"
Travis: "Through the tunnel."
Matt: Okay. He rushes this way and as he gets about there, he... slams into something that is currently invisible. You see a slight ripple of arcane energy and you see a series of small glyphs spiral outward and then it goes see-through again. He starts slamming his fists on it. "Of course, of course. Of course."
Travis: No.
Matt: He goes and... Let's see what he has left.
Travis: She made a Lite Brite wall.
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: He's a mime.
Matt: Technically, he looks like a mime from your standpoint.
Marisha: Can I turn to J'Mon? Say, "J'Mon, can you sense her presence? She's a fellow dragon. Do you know where she might be going or what she might be doing?"
Matt: "I haven't the faintest. I only just arrived."
Travis: Oh, fuck, Thordak is outside of the cave!
Liam: Are we out of combat now?
Travis: Thordak is still in the hallway.
Laura: The round's still going.
Matt: So we're gonna continue going through the order here.
Laura: So, it's Grog, it's your turn, Grog.
Matt: So, Grog, it's your turn.
Travis: I run to my buddy, Pike, and I beer bong this Greater healing potion into her gullet.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: What is that?
Laura: 4d8 plus four. I mean, 4d4 plus four.
Matt: 4d4 plus four.
Travis: Eight. Twelve. -Twelve points.
Laura: So, Pike is awake.
Travis: "Hi, hi!" -"Go, heal!"
Laura: "What's going--"
Travis: "Lot of problems."
Sam: Got any more of those Revivify's?
Matt: Alright, that ends your turn, Grog?
Laura: Actually, she does have a third level spell left.
Matt: You do.
Marisha: Really?
Laura: Yes!
Laura: She does have a third level spell!
Marisha: Well, yes, do that, do that really quick!
Laura: She cast Revivify at fourth level the last time.
Marisha: Do it, do it, do it.
Travis: The eggs that remain are toast?
Laura: Holy shit.
Matt: Two of them are completely destroyed and there is one that has been shot and is leaking.
Laura: I have it circled.
Taliesin: Don't worry about it. Let's get out there.
Travis: Alright, that ends my turn.
Matt: Okay. That brings us to Vex. I need you to make a death saving throw.
Laura: Right. I'm scared of all these dice.
Travis: I'm using what's left of my movement to go towards that egg.
Matt: Towards this egg?
Travis: Yeah, the one shot egg.
Matt: Okay. 
Taliesin: I'm gonna try something weird.
Matt: That's two death saving throws on Vex.
Travis: You failed it?
Laura: I failed it.
Matt: Vax.
Liam: I stumble over to my sister and cast Lay on Hands and give her five to bring her back.
Matt: So, yeah, cause you've been giving it out--
Liam: I haven't done anything with Lay on Hands. Or I might have done it once but I always do very small amounts. I have a total of 15 hit points cause I'm a third level--
Matt: I'm pretty sure you used it once before.
Liam: But I've never used more than five with that spell cause it's worthless to heal. It's just good for bringing up. So I have at least 10 hit points left.
Matt: Go for it.
Liam: Five hit points.
Laura: Yeah, cause the only time you used it before was when you BAMFed up to my broom after I grabbed the dagger.
Matt: You're still prone by the way. You just basically crawled over and touched her.
Liam: That's fine. I'm gonna use the rest of my movement to stand.
Matt: Okay, so you stand up and you still have half your movement if you wanted to.
Liam: Everyone who's down, who's down? And I don't mean dead. -Pike just got--
Taliesin: Pike's up.
Matt: Pike is conscious, your sister's conscious.
Liam: Is Kima conscious?
Laura: Yes. Kima's conscious.
Liam: So, we've got dead Scanlan.
Taliesin: And that's-- that's Pike's problem.
Liam: And that's it, I'm done. Wait, where's that egg?
Matt: Which one?
Liam: It doesn't matter.
Laura: It's the last egg.
Liam: I'm done, I'm done.
Matt: Alrighty, that ends Vax's turn.
Laura: Just worried there's gonna be another lair action in the same spot.
Matt: Kima rushes up and swinging her holy sword in the air, goes for a full swing, noticing that everybody's now conscious, goes and takes a full swing towards this invisible barrier. As it streaks across, you see divine energy go flying off in a shower of sparks and a giant shimmering, shaking visual on this-- this force wall that stands here in the center of the hallway. As she finishes her attack, it shimmers unscathed. She goes for a secondary attack. Strikes again. This time as it strikes across the sparks are even brighter and you can see the impact almost pushing her back off of her feet and as the blade comes to the end of its second arc. She looks up. The wall still stands.
Travis: You are shitting me. It doesn't flicker, doesn't--
Laura: It needs like a dispel or something.
Marisha: Oh my God, I could-- Oh my God, I could!
Taliesin: Alright, that's an option.
Matt: Alrighty that brings us to...
Matt: J'Mon. J'Mon rushes. Flies up to the edge and kind of takes a moment streak a few claws across it. And where the claws streak, you can see the shimmering of this force wall.
Travis: Well, phone's out, oh God.
Matt: "The phone's out, oh God"?
Sam: He's calling an Uber because he knows we're gonna kill him after this is done.
Matt: Come on, four percent, I got four percent left.
Sam: Four percent, get this man a charger!
Matt: I know.
Sam: Taliesin!
Liam: No, no, no. Let's start a YouTube video on it.
Sam: Can you run this over to Matt?
Matt: Yeah. J'Mon, with each strike, is like testing the boundaries of it across the sides of the tunnel and just goes... "This magic holds."
Travis: What? It holds? "It--it holds?"
Matt: Fun charger.
Taliesin: Let me know, I've got maybe a plan. Yeah, you've got that. That's an option, I've got another plan. You know my plan, my plan kind of sucks, but.
Matt: I'm not getting a charge.
Sam: Give it somebody else. There's a button.
Matt: That's alright. It happens. Anyway.
Taliesin: No, no, it should just start.
Sam: No, there's a button.
Taliesin: Oh, there is a button.
Sam: There's a button, he'll find it.
Matt: J'Mon, oh, J'Mon gets the breath weapon back. And kind of pushes... both Kima and Gilmore aside. "Excuse me." And unleashes a blast of burning hot breath across this wall. As it hits, it just curls across and spreads across the side of the walls as the dragon shields both Kima and Gilmore from the blast. As it finishes, the flame has been split the entirety and has no effect on the wall.
Travis: Holy shit.
Laura: I wonder-- I wonder if the beehive thing above us, that the holes are covered in magic as well.
Travis: Are you conscious?
Laura: Am I-- I am conscious.
Taliesin: I say, well, maybe killing the eggs, I don't know. Kill the eggs.
Matt: Pike.
Travis: Or maybe it's like a Pacific Rim--
Laura: But I don't know what that says.
Sam: I--I can give it to you.
Laura: But it's now. My question is, Pike runs up, thank you. Oh, oh! If she runs up, is she gonna be able to get her hand on-- on Scanlan?
Matt: Well, she was-- She was prone, right? She just came back to consciousness. So she gets up for half her movement.
Taliesin: We got a minute. Got a minute.
Travis: I would have picked her up after the last time. I was being pissed about-- I mean, you know, she's so tiny.
Matt: Being a gnome, it's one of those things where 25 feet halved and you always round on the lower end of the scale. At ten feet, she's not close enough to touch Scanlan. Yet.
Marisha: Even with the Sprinter's Boots?
Matt: Sprinter's Boots already got used. It's got one round use.
Laura: She says "She can use the Sprinter's Boots twice" in all caps.
Matt: Alright then.
Taliesin: The caps are what make it worthwhile.
Matt: I'll trust her.
Travis: She's on a 30 second delay so she wrote that before we said it.
Laura: Actually she did write that before we said it.
Matt: Good, alright then. Then that will be just enough to put her up next to Scanlan.
Laura: Okay. So, Pike puts her hands on either side of his face and says, "Scanlan. Your letter to me was wonderful and I want to do what you asked but I can't raise Kaylee alone, I need you to come back." And she casts Revivify on him.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and roll a d20.
Laura: I'm so scared. Thirteen?
Matt: Thirteen, okay. As she implores to the spirit of Scanlan in this frozen form, you watch as the icy crystals that have coalesced around his form and locked him in his place, his face kind of-- This frozen look of horror. The ice begins to turn into mist around him and his color begins to return to his skin. His expression relaxes as his eyes suddenly focus and Scanlan, you find yourself conscious again looking up at Pike. Tears in her eyes, pulling her hand back from your shoulder. Looking up into the dark, you know, glowing lit interior of Thordak's lair.
Sam: Don't cry. I'm just a little cold.
Laura: "Warm up. Does anybody have a blanket?"
Sam: "Just hold me."
Laura: "Okay."
Travis: She sent a picture.
Laura: She did. She sent a picture of the Sprinter's Boots cards with two uses.
Travis: "Used twice while in rest..."
Matt: There we go. Cool, that's what I wanted, thank you. So make sure everyone has their equipment cards on them. Alright, so that finishes Pike's turn. Scanlan, you're conscious now.
Sam: Hi.
Travis: Welcome back, we're still fucked by the way.
Sam: What's going on?
Travis: They sealed us in here with a giant magic screen across this door. Dragon's breath does nothing, Kima does nothing. You know anything about this? Any limericks for magic cave doors?
Sam: Mm-hmm, mm-hmm.
Laura: Glad you're back, Scanlan.
Sam: Thanks, thanks. I've got one thing up my sleeve. It's a dog that can run around and help us. That's about it.
Laura: Are we gonna have to take a short rest?
Taliesin: No.
Sam: I don't know, I don't know. What-- there's magic there? I can't do anything about that.
Laura: Can I-- can I-- I know I'm gonna-- Can I broom up to the holes? God, I'm so scared to get on this broom again.
Taliesin: Well, it's not-- we're still--
Laura: Oh, in our order?
Marisha: We're still going in order?
Marisha: Do you still have a Mansion?
Matt: Well, right now, as we're getting back into this. Percy, what are you doing?
Marisha: I have a crazy plan.
Laura: Did you let the dog out?
Sam: No, I don't know what--
Travis: Who let the dog out?
Laura: Scanlan, did you let the dog out?
Sam: Keyleth, do you have a crazy plan?
Marisha: You only have to cast the Mansion Door within line of sight, correct?
Sam: Yes.
Marisha: Okay.
Sam: I don't know that that's true actually. Three hundred feet, 300 feet range.
Laura: Do you have it left?
Sam: I do.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Marisha: Okay, two things. One, before we start burning our seventh level spells, I still have Stone Shape. Can Keyleth go up to the wall and do I have enough-- is there just enough room in the corridor walls that I could Stone Shape--
Sam: I could Dimension Door out of here.
Laura: Why would you just--
Liam: You get a tunnel for all of us, mate.
Sam: Yeah, that would just be me.
Marisha: Can I Stone Shape a tunnel kind of around the thing? Or is--
Matt: First things first, Mordenkainen's Magnificent Mansion is a one minute casting time.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: So you could do it, but in the process of doing so, you'd probably go through about 10 different lair actions in here.
Taliesin: Yeah, there's that.
Matt: So, Keyleth, you're using, you said, stone--
Marisha: Can I Stone Shape a little passage around? Do I have just enough kinda to where I can-- where the barrier is I can kind of carve a little corridor around?
Liam: Around or under?
Matt: It would be very tiny and you'd have to crawl through to create enough-- Cause you're not quite sure how thick the barrier is, so you have to be-- have to roll an investigation check and based on your roll, I'll let you know.
Marisha: Okay.
Taliesin: This is a plan.
Marisha: Eight.
Matt: Eight? You're not sure, you can give it a shot.
Marisha: I'm-- might as well give it a shot, I mean--
Matt: Before it gets to you, it does come back to a lair action.
Laura: Wait, but--
Sam: On my turn, I drank a potion.
Matt: Okay, so take your healing.
Sam: That's it.
Taliesin: Has my turn not come up yet?
Laura: I hate that we can't get out of this fucking area!
Matt: Sorry, I asked you what you were doing.
Taliesin: Oh, I want to try something stupid.
Matt: What do you want to try?
Taliesin: I want to try and run headlong at the barrier.
Matt: Okay. Well, you have to--
Laura: Don't get too close into this area, Percy, cause this is where the fucking lair action keeps coming up.
Taliesin: I want to stay on the wall.
Matt: Stay on the wall, okay. Leaving you roughly there. So even a full turn, that's as far as you could get on a double run.
Taliesin: Yeah, and I'm up on the wall still.
Matt: Cool. Alright, now-- now this happens. With this, the quakiness of the lair seems to be subsiding a little bit. There is a tremor on the ground. It only effects those directly around the barrier, so that's my people. Everyone succeeds, so no one falls prone. So no effect on that lair action, per se. Alright, past that. You can see in the distance, past the wall, dark in the tunnel, which is almost pitch black beyond the radius, you see this slight purplish glow and then a flash of purple energy.
Taliesin: God, fucking damn it!
Marisha: Talking to Thordak!
Sam: Should I go?
Laura: What are you gonna do?
Sam: Distract it, do something.
Travis: You're gonna be all by yourself.
Marisha: Okay, I'm gonna Stone Shape and try and just cast a little, even if it's a corridor just right around.
Matt: It's a touch spell so you have to get up to it, so you're back there. So you just get up to the edge of the doorway and the wall with a double run.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: Okay?
Marisha: I'm go ahead and can I use a bonus action.
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: I'm gonna use my-- no, no, no, I'm gonna just drink a healing potion real quick. Just one of my Greaters.
Matt: Okay, go for it. So it is 4d4 plus four. Alright. Gilmore.
Taliesin: This poor book has seen better days.
Matt: Gilmore doesn't really have anything that can be of aid right now.
Matt: Gilmore moves over towards you. Preparing for what you're up to, and just kind of puts his hand on your shoulder, Keyleth, and goes, "Whatever you're doing, I'm right behind you. Don't worry."
Taliesin: Hold you up so you don't fall.
Matt: Grog, you're up.
Marisha: I'm not feeling very confident right now.
Travis: You look like you're up to something, do you have a plan?
Marisha: I'm trying to Stone Shape a corridor through this, but I don't know if it's going to be enough to get through the thickness.
Travis: Right, as a backup plan...
Travis: How big is J'Mon Sa Ord? Like a big dragon or just like eh?
Matt: About the same size as Raishan.
Travis: So, we couldn't like all Falcor on J'Mon up to the spider network of tunnels in the ceiling, right? Like we couldn't ride him.
Matt: Raishan and J'Mon have a very similar physicality. Like their bodies can, much like a cat can get really thin, just enough to fit through the tunnels, maybe, but not with any riders. You guys would probably be squeezed off or crushed in the process.
Travis: Could she get us up there and then follow us up through the tunnels if we--
Taliesin: We don't know where they go.
Travis: It's better than this place. They're exhaust tunnels.
Taliesin: That's fair, although I will say, before we leave, we should probably make sure all those eggs are down -before we leave anyway.
Travis: That's my idea. And then, I'm gonna end my turn.
Laura: Are you gonna run and hit an egg?
Travis: Oh, yeah!
Laura: There's an egg left over there.
Taliesin: Hit an egg.
Travis: Shamone! Yeah, I'll just run towards egg. Ooh! I'm gonna use all three of my attacks on that egg.
Matt: Go for it. Go for it.
Marisha: Egg doesn't know what's coming.
Travis: That's a-- that's a 33.
Matt: That'll hit.
Travis: Oh, minus five. Okay. That's a 31, no, 39.
Matt: Okay, so the first strike just cleaves through the egg entirely.
Travis: Oh.
Matt: I know. You impact at the point of the bullet that Percy left earlier, which kind of left that spider web crack in the front and that just causes the entire thing to buckle under the sheer force of your axe as it swings. The egg gets cut in half, tumbles over, splattering primordial dragon whelp gore and you can see the remnants inside of what is now a two-parter primordial dragon whelp.
Laura: Did it look like Thordak?
Travis: Did any dragon parts spill out of the egg?
Matt: Yeah, as it flew off and kind--
Travis: Could I grab a piece of it, take a step back and try and like throw it towards the wall to see if it bounces off as well? Just in case it's like a, you know, lair barcode?
Matt: Sure.
Travis: Hey, we got through!
Marisha: They got the key card.
Taliesin: Multi-pass.
Matt: As you pull it up, and this creature is, nearly identical to the one that you pulled out earlier. It's still deep red crimson, but like fully, fully primordial in its visual. You take back a chunk of it and you throw it at the wall and it just passes through. (gasps)
Sam: What just happened?
Marisha: Shut up!
Laura: You were right!
Sam: What did he just do?
Taliesin: You solved it!
Sam: How, what did he do?
Liam: Destroying the last egg.
Sam: Fucking guy!
Laura: Or by--
Marisha: Or by-- it's like he said. We cover ourselves in dragon goo and then we can walk through.
Taliesin: One of the two.
Travis: Residual goo in my hand, I just like rub it all on my face.
Matt: It smells terrible.
Taliesin: You can hop in the egg. It's basically a hot tub.
Marisha: We didn't destroy all the eggs, right?
Matt: Currently, you destroyed three of them and two were lightning baked and taken off by Raishan.
Sam: My voice is my passport.
Marisha: So, do it. It's hard to say.
Taliesin: I love that movie.
Laura: Maybe we should hold onto a piece and try to pass through it.
Taliesin: Hello.
Matt: Well, that finishes Grog's turn. Vex?
Laura: That's me. I used a level-- did I use a level four spell already? Shit.
Matt: I'm pretty sure you guys went down guns blazing.
Taliesin: Somewhere in the world, there's a whole chatroom of people yelling at you telling you--
Laura: Oh, that's right, I did. I did use it cause I was--
Marisha: Yeah, I was gonna say, "somewhere"?
Laura: So I have a level three left. Who needs healing? Me and Pike and everybody.
Taliesin: There's always-- everybody needs healing.
Marisha: Me.
Laura: You do.
Sam: I got single dig going on.
Laura: So do I, I got five.
Travis: Single dig.
Laura: I got five points, how many you got?
Sam: I got eight or nine, I can't remember my math. It's pretty bad. Wait, if I had one, plus eight would be nine.
Laura: So you have nine points. I'm gonna take a healing potion. I mean, I'm gonna cast Cure Wounds on myself.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Oh, yeah, you do your thing.
Matt: 3d8 plus whatever your modifier is, go for it.
Taliesin: It's all good.
Marisha: Kind of.
Taliesin: No, it's not, I know, but like, it's looking better.
Marisha: Well, we're not all dead. We just can't die anymore.
Taliesin: And worst case scenario, we're stuck in here for another round.
Laura: So, 20 points.
Matt: Twenty points, okay.
Laura: Okay.
Taliesin: And you didn't even burn a spell yet.
Laura: Can I run over and get some dragon guts on my hand and then to try to put my hand through the thingy?
Matt: With your speed and getting up, cause you were prone.
Laura: Please let me out of this spot.
Matt: That close right there. You can't quite get to the dragon guts. That's as far as you can get.
Taliesin: It may just be that it's down now, but it may be the dragon guts.
Matt: Alright, so that ends Vex's turn, Vax. Whatcha doing?
Liam: I'm just gonna move towards the gate. Put my hand out and see if I can go through or if I get stopped.
Matt: You walk right through.
Taliesin: Alright!
Laura: Oh!
Marisha: It's the eggs, it was the eggs.
Liam: Alright, everybody! Quietly.
Marisha: Hang on, hang on. I'm feeling very guilty because it was my rage and anger and want for vengeance which made me run in here blindly towards her, maybe we shouldn't do it again is all I'm saying.
Taliesin: No, too late. Got to finish this off.
Marisha: Okay.
Laura: Does your guilt have a Mass Cure Wounds? In that case, doesn't matter.
Matt: "Forward, now!" And all of you just start...
Marisha: Avengers Run down the hall.
Matt: Like crawling over all of you.
Taliesin: Avengers, it's clobbering time.
Sam: I--I grab Kima and I say, "Get ready to hit a dragon," and I'm gonna Dimension Door me and Kima to Thordak's body.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Oh, geez.
Matt: Kima goes, "Wait, what?" As soon as you grab the shoulder and you both suddenly vanish and reappear at Thordak's body. You both land with a flash of arcane light. As your feet hit the ground, it is an empty tunnel. So, no Raishan. -There is no Thordak corpse.
Laura: Fuck.
Sam: There's no Thordak's corpse?
Marisha: There's no Thordak's corpse?
Matt: Correct.
Laura: Fuck! Fuck.
Liam: She just wanted to talk to it.
Taliesin: She may have taken him somewhere.
Travis: Talk to it, my ass. She didn't want to talk to it.
Marisha: Or she raised him. Jesus.
Liam: One last roll in the hay.
Matt: As you guys approach, Gilmore steps up and goes, "I think I have a pretty good idea what that flash we saw was."
Marisha: What?
Taliesin: Teleport.
Matt: "Getting the hell out of here. Son of a bitch!" He takes a rock and throws it. Hair's kind of tussled.
Marisha: Vex, can you sense dragons anywhere nearby?
Laura: Can I sense anyone but J'Mon Sa Ord as far as dragons go nearby? I drop down to my knees and concentrate.
Matt: No.
Laura: Nothing! Nothing. She's nowhere. Fuck.
Matt: And that's where we'll end tonight's episode. (all groaning) We have a flight early in the morning.
Travis: Oh!
Laura: I can't believe that we all came back.
Taliesin: I can't believe we all lived.
Matt: I can't believe you all lived.
Taliesin: That should not have happened.
Marisha: That was really scary.
Laura: It was just giant clusterfuck from like halfway through with just everybody falling down and trying to get back up.
Matt: Well, if-- If you had fallen into the lava, by the way, if you had rolled poorly, you would have been submerged in lava, which was...
Laura: Unconscious.
Matt: Well, that-- that's 18d10 points of damage. If that had exceeded your max hit points, you would have been instantly dead and turned to ash.
Liam: Been nice if I'd cut out her tongue.
Laura: So, gone, gone-gone.
Matt: Yeah. There were a few close calls there.
Travis: She was like three. I think there were like nine.
Marisha: Yeah.
Laura: And then if you hadn't counter spelled the color...
Matt: Oh, yeah, the Prismatic Spray. That would have been real bad.
Sam: Who was she shooting against?
Taliesin: Everybody.
Marisha: It's a spray.
Matt: It's a cone that big.
Taliesin: So it would have been almost everybody.
Matt: Just so you guys know, cause it's a fun spell to kind of talk about.
Taliesin: It is.
Matt: And each of you would have been hit with a different colored ray. I would have rolled a d8 to see what color had hit you. On a one, you take 10d6 fire damage. On a failed save, half. An orange, take 10d6 acid damage, save for half. Yellow: 10d6 lightning damage. So, just randomly all of you guys basically just take 10d6 of something. Green: you take 10d6 poison damage, half save. Five, 10d6 cold damage. Six, on a failed save, you're restrained and you have to keep making saves or you turn to stone. Seven, you're blinded and you have to keep saving. A successful save ends it, if you fail the next save, you will be transported to another plane.
Laura: What?!
Sam: There's one where you get to do two things.
Matt: On an eight, on an eight, I roll again for two rays against that person.
Laura: Oh my God!
Travis: For two rays?
Sam: What if you keep rolling eights?
Matt: Keep rolling eights, you're gonna be fucked. It's a fun one. I like that spell.
Laura: Wait, what is a 10? Is 10 insta-death, what is 10?
Matt: It's one d8, so ten would be instant death, it would be. If I roll a 10 on a d8, sure. You are so done.
Taliesin: The other plane of dimension is like literally the Beetlejuice, like send you to the sandworms. You're just--
Matt: Oops.
Taliesin: And that's-- you're out of the fight until they can go find you if anyone's left. After everyone else has taken 10d-- suck.
Matt: So, guys, we'll pick this up again next week on Thursday. Find out where Raishan is.
Travis: Maybe.
Matt: With two eggs and the corpse of Thordak, The Cinder King.
Laura: Well, hopefully, oh my God.
Taliesin: Red eggs and ham?
Travis: Yeah, she just escaped with two Iphone 7's.
Matt: You start with a disadvantage.
Taliesin: I just want the internet to do a Dr. Seuss red eggs and-- I just want her with like a little red steak and two little red-- That's all I want.
Matt: Alright, guys. You guys, we'll see you at MAGFest this weekend. We'll see you there shortly.
Sam: Remember, bring your magazines and have Matt and Marisha sign any magazine.
Taliesin: Highlights.
Marisha: Yeah, all magazines. We will sign them.
Liam: I mean, you're gonna say, you don't know, but if J'Mon had not nurked those three attacks that round, might she have gone down?
Matt: She came pretty close.
Laura: Oh, yeah, if J'Mon had not gotten three, two, one.
Matt: Three, two and a one.
Marisha: That sucked.
Matt: That really sucked.
Marisha: I was about to lay some serious damage when she ran away. I was gonna bust out a seventh level blight and then she ran.
Matt: I wasn't getting-- cause that the fire breath is nasty.
Marisha: Yeah, and he didn't fucking recharge it.
Travis: If your highness wasn't smart enough to break another egg...
Laura: I got to attack one time that round. Every other round was just trying not to die.
Liam: He should have stretched before the fight.
Matt: But anyway.
Marisha: Happy New Year.
Matt: Happy New Year! Well done, guys, you survived.
Marisha: Yeah.
Taliesin: Yay.
Matt: Mostly. Thank you so much for our sponsor tonight, nobody. 2017. You guys are our sponsors. Well, every week you are. So thank you for all your wonderful support. Happy New Year, welcome to the chaos of 2017. We're there alongside you for it. We'll see you guys soon and... Is it Thursday yet? Have a good night. 

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello, everyone, and welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit and play Dungeons and Dragons across my camera. (all laugh)
Matt: Welcome to tonight's adventure. Before we get into it, we're going to go ahead and go through our notes for sponsorship and other such glory for the evening. First and foremost, tonight, we have our fantastic returning sponsor, Lootcrate.
All: Lootcrate!
Matt: Thank you so much, Lootcrate. We have a glorious unboxing that is happening right now.
Laura: Right now!
Matt: Let's do it.
Marisha: So wait. They've changed their boxes and their logos. I don't know if you guys noticed.
Sam: I think you mean upgraded. I can't open this.
Laura: So wait, we're unboxing last month's box.
Travis: This is their 'build' theme.
Taliesin: It's the 'build' theme.
Liam: That's for building a thing, isn't it?
Marisha: Yeah!
Liam: Oh, that's cute.
Marisha: Oh, you know what? This was a bad decision. You're correct, this was a bad point of entry.
Taliesin: This was a great decision.
Travis: What did you do?
Laura: What did you do, Marisha?
Marisha: I found a perforated edge.
Matt: It's like a Batman loot container? Wait, wait, wait. Oh, slick.
Laura: You can put your soup in it!
Matt: You can put your secret keys in there. Hide it in your front yard so nobody can take it.
Sam: There's Lego stuff!
Taliesin: Oh, no there's not!
Sam: My kid's gonna love this!
Taliesin: Oh my god, I got the Spaceman. Which one did you get?
Sam: Lego Dimensions fun pack of--
Taliesin: It's what's-his-name. It's Liam Neeson.
Sam: That's Liam Neeson?
Liam: Yeah, they're all different.
Matt: I got Cyborg!
Marisha: I got Cyborg.
Matt: Yay, we have two Cyborgs for the home.
Marisha: Oh, yay. Who wants to trade me a Cyborg?
Taliesin: I'll trade you a Cyborg for a Spaceman.
Marisha: Aw, yeah.
Taliesin: Oh my god, this is actually--
Sam: Voltron?
Taliesin: No, that's Power Rangers.
Travis: We don't have to give these back, right? We can keep them?
Sam: That's not Voltron?
Taliesin: That's not Voltron, man.
Sam: I'm so stupid.
Taliesin: I know.
Laura: Did anybody show off the shirt, yet?
Sam: No.
Taliesin: Yeah, I did, but I'll show it off again. It's a really awesome Power Rangers shirt, with the classic Megazord.
Laura: That's pretty frickin' cool.
Sam: I'm pretty sure that's Voltron, guys.
Travis: Megazord!
Taliesin: Who are you gonna believe?
Laura: Wait, what size do I have?
Taliesin: Guy with the comic book show?
Laura: Hey, who's got a small?
Taliesin: I may have a small. Let me find out. This feels small.
Liam: What do you got?
Laura: I got a large.
Taliesin: I've got a large, never mind.
Marisha: There's also something that tells me that I can unlock the mysteries.
Taliesin: Oh, this is really cool, look at that.
Liam: What Lego did you get?
Marisha: Secret of the keys. Lootcrate.com/keys.
Sam: Ooh, 'How to build a tabletop RPG character'! That's very helpful.
Taliesin: You should definitely read that. You should definitely, definitely read that. Please read that. I'm not even kidding. Read that.
Laura: My favorite thing is the Batman head.
Liam: You, specifically.
Taliesin: You, read it.
Sam: I will read that.
Taliesin: Like, on the break, read it.
Sam: Okay.
Laura: Thanks, Lootcrate!
Matt: Thank you so much, Lootcrate! You're awesome, appreciate that. Sam, did you want to speak a little bit--
Sam: I just wanted to say the things that we're supposed to say, which is, our sponsor Lootcrate, this was their last month's theme, 'build'. This month's theme is 'primal', featuring brands like X-Men, Overwatch, and Predator. If you go to lootcrate.com/criticalrole and use the promo code 'criticalrole', one word, you get 10% off. I've prepared a very, very small bit tonight, because I knew we had the unboxing to do. I thought for our international audience, they might like to know how to say Lootcrate in different languages. So I did some really good research. Not five minutes on Google Translate, I'll tell you that much. In Spanish, Lootcrate is 'las ganancias cajas'. In German, it's 'der Zaster Casten'! In Japanese, it's 'senri-hin kureto'. In Latin, it's 'praedam corbis'. In Dutch, it's 'buit krat'. In Swedish, we're talking 'plundra spjllda'. And in Klingon, (yells in Klingon). (all cheer)
Taliesin: Good pronunciation.
Sam: Oh, and in pig latin, it's 'Am-say's ick-day is ig-bay'. All right, good.
Matt: Fantastic.
Liam: Send all your complaints care of Sam Riegel.
Matt: Thank you so much, Sam. And thank you, Lootcrate, for being our awesome sponsor. If the announcement sheet did go out today, I did not get it, so whoever put it together, if they could go find it real fast while I talk about--
Marisha: You talk!
Taliesin: I sent the announcement sheet to you.
Matt: I didn't get it in my e-mail.
Marisha: Let me find it on my--
Matt: It's okay.
Marisha: I don't know where my phone is.
Matt: I do want to give a heads-up, right now we have a giveaway happening from our pals over at Nerdist. Thanks to Qualcomm, Lion's Gate, and the new VR experience based on the upcoming Power Rangers movie, you can enter to win a paid trip to LA to attend the Power Rangers movie premiere, as well as Google Pixel phones and Daydream headsets. I don't know what Daydream headsets are, but I bet you I know what they do.
Travis: They're VR, they're the VR headset.
Matt: They give you daydreams. From now through March 10, you can go to nerdist.com/powerrangersgiveaway to learn more and enter to win, and we kinda prefer to see Critters win anything that happens here--
Travis: Yeah we do!
Matt: Because then we can stack the deck against our own people. To show those Nerdist guys what we mean here at Geek and Sundry.
Laura: What's up!
Matt: That's awesome, thank you so much for the heads-up on that. Let's see. The other announcements...
Marisha: The other announcements, I'm trying to navigate Taliesin's phone, because I don't know where my phone is, so this is just going--
Sam: Taliesin's on an iPhone 2 over there.
Marisha: This is just going great. Fuck it. We'll do it off the cuff.
Taliesin: Well no, I remember some of them.
Sam: One of them was Taliesin's announcement that he has some show on Wednesday nights.
Marisha: Wednesday Club.
Taliesin: I do. Wednesday at noon to two on this very Twitch channel, is the Wednesday Club, and this week we're gonna be talking about Image Comics, which is now about 25 years old. This is the thing, and we're gonna talk about how they started and why it's important, and then all the cool stuff they're doing today, which is some really cool stuff. Good books.
Marisha: There's also a new Signal Boost, with Stefanie Woodburn and Eric Campbell is out-- ooh, there it is. Merch! Merch. Dice. Are out of stock.
Laura: The dice are out of stock, you guys.
Marisha: Dice are out of stock.
Sam: Don't worry, we'll get like three more.
Marisha: Gilmore shirts. The Gilmore shirts are still up, along with socks, vinyl stickers, mugs, patches, bracelets, pins, hats, nail wraps, logo shirts, the disturbingly comfortable 'How do you want to do this?' t-shirt and hoodie, and more, but not really more. That's actually I think everything. (all laugh)
Marisha: I just felt like I needed a finale to that. Oh, GM Tips!
Matt: Oh, that's right! New episode of GM Tips went up today. This one is about how to design and write your own one-shot. It goes through the process of initial story design and how to prepare encounters and NPCs and be ready for a one-shot circumstance for a single-run arc. These tips can also be expanded upon to do multiple sessions or a full arc, or even a full campaign. But these are little bite-sized condensed tips, so I hope they're helpful and inspiring so people can learn a thing or two about running a one-shot or more. So check it out. Marisha, you--
Sam: Taliesin just made a robot.
Matt: That's actually pretty rad.
Taliesin: Hello.
Matt: You had an announcement, if I recall.
Marisha: Yes! I can officially announce as of yesterday that I am one of the new hosts of Gamestop TV. (all cheer)
Marisha: So if you walk into a Gamestop, you can see my dumb face talking to you about games and all that stuff, along with Chris, who's been there since the beginning, but yeah.
Matt: Since the Triassic.
Marisha: Yeah, exactly.
Liam: We are so proud.
Marisha: I'm a little kooky.
Laura: You're always a little kooky, Marisha.
Marisha: That's true.
Liam: That's you.
Matt: It's like you were the harbinger of the end of the circle of life for Gamestop.
Marisha: Yeah, it's like the ouroboros kinda thing.
Matt: You know what I'm talking about.
Laura: Oh my god. Lego Batman head's gonna be my dice jail tonight. That's an important announcement.
Marisha: And last but not least, as always, Talks Machina's live on Tuesday nights at 7PM on Twitch, with the illustrious Brian Foster. And don't forget, 'cause I feel like not a lot of people are doing this really, and I see so much, don't forget to submit your gif and fanart of the week to the contest, and use talksmachina@gmail.com to do that. Put it in the subject, be like, 'contest entry', because that helps people who are poring through your emails.
Matt: There you go.
Sam: 17 more announcements, guys.
Marisha: That's it. That's all we have.
Matt: Good, great!
Marisha: Done and done.
Matt: All righty. That being the case, let's go ahead--
Travis: Twins!
Matt: Twins.
Liam: Twins.
Matt: -- and bring it in to tonight's episode of Critical Role. (opening credits)
Matt: Welcome back. So, to get you guys up to speed for tonight's episode, Vox Machina, our band of adventurers, after defeating the Chroma Conclave, destroying Thordak and then Raishan, the mastermind behind their ascension, you then recovered a few objects of possible-- revealing her plans, at the very least, though keeping it tempered. You've begun closing loose ends that you hadn't had the time to get to at this point, including finishing Keyleth's Aramente. You managed to charter a ship and crew at Emon to head towards the west, the Ozmit Sea, where you were boarded temporarily by what appeared to be a band of pirates. Defeating them and sinking the ship, you continued forward, taking a prisoner.
Laura: A friendly prisoner. We're friendly taking a prisoner. Nicely taking a prisoner.
Travis: What history do you remember?
Matt: You then eventually found yourselves, the ship reaching the outside of the Anamn Mountains-- Anamn Islands. It's been a long week.
Travis: Yeah, man.
Matt: Where the ship set anchor on the outside of the reefs that encircle the center of these three islands, where in the center of them lies a partially submerged city of Vesrah, the last stop on Keyleth's Aramente and the water ashari that live there. You, upon arriving just past sunset, watched the city come to life, and the Vesrah come out, and upon discovering that you were allies, or at least friendly, they took you in and gave you the idea of what you had to do to finish this Aramente. Your task, to come the following day, was to be led down into the Aerie of Torrent, where the elemental rift to the water elemental plane resides, under protection, and you were to retrieve three lodestones, magical stones that are occasionally farmed from the water elemental plane as they fade from power. These stones are utilized, apparently, in both keeping the rift contained and keeping the city of Vesrah aloft and up towards the air. However, in the process of them researching where these lodestones came from, it was discovered in the most recent years that they were byproducts of one of the krakens that lives in the water elemental plane, and--
Laura: Kraken, plural?
Matt: There are a number of krakens. This one, however, was drawn back to the rift from one of the earlier expeditions of the Waveriders that were attempting to find them, and now has taken up its lair on the outskirts of this rift, so your task, as Vox Machina, is to enter the rift into the water elemental plane, find and bring back three of these lodestones, and do so without slaying the kraken, as it is an important part of the ecology and continued existence of the city of Vesrah. So. That's where we come up. So as it is evening, you've been fed, a largely fish- and marine-based meal, and you've had the opportunity to speak with some of the locals and prepare and discuss amongst yourselves exactly what you wish to do for this journey tomorrow. So.
Marisha: So what time is it here?
Matt: I mean, it's probably-- post-food and mild celebration of you guys making it here in the first place? They don't get too many intentional travelers. Most of the people that come here are either shipwrecked, saved by the Waveriders in the middle of storms, and some of them stay and end up joining the Vesrah. They have a number of reformed pirates. People that almost died at sea or drowned but were saved by them and eventually joined them. But I'd say it's about... maybe close to 10PM, the equivalent.
Marisha: Oh, it's late.
Laura: I feel like we should--
Matt: You got here just after dusk.
Laura: We should have a Heroes' Feast before tomorrow. I have no idea what a kraken does, or--
Marisha: Me neither. Actually, is Uvenda still around? She's still there, are we still in front of her?
Matt: Uvenda is around, yeah. You can find her. As you approach her, she's finished her meal and is half-napping in this, almost a high chair, though it's built beautifully of what look to be petrified bleach-white shells and coral structures. This looks to be her seat at this open natural gazebo-like eating space. She's half-resting off to the side with her staff, leaning off a bit, and as you start approaching, one eye flies open and rolls in your direction, and she leans forward. "Young Keyleth. What do you require?"
Marisha: Sorry. I hope I'm not interrupting.
Matt: "My nap, yes, but you seem intent. What do you wish?"
Marisha: I was just curious, I guess, if you had any advice for tomorrow morning. Is there anything I should know in particular about the kraken?
Matt: "From what we know, the kraken is a very hungry beast. It carries with it a swarm of long, grasping tentacles. It moves unimpeded and destroys structures in its path. Seems nigh-unstoppable, which is why maintaining the rift is so important. To unleash more of these entities into our plane would be disastrous, not just for our city, but for the entirety of the Ozmit. Do be aware that you will be encountering this beast deep, deep in the fathomless depths of the water elemental plane, so be prepared best you can to swim."
Marisha: Right. You mentioned it being hungry. What does it hunger for?
Matt: "Anything that crosses its path. You'll see, the sand below the vicinity of the rift is partially soot, dirt, and sand, but a lot of it is sprinkled bone of things that failed to make it through the rift."
Marisha: And I imagine it's pretty dark down there.
Matt: "It's not the brightest place, no."
Laura: How large are these lodestones that we're looking for?
Matt: "We will show you these down in the Aerie tomorrow, but they're roughly--" and she gives a motion about that big in her hands. "About that large. But you can take time and research the ones that are dwindling within the temple. That way, you'll know what to look for."
Liam: And in all your experience with these beasts, are their attacks mainly physical?
Matt: "Mainly. However, they have a degree of control over the waters that surround them. Those who have returned, the Waverunners who do these passes every few years, they speak of currents swiftly changing, it leaving bursts of darkened ink-like material to obstruct the space. And they speak of sudden surges of energy that rock through the nearby waters."
Laura: Great.
Travis: So we need snorkels.
Laura: Lots and lots of snorkels.
Liam: Long ones.
Marisha: Are there other creatures that live in the rift?
Matt: "There are creatures, but those of flesh and bone usually find themselves in the belly of the beast, and due to the nature of its presence, and the rift's energy, elementals do occasionally wander half-crazed, directionless in that space as well. So be careful."
Marisha: All right. Is there a particular creature that you know is good at evading this kraken?
Matt: "Our Waverunners. They travel usually in various forms of their mer-form."
Marisha: All right.
Matt: "Anything that can swim quickly, swiftly, search fast, and retrieve and return. Whatever that is to you, that's your choice."
Marisha: Okay.
Laura: Keyleth, I know you have the ability to turn us into different things.
Marisha: Yes.
Laura: Is it possible to turn us into water elementals?
Marisha: No, that's--
Laura: It's not a thing.
Marisha: -- that's not really a beast. I can turn you into--
Travis: Like a great herd of dolphins that we can commandeer?
Taliesin: Sea cows.
Travis: Yeah. And then just ride them--
Laura: Manatees.
Liam: Manatees.
Laura: Narwhals!
Travis: They do have a spike.
Taliesin: The worst of like five worlds.
Liam: The unicorns of the sea.
Marisha: Well, I know that Taryon and I can alter ourselves into merfolk.
Sam: Yes.
Marisha: And you can also-- how many people can you imbue with your powers?
Sam: To become underwater sea-breathers?
Marisha: Yeah, could you give Alter Self to others?
Sam: I mean, technically, I could. It would use a lot of my spell abilities, but I could give four of my little coins to people, and those coins could be used to alter yourself to be a water-breathing madman like me.
Laura: Merfolk?
Sam: Well, sort of. Just you, but with gills.
Laura: What if we want to be a mermaid, though?
Sam: Sure, yeah, you could do that.
Laura: Okay, sweet.
Matt: With the Alter Self, you can give yourself gills and webbed hands, and you would gain a swim speed of your normal walking speed.
Laura: And a seashell bra.
Matt: Should that be your preference, sure. As she begins to talk about the--
Travis: For all of us.
Taliesin: Oh, yeah. Oh, please.
Marisha: Definitely.
Taliesin: We're all on board.
Liam: This all she talked about from ages six to 13. Only thing.
Marisha: (sings) We are the daughters of Trident!
Travis: (sings) I want to go where the people are.
Liam: Look at our DM.
Matt: "Anyway."
Sam: I could also think of a spell that would give you a clever Rastafarian crab sidekick.
Laura: Ooh, I like it. Oh, Trinket!
Taliesin: Turn Trinket into a--
Marisha: Oh my gosh! Yeah! Yeah!
Taliesin: Okay, okay. Gotta put the foot down before this gets weird.
Laura: Okay.
Marisha: I agree. Let's talk about this over a Heroes' Feast. How's that?
Laura: Yeah, but a midnight feast like--
Taliesin: We're not doing Hero's Brunch?
Laura: No, 'cause that would waste a spell on the day.
Travis: Keyleth? I don't think she's done talking.
Marisha: Who? What?
Matt: "Just be warned..."
Marisha: Sorry, we get carried away.
Matt: "I would recommend taking some time in the water first. Learn how it reacts to you and you react to it. Know that the limitations of not combating in air can be restrictive."
Laura: Makes sense. I don't know how my bow's going to work underwater.
Taliesin: I don't know how my guns are going to work underwater.
Marisha: Do you have a training ground? Like an arena that's kind of comparable we can test in tonight?
Matt: "Tonight? We could escort you to one of the more deep areas in Vesrah if you'd like."
Travis: Does it have to be tonight?
Sam: Well, yes, if we want to recover all our abilities for tomorrow.
Marisha: We're leaving in the morning.
Travis: Oh. Right, yeah. Good point.
Marisha: Do we want to practice now and eat later, or eat now and practice later?
Laura: Practice for an hour, have a midnight feast.
Travis: I hear you're not supposed to fight or kill anything for 30 minutes after you eat.
Laura: Right.
Taliesin: At least 30 minutes.
Marisha: Yeah.
Laura: So fight first, and then snack.
Marisha: So fight first. Yeah, we shouldn't swim after eating.
Taliesin: You'll just get a cramp.
Marisha: Cramps.
Liam: Even that's a pretty big number for you.
Travis: I just say it, I don't know what it means. 30.
Matt: All right. You guys are escorted over four or five structures past the main eating thoroughfare into an area that quickly descends. The beach drops down into about a ten, 15-foot depth. You can see this area is almost like a farming ground for bits of kelp and other sea plants that are just maintained for food.
Marisha: So we're doing this in the morning, right? We're leaving first thing?
Matt: You guys just said you were doing it before--
Laura: No, no, no, no, no, yes. We're doing that, but we're leaving in the morning.
Marisha: No, we're leaving in the morning though, at dawn.
Matt: Yeah, tomorrow is when you actually venture down to the Aerie.
Sam: At dawn, we swim.
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: At dawn, we swim. Then I'm going to go ahead and cast Water Breathing on all of us now, because it lasts for 24 hours.
Matt: Okay. So how many targets can you do with that?
Laura: Can we still breathe on land?
Marisha: Up to ten, I believe.
Sam: No. (laughs)
Marisha: I think it's up to ten. Let me double-check. I'm pretty sure it's ten.
Matt: Oh, don't worry. In older editions, there were arguments, because they didn't specify.
Laura: Yeah? Ooh.
Liam: Oh, great.
Taliesin: You have to sleep with a glass of water by the bed.
Laura: Sleep in a fishbowl.
Matt: All right, so between all of you, including Trinket, you guys are able to imbue, for the next 24 hours, Water Breathing onto the party.
Marisha: Ten. Willing creatures.
Matt: Ten willing creatures, perfect. Ah, Doty does not need it. Doty does not breathe. All right, so you guys, you feel this strange kind of sensation as the air seems to change in your lungs, but still function. It's a bit colder, and as you slowly submerge yourself in the water, you dip underneath, and the instinct is to hold your breath for as long as you can. It's that natural survival instinct, but the moment you give in and allow yourself to inhale you panic for a moment but then regulate, for a moment, and feel the water cycle through. It's cold. It chills the interior of your lungs a bit, but you can breathe fine. Speaking's still a bit of an issue. It's still a kind of a garbled-- there's no air passing past the vocal cords.
Travis: (garbled) I'm peeing. I'm peeing in the water right now.
Liam: (garbled) Three hours of this.
Laura: Can we see under the water? How's our perc--
Travis: Visibility.
Laura: Visibility?
Matt: Your visibility is as good as it would be underwater. It's murky. It's difficult to get a very clear view of anything beyond maybe a 20-foot span. Plus, this is nighttime. It's dark.
Laura: What about Percy with his glasses? I mean, could we do some sort of goggle things, so we can see better?
Taliesin: We could try to craft some goggles.
Liam: You put 'em away. Didn't you?
Laura: So that we could see underwater.
Liam: Aren't they for close up?
Taliesin: Yeah, they are for close up, but they're not attached to my-- water could get in.
Laura: Oh.
Travis: Do you want me to hold your glasses again for you?
Matt: You would have to ask, probably, for materials to do that.
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: You don't have anything to craft goggles.
Liam: You don't want to lose them in the ocean. Maybe put them away?
Taliesin: Yeah, I'll put them in, I've got a pocket.
Liam: Just, just don't open it.
Sam: Crafting goggles. Would it be helpful to craft something that would allow us to speak? Or--
Laura: I don't know if there's time for all of that. It'd be great, though. Tary, you're really good at crafting, right?
Sam: I am, I would say the best at crafting, actually. I've spent my whole life doing it.
Laura: All right, could you make something like that in like an hour?
Sam: I have no idea. But the adventure is to try, right? And I certainly will give it a go.
Taliesin: My big question is, what am I going to do with my guns?
Travis: Go find out.
Laura: Yeah, I'm going to try to shoot an arrow and see what happens.
Marisha: Yeah, go find out, that's why we're here, man.
Matt: Okay, you pull back and release the arrow, and it does fire, but it fires much slower and is impeded. It only gets about half as far, and even then with a dull thud.
Laura: Does it-- It doesn't seem like it pierces any?
Matt: It functions, but essentially the-- and this goes for any ranged attacks, most ranged attacks I should say, and melee attacks are at disadvantage underwater.
Travis: What!
Matt: And ranged attacks don't go further than their first range increment.
Laura: So what would that be?
Taliesin: I'm gonna have to look up my first range increment
Matt: So if you look at your bow, and it says like, you know, 60 feet, 120 feet, you know, for first increment, second increment.
Liam: Yeah.
Laura: Uh-huh.
Matt: It's disadvantage, and anything past that first increment is an automatic miss. It just stops in the water.
Laura: Oh no!
Liam: So, for example, daggers'--
Travis: Thank you, Ryan.
Laura: Thank you, Ryan.
Liam: -- short distance is 20 feet.
Matt: Yeah.
Liam: I could throw it 20 feet at disadvantage.
Matt: And that's as far as it'll go.
Liam: Gameplay wise, game mechanics.
Matt: Also, your movement speed is halved.
Travis: Son of a bitch!
Liam: This is awesome!
Taliesin: Unless we web.
Laura: So, for a longbow.
Matt: Unless you have webbed fingers, or you know, use Alter Self
Taliesin: Or turn into dolphins, or--
Marisha: We could be great whites.
Laura: Ooh! Let's be sharks.
Taliesin: Swordfish.
Marisha: We could be sharks.
Laura: Or we could be merpeople.
Marisha: I can also change us whenever we feel like being something else.
Taliesin: Eels. Electric eels.
Marisha: It just takes a turn. Rock it like an electric eel!
Laura: How do I find out how far a longbow can shoot?
Taliesin: Not that I don't know this isn't going to work, but I'm going to try and see if I can get, even with like maybe an electric pulse, if I can light the powder. If the powder's wet, the powder's wet. Once I open that thing--
Matt: The minute you submerge your gun, the powder is wet. Your firearms will not function underwater.
Taliesin: They're not going to function underwater.
Matt: I'm sorry, Percy.
Taliesin: It's okay. No, I'd be worried if they did.
Matt: All right, so for the longbow, your first range increment is 150 feet, so you're okay.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: But anything beyond that, not functional.
Laura: Done, okay.
Travis: So, all melee attacks are at disadvantage, because you're swinging through water.
Matt: Correct. Yeah, you're going against resistance in the water.
Travis: Fucking hate the ocean now.
Taliesin: So there's no way to put a bubble around me or anything, is there?
Marisha: Sorry.
Laura: Yeah but, oh.
Sam: A bubble around what?
Travis: Like an airtight bubble.
Taliesin: Like some sort of bubble.
Sam: Ooh.
Liam: So you think if your bullets were to pierce out through this bubble, they could still go a ways.
Taliesin: Or I could even put the tip of the gun out of the bubble.
Laura: Wait, you can shoot into water.
Taliesin: And fire, but as long-- the combustion has to happen in air.
Travis: Yeah, yeah, be in a closed airtight space with a firearm, that will do wonders for your ears.
Sam: The firearm.
Taliesin: How do you even know all this?
Travis: Oh, sorry.
Sam: The firearm has to be enclosed, not you.
Taliesin: Not me, just the firearm.
Sam: But it would only last one shot. Blow a hole in the side, then water would get out.
Taliesin: Well, if I could have it around just the combustion point, and have the barrel sticking out of the point, that might be a thing.
Sam: That might be something we could try to make, I suppose.
Taliesin: Out of what?
Sam: We could take apart Trinket. That's your bear, right?
Taliesin: We're not taking apart the bear.
Sam: That's your robot bear. We could take apart that.
Laura: He's a real bear, Tary, he's a real bear.
Sam: Oh, well then, never mind.
Laura: Hm.
Travis: Could you make some sort of cavernous hole out of Doty's chest?
Sam: We don't touch Doty.
Taliesin: Okay, I've got a crazy idea.
Travis: I mean, I'll touch Doty, but--
Matt: What's your crazy idea?
Sam: We lure the kraken onto land.
Laura: He's still formulating it.
Taliesin: I wanna, I wanna build--
Laura: Through a portal, into--
Taliesin: I wanna build a watertight vest for the guns. Basically just a packet that keeps that section dry. Like a protective-- like a soft bag that is waterproof, that would use some sort of stomach lining of some animal or some leather to build it. I couldn't reload the gun.
Matt: No, you'd probably only get one shot each.
Taliesin: One shot, or would it just be one shot-- yeah, 'cause it might--
Matt: 'Cause it would pierce the containment.
Taliesin: Well, like it would-- just around everything but the-- well, the barrel would then have to be--
Matt: The barrel would then fill with water.
Taliesin: That's--
Marisha: Tary?
Taliesin: One shot each.
Sam: Yes, Antlers?
Marisha: Respect. Can I imbue one of your mystical coins with one of my spells that we give to other people or is that kind of your thing?
Sam: I mean, if you inspected them, you would know that they say 'T.D.' on them. They're sort of personal to me. I've had them minted.
Marisha: Oh, sure, yeah. I'm sorry. I'm farsighted. So sorry.
Sam: I don't think that would work. It's sort of a thing that I can do and I'm pretty cool at it.
Marisha: I did not mean any offense.
Sam: None taken. I respect the question and I respect you wanting to work with someone of my skill set and aptitude. I saw your work back there at the last fight and, well, the gunslinger was rendered useless and everyone else was fighting on the other boat against lesser allies. Uh, enemies, I mean. You and I held off that beast together and it was quite amazing to watch.
Marisha: I mean, you're gonna take full credit for it later, aren't you?
Sam: I made the kill. It was 100% mine.
Marisha: All right. No, that's fine. I mean-- you know--
Sam: But you were there and it was a good assist and I appreciate it.
Marisha: (laughs weakly) Moving on. Back to planning.
Taliesin: I'm going to need some way of defending myself or I'm going to have to take an animal form.
Marisha: I could give you an animal form.
Taliesin: I may have to have an animal form.
Travis: Like what?
Marisha: Shark?
Travis: Barracuda!
Taliesin: It's kind of small, isn't it?
Laura: A little yellow fish. A little yellow fish that's very friendly.
Taliesin: A very friendly yellow fish. I was thinking maybe some sort of half-octopus merperson.
Travis: Does that exist?
Marisha: I've gotta give you something kind of real. Kind of beastly. But it is challenge rating four or lower, which is awesome. That's cool.
Travis: I have a question for you.
Matt: Yes?
Travis: I have two vials of underwater breathing from a long time ago. How long do those last?
Matt: Let me check, actually.
Travis: Like an hour?
Sam: I have a question for you as well.
Matt: All right. What is your question?
Sam: My rod of mercurial form.
Matt: Yes?
Sam: We know that it can turn into a crossbow?
Matt: One hour.
Travis: One hour?
Matt: Yes.
Sam: How many crossbow arrows do I own? Any?
Matt: Yeah, you would have 40.
Sam: 40! Okay, great.
Matt: They're just regular bolts. They're bolts, not arrows.
Sam: Thank you.
Matt: You're welcome.
Travis: Do we know if the kraken is considered Thordak-sized or, humongous?
Matt: You have no idea, but the stories say immense.
Travis: Immense.
Matt: Yes.
Taliesin: They could take down a ship, right?
Matt: Yeah, from what you've heard.
Liam: Yeah, I mean, fairy tales tell about them pulling ships under the water, breaking them in half.
Laura: I have a little poison bolt. Do you want one? I've just been holding onto it. If you have a crossbow?
Sam: Yes, I would love that. Thank you. How much do I owe you for it?
Laura: 50,000 gold.
Sam: It seems like you're just fucking with me. (all laugh)
Taliesin: He's catching on.
Sam: Let's call it an even five gold.
Laura: Hm, I'll take it. I was just gonna gift it to you, but I'll take the gold.
Sam: Well, I don't want there to be any sort of implied favors or anything that I have to return later. If you're all right with it, I'd like to just keep this business, thank you.
Laura: I do still want an Alter Self coin.
Sam: I mean, are we doing that? I can do four of those Alter Self coins.
Travis: Would that take away the speed halving? If we had webbed hands and feet, would that--
Matt: Yeah, you'd then have normal speed through the water.
Laura: See, that's pretty great.
Matt: For the record, with swimming, you're essentially flying, too, I mean, as far as in water. You can swim in an up and down direction as well.
Laura: That's cool.
Taliesin: When I'm an animal, none of my bonuses--
Travis: Right. So, Boots of Feral Leaping, I don't really-- unless we're on the bottom of the ocean.
Matt: It's not gonna help you.
Travis: Right.
Marisha: You keep your bonuses.
Taliesin: My bonuses stay. So, my vestige will actually--
Marisha: Yeah. I think so. Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Taliesin: We'll find out, I suppose.
Matt: If what?
Taliesin: If the vestiges will be functional while I'm in animal form.
Marisha: Wait, we're still underwater, right? (garbled underwater speech)
Laura: Yeah, all of this conversation has been happening underwater. We're surfacing and talking and going back under.
Sam: Yeah, we're treading water.
Matt: The target's gear melds into the new form. The target can't activate, wield, or otherwise benefit from any of its equipment.
Marisha: With Animal Shapes?
Matt: Yes.
Marisha: So, you can't benefit from your equipment.
Matt: Right.
Liam: Does that negate all my class boosting and all that?
Matt: All that you get in the form of the creature. If you become a creature that has an armor class of 11, you have an armor class of 11.
Liam: What about these merpeople?
Matt: Alter Self, you keep all your stuff and just gain the ability to swim underwater.
Marisha: And it's our movement speed, which isn't very fast.
Matt: Correct, but it's better than half your movement speed.
Marisha: Correct.
Matt: Which is really not very fast. So your call.
Marisha: Could killer whales give us a movement speed of 60 swim feet?
Travis: We're not fucking whales.
Taliesin: I'm turning into one.
Marisha: He was into sharks, but he has something against whales.
Liam: I mean, don't knock it.
Travis: (whale noises)
Marisha: They're faster.
Laura: Are they?
Marisha: Yeah, they are.
Laura: Yeah, but what if the kraken sees it?
Marisha: It says in the book that they are definitely faster.
Travis: Maybe orcas, but they're not whales, right?
Taliesin: They're not actually whales. They're orca.
Travis: They're like porpoises and shit.
Taliesin: They-- yeah, like with cool tattooing.
Marisha: You guys were down with manatees, but have something against killer whales? I feel like our priorities are off.
Taliesin: Look, we can have different animals. Like, he can shark and I can whale.
Liam: Also, I know it's always been a waste of time, our planning, but we're not even talking about what we're going to try to do. Are we going to try to distract this fucker and take his lodes or--
Marisha: I mean, if we use Pass Without A Trace, right?
Laura: Yeah?
Marisha: I mean, Pass Without A Trace should still work underwater. If we're all something super stealthy, we move super fast, get there, and get out.
Laura: Let me make sure Pass Without A Trace is not concentration.
Travis: Important question. Do we know if the elemental plane is more like the waters off the Cayman Islands and it's crystal clear for hundreds of feet or is it like more murky, boggish Louisiana, Gulf of Mexico-type water?
Marisha: It seems like it's Marianas Trench levels. Seems like--
Matt: Yeah, it's pretty dark. From what you've heard and what they've talked about, the water elemental plane, most of it feels like you're a mile beneath the surface of the ocean.
Liam: Oh, shit.
Laura: We have to be animals that can grab things.
Travis: Light is also important.
Matt: There is a little bit of light that comes through. You do have some visibility, though the source is difficult to really ascertain.
Marisha: Here's my thought. Certain of us are gonna be better under the water with our natural forms and some of us aren't. Half of us go... (laughs)
Sam: Ooh, I like this. She is smart.
Marisha: Half of us are animals. The other half can ride them in our Alter Self forms like a SeaWorld show.
Sam: Yes, yes, absolutely. I volunteer to be a rider or a captain of the ship sort of.
Taliesin: If we throw a little bit of rope together, we can make some quick harnesses, including harnesses that include a little bit of a netting for the stones as we get them.
Sam: A harness around the big man? I think that would be quite a formidable steed.
Travis: You back the fuck up right now.
Sam: All right. Just strategizing, chum.
Travis: I understand that.
Marisha: Because I can Alter Self at will and you have to take a spell slot, or can you do it at will?
Sam: I don't know what "at will" means, but I'm very impressed.
Marisha: Yes.
Travis: That's not a terrible idea, 'cause I'm gonna be able to do dick diddly shit in there. That's, like, zero.
Marisha: It means one of us might have to borrow your bag of holding.
Travis: No, I'm out. I'll stay on the land.
Marisha: Tary, you had a bag of holding, right?
Sam: I do.
Marisha: All right!
Sam: What do we need it for? Oh, to put the--
Marisha: The lodestones in.
Sam: The things in that we're finding. Oh, yes, yes, of course and they would be great keepsakes.
Marisha: No, you cannot keep them.
Sam: Oh, well, if we find an extra one, perhaps I could take that back as a--
Liam: Question.
Sam: Yes?
Liam: I'm obviously a fan of stealth, right? But when we go in there and it all fucks up like it does nine times out of ten and the thing sees us anyway, what are we doing?
Laura: Run!
Marisha: Run.
Liam: Without the lodes? With the lodes?
Taliesin: Well, those of us who can swim quite quickly will try and evade. We'll try and hide and keep looking for them.
Laura: Distract him.
Liam: But we don't wanna hurt this thing, so what are we doing? Interference and distract and a couple of us try to smash and grab?
Travis: Yeah, diversion.
Taliesin: Diversion, scatter, grab, and run.
Marisha: Yeah.
Laura: Only attack if truly necessary.
Sam: New guy here--
Travis: Bait. I like it. Way to volunteer, captain.
Sam: No, nope, nope. New guy here, just a process question. I'm new to these sort of strategy "seshes" that you guys have. Is this how it always is, with people just throwing out random bad ideas constantly for, like, 15 minutes?
Liam: Yeah.
Taliesin: That's about right.
Liam: We do that and then we kind of take it like jazz on the day, you know?
Sam: Wow, because I really-- this is a big fight for me. I've never fought anything quite so big. Is there a chance that we might perish?
Marisha: Yes.
Taliesin: Pretty good.
Travis: No, we're fine.
Sam: Because it doesn't seem like we have a good plan right now.
Taliesin: Well, that's the thing about these sorts of encounters, is that any plan you have is pretty much going to be out the window the minute you see it anyway.
Sam: All right.
Liam: If it makes you feel any better, this feels less asinine than many things that we've done before.
Sam: That does make me feel better.
Laura: It's true. Half of us are animals, half of us are riders.
Taliesin: Half more a plan than we normally have.
Liam: I once teleported into the belly of a dragon with another jackass and that went tits up fast.
Sam: That sounds like the stupidest fucking plan I've ever heard.
Liam: I'm still breathing.
Travis: Yeah.
Taliesin: It's much like those people who give you instructions of how to survive an encounter with a tiger. It's that, you think about it, but you've never actually met anybody who's said, "Yes, I've met a tiger, that's exactly what I did and I'm fine." No, anybody who does that's probably been eaten anyway. It's a terrible idea. You don't try and look bigger, you don't do any of that. You're gonna get eaten.
Marisha: It's true.
Sam: I've read some of those.
Taliesin: You survive an encounter by a tiger by running really quickly in the other direction or hopefully hacking it to death before it kills you.
Sam: All right.
Liam: You know, just between you and me, this does sound really fucking stupid.
Marisha: Tigers aren't that bad.
Taliesin: Well, it was just my suggestion.
Travis: So, if four of us are fast water creatures, right? Something that swims quick? What's our diversion? I volunteer as tribute.
Marisha: Well, if you drop back down to zero hit points, you'll revert back to your normal form, being able to water breathe, full hit points.
Travis: That would be a bad case scenario, 'cause I'm really slow, in that case.
Marisha: Yes.
Travis: All sorts of fucked.
Marisha: Uh-huh.
Travis: How many hit points does a killer whale have?
Marisha: 90.
Travis: Oh, god, I thought you said nine. I nearly shit my pants.
Marisha: 90.
Taliesin: Let's see, what can we do?
Marisha: I don't know if there's anything else better.
Laura: The thing is, the kraken might be able to swallow you whole, Grog.
Liam: Yeah.
Travis: They have mouths?
Laura: I don't know how big they are.
Travis: No, they have tentacles.
Laura: No, but they've got-- Don't they have beaks, like a squid?
Travis: I didn't hear anything about a beak or a mouth.
Liam: Who hasn't seen a drawing of a squid or a kraken in a fairy tale book? They're disgusting.
Travis: Book.
Taliesin: Maybe-- we have one night. Maybe I could try and craft some sort of concussion explosive.
Marisha: I also don't want you tired tomorrow.
Taliesin: It wouldn't probably hurt it, but it would at least maybe shock it. Give it a-- stun it? To just blow something up underwater?
Marisha: There's something that I want to try really quick, if you guys could back up or maybe get out of the water. I want to see if I can cast spells underwater.
Laura: Yeah, yeah. I'm out.
Taliesin: Well, all right.
Marisha: I also want to see what lightning does, so if you don't want to get electrocuted.
Liam: As soon as those two start talking about that, I get out of the water and start attuning the Deathwalker's Ward to lightning.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: Very clever.
Marisha: I love that this is all under the assumption that we just had this planning sesh underwater.
Laura: No, we were treading water.
Marisha: Oh, we're treading. Okay.
Travis: I'm staying in the water because I wanna feel the lightning.
Marisha: You wanna see?
Taliesin: You wanna ride the lightning.
Travis: Yep.
Marisha: I'm gonna tread back from Grog, go underwater, and I'm gonna do a Call Lightning bolt. See what happens.
Matt: Okay, Call Lightning, let me check real fast. Yes, okay. So, you begin to speak underwater. (burbling noises) Spell isn't coalescing.
Laura: Oh, no!
Marisha: Yeah, that's what I was curious about. That's exactly what I wanted. All right, then how about this? I take out my Spire and I do a Chain Lightning out of the Spire.
Matt: Do Chain Lightning out of the Spire? As you concentrate on the staff, the lightning arcs out of the staff and ends up searing and burning a small section of the floating kelp vines that are wandering up there.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: Clears a little area.
Marisha: So I can cast out of the Spire. And-- cool. While I'm under there, I want to Beast Shape into a killer whale.
Matt: Okay. You turn into a killer whale. You are-- it is about 15 feet deep, so you are occupying a large portion of the water nearby. It's really hard to swim in this vicinity, especially with the density of kelp in the center of this dip.
Marisha: I goose Grog a little bit from underneath.
Travis: (yelps) I punch it. (all laugh)
Matt: Okay, roll for an attack.
Travis: I was watching, but not that close. That scared me, I'm sorry.
Taliesin: It's okay, it's an animal that already has a black eye.
Travis: Oh shit.
Marisha: It's fine. (laughs)
Travis: 25.
Matt: Okay. So, with your strength bonus--
Marisha: (laughs) Uh, yeah. That definitely hits.
Matt: -- you, (laughs), let's see. What's your strength bonus?
Travis: Eight.
Matt: Yeah, so you take, we'll say, nine points of bludgeoning damage as Grog just smacks you in the nose.
Liam: Right in the blubber.
Taliesin: To be fair, no worse than anything that happens to a killer whale at SeaWorld at that point.
Marisha: (laughs)
Travis: Oh, that's terrible.
Taliesin: Yeah, I went there, I'm so sorry. It's been there, I'm sorry!
Laura: Is there some sort of Alter Self spell that--
Marisha: (groans) Oh, no.
Liam: Change his alignment!
Marisha: Oh, no.
Taliesin: My personal alignment is already so far down.
Liam: (laughs)
Laura: Yeah, no, yeah, you're right.
Matt: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Marisha: I drop form out of shame. (all laugh)
Taliesin: Sorry!
Travis: Were you gonna-- you were gonna check your speed or something?
Sam: Oh.
Marisha: Well, I'm in like a tank.
Laura: Aw.
Marisha: Which is even worse, I know! This feels tactless, I'm out! (all laugh)
Taliesin: Shit got real on Critical Role.
Laura: I like how SeaWorld is was what was our line. Of tactless.
Taliesin: Yeah. Oh no, I know what--
Marisha: That's a good point!
Travis: All right Jesus Christ, let's move on!
Taliesin: I know where my money is going at the end of the evening.
Laura: Is there an Alter Self sort of spell that could make you be able to speak underwater? Is there anything that you can do that allows for speech?
Marisha: Well, if I do Alter Self--
Sam: Did you do Alter Self just now?
Marisha: Let me actually try that. I Alter Self.
Travis: Yeah. Oh. No polymorph.
Marisha: To be able to give myself--
Matt: Gills, right.
Marisha: Gills, and like, fins and stuff, and then-- now can I cast?
Matt: Unfortunately, because there's still water passing through your throat and vocal cords. If you get a full breath of air, you can get one spell off. And technically, with your breathing the water underneath, because you already had the gills in, it didn't work. You get a breath of air, and you cast the spell as the air leaves your lungs, but once you cast the spell, the air is gone.
Sam: No more spells.
Laura: What about merpeople? How do they talk to each other?
Sam: (dolphin noises)
Laura: Are there really merpeople? There are merpeople.
Liam: Frog sacs?
Taliesin: They have a different larynx system.
Travis: Dry-erase boards.
Taliesin: (laughs) Wet-erase boards. (all laugh)
Taliesin: I deserved what happened below the table. Last weird question, would it be possible-- could I basically just make a bag of air that we could carry that she could breathe in and have to breathe it in before casting the spell. Is that nuts?
Sam: Well, if I may. The big fellow over there said that he had some sort of vials that you could breathe air out of. Is that true?
Travis: They're supposed to let you breathe underwater. I don't know if it pumps your guts full of air or anything.
Sam: May I examine it?
Laura: It's Water Breathing, it's the spell Water Breathing.
Marisha: Yeah, what about my Water Breathing--
Sam: No, it's not.
Marisha: -- we should still be able to talk?
Matt: Water Breathing you can breathe the water, but when you still--
Marisha: Okay, but you can't go (garbled underwater noises).
Matt: -- but you can't, yeah. It's still water passing through the vocal cords--
Sam: What is the thing that you have?
Matt: -- which doesn't have the vibration to make the same sound.
Marisha: I think it's a potion of waterbreathing.
Laura: What if we use some sort of--
Travis: Underwater breathing.
Laura: -- cap, right? On Grog's jug. And it just makes air!
Sam: Hm.
Liam: Not a bad thought.
Taliesin: Make a skin.
Marisha: Could I speak into the jug-- clearly.
Taliesin: I was gonna say we could make a diving bell. But it would be very hard to travel with, but we could make a micro diving bell.
Laura: (laughs)
Marisha: What is a diving bell?
Travis: You guys, this is getting dumber and dumber. We will have a movement speed of one.
Taliesin: It's basically an upside-down pot that you stick your head in and you take a big breath of air, but the problem is moving with it is bad.
Travis: We can't move it.
Laura: Okay, okay, okay.
Travis: It'll go straight to the bottom.
Marisha: Killer whales?
Travis: Yep.
Laura: Whales and riders.
Marisha: And-- all right. Who's whales, who's riders?
Taliesin: Whales.
Travis: Whale.
Liam: Rider.
Marisha: Rider?
Laura: I guess I'll be a whale. Or Trinket could be a whale!
Marisha: Trinket could be a whale.
Taliesin: Or a shark.
Laura: I will ride Trinket.
Travis: Well, it needs to be one of you two.
Taliesin: You might want to go shark for one of them.
Travis: Trinket needs to go in the necklace 'cause of the odd man out.
Sam: Please don't leave me behind.
Marisha: I thought you were being a rider.
Sam: I would love to, but, there's no one to ride.
Laura: Can't we have two people on one whale? I feel like whales are very large.
Sam: That makes sense.
Matt: You could muster that, yes.
Marisha: Yeah.
Travis: Okay.
Taliesin: Especially if it's just handles, if it's just like hanging onto a piece of rope.
Marisha: All right, let's go eat food.
Matt: All right. You guys make your way out of the small kelp farming area, eventually back to complete your-- you're doing a Heroes' Feast?
Marisha: Yup.
Matt: Okay, so mark--
Laura: But like ice cream, and donuts, like a midnight snack kind of.
Travis: Easy, psycho.
Matt: That is totally doable.
Laura: Like, waffles and--
Marisha: Hot fudge sundae.
Laura: Yes.
Liam: This is the meal I was waiting on.
Taliesin: A Heroes' Sundae Bar.
Laura: Mm-hm.
Matt: The finest of gluttonous sweets available in Tal'Dorei are summoned upon this fine mahogany table that thrusts itself out of the sand. Everyone in the vicinity steps back and kind of, "Ooh, ahh," at this display of unexpected magic. Other folks step forward to try and take a piece from it, before somebody else stops them with a hand, "It's not for you!" You guys spend the next hour eating your meal, and gain the benefits of your Heroes' Feast! (all cheer)
Matt: So let's go ahead and--
Travis: Oh.
Taliesin: (sings Zelda music)
Liam: That's extra hit points, yeah?
Laura: Mm-hm!
Liam: How many?
Marisha: 2d10--
Matt: Yeah, Marisha rolls for you guys--
Liam: Roll for all of us.
Marisha: -- which I will roll for you right now, and we-- both are cocked. (singsong) Landed on the side. That one-- is that still cocked?
Taliesin: That's cocked.
Marisha: God damn it.
Travis: Take some of the dice out of your box.
Marisha: Shut up! An extra 11.
Matt: All right. So, 11 extra hit points to all you guys. Including Trinket, who scarfs up happily at the table.
Laura: Yay!
Taliesin: 11 hit points
Liam: No fear, no poison, advantage on saves, isn't it?
Marisha: Wisdom saves.
Liam: Wisdom saves.
Matt: Wisdom saves.
Taliesin: Wisdom saves. Advantage. No fear. No poison.
Marisha: No fear, no poison, 2d10.
Laura: Lovely. All right.
Matt: You got it.
Travis: Are we supposed to go research the lodestones before we go to bed, right? The ones that are failing?
Laura: Oh, maybe we could do it in the morning?
Matt: The morning is what you were told.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: Going to bring you to the the Aerie of Torrent.
Taliesin: Are they heavy or are they light?
Laura: We'll find out.
Matt: So. As you guys are brought to your sleeping quarters, which are these semi-private huts elevated above the water, so they are actually about half a foot above the surface. You are each given a small chest, a soaked damp chest like the wood itself is just waterlogged through and through. As you open it, on the inside each of you receive what looks to be a leather band, with a circular stone affixed to the center of it.
Laura: If this is going to make us be able to fucking talk underwater--
Marisha: Oh, that will be super frustrating if we just took all that time. Or if this is one of those--
Taliesin: Vox Machina, solving problems that don't need to be solved.
Marisha: Solved-- making problems complicated for five years.
Travis: Why don't we put it on and see what it does?
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. What do you do? There's a cluster of them at various--
Travis: Does the leather band attach at either end?
Matt: It has almost like a rudimentary belt clasp on both sides.
Travis: I'm going to put it around my neck like a dog collar, and I'm going to lay down in the water face first.
Matt: Okay, it warms as it touches the outside of the neck and it feels like there's a very loose-- almost a vibration to it.
Laura: (gasps) Talk, Grog!
Travis: (distorted, vibrational voice) This is really cool! (all laugh)
Taliesin: I put my ear in the water to see if I can hear him.
Matt: It does transfer your voice through the water.
Laura: That's awesome! What a waste of (sings) fucking time!
Travis: But, but--
Marisha: That's great.
Matt: (laughs) You didn't go back to--
Travis: But does it remedy the spell problem?
Laura: Yeah.
Taliesin: Yes.
Liam: Welcome to the cool kids' table, Tary.
Marisha: It does.
Laura: It does.
Matt: Yeah, it does.
Sam: It's amazing.
Matt: You guys can talk under water. There is still a limitation to the distance you travel 'cause sound is, you know.
Taliesin: Best of the best.
Matt: Actually, no sorry, the sound does travel further.
Taliesin: It does.
Matt: Underwater. Conduit.
Laura: Oh. So we have to be super quiet.
Matt: However, you also look within the case and each of them has what looks to be spherical, somewhat see-through domes of some glass-like material.
Laura: (gasps)
Matt: You are also affixed with goggles, and you remember, looking back, you saw some of the people who were part of the troupe here, especially the guardians on the outside of the city, had the same similar goggle sets hanging around their neck.
Liam: Get the fuck out!
Laura: This is awesome!
Taliesin: Hello, water-based culture, would you happen to have some goggles lying around we could borrow, maybe something that's to communicate underwater, I don't know?
Liam: (makes ding noises to mimic hitting glass dome)
Marisha: We totally didn't.
Matt: Nobody asked-- but they were provided.
Marisha: We should have asked what equipment was available. (all laugh)
Matt: These are standard given to the Waveriders, the guardians that look on the outskirts of Vesrah.
Laura: What a fucking idiot.
Marisha: I feel stupid.
Liam: (gong noise)
Matt: (laughs)
Travis: Tary Jumbo--
Laura: We don't have giant domes on our heads.
Liam: I do. (all laugh)
Travis: I just thought of one thing for you, right? I went fishing this one time--
Matt: Just goggles.
Travis: -- and the lure that I had was really shiny and sparkly, like fish love sparkly things in the water. And I'm just noticing now that you are really shiny and sparkly kind of all over.
Laura: Oh.
Sam: Like a lure?
Travis: Yeah.
Taliesin: I was actually just contemplating that, because you know how frustrated you get opening up a crab when you're going to eat it--
Travis: I lost you at like the third word.
Taliesin: I wonder, would it be ironic if the kraken gets frustrated trying to peel off the armor? It'd just be a wonderful irony. I'm so sorry, sir.
Liam: I mean, that's funny, but it doesn't sound safe.
Taliesin: No.
Travis: What if we paint you in like black paint, or poo.
Marisha: Oh yeah, and that will immediately go away--
Laura: Oh yeah, that's smart.
Marisha: As we go underwater.
Laura: Oh.
Travis: All right, paint it is. Or tar.
Laura: Alter Self?
Travis: Should we tar him?
Marisha: If you Alter Self, right?
Taliesin: I don't know. Let's--
Marisha: Can you make yourself darkish?
Laura: Maybe you should be a whale.
Taliesin: Just not reflective.
Sam: I don't like any of this. When I was treading water before, was it difficult in armor? Was it--
Matt: Yeah! (all laugh)
Sam: And if I were to remove my armor, would I be weak and squishy?
Travis: You already are.
Matt: Yes. (all laugh)
Matt: That's a valid point.
Taliesin: That's a very fair point.
Matt: You have a breastplate, right?
Sam: Uh-huh.
Matt: Actually, it's heavy, but it's not super impeding you. It's heavy, but from a mechanical standpoint, it doesn't make it more difficult for you to swim. It's just more of a (heavy breathing). Yeah.
Sam: But it's shiny.
Matt: It is shiny. Your armor is shiny.
Travis: What if we put you, like, in a potato sack? So, you've still got your armor but it just doesn't twinkle.
Liam: That's not a bad idea at all.
Taliesin: He is not wrong, and that's not a bad idea.
Laura: Is there any burlap around?
Sam: I have a robe, I have a robe.
Marisha: Oh, okay.
Sam: I can just wrap myself in my robe.
Liam: It's not just as flashy as the armor though, is it?
Sam: It has some colorful patches on it, yes. But they're not shiny.
Laura: What if I stitch up the front?
Travis: No, no. Potato sack.
Laura: I just would hate for it to open up. I'm just gonna-- do you mind? If I just--
Marisha: Well, if it's dark--
Sam: Stitch up the front of my robe?
Laura: I'm really good at sewing.
Travis: Better not be flashy.
Sam: All right, I would, yes, thank you.
Laura: Yeah, I stitch up the front.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Thank you.
Laura: It'll be like a choir robe for you.
Liam: Good idea, Grog.
Laura: Yeah, that was smart.
Sam: Thank you so much.
Travis: Thanks. I go fishing a lot.
Sam: You lot are taking good care of me. I appreciate that. Thank you. This is going to be fun! Right? Tomorrow?
Laura: Fun, fun, fun!
Taliesin: Fun.
Sam: Yes?
Liam: Scary fun.
Taliesin: Scary fun.
Sam: All right.
Marisha: So much fun.
Taliesin: Technically speaking, we can't quite feel fear at the moment, can we? Or is it just a general malaise of fear? (all laugh)
Marisha: Yeah, I like, I like the latter. Malaise of fear.
Laura: I start working on the robe.
Matt: All right.
Laura: Really ugly stitches.
Matt: Yeah, it's, I mean, it takes you a while to get through the whole robe and get it done, and it's functional more than visually appealing. But you get the job done.
Sam: This reminds me of one of my caretakers when I was younger, stitching up some of my play clothes. It's a nice feeling. Thank you so much.
Laura: You're welcome, darling.
Marisha: While they're winding down, can I sneak away and see if I can find Uvenda?
Matt: Sure! It's not too difficult. She's in the same seat, snoring loudly, while two of her guardians stand at the side with their thin, polearm-like blades just watching as you approach, and she's just like (snores).
Marisha: I turn to her guards and say, do I wake her up? Does she not like being-- I don't want to be rude! But I kinda need to talk to her and I'm only here for a few more hours, and I--
Matt: One of them takes his bladed trident and hits her just gently on the side with the butt of it. She goes (snorts awake).
Marisha: Ah, that's how you do it.
Matt: "Ugh, yes, young Keyleth, hm."
Marisha: Hi.
Matt: She leans forward, putting on the presentation, but you can hear just that slight undertone of frustration. "What can I do for you?"
Marisha: Uh, yeah. I was just curious. I'm so sorry, first off--
Matt: "Keep talking, please. What do you want?" (all laugh)
Marisha: You mentioned that there were only remnants of my mother that came back. Was she defeated by the kraken, or do you think this was from another means? Do you have any more information on her?
Matt: "Child. There was little left of her and her allies. We found other pieces of her friends, but, pieces. Her leg was all we found. We could not recover much else, but the sea floor is littered with the many corpses and pieces of the kraken's various prey. It does not take much to ascertain the nature of her end."
Marisha: And you're sure of this? This is what the kraken does to people?
Matt: "What it does to anything that crosses its path. It eats to survive."
Marisha: Hm. I was just wondering. If there was any other potential explanation or--?
Matt: "I'm sure there is. There are many potential possibilities for anything that happens. I only have the information I was able to glean from the various scouts and teams."
Marisha: How long ago was this?
Matt: "This was four, five years back?"
Marisha: Really? All right. That's not that long, really. Did she stay long?
Matt: "A few days. Prepared for the journey much like you did. That was the last we saw of them."
Marisha: All right. I was just curious. Thank you.
Matt: "I wish I had different news for you."
Marisha: Did you keep anything? From what you found?
Matt: Her head turns curiously. "I fear I did not."
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: "We gave a quiet burial to what we were able to recover, but that's all."
Marisha: Well, I appreciate that much. Thank you for doing that.
Matt: "Of course, and once again, I am sorry for your loss, Keyleth."
Marisha: Oh. It's part of the duty.
Matt: "Yes. Yes, it is."
Marisha: Well, I should be getting my rest.
Matt: "Yes, you should."
Marisha: Yeah, big day! Swimming! Lots of calories! I'm gonna go now.
Matt: "Yes."
Marisha: All right, bye.
Matt: "Yes, you will. Goodbye."
Marisha: Goodnight.
Matt: (snores) Just conks right out again. Anything else you guys wish to do for the evening?
Liam: Well, I'm gonna follow Keyleth back to our room.
Matt: Mm-hm.
Liam: You all right?
Marisha: Did you just follow me? Were you following me just now?
Liam: No, I was waiting outside the door.
Marisha: Oh! All right, okay, yeah. Sorry. No, I'm good, I'm good.
Liam: I've seen the trouble behind your eyes all day, not surprisingly, yeah?
Marisha: I'm great.
Liam: Yeah?
Marisha: Yeah.
Liam: Okay.
Marisha: A lot, yeah. A lot riding on this, but-- A little surreal that we're here.
Liam: Long time coming.
Marisha: Yeah.
Liam: You know, you are already a river to your people.
Marisha: What?
Liam: I know that your life has built up to this moment in many respects. But your father is very proud of you. You've already done a lot. You silenced that dragon. You've done a lot.
Marisha: I'm just glad I have you all.
Liam: You know, I know that you struggle with doubt, and I don't think it's ever gonna go away for any of us. Especially for you. I think that's part of the job you're getting ready for. But I don't see it as a weakness. You know, all this time I've remembered Uriel. I'm not big on monarchies and the like, but I liked him.
Marisha: He was a good man.
Liam: Yeah. May his soul rest. And he had doubts. And he let them inform his decisions, and tried to do what was right. And the questions you have, I think they speak to your character.
Marisha: Uriel was also blinded by his unknowance of a lot of problems, so I just hope I don't follow in his footsteps in that regard.
Liam: Well, all the matters is what we leave behind us when we go. You've already done a lot of good. And you've taught me to be happy again. I'm very grateful to you. So, thank you.
Marisha: Thank you. For believing in me.
Liam: You make that easy.
Marisha: Anyway, we should get some sleep. It's a big day tomorrow.
Liam: Yeah. You know, I noticed, about a week ago? You were curious about my wings. I shoot them out.
Marisha: Heehee, hee. I pet them a little.
Liam: We have one hour. Fade to feathers.
Laura: (gasps) (all laugh)
Laura: (beatboxing)
Sam: Skyfuck!
Laura: Oh, shit!
Travis: I just want Vax and Keyleth to do the original Superman movie dialogue while he and Lois are flying.
Marisha: Oh god, that weird poetry! (all laugh)
Laura: Oh yeah--
Travis: "Can you hear my thoughts?"
Matt: Just like slow narration of Keyleth disembodied as they're both just flying over Vesrah at night.
Taliesin: I have a thing just for you.
Marisha: Is he God?
Travis: "Can you read my mind?" (all laugh)
Matt: Perfect.
Liam: I don't think they went anywhere.
Matt: That's perfect.
Taliesin: Just for you! Pass that down later.
Matt: All righty, so! Anyone else doing anything else?
Taliesin: I'm collecting some seashells, and taking a bit of a walk.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Derp.
Taliesin: And eventually, we're chilling.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: I'm gonna brush Trinket.
Matt: (disgruntled bear noises)
Laura: You need it! You're dirty! (all laugh)
Matt: (more disgruntled bear noises) It's various knots and seawater clusters--
Laura: Yeah. Just gross.
Matt: It's just not fun. All right, so morning comes to, the sun rises, it's a warm day. But the waters are crystalline and beautiful as soon as you step out. And since you haven't been here during the daytime, you can see it's a paradise-like existence. The sands that fall beneath the waves are white, just bright bleached white, and the entire city seems like the middle of this distant, tropical paradise. The islands that do kind of flank in a triangular position, as the islands of Anamn, they are just lush and green and dense. You see no signs of civilization built across them. They are just unending canopies that swarm these masses of land that break past the ocean's surface in the distance, but here in Vesrah, the city cluster, it's beautiful. The water has almost a turquoise-type shimmer when you see the areas that are deeper. And you see, in various sections, where the sand drifts away, the sandbank vanishes into the reef, and there you can see just an array of colors that refract beneath the water's surface, as a gentle breeze kind of blows through in sections.
Liam: I want to go to there.
Matt: It's beautiful.
Laura: I want to spend the morning, before anyone else gets up, standing on the edge of the water and like letting my toes sink deeper and deeper as the waves--
Liam: That's nice.
Matt: Okay. You guys eventually gather your way for a morning meal, and you can see in the distance now some of the Waverunners are doing perimeters. And you can see that they have large sails that are up on these triangular-like pointed boards that curve up into horn-like javelins in the front, and they are coasting on them. Basically surfing across the waves in the distance, doing runs around the perimeter of the reef.
Laura: That's fucking sick!
Marisha: That's so cool!
Liam: Cool!
Matt: And they are wearing the same goggles and the same throat pieces you were given.
Laura: Ah!
Matt: This is part of the standard equipment that is given to the Waveriders as they check on the outside and the vicinity of Vesrah.
Liam: That one looks like Keanu Reeves! And that one looks like Patrick Swayze! (all laugh)
Sam: (Keanu Reeves as Johnny Utah impression) He's not coming back.
Matt: It's a clear sky, not a cloud visible. Beautiful blue above you. What do you do to prepare?
Liam: Oh, Jesus.
Marisha: Oh, I find Uvenda.
Matt: Okay. She's actually already waiting for you, as you guys-- she's been up, earlier than you were, and--
Marisha: I take some time in my morning prep to do a little meditation, and I take my flame hands and I do some like, traditional Ashari war paint, kinda thing, going on.
Travis: Sick.
Laura: Nice.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: Nice, okay.
Marisha: Yeah. Oh, yeah.
Taliesin: Are we bringing the bear?
Laura: Yeah.
Taliesin: We're bringing the bear.
Laura: Trinket's gonna be a whale.
Marisha: Mm-hm.
Taliesin: All right.
Liam: Hopefully the whole time.
Marisha: As long as he doesn't hit zero hit points, then he won't turn into a bear. But he has water breathing!
Laura: If he hits zero, okay, I have a question.
Matt: Yes.
Laura: If he hits zero hit points--
Marisha: As a whale.
Laura: Does he go into the--
Matt: No.
Sam: Trinket-form.
Matt: The form reverts--
Laura: Would revert, and then--
Matt: Becomes Trinket at full hit points, carrying over any damage that happens. And remember only Trinket's, or any of your natural form, maintains the bonus hit points from your Heroes' Feast. Your animal form does not.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: So, you just have the base hit points of whatever creature form you take, and once you go to zero and revert back to yourself, or just revert back to yourself, then you have your hit points plus the Heroes' Feast.
Liam: And gameplay mechanics, can Trinket get walloped so hard that it passes all of his new form, plus Trinket form, and take him out?
Matt: If it was a shit-ton of damage, yeah.
Laura: It would have to be 150 points of damage. Thereabouts, 160.
Taliesin: Is it possible to grab a spare set of goggles and choker, just in case?
Matt: Asking around--
Taliesin: We'll return them all.
Matt: -- you approach Uvenda to ask this question. Even as you approach, they're looking out in the distance. She says, "Yes, that could be certainly mustered." And she snaps her little gnomish fingers.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Matt: And one of the guards wanders off, comes back a few moments later and retrieves an extra pair of goggles, and the throat bead.
Taliesin: Excellent.
Matt: And it's called a throat bead.
All: Throat bead.
Sam: How many of us need my coins to become altered?
Travis: I need to be a whale.
Marisha: That's me.
Taliesin: Three.
Liam: So, riders, show of hands. Rider, rider?
Laura: I mean, I can just use Water Breathing and cast Pass Without a Trace on us, that's the only thing, is I can't do that if I have Alter Self.
Sam: Oh, well then, I can just--
Marisha: Well, if you cast Pass Without a Trace, it's a concentration spell--
Sam: You won't be able to swim very fast, though.
Laura: If what?
Sam: She can't use Alter Self and Pass Without a Trace.
Marisha: Is Alter Self a concentration spell?
Sam: Yes.
Marisha: Oh. I could cast Pass Without a Trace, though.
Laura: Okay.
Marisha: I did bring it today.
Laura: Oh, good. All right.
Marisha: I could-- yeah. Wait.
Travis: Are there any seashells on the floor that I could find? Pretty shells?
Taliesin: I've already got a small bag of them, if you want to keep them--
Travis: I don't want yours.
Matt: So Alter Self is a what-level spell?
Taliesin: We could trade later.
Marisha: One. Two.
Matt: You have three second-level spells you can cast. And two thirds. So you'd have to use one of your third-level spells to do that.
Sam: Yeah.
Taliesin: Also a skipping stone.
Marisha: Right.
Matt: Technically, you could do--
Sam: I need one for me.
Taliesin: You didn't think of that, did you?
Sam: So four of them.
Matt: You are correct.
Laura: You're a rider?
Travis: I'm a whale.
Marisha: Animal Shapes takes my concentration, so I can't do that. But you could cast it--
Sam: You could just have Water Breathing, and be riding a whale. But if you get tossed from the whale, can you swim?
Laura: I mean, I can swim. What if you give me the coin--
Sam: And then you can use it if you need it.
Laura: -- and if things get hairy, then I use it, and then we drop Pass Without a Trace.
Taliesin: If it's hairy, we won't need Pass Without a Trace at all.
Marisha: I can go ahead and cast Animal Shapes on her, but it takes a turn, a round, for me to-- an action to change her into something else, so can I cast it on her, but leave her as Vex for now?
Laura: I'm not gonna be an animal.
Marisha: No, I know.
Matt: You assume the form of a different creature for the duration. A creature different from herself. Of the beast variety.
Marisha: Okay. Never mind.
Taliesin: We've got a plan.
Laura: We're fine!
Marisha: 'Cause we need Pass Without a Trace for her, right?
Laura: Yeah, so I'll get a coin, I'll cast it, go in, if things get bad, I'll use the coin.
Marisha: You can cast the coin. Okay. All right.
Sam: You're a whale.
Taliesin: I'm going to be a whale, we've got some rope here, it's going to be your job once I'm a whale to create at least a couple handholds with a harness. You know how to use knots, right, you can do some basic--
Sam: I know every knot in the book.
Taliesin: I knew you would.
Sam: The double-sloop. The reverse-cowgirl. I know 'em all. I've got the itsy-bitsy spider.
Taliesin: Keep going.
Sam: I know the rusty trombone. I've got--
Laura: The old Alaskan pipeline.
Sam: Yep. Got the figure eight, the figure four, the hidden figures.
Taliesin: The Dallas two-step.
Sam: I've got a bunch of 'em, yep.
Taliesin: The sweet Caroline?
Sam: Oh, yes. That one. That one's good. (all laugh)
Taliesin: Good for tension. I'm also gonna grab-- I should not be allowed to drink this. I'm going to take you aside really quickly and give you the extra set of goggles and the bead.
Liam: What do you want me to do with these? Just keep them safe?
Taliesin: Just in case. I'm-- you know how I get with my hunches.
Liam: Okay.
Taliesin: You'll know, if we need them, we have them. Just an extra set.
Liam: All right, Freddie.
Marisha: Uvenda, these beads.
Matt: "Yes?"
Marisha: Can you guys also track where we are based on them?
Matt: "No, unfortunately."
Marisha: No.
Matt: "The magic is only localized."
Marisha: All right.
Matt: "We've recovered as many as we could from previous scouts that have fallen."
Marisha: I go ahead and I Druidcraft one of my bark bracelets to put around her. For scrying, if you need it.
Matt: "All right. Thank you."
Sam: Bigly man over there, do you want a coin in case you lose your whale form?
Travis: Yeah.
Sam: What about you, Percival?
Taliesin: I'll take one just in case.
Sam: All right.
Travis: What does it do?
Sam: You say, 'Alter Self!' and slam it against your body and it'll make you with gills and stuff. Does he speak-- he speaks Common, right? He understands what I'm saying?
Taliesin: Well.
Travis: What does it do?
Sam: Make big, big hit, say 'Alter Self'--
Travis: What's the matter with you? Why are you talking like that?
Taliesin: That was everything I could've hoped for.
Liam: He does speak Fucking-with-you. Very well.
Sam: All right, I guess I'll make four coins.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: And pass them out to Percy, Little Elf Boy, Little Elf Girl, and Jumbo.
Matt: All right.
Liam: Hi. My name is Vax.
Sam: Oh.
Liam: That's short for Vax'ildan.
Sam: Have you heard the Legend of Taryon Darrington?
Liam: From you, yes, I have. It's a good tale.
Sam: Good, then, we're equals.
Liam: That is my sister. Her name is Vex'ahlia. You can call her Vex. Some people call her Vax.
Laura: That's true.
Sam: That's very confusing.
Laura: Yeah, you can call us by anything, we'll both respond.
Taliesin: At first, yes.
Sam: Okay. Okay. Were your parents fond of you, because to name them that similar would be-- just quite annoying, growing up, you must've gotten confused constantly.
Liam: I walk away. (all laugh)
Laura: I follow suit.
Matt: About this time, as you've seen Uvenda's been looking out patiently, the water nearby at the very edge of one of the reef drop-offs splashes out, and you watch as a figure darts out and lands and shakes off, and what you see there looks to be a very, very dark-skinned, stocky dwarf, wearing the same goggles and throat bead there. "Sorry about the delay." He wanders up and pulls his goggles off and rustles his hair a bit. "Hello. So you're the ones traveling to the Aerie today? Waverider Durent. Pleasure to meet you." And he reaches over and grabs-- as he takes your hand-- you put it out to extend it, he grasps it and gives a firm shake. You see he's got very, very short dirty-blonde hair--
Marisha: Durent?
Sam: Yeah.
Matt: And a beard that is just tattered and knotted from not being kept or combed through.
Marisha: So someone you would find at Venice Beach.
Matt: Kind of, yeah. He's the Venice Beach dwarf, basically.
Laura: (gasps) That's awesome.
Matt: Straight-up, actually, now that you point it out.
Liam: Just finished going up the ropes and down.
Matt: "All right, I'm taking you down to the Aerie. You ready?"
Laura: I think so.
Taliesin: Sure.
Marisha: Are you gonna be with us the whole time, or are you just getting us there?
Matt: "Well, I'm just getting you to the door."
Marisha: Of course.
Sam: Wait, there's a door?
Taliesin: Oh, now we're really in trouble.
Laura: This is where we're gonna check out the lodestones, before we go through the door.
Travis: Right, yeah. Knew it. Making sure you knew.
Marisha: There's doors to the other planes. That's our people's job.
Matt: "It's a figure of speech."
Sam: We're going to another plane?
All: Yes.
Sam: Oh my. Okay. This is great. This is great.
Matt: "Oh, you look really excited."
Sam: I am.
Matt: "You shouldn't be. Now, come on. See you've got your equipment." And takes his goggles and puts them back on. They're bulbous, they're just these giant domes that make you look fly-like.
Taliesin: I love it.
Liam: Nice.
Matt: "Okay. Now. Follow suit." He looks over. "Thank you, Uvenda." "Of course. Take care of them." "That's not my job." And dives into the water.
Marisha: I go in first.
Sam: Wait, don't you have to make some of us--
Marisha: Oh, right.
Laura: No, no, no, wait, how long does it last?
Travis: Right at the fucking start.
Marisha: Are we doing this now?
Laura: No, 'cause we can do it underwater, can't we?
Marisha: Animal Shapes last for 24 hours.
Laura: Well, let's wait until we're going into the water plane before we turn into fucking whales.
Travis: Don't we have to examine shit first? With our non-flipper hands?
Marisha: Yeah, he's gonna be showing us the stones first, right? So yeah. Jesus. I go in first.
Matt: All right. So you guys follow suit, diving in, diving in, each one of you in the order you wish, eventually with Doty (splash) just sinking very heavily down after you.
Laura: He's coming?
Sam: Oh, no.
Laura: Tary, shouldn't we leave him?
Sam: How deep is this?
Marisha: I can't-- nope, he's a construct.
Matt: Do you prefer Doty not to?
Sam: I would prefer Doty not come. He can't swim, right?
Matt: No, he can just walk across the bottom.
Travis: We're not going to tell you what to do here.
Matt: Your call.
Sam: I'm a little confused. We're going underwater now, but not to where we're going for the mission?
Matt: Correct.
Marisha: The portal to the other dimension is underwater and through a rift.
Travis: Imagine endless water.
Laura: Just lots of water.
Travis: No possible-- bottomless.
Sam: All right, then Doty can come this far.
Liam: To the rift?
Sam: Just to the door.
Travis: We barely knew him. Bring him along.
Liam: Wait by the gate. Like a butler.
Sam: Yes.
Travis: That was quick.
Laura: What if he gets rusty?
Sam: I hadn't thought of that.
Laura: It might be smart to not have him join us.
Taliesin: The rusty Doty's another knot that you know.
Laura: Just leave him behind.
Sam: The rusty Doty? (all laugh)
Matt: What's your plan? Yes or no?
Sam: Doty, you should stay behind.
Matt: Goes to jump, like--
Sam: Stay behind, and just take atmospheric notes, you know. Time of day, position of sun. Type of clouds. And if anyone tries to steal my stuff, describe them very well in the book.
Matt: A little seagull flies overhead. (all laugh)
Sam: It's all for color, for the book, you know.
Matt: Another one. Just taking very, very good notes.
Sam: Two chapters of seagull flight patterns.
Marisha: You're gonna have an excellent book on the mating habits of seagulls when you get back.
Matt: Eat your heart out, Darwin. Doty's on the case.
Travis: Oh my god.
Liam: Love you, Matt.
Matt: It's ridiculous. So you guys all eventually dive into the water, and as you do, you look down and there is essentially a 40-foot-wide gap in the beach here, just barely submerged beach, that coasts down and drops off directly down into this cylindrical section that is just open. And as you drift down, your goggles visible, you can see around you, dry, pale reef that slowly gives way to colorful, life-teeming reef. You see hundreds of fish of different sizes and colors, all darting in and out of the various gaps and openings in the side, you see vibrant plant life beginning to massively jut out from the side of this reef. Further down, you see eels twisting through, and bits of kelp and other long, underwater plant life tickle your body as you push past and drift, keeping track of where you're slowly sinking down, desperately trying to follow this dwarf that is no longer in view, he just dove straight down and is far more comfortable under the water than most of you. Eventually, the reef begins to cluster in tighter and tighter, and you start getting a little nervous as to if you're going to hit a bottom or hit a pinch point. And then suddenly it stops, the reef just ends, and you now are floating down into what appears to be endless dark ocean. And just below, you see just a faint bit of light, and you start noticing the dark color is because you're about to hit an extremely dense forest of underwater plant life. You watch as all of these long, thin tendrils of almost vines covered in elongated leaves begin to curl up around you, and you start pushing through, following this light, and as you get across to the edge, Keyleth, you're the closest ahead and you guys have just enough light to watch the bead of where Keyleth is. Keyleth, you can still see Durent and keep that pace. He leads you down over this bank of where the top of this underwater forest ends, and you see, attached to the reef above by a single pillar of stonework that seems to be built or carved out of the reef, emerges a spiraling tower that eventually ends on the floor of the ocean here. It's made of a yellowish-white sandstone-like color, there are pillars carved out of it, naturalistic, but also have almost a series of bevelled edges to them. Within the inside, there is a dull green glow that is pulsating, and as Durent makes his way down toward one of the many openings in the floors, you can see there is a very, very faint sparkling energy that seems to just drift up out of the center of this tower. As you make it further down towards the base, you now begin to see through some of the openings, the center of this tower is hollow. It is an exterior, like a very thin Colosseum-like structure that goes up for multiple floors, slowly pincering as it gets to the top, and it is just an open interior inside. As eventually you touch down onto the soft bottom of the ocean here and begin making your way, slowly swimming towards the interior, you can see a number of other similarly dressed Waveriders as well as armored guardians that stand, all with various trident or spear-like weapons. A number of them appear to be of varying races, human, half-elf, elf, it appears that Durent is the only dwarf you see in this vicinity, and a couple of them appear to be merfolk, like straight-up half-human, half-fish, tails, fins, gills, the whole circumstance.
Laura: What does their hair look like?
Matt: (laughs) You see two of them, one of which is male. No visible hair on him, actually, just the frill that goes down his head. The other is female. Long, deep, dark blue hair that drifts past, and as she shifts and looks in your direction, you watch it hold in place and slowly shift as the water currents push through.
Laura: I just stare at her.
Matt: (laughs) As you're entranced by this, your attention slowly glides over to the very center, the base of this temple, where you can see there are these three large, smooth, gray-ish rocks that are embedded in the ground, about five feet wide, and in the center of these three rocks, you see what appears to be-- it's almost like an oval shape, about ten feet tall, about five feet wide, that is crackling blue energy. This opening, here. And you can watch as occasionally clouds of black, murky soot or sand, deep, deep ocean sand, push through. You can see, as you get closer and peer in, this is a doorway into the plane, this is the rift. Unlike the one that you saw at Pyrah, which seemed to flicker and have a barely contained energy when you've seen it at its torn-open stages, this appears to be fairly contained. It's demure, there's not a lot of movement, it's just stationary, and the guards that surround it in the center of this temple all look inward, keeping vigilant watch. As you follow Durent, making his way towards the doorway, you can see within each of these three large, half-buried stones, there is a smaller, deep emerald green, almost jade-looking stone that is about that large that is embedded in each of these. Durent points over to one of them, and you hear him, through the water, the throat bead carrying the sound of his voice through, "This is what you're looking for. This is a lodestone. Take your time, as much as you need, to study it. Find what you need. Let me know when you're ready to pass through."
Laura: Are they all the same color? Every lodestone looks the same?
Matt: Yeah, you glance through, they're all the same color. Slight variations, and the shapes change a little bit, some are perfectly spherical, some are a little oblong, just whatever shape it eventually hardened into.
Taliesin: Kind of a natural jade?
Matt: Kind of, yeah. But like a dark, dark jade. Like Maori, New Zealand jade.
Laura: Not translucent at all, not--
Matt: No.
Laura: Okay.
Marisha: Keyleth goes up and touches one and meditates on it for a second.
Matt: Okay. As you put your hand towards it, you feel a very, very faint vibration, actually a very similar vibration to the throat bead.
Marisha: Really. Are the throat beads green? Do they look similar?
Matt: At this point, now? You notice, yes, they're made of the same material. You see that a lot of-- the lodestones' main purpose is here, but a lot of the inherent magic of them, or at least the enchantment properties of it, it's a pretty big part of the general life here at Vesrah.
Marisha: Do the beads tend to react when they get closer to the lodestone?
Matt: There is no change. But you do feel that faint hum and vibration of power of the lodestone that is embedded within.
Marisha: I turn to Durent. Whereabouts do they tend to be found? The lodestones?
Matt: "Well, I mean, all over."
Marisha: All over?
Matt: "Who knows where they've been dropped. The ocean tends to swallow things up. You might have to dig. Mostly we find them buried."
Marisha: Buried.
Taliesin: How heavy are they?
Matt: "Let me show you." And he goes over and grabs one and (strains) and pulls it out. The doorway flickers ever so slightly. He's like, "It's fine for a moment." And hands it to you. You take it, and for its size, it is surprisingly dense. It has about twice the weight you were expecting, and your arms just (grunts) a little bit. Also, as you're holding it, you notice the clasp on your cloak is being pulled towards it. As you pull it away, and pull towards it, you realize these are actually fairly magnetic.
Taliesin: They're magnetic?
Matt: Yes.
Marisha: Magnetic. Percy, do you have a compass?
Taliesin: I don't, but I can fake one pretty quickly if we have to.
Marisha: Really? You don't have a compass. Really?
Taliesin: We never needed a compass.
Travis: What do we even have you here for, I mean?
Taliesin: Is it possible-- well, we're too deep now, but--
Matt: As you're having this conversation, you watch as Durent's patiently there.
Taliesin: You have a compass, don't you? And I'm going to hand it back to him.
Matt: "No, but I need the stone." Puts it back inside. "Okay, we're good."
Sam: If I examine it, do I detect any magic on it?
Matt: You do. Profoundly magical, this is a very, very strong natural magic source.
Taliesin: This is going to be weird. I'm going to take out a chunk of Whitestone residuum and just compare the color and see if there's any relation.
Matt: Make an intelligence check.
Taliesin: Look at my sheet. That's a natural 20. (all cheer)
Travis: The snitch returns.
Matt: Interestingly enough, there are similarities. It is not the same material, but you've had enough time to study whitestone, and get a feel that there are-- this is your first inclination that there are more than one substance that seems to be related to the nature of magic. This is-- at least based on the ecology and what little bit of history you've picked up from the kraken and how long it's been around-- whitestone may be one of the more recent sources of this type of power, or variation on this type of power. But there are certain comparable facets of its ability, yeah.
Taliesin: It actually occurs to me that I might have some magnets on my person. Can I make an investigation check? I had quietly in my head been using them to keep my coat down when I was running around with the spider boots.
Liam: The magic of improv.
Taliesin: I wouldn't say it if it wasn't true.
Matt: No, that's fine.
Taliesin: Can I make a roll to see if I happen to have some on me?
Matt: I'd say you have them on you. You're Percy. It's fine. They're very simple magnets.
Taliesin: Yeah. They might help with-- I'm going to try and see if I can use them as a very base dowsing rod for these stones.
Matt: You notice that you don't-- any sort of pull you feel on the magnet doesn't seem to hit until you're within about a foot or so of the stone.
Taliesin: Okay.
Laura: I do have Locate Object.
Sam: I pull out my compass and see if it works.
Matt: Okay, you pull out your compass?
Travis: You have a compass?
Sam: Sure. Yeah, I have a compass, by the way.
Marisha: Really, you have a compass?
Matt: As you pull it out, you watch, as you stand there, it's confused, it's darting around and doing circles. As you begin to step in one direction towards one of the stones, it rights itself in its direction.
Sam: Hm. Fascinating.
Laura: Nice.
Marisha: Will you keep that handy, you know?
Sam: Oh, sorry. Yes. One second. Just, still pressurizing.
Marisha: Sure.
Travis: Equalizing.
Taliesin: In my head, you have zinc all over your nose. There's just zinc.
Marisha: And a hula shirt.
Sam: Oh yes, do you want a--
Taliesin: Yes, we're really pale people, this is probably a good idea. No.
Marisha: I tap it, because I've seen other people do that, and I feel like that's what you do with compasses.
Travis: And it shatters.
Matt: (shattering sound)
Marisha: Ahh!
Matt: Yeah, it seems to be a functional compass.
Marisha: Do you want to be the compass man? Are you gonna man the compass? Be navigation?
Sam: The leader? Absolutely.
Taliesin: The navigator, yes.
Sam: The navigator. Sure.
Marisha: The navigator.
Sam: Sure.
Matt: All right.
Travis: Any other tests you brainy types want to do on these giant, green balls?
Taliesin: I feel comfortable. We have Locate Object, we have a compass.
Laura: Yes. Locate Object is concentration, and so is Pass Without a Trace.
Marisha: So when we get through the void, and maybe we can do a Locate Object and then Pass Without a Trace, and then I'll cast Animal Shapes, and then we go.
Matt: Locate Object, by the way--
Liam: That is a lot of steps.
Laura: It's within 1000 feet.
Matt: Yes.
Laura: Yes.
Marisha: But it lasts for ten minutes.
Matt: It does, yes.
Laura: Yes.
Matt: Okay. So. You guys ready?
Marisha: Yeah.
Sam: Yes.
Liam: Eh.
Matt: All right--
Travis: Are we ready?
Laura: Are we ready?
Matt: Durent looks at your faces as you're all staring and goes, "Okay. So. About time?"
Laura: Have you seen a kraken?
Matt: "Oh yeah, I've seen it."
Laura: And?
Matt: "Oh, it's fucking terrible."
Laura: How big, are we talking?
Travis: Immense?
Matt: "You know this, this size? It's a lot bigger."
Liam: How many Grogs?
Laura: Big enough to swallow him?
Matt: "Oh, yeah."
Liam: Like ten Grogs long?
Matt: "Hundred."
Liam: Hundred Grogs long?!
Matt: "It's hard, it's spatial awareness. Look, I'm not a science man like these two, but it's big."
Taliesin: I'm a science man!
Travis: Your beard is glorious.
Matt: "Thank you. Yours isn't too bad yourself, boy!" He tousles it up.
Travis: Yeah, hold on. Are there any barnacles down here I can put in that? Is it fast in the water?
Matt: "I'd say it's pretty fast, aye."
Liam: And you've seen it leave these stones, these lodes?
Matt: "I've seen him through the door. Oh, I don't go in there!"
Travis: Oh, yeah?
Matt: "No, I just watch the doorway. That's my job"
Sam: You don't watch him drop his lodes.
Matt: "I have not yet seen the kraken drop its lodes, no."
Laura: All right.
Liam: I have never felt more prepared than I do right now. Let's do this shit.
Laura: Let's.
Matt: "If it goes bad, come back."
Laura: Run.
Matt: "Just get back."
Laura: Right.
Matt: "You'll fail, but you'll get back."
Marisha: I'll fail?! Did you just say I'll fail? Okay, bye!
Matt: As you guys, one by one, plunge through the rift in the Aerie of Torrent, into the water elemental plane. And that's where we'll take a break. We'll be back here in just a few moments guys. Real fast, we do have a giveaway from our friends at Wyrmwood.
Travis: Giveaway!
Matt: We have a Hero Vault made of very aromatic cedar. That actually smells of the most glorious hamster cage ever, it's awesome. Aww, I love that smell. It reminds me of when I had my first pet.
Liam: It smells like poop?
Matt: So, this will be going out to somebody. Just to clarify, if you want to be part of this, you need to come into the Twitch chat. So, come into the Twitch chat. Our code word tonight is, guess what, 'kraken.'
Laura: Kraken!
Matt: So, as soon as that opens up in the chat, make sure you write kraken in the chat to be entered into the contest, and we'll come back with a winner of this awesome Hero Vault in just a bit. [break]
Matt: Hello, and welcome back everyone!
Liam: (shouting, away from mic) What, we're on, now?
Marisha: Jesus.
Matt: Yeah, it was quick, imagine that.
Liam: Holy cow.
Marisha: Hi, countdown.
Sam: Wait a second! Okay. Nothing. But they can't see the map, yet, can they?
Matt: They will shortly.
Marisha: The map?
Taliesin: They can't see the map yet.
Matt: So, as you guys emerge-- (all gasp)
Matt: Oh! (laughs)
Laura: Is it beautiful?
Marisha: Yes I just noticed it, yeah.
Liam: You just opened your eyes?
Laura: Aw, it's so cool!
Matt: So, this here is the exterior portal, into the floor. You step out at about two feet below the doorway, your feet (two dull thuds) slowly hit the soft, cushy bottom of the water elemental plane. You see about you a number of thick clusters of various underwater plant life, rising up and slowly shifting with the waves and the water. You also see throughout the dark sand in the vicinity hundreds of bones and various other chunks of flesh, in various long states of decay. It is dark down here, you maybe have about 20 to 30 feet of visual range right here unaided. Our two humans friends over there have almost no sight beyond a five, ten-foot distance here. Usually, from just the glow of your armor, your helm itself has this radiant glow about it.
Liam: I'm using Divine Sense right now to see if anything is not completely--
Matt: Okay, you're-- you're divining for what?
Liam: Undead. In the bones.
Marisha: Ooh.
Matt: Okay, as you carefully close your eyes and focus, you lend your essence out to the Raven Queen even across the planes to guide your vision to anything of undeath, or fiendish in nature. And nothing.
Laura: I'm going to take a moment to use Primal Awareness and see-- is there a way to sense krakens? Or anything.
Matt: I don't know, do you know how to sense krakens?
Laura: I don't know, do I?
Travis: Do you sense calamari?
Liam: DM snark!
Matt: Looking at your various choices.
Laura: Aberrations, celestials, dragons, elementals, fey, fiends and undead.
Liam: And krakens, it says right there--
Laura: And krakens.
Matt: Okay, as--
Laura: Krakens--
Matt: As you focus your attention, utilizing-- and mark off your ability there.
Laura: Yes.
Matt: You sense nothing. You said elementals are on there?
Laura: Elementals, aberrations--
Liam: Aberrations.
Laura: -- and fiends.
Matt: Which one are you choosing?
Laura: Oh, I have to choose one
Taliesin: Aberrations
Marisha: Elemental?
Laura: What do you think?
Travis: I think you should just get all of them
Laura: What do you think? Aberrations or-- what do you think a kraken is?
Sam: Aberration? It's an animal.
Marisha: You'll definitely find elementals because they're definitely here.
Laura: What would a kraken be?
Travis: An animal.
Liam: If it's not an aberration--
Taliesin: An animal.
Liam: It'd be a beast which you don't have--
Travis: A mineral. (all laugh)
Liam: The only thing on there--
Marisha: A mineral? (laughs)
Liam: The only thing on there-- that it is maybe is an aberration.
Laura: Aberration?
Liam: I mean, elementals--
Taliesin: They're not really aberrations.
Sam: They're aliens.
Laura: No?
Liam: There's nothing on this list.
Laura: All right, then I'm going to try for elementals.
Matt: Okay, you sit down and focus and dozens of nearby signatures hit you, you're not quite sure what direction they come from, but you know that this area is teeming with elemental energy, it has drawn many elemental powers nearby.
Laura: They're like everywhere.
Liam: They're all around us, man.
Sam: It's impossible, it's from inside the room!
Marisha: They're in the walls, they're in the goddamn walls!
Travis: This is really important. I fart. Do the bubbles go up?
Matt: (bubbling noise) They do.
Travis: We're in a safe place.
Taliesin: That was weirdly helpful.
Marisha: Do I see that?
Matt: You do.
Marisha: That's actually insanely helpful.
Taliesin: That's really, genuinely helpful. (all laugh)
Taliesin: Looking at--
Sam: (garbled voice) Should we use our flashlights?
Taliesin: (garbled voice) Why are you doing this with your face?
Marisha: (garbled voice) No!
Travis: I don't know, I don't know!
Sam: (garbled voice) I don't know, it felt--
Travis: Looking up, can you see any sort of surface to the water, like you would if you were 150, 200 feet, scuba-diving down, and--
Matt: I mean, your vision in the vicinity is dark, and you feel like you're at the bottom of a very, very deep abyssal ocean. Looking up, you see a faint turquoise glow in the upward direction but it seems sourceless, almost as opposed to straight up, it almost encompasses a full dome, and you see no sign of a break in the water--
Travis: That's what I thought.
Matt: -- and the various strands of plant life extend far into the darkness and strange kind of fuzzy distance where they fade out.
Travis: We in it.
Laura: I have a feeling light will attract all sorts of creatures down here
Travis: Yes.
Taliesin: I'm not entirely sure the creatures down here have eyes.
Laura: Hm.
Marisha: Most do have blindsight or echo-location, so they--
Laura: Hm, what about those kind of fish that have the--
Marisha: Might not be good for us.
Travis: Yep.
Laura: -- things that dangle in front of their faces?
Marisha: Angler fish, yeah.
Travis: Movement, light, shiny things, all bad.
Marisha: Mm-hm.
Liam: Tary's armor.
Laura: He's covered.
Sam: Thank you.
Marisha: Do we have a few minutes? I can do a quick Locate Object spell, see if we're headed in the right direction if you wanna--
Laura: I'm going to use a Locate Object spell
Marisha: Can I assist her in any way?
Matt: Nope, this is her particular spell to cast.
Marisha: All right.
Taliesin: I'm going to examine the sand, and just gently dig around to see what's around. This is fascinating, I'm just digging for whatever.
Matt: Okay. Your feet hit and pull apart, and as soon as you do, you get about four inches of the soft sand before you start hitting black dirt. That immediately starts to cloud and obscure your vicinity, so you carefully stop for a second.
Taliesin: Good to know.
Marisha: Wow.
Sam: I'm going to load up my flashlight with one of those Daylight gems, but with the lens fully closed, so no light can escape.
Matt: Okay, so you go ahead and you activate, so mark off another one of your opals.
Sam: Sure.
Taliesin: There's a red filter.
Matt: As you activate it as soon as you close the device, and you feel it contained within.
Sam: Okay.
Taliesin: You do have a red filter?
Matt: All right, you cast Locate Object, Laura?
Laura: Yes.
Matt: All right, so as Vex, you focus, concentrating on the lodestone that you saw before.
Travis: Through the portal behind you.
Laura: No no no, it finds similar objects.
Travis: I know, I know, I know.
Matt: Let's see, you feel the direction pull you this way.
Laura: Awesome.
Matt: You don't know how far away, but the distance pulls you in that direction.
Laura: There is a lodestone within a thousand feet that direction.
Marisha: You know, Taryon just gave me an idea.
Sam: I tend to have that effect on people.
Marisha: Thank you for your infinite wisdom, Taryon. We might be able to use a Daylight spell as a distraction worst case scenario, because I can place it somewhere and then leave it.
Laura: Oh, that is smart.
Marisha: Yeah.
Taliesin: If we have to use an opal we can.
Sam: Sure.
Taliesin: So, we can be far away when we activate it.
Travis: How far away can you place that?
Laura: She can cast it on an object and leave it behind.
Marisha: I can leave it. As a distraction.
Travis: Right.
Laura: You could--
Taliesin: Let's not cast it near the portal, though.
Marisha: I don't wanna do it right now, but I'm just throwing it out there--
Laura: -- cast it on the tip of an arrow and I can shoot it at least 150 feet.
Marisha: That's a hundred percent true, we've done that before.
Taliesin: Very good.
Marisha: Just keep that in mind. All right. Yeah. All right.
Taliesin: Filing it away.
Marisha: Okay, we have a direction, are we ready?
Laura: Let's try to move stealthily, for a little while. Or should I just drop it and cast Pass Without A Trace right now?
Taliesin: Let's see how we feel?
Marisha: Let's see how we feel. I'll go ahead and do Pass Without A Trace on us and we'll try and move in the direction that she called.
Laura: Oh good call. All right.
Matt: Okay. So, I need all of you to roll-- is Trinket still in your necklace?
Laura: (with hesitation) Okay. (all laugh)
Matt: That's not an answer.
Laura: I hadn't imagined him in but--
Taliesin: Everybody knows about the sea bear.
Laura: Yeah, he's going to turn into an animal so--
Liam: A killer whale, we talked about.
Marisha: Whenever he's ready.
Taliesin: When it's time.
Laura: Let's bring Trinket out. Fuck it!
Liam: Yeah! Killer whale Trinket man.
Marisha: He does have Water Breathing cast on him.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Yes, this is true.
Laura: So he can fucking swim.
Matt: Yes. Trinket does not have goggles. And cannot talk or cast spells underwater.
Laura: Well.
Marisha: I mean, he's a bear.
Matt: I know. I know.
Laura: What if-- Okay.
Matt: As soon as Trinket (splash)
Liam: He's having a singular experience for a bear, though.
Marisha: Yeah. (laughs)
Matt: (confused bear noises)
Laura: It's fun, buddy?
Travis: You give him a hard time. Like trying to get a rat in a bath.
Laura: Oh god. No, no, no.
Liam: I just (mimes scratching Trinket).
Marisha: Oh no.
Laura: I'm gonna cast, I'm gonna-- Fuck. I'm gonna cast Speak With Animals on him.
Taliesin: Anyone ever seen Bedknobs and Broomsticks?
Laura: Trinket?
Matt: Pass Without A Trace-- this is before or after Pass Without A Trace?
Laura: Oh, she's casting Pass Without A Trace.
Marisha: No, I'm doing Pass Without A Trace.
Matt: Oh. That's right, yeah.
Laura: I'm casting Speak With Animals.
Matt: That's right.
Laura: Trinket, everything's fine! You're just underwater.
Matt: (confused bear noises) "It's very wet."
Laura: It is.
Matt: "What's going on?" (all laugh)
Laura: We're going to be swimming for a while. You're gonna make me cry, dear. We're going to be swimming for a little while, all right? Do you feel okay with this?
Matt: (distressed bear noises)
Travis: You're drowning him, baby.
Laura: He can breathe, just breathe in. Just like land, only not.
Matt: (bear noises) He kinda lands in the sand. Looks around, very nervously. Looks at one of the nearby kinda floating pieces of weird errant plant matter and-- (all laugh)
Laura: Yeah. We're good? Are you all right?
Matt: "I'm okay."
Laura: All right. Just giving you a heads up; you may be turned into a whale in a little bit.
Matt: "What is a whale?" (all laugh)
Laura: You'll be really, really big and you'll be able to swim a lot better. All right? Just remember to follow my lead. And I'm gonna hang onto you when you are a whale, all right?
Matt: "Okay."
Laura: Okay. I love you.
Matt: "I trust you."
Laura: I trust you, too. I love you.
Matt: "Love you."
Laura: I'm proud of you.
Matt: "Okay."
Laura: I love him so much. I love him!
Travis: Say goodbye to him.
Laura: Shut up!
Matt: The slowest. You see him start like, just bear-paddling a little, under the water just like--
Laura: It's fun, see? It's fun. But paddle quietly, dear, we're trying to be stealthy!
Matt: "Mm-hm. Okay."
Laura: Okay.
Matt: Now are you casting-- Oh, no. You're casting Pass Without a Trace, I want everyone to make stealth checks.
Laura: I love him. Aw.
Liam: Fucking D&D, man.
Sam: Stealth checks! Stealth checks!
Taliesin: Okay. Stealth checks.
Matt: Stealth checks. All of you guys including Trinket, please.
Laura: Okay, okay, okay.
Travis: Don't fuck me, Gil.
Taliesin: Yay.
Marisha: I'm crying so hard. Oh wait, we're all doing them.
Taliesin: I'm so sorry for doing that to you. It was really unfair.
Travis: 25.
Marisha: Oh, that's good! That's good.
Taliesin: Plus ten?
Travis: 25.
Matt: 25, right.
Sam: 20! With our boost.
Laura: Oh, with Pass Without A Trace, right.
Liam: Yeah, add that ten, man.
Marisha: Yeah, 34.
Taliesin: 33.
Liam: 38.
Taliesin: Hut hut!
Matt: Rogues!
Liam: It's all I do.
Travis: Yeah, man.
Taliesin: They get the job done
Marisha: Rogues! They get the job done.
Laura: I'm sorry, I'm sorry! I don't know what to add for Trinket's stealth. Is that just his dex maybe?
Matt: It's his dex, yeah.
Laura: Okay, so 29 for me.
Matt: All right.
Laura: And 30 for Trinket.
Taliesin: He kind of looks like kelp --
Travis: Yeah?
Taliesin: -- maybe he's blending
Liam: He's just underwater ballet-ing, man
Matt: What'd you roll for Trinket?
Travis: 18.
Laura: 18.
Liam: Not making a sound.
Matt: Nice!
Marisha: Oh my god.
Taliesin: It's just a face in a giant brown--
Matt: All right.
Liam: Gently.
Laura: Let me make sure I'm right on mine.
Matt: You guys (water sound effects) start very quietly as you can begin walking across the bottom of the floor--
Taliesin: (Darth Vader-esque breathing effect)
Marisha: (Darth Vader-esque breathing effect)
Matt: -- barely, your toes barely touching the surface of the bottom. Making your way in this direction. You guys slowly begin to shift this way. Following this path. Now you're maintaining Locate Object, you said?
Laura: Yes, I am.
Liam: I thought it was one of these.
Matt: Now you cast--
Laura: Oh.
Matt: Is Speak With Animals a--
Laura: Concentration? It's not.
Taliesin: Let's hunt some scallops.
Marisha: Hunt some scallops.
Matt: It is! Concentration up to ten minutes. Locate Object is ten minutes. Oh, Speak With Animals is not, sorry.
Laura: No.
Matt: Sorry. Then you're fine.
Laura: Okay.
Marisha: Calamari.
Liam: Get some butter from the jug.
Marisha: Some Grog aioli, a lil bit of mayo, lemon.
Travis: Do we see anything swimming above us or around us?
Matt: Looking in your vicinity, you see clusters of ruins, you see broken pieces of very, very old stonework. And looking at them, they are scattered throughout the vicinity. Singular chunks of structures. Let's see. Percival, go ahead and make an intelligence check.
Taliesin: That'll do. 20.
Matt: Okay. Looking to the left of you as you pass by this one structure, you can see the chunk of wall that's visible, it is thick enough and tall enough where it looks like it's a sliver of the base of a larger structure that was designed for far larger creatures. The sense of the erosion and the relatively smooth edges of the various broken parts to it tell you that it's been there for a very long time.
Taliesin: This was for a larger creature, like, giants?
Matt: Giants or larger. It's hard to really tell. This is not a human-sized--
Taliesin: Did these ruins crumble, or did they sink?
Matt: They appear to have crumbled. The structure in which they're placed has intentional placement within here.
Taliesin: And is the stone-- does the stone feel natural, or does it feel like stone that would be underwater? Does it look like the parts of it that have been underwater are doing well, or does it look like it's eroding as something that should've been above the surface?
Matt: It looks like they're eroding as expected for something that's been there for a very long time.
Taliesin: And there's no writing visible.
Matt: No, no. They're almost extremely smooth. Just been there for so long and hit with various blasts of water current, sand, dust, and other things for such a long period of time that it's smoothed the entirety of the wall structure.
Taliesin: Okay.
Matt: All right, you maintain the Locate Object?
Laura: Mm-hm.
Matt: As you guys push forward, eventually it leads you this way, until you begin to feel the direction change this path, there. So you lead the path over this way, and it leads you to the edge of this wall.
Sam: Do you need some help finding it?
Laura: Can I look around? Does it seem like it's right there?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Laura: Okay. 25.
Matt: Glancing about the vicinity, looking over it all, you look at the wall, it's smooth, there's no indentation, there's no sign of a stone. Looking at the sand on the ground at the base of it, no sign of a stone.
Laura: Can I move some of the sand out of the way on the ground and see if I see anything?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Taliesin: Compass.
Sam: Compass, yeah.
Laura: Ten. Yeah, bust out that compass.
Matt: Yeah, you begin to pull apart some of the sand, and the black murkiness begins to come up underneath, and you don't see anything.
Marisha: I stand watch while they do this and just look for any movement.
Matt: Perception check.
Sam: Is the compass moving?
Marisha: Don't fuck me, Gil.
Matt: The compass is currently focused on the same direction that you're moving, towards the wall.
Liam: I'm going to join Keyleth as well.
Sam: I'm gonna cast Detect Magic.
Marisha: 25. No, 27. Sorry.
Matt: Okay. Nice. You glance this way, as you're looking overhead, you can see a dark, very large dark shape right about here, looks to be the shelf of some sort of an underwater stone cliff or a mountain of some kind that leads up here like a bank. At the very top, you see very faint movement. Looks like individual, long tendrils of some kind, just barely visible at the outside of your dark vision.
Marisha: I come over the intercom and say, Be very quiet. Very still. Very slow.
Sam: I don't hear that, so I just cast Detect Magic.
Marisha: Oh, son of a fuck, you don't. Motherfucker.
Matt: Okay. So you cast Detect Magic. You currently, in front of you, don't see any sort of magical source. Nothing seems to glow or emanate at the wall or near the base of the wall.
Sam: Within 30 feet.
Matt: Right.
Sam: Even under three feet of sand.
Matt: Let me double-check something here for you.
Laura: I'm gonna wander to the other side of the wall and see if it's on the other side.
Taliesin: I'm with you.
Sam: One foot of stone, one inch of metal.
Matt: Okay, you faint-- You still feel the direction of the magic where you're looking, but you don't see anything on or around the base of the wall. Do you move around?
Laura: To the other side of the wall, yeah.
Taliesin: Yeah, we're moving there.
Sam: I'll come with.
Matt: As you and Percy find yourself at the other side of the wall, there.
Marisha: Still keeping an eye on the dark figure.
Matt: The direction of the Locate Object leads you adjacent and just beyond the wall on the other side of where you guys were looking.
Laura: Ah, that makes sense. Do I see it now?
Matt: You do not see anything.
Taliesin: I'm going to gently pat at the base of the wall.
Matt: Okay, both of you guys make investigation checks, please.
Taliesin: Not disturbing anything. Investigation? 13.
Laura: (high-pitched) Nine.
Matt: You're both digging through and pulling at the sand, and dig further and it causes the black---
Laura: We're digging softly, we're trying not to do that.
Taliesin: Very gently.
Sam: I'm coming too, I want to--
Taliesin: If anything we're sucking at this.
Sam: And I'm going to cast Detect Magic again.
Matt: Focusing, you do feel a very, very faint magical essence from the sand about two feet to the left of where they're currently sifting through the sand.
Laura: Shh, shh, shh!
Taliesin: Shh!
Sam: Oh, okay, Jesus! I'm just trying to help us find the fucking lodestones.
Laura: We move over there to start digging.
Matt: Start pulling through, you get past the sand, you get to some of the black murkiness and you're careful and start digging before (clunk) you feel one of your fingers hit a hard surface and you begin to pull underneath.
Laura: I think we found one!
Matt: You pull and begin clearing the space around it, and it takes you a minute or so with the help of both Taryon and Percival, but you dig enough of this sand and soot from underneath to get around and you have there, currently in your presence, one of your lodestones.
Laura: Do you think they'll know, if we grab it, do you think it's going to attract anything?
Taliesin: I think we put it in the bag of holding and it won't matter.
Laura: Grog.
Marisha: I'll watch.
Laura: Can you swim over here?
Travis: I slowly make my way to the other side of the wall.
Taliesin: I imagine like Neil Armstrong.
Matt: Over the wall, meet the rest of your allies.
Laura: We lift it, and put it in the Bag of Holding.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: It fits inside, vanishes, you feel this slight vibration in your fingers as you take the stone and slowly relinquish it to the bag of holding's entry port. It vanishes within.
Laura: Hey, one down! Do I sense another one with my Locate Object spell?
Matt: You do, you get a sense of something in this direction.
Laura: All right.
Matt: Like a line pointing this way.
Liam: C-20. (all laugh)
Marisha: Hit!
Laura: All right.
Taliesin: Let's curl around.
Laura: Shall we hide, yeah, curve around so we can hide from the big figure up top.
Marisha: Yeah, I keep an eye on the big figure the whole time.
Matt: All right, I need Percival--
Sam: Me too.
Matt: Tary, Vex, and Grog, who are moving currently, to make stealth checks.
Marisha: Come on.
Sam: 24.
Travis: Come on, Gil.
Laura: Woo.
Travis: Nice.
Taliesin: 33.
Travis: Just regular, right? No plus ten.
Laura: Yeah, plus ten.
Liam: No, plus ten.
Taliesin: Plus ten.
Travis: Oh, sorry. 27.
Laura: 39.
Liam: Good job, Gil.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: Thanks, Gil.
Matt: Are you guys staying ground-level? Are you curving over? Are you going around?
Taliesin: We're going around.
Laura: Going around. We're trying to keep as, you know, stealthy as possible.
Matt: Right. So, you guys make your way around, heading this direction, following Vex. As you continue to curl forward, Vex, bringing your way forward, Trinket's kind of getting nervous of the distance.
Liam: I start scootching him behind the ear, I know this one spot behind his left ear that calms him down, as I watch with Keyleth.
Matt: Okay, so you slowly meander up to the side and help keep Trinket quiet for the time being.
Sam: A stream of diarrhea come out of his rear end.
Liam: Mixing in with the black sand.
Matt: Oh, god.
Liam: Like a squid in his own right.
Matt: You guys follow behind and--
Laura: Do we sense any kind of movement around us or anything?
Matt: Go ahead and make a perception check.
Travis: Yeah, I do that. Especially with that giant red rock right there.
Marisha: Do I do that too or no?
Taliesin: No, I perceive nothing.
Matt: You're not looking.
Marisha: I'm looking.
Matt: You're staying back with Vax.
Travis: Oh! 16!
Laura: Twenty... two. 21.
Matt: 21.
Taliesin: One. I saw nothing.
Matt: Okay, yeah. You come to this heavy, heavy piece of thick, natural wall-like stone that is heavily embedded in the ground. This is not like the previous ones that looked like it was carved, this is just a natural formation of stone that is jutting out of the sand, and it's a thick ten, 15-foot-wide embankment, maybe five feet thick and about six feet above. As you approach and get to it, you don't see anything that would mark it as different other than a series of-- you start looking down as you're inspecting and you see a series of skulls, some humanoid, some larger, some like almost elongated fish or crocodile-like jaws. Some of them are older, some of them are fresher, some of them still have like, bits of little thin tendrils of flesh-- (all groan)
Matt: That is mostly decomposed that drift off and change direction with the flow of the water as you make your way through.
Sam: Our masks are like--
Laura: No, we got goggles.
Matt: It's goggles--
Sam: Just goggles.
Matt: And just this little stone right over the larynx
Sam: So our mouth is free and--
Travis: Free in the water
Sam: Okay, I vomit. (all laugh)
Matt: (vomit sound, laughs) And this cloud of green, yellow, and brown just kind of emanates from the front of Taryon's face.
Travis: Feed the fish. Wait, quick question. Krakens don't like use shells do they like a crab?
Taliesin: No.
Travis: Okay.
Liam: They don't have fuck all.
Laura: I mean, do they?
Taliesin: They don't.
Travis: Just checking.
Taliesin: As far as I know.
Laura: Can we start looking for the lodestone?
Matt: Investigation check. Who else is helping?
Taliesin: I'll help.
Travis: No, no, I'm--
Sam: I'm looking at the compass.
Travis: I'm keeping an eye out.
Matt: Yep, you're looking on the compass.
Travis: I'm the lookout.
Matt: Grog's lookout, I just need Vex and Percy.
Laura: 18.
Matt: 18.
Taliesin: 13.
Matt: 13. You guys sift through the sand in this vicinity, poring around, trying to kind of dig across the exterior of the stone to pull away. You spend a good two to three minutes or so searching the vicinity and you don't find a stone.
Laura: Can I use the compass?
Marisha: No stone.
Sam: All right, I'll use Detect Magic again.
Laura: Well, can I just use the compass?
Marisha: Compass?
Sam: Yeah, what does it say?
Matt: It points in the direction you--
Laura: I wanna take it and bring it down to the ground and like--
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Like a metal detector
Marisha: Can I kind of start splitting the difference in case anything bad happens?
Matt: Okay, so you start making your way this way.
Marisha: Just very slowly.
Matt: Okay. I need you to make a stealth check. You as well.
Laura: Oh god, oh god.
Liam: Natural 20.
Laura: I feel like something's bad.
Matt: Roll for Trinket.
Sam: This music is fucking creepy.
Laura: Man. Why is it so tense?
Marisha: 31 stealth.
Matt: Good.
Taliesin: This Philip Glass nervous breakdown you're giving us is really--
Laura: That's good. 26 for Trinket.
Travis: (mimics music)
Sam: (mimics music)
Liam: 45. Natural 20.
Marisha: (gasps)
Sam: 41?
Liam: 45.
Matt: Holy shit!
Marisha: 45?!
Sam: 45?!
Liam: See ya, mothafuckers!
Marisha: That's your stealth? (all laugh)
Matt: All right, you guys make your way between areas as Trinket comes behind you--
Marisha: My god, 45.
Matt: Don't want him to stray too far in this circumstance.
Sam: I'm casting Detect Magic.
Laura: And the compass.
Marisha: And the compass.
Taliesin: We think we find him and it's just a rock.
Travis: Hey, you two, it's not a race.
Marisha: Yeah, hey Vax, oh fuck, it's a rock again.
Laura: Yes it is.
Matt: You sense the magical presence of it in the direction that you've been facing, but it seems further past.
Sam: Okay, keep going, it's around the rock.
Taliesin: Rock.
Laura: Again? Fuck! We go around the fucking rock.
Travis: You sure it's a rock?
Laura: I don't know, Grog.
Sam: Oh wait a second! Eh, all right.
Matt: What?
Sam: Detect Magic lasts for ten minutes!
Laura: So you don't have to cast again.
Marisha: Yeah, it lasts for a while.
Sam: So this is all one spell, yeah?
Matt: Yeah, you can maintain the-- okay. So you go with them?
Sam: Yeah!
Matt: Okay. Grog, you staying put or you going with them?
Travis: Staying there.
Matt: Okay. You all three searching, then?
Sam: Yes.
Laura: Yes.
Matt: Investigation check, investigation check, investigation check.
Sam: One.
Taliesin: Ugh.
Laura: 19.
Marisha: Oh Jesus, I thought it was a one at first.
Taliesin: Nine.
Matt: Nine, and?
Sam: Five, I--
Laura: 19.
Sam: I got a natural one.
Matt: You got a natural one?
Sam: Yeah.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Oh no.
Sam: The kraken eats me.
Matt: As you're digging through, your fingers, Taryon--
Sam: Yes?
Matt: Hits something hard.
Sam: (gasps) I got it. I've got it!
Laura: Shh!
Taliesin: Shh.
Sam: I've got it! (all shush)
Matt: As you pull up what you think is the stone, you look, and instead it's a humanoid head that is mostly skeletal bone with strips of flesh hanging off of it with one eye that is a pale swollen pink-white color.
Sam: (gags)
Matt: Yeah, you just start like (gags) you instinctively step back, start yelling about the point there.
Marisha: Richard Dreyfuss in Jaws.
Matt: Just for the sake of this, make a stealth check.
Marisha: Oh man, come on.
Sam: Natural one. (all groan)
Marisha: No, you are lying to me, you are lying!
Laura: Put that dice away, put that dice away right now!
Liam: Two in a row?
Sam: Yeah!
Marisha: No!
Liam: Wow.
Marisha: No, Tary!
Laura: Tary! You're fucking us, Tary!
Sam: (gagging noises)
Liam: (sings) Telling a story!
Matt: Holy shit. Okay. Keyleth, as you're carefully looking up in the shadows, you watch as this giant dark mound just diminishes and vanishes.
Taliesin: Oh no.
Marisha: And I just say, red alert, red alert, think we got a kraken coming. Think the weather is calling for a kraken tonight.
Matt: As you guys hear this, you glance about the vicinity and watch as suddenly a series of large tentacles (whump whump) around this large outcropping of what looks like stone or wood jutting out of the base of the floor.
Marisha: Please tell me you guys found a lodestone. Did you guys find it? Did you find it?
Laura: Did I find it while it was happening?
Marisha: Please tell me you found it.
Matt: You rolled a--
Laura: 19.
Matt: 19? You just barely hit the exterior of it when this happens. You're like, oh, I found it, you look over, see Taryon yell, and then watch this creature suddenly swift down and begin to crawl over the top.
Marisha: Vex, Vex, let's do the Daylight. Red alert, red alert, Daylight! Taryon, dig up the lodestone immediately--
Matt: I need all of you to make initiative checks.
Marisha: Fuck me! No!
Laura: Jeez!
Marisha: Fuck!
Taliesin: God damn it.
Laura: Maybe we can shoot Daylight directly into his eyeball.
Marisha: Natural 20!
All: Woo!
Travis: Do you really think Daylight's gonna help at this point?
Laura: In his eyes, maybe. He's not used to bright light.
Travis: Oh, thank god I have advantage.
Sam: It would help me and Taliesin see.
Marisha: That's true, not used to bright--
Liam: Aw, the humans. Aw.
Marisha: Just like, fwoomp, towards him. Over him, away from him.
Matt: All right. So.
Laura: Or directly at him.
Marisha: Towards him, yeah.
Matt: 25 to 20.
Sam: (whispers) I could've used Luck.
Liam: 24.
Matt: 24.
Marisha: 22.
Taliesin: Yeah, you could've used Luck.
Matt: 22, nice.
Sam: Forgot about it.
Taliesin: 17.
Laura: 19.
Marisha: Ah. Worked out yesterday. Ouch.
Matt: All right, 15?
Sam: 13.
Matt: 13.
Travis: 14 for Groggy Grog.
Laura: The Groggy-poo.
Sam: Liam, how do you remember when to use Luck?
Liam: Uh, when shit is exploding in your face?
Sam: Yeah, well, I forgot.
All: Ohh.
Matt: As you watch this entity suddenly emerge from the top, there--
All: No!
Taliesin: Not cool.
Laura: Whoa, he's really pretty in that light, though.
Taliesin: Yeah, he is very pretty.
Matt: Enjoy it.
Marisha: He's like a delightful Creole dish.
Liam: The inside of his mouth is so pretty (muffled yelling).
Matt: So. Top of the round. Vax, you're up.
Liam: Jeepers creepers.
Matt: You hear this noise through, and Keyleth giving the warning. As you glance over and see the top of this structure, the dark shadow of the kraken pull its way over the top.
Marisha: Don't hurt it!
Matt: You see this gleaming yellow eye on the one side that's near you, and what looks to be three, five, seven or more tentacles begin to curl over and pull it over the top, making its way towards your friends. What are you doing?
Liam: I'm clicking the boots of haste. And I am casting Bless on myself, on Keyleth, and on Grog.
Matt: Okay, what's the distance on that?
Liam: 30 feet.
Matt: 30 feet? Yeah, Grog is just in range.
Liam: You are blessed.
Travis: What's that mean?
Liam: It means on attacks or on saving throws, you can roll a d4 and add that for a minute, for the whole battle, basically.
Travis: Nice!
Matt: It is a concentration spell.
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Great, thank you.
Matt: So that's your-- you used the Haste, you have your action. What are you gonna do for your movement?
Liam: I'm going to-- I'm 45 stealth, I'm going to back away to behind those giant shells.
Matt: Over here?
Marisha: Someone find the third fucking lodestone.
Matt: Your speed is 60 right now, so you can move 30 feet hasted underwater, swimming.
Liam: Mm-hm. So I'm gonna swim over that way. And I'm hasted, so action, action, I should have a bonus action, yeah?
Matt: Yeah.
Liam: So I'll hide, if I'm not hidden already.
Matt: Yeah, you can do that. Roll a stealth check.
Liam: Good, 35.
Laura: We would've been a bunch of whales slamming into shit.
Matt: Okay, cool. Yeah. All right, so. That brings us to Keyleth.
Marisha: How far away am I from Vex?
Matt: From Vex? You're not sure. You'd probably be somewhere in the neighborhood of 35, 40 feet.
Marisha: Let me move towards-- I say, Vex!
Matt: You've used Alter Self on yourself?
Marisha: Huh?
Matt: You've altered yourself, right, to swim fine?
Marisha: Yeah. I can do that at will.
Matt: I know. So how many feet do you want to move?
Marisha: Enough to see Vex. Vex?
Matt: She's just on the other side of the rock, and as you say that, you look up, and notice the creature, and you see Vex's head just barely poke over this stone barrier.
Laura: I'm going--
Marisha: Daylight arrow! Now! And I prep my Daylight spell for whenever she draws her arrow. And I wait for as soon as I see the tip of her arrow to go.
Matt: Okay. So you're holding your casting action until you see her arrow go.
Marisha: And then I say, dear god, please, Taryon, find the other lodestone. Don't kill the kraken!
Sam: I didn't hear any of that.
Matt: Because he does not have an earpiece.
Marisha: Fuck! (all laugh)
Marisha: Fuck!
Liam: That loud, though?
Matt: But you do hear it, because you're underwater, and because of the--
Marisha: These things!
Matt: You do hear it. It's a little garbled, but you pick up the essence of what she's saying.
Marisha: (garbled) Use the compass. Lodestone.
Matt: All right, Keyleth, you're holding your action.
Taliesin: Coldstone? That's a great idea!
Marisha: (garbled) Coldstone Creamery. Go for the raspberry cheesecake.
Matt: Okay, as the kraken pulls its way over, you watch as its yellow eye all of a sudden glows blue.
Laura: Oh no.
Matt: And you watch as the edge of its tentacles begin to (charging noise) give off this luminescent blue glow.
Marisha: No.
Matt: And suddenly this (electricity noise) burst of electrical energy shoots forth from it and completely encompasses the surrounding-- all creatures within 120 feet have to make a constitution saving throw. All of you.
Liam: d4, d4.
Travis: Yes, thank you.
Marisha: Plus a d4, plus a d4.
Taliesin: I don't get any-- my cloak doesn't get any bonus against this, does it?
Matt: No.
Marisha: Using the people-killer-- not bad. Not bad, people-killer.
Matt: This is a lair action for the kraken.
Laura: Oh, god.
Travis: A lair action for the kraken? 'Cause we're in its fucking fish-tank.
Matt: It's made this its lair for the past-- for a number of years.
Travis: Fuck you, Costco.
Liam: (laughs)
Travis: I meant Petco.
Laura: (laughs) "I meant Petco".
Taliesin: That's better!
Liam: Oh, yes!
Laura: Use Luck, Tary.
Sam: I did!
Laura: (laughs)
Liam: I did too! (all laugh)
Sam: And grateful for it.
Matt: All right, so-
Sam: 26.
Matt: Okay, so you take eight points of lightning damage. Percy.
Taliesin: 23.
Matt: 23, eight points of lightning damage. Keyleth.
Marisha: 19.
Matt: You take 19 points of lightning damage.
Marisha: 19.
Liam: 22, plus I'm set to lightning with the Deathwalker's Ward.
Matt: 19 halved to eight points of lightning damage-- oh wait, actually--
Liam: Halved twice, I should be quarter, right? If I made the save?
Matt: Oh, no you didn't make it.
Liam: Oh I didn't make it? 22 didn't make it? Oh.
Matt: No, I'm sorry it was--
Marisha: I said 19.
Matt: Right--
Marisha: And that took--
Laura: 18 damage.
Matt: I apologize, it was nine, nine, and 18 damage. So nine, nine, 18, 18.
Laura: I already forgot what I rolled, 'cause everybody's talking numbers. 14!
Matt: 18 points of lightning damage.
Laura: You got it!
Matt: Trinket?
Laura: Oh, shit... He doesn't make it.
Marisha: (imitating Oprah) You take 18 points of lightning damage!
Taliesin: (imitating Oprah) You take 18 points of lightning damage!
Matt: 18 points of lightning damage. Grog.
Travis: With my #blessed, 27.
Matt: You take eight points of lightning damage.
Marisha: (laughs) "#blessed"
Matt: Or nine-- sorry, nine.
Travis: Nine?
Matt: Nine.
Liam: #Bless bless bless.
Travis: Bless bless.
Matt: All righty. Vex, you're up. As you kinda reel from the sudden electrical shock that pulses out in the vicinity, what are you doing?
Laura: The Alter Self coin, does that take an action or is that--
Matt: Yes, it's to cast the spell on yourself.
Laura: Fuck, okay. Then I'm going to start with pulling out the arrow and doing what Keyleth and I talked about. Hey! I'm pulling out my arrow.
Marisha: Daylight on the tip of that arrow.
Liam: Finger guns.
Laura: And I'm gonna shoot it--
Matt: And you see it just slowly arc--
Marisha: Pew, pew, pew.
Laura: As close as I can to the Kraken's head and just, like, past him. I want it to go by the eyeball.
Matt: Okay, let me see here, Daylight.
Travis: You're throwing a meatball past a lion that's stalking you.
Laura: I mean, if I can get it in its head--
Taliesin: It's a really good meatball.
Sam: Hit it!
Laura: If I can hit it in its head, that's cool, but--
Marisha: It's a Hail Mary pass.
Travis: It'll be like, "Yeah, fuck these treats. I want that meatball."
Matt: Is this Light or Daylight?
Marisha: Daylight.
Matt: 'Cause Daylight you just choose a sphere for it to happen.
Travis: (watch talking)
Marisha: I've totally cast Daylight on an object before.
Sam: You don't need to.
Matt: You don't need to.
Matt: But we'll say for the purposes of this--
Marisha: But I can do that, right?
Matt: Sure.
Marisha: 'Cause I did that with Grog and his bull helmet.
Taliesin: So that way it'll stay lit over there.
Marisha: Over on the arrow.
Travis: (watch talking)
Matt: Sure.
Marisha: Like a flare--
Laura: What is happening to your watch?
Matt: Okay, we'll go with that.
Marisha: I don't know if that's allowed, but I know we've done that in the past.
Travis: (watch talking)
Matt: Oh, it happened, it happened. So as you hit that--
Travis: (watch says  "Zero miles")
Sam: What is going on?
Laura: His watch is telling him he's working out.
Matt: You're not working out.
Travis: Wow, Siri's fucking drunk right now. (all laugh)
Matt: I don't know, man, kraken just showed up. That sounds like a workout to me.
Travis: "Elevated heart rate."
Laura: Oh, I know! It said--
Travis: "Please, take a moment to breathe." (all laugh)
Matt: Well, on that note. Okay, so you focus as she draws the arrow and pulls with intent in the back of the bow. As you do, you focus and you watch as, Vex, you aim and then close your eyes as you see this spark of energy curl off the front of the arrow. You see bright, nature-based daylight burst out of the arrow as you release it. Go ahead and make an attack against the kraken with disadvantage, please.
Laura: Okay.
Marisha: Come on.
Laura: Come on!
Laura: Come on!
Marisha: Come on!
Laura: Come on, come on.
Matt: No, you were right, if you choose a point with an object you're holding, and one that isn't being worn, the light shines from the object. You were correct.
Laura: 26.
Matt: 26, that hits! Go ahead and roll damage.
Laura: (high-pitched) Okay. Well, all right!
Liam: Totally in-character.
Laura: (deep voice) 12 plus (normal voice) one lightning damage.
Matt: All right, so 13.
Laura: This is not a Sneak Attack and I obviously can't have done Hunter's Mark.
Matt: Right, so the arrow sinks into the underside of the kraken's dark form. You're just barely making out bits of its shape. As the light hits, you can see now, close to it looks like ten various tentacles curling and finding its way over the top of this structure. It slams into the side, and daylight brightly sprays out from under it.
Laura: I want it to be by its eye.
Matt: By the way, because daylight-- no, it lasts for an hour. So you watch as this light is now billowing from underneath the creature. You can watch as its pupil adjusts to the light. It does not appear to be blinded or have any issue with the daylight, however, it is now a beacon, and the arrow now partially jammed into its side, you have a very clear idea and a bright view of the battlefield around it as this kraken is now emitting light in its vicinity.
Marisha: Sure.
Laura: Well, now there's shadows.
Travis: And a giant megalodon comes and eats it. (all laugh)
Laura: Ooh, that'd be great.
Matt: So that's your first attack.
Laura: Oh, yeah. I can't do a spell for my second? I can't do Alter Self on my second?
Matt: No, you've already attacked once, that was part of the attack action.
Laura: I was just checking. Okay, do I still get disadvantage if I attack it again?
Matt: Yep.
Laura: Okay, I'm gonna attack it again.
Matt: It's not about aim, it's about the actual-- the water resistance.
Laura: Okay, I'm gonna attack it again.
Matt: Go for it.
Laura: What's 15 plus seven?
Travis: 22.
Laura: 22.
Matt: That hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
Laura: 12 plus... just one damn lightning damage.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: One damn.
Laura: (Southern accent) One damn lightning damage there.
Matt: You watch as the spark of energy from the arrow hits it the second time, the daylight obstructing your view, and the energy bursts around it. The lightning damage you're used to seeing from any creature it impacts, the lightning seems to just hit its blubbery hide and vanish.
Laura: Right, 'cause lightning-- it just did lightning. Obviously it's immune to lightning. Right. And I'm gonna use my motion to back the fuck off and try to get behind that rock outcropping. Laser pointer. Okay, yeah, sure. Just on the other side of it.
Matt: That's as far as you can get.
Laura: Okay, cool.
Matt: Because you don't have your Alter Self form yet. You're like (swimming noises). You're slowly swimming through this water, sluggishly.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: As far as you get Trinket, you want to give Trinket any sort of movement on this?
Laura: Yeah, can he back up behind that pillar?
Matt: Right here?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Yeah, Trinket moves up and guards himself behind the side. All right. Percival.
Taliesin: I'm gonna use my bonus action to cast Hex on the kraken. I'm gonna Hex the kraken.
Matt: By the way, Vax, did you make--
Laura: Oh, did I get a bonus action, I guess I could've--
Marisha: Don't kill it, don't kill it.
Taliesin: No, I just want to know where it is.
Matt: What do you want to do for your bonus action?
Taliesin: There's nothing I can do to it.
Laura: Can I hide for my bonus action as rogue?
Matt: You can.
Laura: Yeah, I'll do that.
Taliesin: I literally have only one power, and that's to electrocute it, which does nothing.
Marisha: These violet candies are delicious.
Taliesin: Really good. They're really good and they're a problem.
Marisha: Just delicious.
Taliesin: I'm going to dig the lodestone out of the dirt.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Don't worry about it.
Taliesin: I'm gonna spend my turn keeping an eye on the thing I just Hexed so I know where it is.
Matt: Okay. You go ahead and spend your entire turn pulling the lodestone out, and you're now holding it in your hands.
Taliesin: And I'm also turning to Tary and going, (whispers) find the next one, we've gotta get out of here.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: Okay. So that's your action. Do you want to move at all?
Taliesin: Yeah, once I've got the lodestone, I wanna-- well, I don't have the bag.
Laura: You're next to Tary, though, you can put it in his.
Taliesin: I'm gonna put it in Tary's bag.
Matt: Okay, so you move over and you're able to go ahead and put it.
Taliesin: And I'm gonna try and see if I can get some cover, as far away from that thing as possible. Whatever I can do.
Matt: Five, ten. You're not able really to get any cover, unfortunately, because the water's like (swimming noises), you're swimming through after putting it inside there, and you move along, you used your action to pull it up, kinda put it inside there. As the rest of the turn you just swim past, that's as far as you can get.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: All right. That ends your turn.
Taliesin: Oh, god.
Matt: All right. Now it's the kraken's turn. Let's see. Swim speed of 60 feet.
Taliesin: Fuck you.
Matt: It coasts around, this direction. We'll say it gets over in this side here, perspective-wise. Vex, what'd you roll for your stealth again? It was--
Laura: I didn't roll after I said I hid.
Matt: For your hide, because you're gonna hide for your bonus action, so go ahead and make your hide check.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: Stealth check.
Laura: Oh, that's good, that's good, 35.
Liam: Rogue!
Sam: 35!
Matt: Okay. By the way, Vax, I meant to ask  go ahead and make a concentration check. So it's a constitution saving throw.
Liam: Jeebus. I'm gonna use Luck. All right. 15.
Matt: 15. Okay, you maintain concentration on the--
Liam: Shite.
Matt: -- Bless to you guys, so you still have that. All righty.
Taliesin: I'm not happy with any of this.
Matt: So, the kraken is now--
Marisha: Don't kill it, don't kill it, don't kill it.
Taliesin: How can I?
Matt: Its tentacles begin to whip outward. It's going to make one strike against Vex--
Laura: Aw, he saw me?
Matt: -- one strike against Tary, and one strike against Grog!
Travis: Yeah!
Matt: 'Cause why not?
Laura: 35 is not good enough to hide from him!
Matt: Wait. That's right, you're hidden, so it does not. It's Tary, Percival, and Grog.
Laura: Oh, sorry.
Taliesin: You did this to me.
Laura: I'm sorry, that's--
Matt: That is a total of 32 against Tary.
Sam: Sure! Oh, yeah that hits. Yeah, of course.
Matt: Percy, that is 23?
Taliesin: Oh yeah, that hits.
Matt: And Grog, that is 23 again.
Travis: It sure hits.
Taliesin: Not speaking as Percy, this is legitimately nightmare fuel right now. I'm not sleeping tonight.
Matt: All right.
Travis: You got a problem with--
Marisha: You hate fish!
Taliesin: I do, I have a--
Laura: Oh, that's right, you hate fish!
Taliesin: Shh! Don't tell the internet, they'll find--
Marisha: I'm so sorry, you're so right!
Travis: Do it. Full blast.
Sam: Do not send him packages of fish.
Marisha: Holy shit.
Matt: Taryon, you take 16 bludgeoning damage.
Liam: Trinket kraken. Trinket kraken.
Matt: Percival, you take 20 bludgeoning damage.
Marisha: Yeah.
Taliesin: Okay.
Matt: Grog, you take 19 bludgeoning damage.
Travis: Cool.
Matt: And all three of you are grappled. The tentacle wraps around you and holds you in place. Your movement is zero currently until you try and break free.
Liam: Oh my gosh.
Laura: Oh god.
Taliesin: Oh no.
Travis: It's just trying to get a feel for the friends that are in its space.
Laura: Oh god, oh god.
Matt: All right. That ends the kraken's turn as it goes ahead and grapples three of your allies in the process. Grog, it's your turn.
Marisha: That's not cool. At all.
Travis: It's my turn?
Matt: Yes, it is.
Taliesin: It can regrow tentacles.
Travis: I would like to watery rage.
Matt: Okay, that's your bonus action.
Travis: Yeah that's my bonus action.
Taliesin: You should see a doctor about that.
Travis: And can I smash the titanstone knuckles together to cast Enlarge on myself?
Matt: Yes, you can. So, you shift into your larger form.
Travis: Yeah, I'm a bigger fish now.
Laura: This is bad.
Matt: You are still grappled by the creature, but you are larger.
Taliesin: This is monstrous.
Travis: Can I fight with the strength of the (sings) titanstone knuckles to break that grapple?
Matt: To slam your gauntlets together, that wasn't-- Does it specify an action on the ability? Look at the item.
Travis: It is an action.
Laura: Aw.
Matt: So you cannot break free currently this turn. That is your action to transform. You're still grappled.
Travis: He just got a bigger chew toy.
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: Sweet. I'm digging it. That's my turn.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Can't do anything else.
Matt: Tary!
Sam: Ah!
Matt: You're up.
Sam: Me?
Matt: Yes.
Sam: Oh, Christ.
Matt: You're currently grappled, you can't move.
Sam: I can't move my hands or anything.
Matt: You can. I mean, you can't move, like your movement is zero.
Sam: My body.
Matt: You can do things. You can still cast. Any attacks are at disadvantage because you are currently restrained within the grapple.
Sam: Okay. The attacks are at disadvantage. Jesus.
Matt: Attack rolls. Spells are still unaffected but--
Sam: I'm going to reach for my robes, so carefully sewn by young Laura Bailey.
Liam: Who?
Laura: Who?
Sam: And rip off-- I think I have a patch.
Taliesin: Like Velcro pants.
Sam: Don't I have some spells on there?
Liam: Stop. Tary time.
Marisha: (sings "Hammer Time")
Sam: Is that from my robe or is that somewhere else? No, you gave me some scroll spells. Some spell scrolls.
Matt: You have some spell scrolls, you have patches on your robe, and you have your helmet.
Sam: I wrote down that I have a hypnotic pattern somehow. Was that a patch or was that something else?
Taliesin: Hypnotic pattern?
Matt: That's not part of your helmet, so that would probably be one of your patches.
Sam: It must have been a--
Taliesin: Like a boy scout!
Sam: It must have been a patch or something. Oh yeah! Yeah yeah yeah, patch! It's a patch. It's a patch.
Taliesin: Bravery!
Matt: Okay.
Sam: I'm ripping off a patch.
Matt: Okay. So you rip off one of the patches and you go ahead, and you're using Hypnotic Pattern?
Sam: Yes.
Matt: That weaves through the air inside a 30-foot cube within range. So you create a hypnotic pattern around the exterior--
Sam: Correct.
Matt: -- of the face of the kraken where the eyes are.
Sam: Yes.
Matt: So as you tear the patch off, you release it in the water and you watch the patch slowly drift up and for a second you're like, "Nothing happened!"
Sam: Wait, what?
Matt: And there's a spark out of your hand (pff) and you watch as suddenly there's an array of colors and various flashes in the face, in the area around the kraken's face.
Sam: Oh. Oh I do-- it worked! Okay.
Matt: Wisdom saving throw. What's your DC? On the item?
Sam: On the item. Jesus. So many things.
Laura: Magic is hard, guys.
Sam: I know!
Taliesin: Wasn't it easier when you just had to rhyme?
Sam: I know, right? It just says 'Spell scroll'. The item-- I mean, I think it's mine.
Matt: This is the Robe of Useful Items, correct?
Sam: Oh. Does that have its own DC?
Matt: The spell scroll-- oh yes, it is one of the scrolls.
Taliesin: It's nice to see someone else going through this.
Marisha: Yeah.
Sam: It's just one of the scrolls.
Matt: So yeah, I'll say I'll just use your DC.
Sam: My DC?
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: Is 17.
Matt: 17. Wisdom save on that.
Marisha: Spells suck.
Matt: That is a 21. So yes, it saves.
Marisha: They're great.
Sam: Ah, shit.
Matt: Unfortunately.
Sam: I thought we were taking him out.
Matt: So as the spark hits, the slight flash vanishes and you watch as the lids are still closed tight and they open with this horrible sickening sliding sound and the glowing yellow eyes still seem trained on various allies of yours in the vicinity.
Laura: Does he gots two eyes or just the one eyes?
Matt: Two eyes.
Laura: Got it.
Matt: All right. Is that your turn, Taryon?
Taliesin: He's not a pirate.
Sam: I mean--
Laura: Arr.
Taliesin: Arr.
Sam: Yeah.
Matt: All right, top of the round.
Sam: I mean-- I think I'll cast--
Travis: Holy shit.
Sam: No. I mean, he's got me grappled. I can't do Sanctuary, right? He's already got me.
Matt: Well, you've already used your action to try and use the patch.
Sam: That's a bonus action.
Matt: The patch is a bonus action?
Sam: Uh, no, the Sanctuary is a bonus action.
Matt: Then you can do that, yeah.
Sam: All right, I'll cast Sanctuary on-- on myself.
Matt: Okay. Sanctuary on yourself.
Travis: Don't act like you have to choose who it goes on.
Matt: All right, Vax, you're up.
Liam: Oh my god.
Matt: You glance just barely over the side and you can see it's already wrapped up Grog, Taryon, and Percy with its tentacles.
Travis: But one of us does not look concerned.
Liam: Shit.
Marisha: Get 'em undone.
Taliesin: I'm fine.
Liam: What'd you say?
Marisha: Get them undone.
Liam: I'm going to start-- who's the closest of all the people grappled to me?
Matt: That'd be Grog.
Liam: Grog, all right. I'm going to start swimming there over the shells. And I'll blow--
Matt: (counts) That's as far as you can go.
Liam: And I'll use my bonus action for more movement.
Marisha: I hadn't gotten that far.
Matt: Okay, to dash?
Liam: Yeah.
Marisha: Give me a week.
Matt: That'll give you just the time to swim right next to him.
Liam: Okay. And I'd like to use Whisper to tear into the tentacle holding him to try to get him free of it.
Matt: Okay. So are you attempting to--
Liam: To un-grapple him.
Matt: Un-grapple him? All right. I need you to go ahead and make a-- because this is not you in the grapple, this is him--
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: This is an athletics check.
Liam: Athletics check, goddammit Matt!
Matt: Acrobatics is to escape from it. To help somebody else you're having to actually physically force it off.
Liam: Plus-- that's shit. Shit. Luck. 11.
Matt: Nope. You try and grab, you're hacking at the side, but as you're hacking with the blade, you're watching as it's not quite beating past the hide of the tentacle around it.
Liam: Okay. I'm out.
Matt: Okay. Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: I knew that's what you were going to say. So all my friends are still grappled.
Matt: A lot of them are, yeah.
Taliesin: Three of them.
Matt: Three of them.
Travis: Just go get the lodestones.
Marisha: Yeah, I'm going to cast Locate Object, see if I can find that third lodestone.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: They're fine. You're fine. You're level 16, motherfuckers. You're fine.
Taliesin: Oh god, I want to die.
Marisha: I want to find the lodestone.
Liam: I've been in a dragon.
Taliesin: Please help.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Locate Object.
Matt: All right. The third lodestone is in the direction and just past-- it's this way, at least.
Marisha: I'm sorry.
Laura: Wait, which direction?
Matt: So you're here.
Marisha: Your hand is lateral.
Matt: You're here.
Marisha: Yeah.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: It's going this way.
Marisha: Towards the way your hand is going.
Matt: Correct.
Taliesin: There from you.
Marisha: Okay, I'm going to use my Alter Self swim speed.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: And swim that direction as far as I can. Do I get a better location on it?
Matt: You get there, and you're still feeling it in this direction.
Marisha: I'll double my speed.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: Yeah, that's really confusing. On a fundamental level.
Marisha: Can I do another investigation check? Is it near me?
Matt: Unfortunately, no. Investigation is one of those things where you spend your action moving through and searching in the vicinity. Other than your bonus action, that's about as much as you can get. You just feel it's in this direction from you.
Marisha: Okay. As a bonus action, who's near me?
Matt: The kraken's about 20 feet above you.
Marisha: Yeah yeah yeah yeah. Party members.
Matt: Party members, you have Percival, Taryon, and Vax. I'm sorry, that's Vex over there.
Marisha: Okay. I'm going to do-- you're fine, right?
Taliesin: Eh.
Marisha: You're great. I'm going to do a Grasping Vine and see if I can get Taryon out of the kraken's grasp with Grasping Vine.
Matt: Okay. From--
Marisha: A lot of big words.
Taliesin: Get Taryon out of the kraken's grasp with Grasping Vine.
Matt: Where does the Grasping Vine start from?
Marisha: Can I get it kind of towards that-- sorry, deal with me. This guy here?
Matt: This stone?
Marisha: Yeah. Yeah yeah yeah.
Matt: Right there? Okay so a vine curls up, whips towards--
Marisha: Taryon.
Matt: Taryon. Wraps around--
Sam: (choking sounds)
Taliesin: Oh no.
Matt: For this, I'm going to say this is an opposed check of the vine versus the kraken's strength.
Marisha: Strength?
Matt: I need you to go ahead and roll and add your wisdom modifier.
Sam: You're tearing me apart.
Marisha: People-killer. People-killer! That's good!
Taliesin: Ooh!
Marisha: My strength?
Matt: No, your wisdom modifier.
Laura: No, your wisdom.
Travis: Wisdom.
Marisha: Oh, just my modifier?
Matt: Just your wisdom modifier.
Liam: Wise as fuck.
Marisha: Wise as fuck, motherfucker! That was a 15. 26!
Matt: 26. It tugs and tugs, but it's not strong enough to break free.
Laura: Oh no! He's so strong!
Matt: The vine is now pulling back and forth between the tentacle and Taryon's like, argh! Being pulled from both sides.
Taliesin: Drop it, drop it!
Marisha: (yells)
Sam: (yells)
Laura: Oh no!
Matt: Unfortunately.
Laura: It's the Dread Emperor all over again!
Taliesin: All over again. Nope. Don't say it.
Travis: Break him.
Matt: It's a very strong creature.
Marisha: Okay, but I'm still-- lodestone's, over here! And that's all I get.
Matt: Okay, ending Keyleth's turn we come to the top of the round, I need everyone to go ahead and make a constitution saving throw as once again--
Marisha: All of us?
Matt: Once again, the kraken, its eyes light up blue and its tentacles release another burst of electrical energy in the vicinity.
Travis: #blessed
Matt: #blessed
Travis: Constitution, right?
Matt: Yes.
Liam: (zapping noise)
Sam: 15.
Matt: 19 points of lightning damage.
Taliesin: 21.
Matt: 19 points of lightning damage.
Taliesin: God damn it!
Marisha: Seven.
Matt: Ooh, 19 points of lightning damage.
Liam: Six, Deathwalker's Ward.
Matt: 19 reduced to nine points of lightning damage.
Laura: I get 19 points.
Matt: 19 points.
Travis: 32, and I have resistance to lightning damage with the Exalted Knuckles.
Matt: All right so you take 5 points of lightning damage. Trinket?
Laura: Natural 20! Just kidding, he gets it, too. (all laugh)
Matt: Okay, so that is 19 points of lightning damage. At the end of that turn, the kraken is going to go ahead and use-- let's see-- get in range here-- going to go ahead and use one of its legendary actions to do a tentacle attack against Keyleth.
Liam: Good gravy.
Matt: That is 29.
Marisha: That definitely hits.
Sam: This is a powerful creature.
Travis: It's like a crustacean beholder.
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Keyleth, you take 21 points of bludgeoning damage.
Marisha: That really-- that hurts, 21 points, I'm at 91 so 21 puts me to 70, right? Yeah.
Matt: I will say I will use these red markers here as people that are currently grappled.
Travis: Gra-pelled?
Matt: Because you are now grappled and restrained, Keyleth.
Marisha: What?
Laura: (gasp) Oh yeah, he can grapple like all of us! (Southern accent) He's got enough of those tentacles. (all laugh)
Marisha: Who's not grappled?
Laura: Me.
Matt: Oh, Percival, because of your Hex, I need you to go ahead and make a constitution saving throw.
Liam: Your accent is showing.
Laura: (Southern accent) It's showing?
Liam: Yeah.
Laura: Oh no.
Liam: (Southern accent) You're talking like that.
Taliesin: That's a 19.
Marisha: (Southern accent) The later the hour gets--
Matt: Okay, you're fine.
Laura: (still Southern) No that's mom.
Marisha: The longer-- mom's been in town for a while.
Matt: That brings us to Vex. Vex, what are you doing? You're hiding behind the rock. You watch as four of your allies are now grappled by this creature.
Laura: Fucking A. I gotta use the Alter Self, so I can actually do something, though. I won't be able to get to anybody, I'm just going to waste a turn.
Marisha: Laughing at your accent.
Matt: All right, so you cast Alter Self on you as an action?
Laura: Oh, am I still doing it?
Marisha: A little.
Liam: Little bit.
Laura: (extra posh) I'm using Alter Self.
Matt: All right, so you grab the coin that Taryon gave you. You focus on it--
Liam: (Southern accent) Alter Self.
Matt: And your gills suddenly pull from the side, and all your fingers get webbed suddenly, and you begin to be able to move at your full--
Laura: Okay, I'm gonna swim behind the rock-- god damn it, light-- laser, no! The other rock, sorry.
Matt: This rock here?
Laura: Yeah, but on the other side of it.
Matt: Okay so that's (counts)--
Laura: And I'm gonna--
Matt: Your full movement.
Laura: And I'm gonna use my bonus action to hide again.
Matt: Okay. You still have your action, by the way.
Laura: Oh!
Matt: That was your movement to get the-- oh, no no no--
Laura: No no no, I used Alter Self.
Matt: Sorry, sorry, action was spell, movement, you're right, bonus action.
Laura: Bonus action to hide.
Matt: Okay, make a stealth check.
Sam: Trinket has to save us all.
Travis: Trinket's pretty low (laughs).
Laura: And you cast a spell so we can't use Pass Without a Trace Anymore? So that's 24.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. So you're keeping low. At the end of your turn, it's going to use its other two legendary actions to do Lightning--
Marisha: No, no, I cast Grasping Vine, which is technically a bonus action. It should not impede with my concentration spell, so we should still have Pass Without A Trace, correct? Nope! I cast Locate Object--
Laura: Yeah, you did.
Marisha: Totally ruined that!
Matt: Yep. Sorry.
Marisha: Sorry! Nope.
Matt: That's okay.
Marisha: Lodestone--
Sam: Marisha argues with herself and loses.
Travis: Totally loses.
Marisha: Yep, podcast coming to the alpha network. Project Alpha.
Matt: It uses Lightning Storm with its two other actions and begins to charge up now, and as most of you are in the vicinity you watch as the front of its mouth-- you now see between the darkness of the daylight that is glowing beneath it, the light begins to surge electrical energy. You see this strange beaked, sharp mouth that opens and as it does, bolts of thick lightning energy shock out from it. That's going to be hitting Grog, Vax, and Percival.
Liam: Bless.
Matt: So I need you guys to make dexterity saving throws please.
Taliesin: Yay!
Marisha: Big money no whammies, big money no whammies!
Taliesin: 23!
Matt: 23, you take 11 points of lightning damage.
Taliesin: That'll do.
Sam: Oh, wow.
Liam: 27.
Matt: You take no points of lightning damage because of your Evade.
Sam: Wow!
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: And?
Travis: 11, but I have resistance to lightning damage.
Matt: Right, so you take--
Liam: Pirouette.
Matt: -- 11 points of lightning damage. All right, that brings us to Percival's turn. You are still grappled and held in the creature's grasp.
Taliesin: Okay.
Marisha: Just get out, man.
Taliesin: Yeah, I'm going to try and-- is acrobatics a way to get out of this?
Matt: Acrobatics or athletics, your choice.
Taliesin: I'll take acrobatics. (all laugh)
Matt: All right.
Laura: All of us wiggling.
Taliesin: All right, so here go. Let's roll well. I get advantage on this, right?
Matt: No.
Taliesin: Okay, just thought I'd see if I could sneak that through. I rolled a really-- I can't reroll that with Resolve can I? No, 'cause it's not a save.
Marisha: It's a big-ass kraken, though, it's not bad.
Taliesin: 16.
Matt: 16? You try and slide through, but it's holding too fast. You can't escape, unfortunately. So that's your action.
Taliesin: Do I have anything-- with anything else, do I have anything I can do? Is there a bonus action thing I can do here? No, I am just-- yeah. I think about how easy it would be to reload my gun right now if I had one.
Matt: Okay. That's your turn?
Taliesin: That's-- yeah.
Matt: All right. It is now the kraken's turn. The kraken is going to shift over here. Still holding you guys in this vicinity, pushes past the area, kind of reaching the ground area. We're going to say push you up to there. It's going to go ahead and make a bite attack against you, Grog, you're the largest meat in this circumstance. That is going to be a 27 to hit.
Travis: That hits.
Matt: All right. So you take 27 points of piercing damage. Because you are raging it is halved, to we'll say 14 points of damage. However. As it pulls towards you, its tentacles pull up, and that giant piercing beak just (gulp noise) swallows you.
All: What?!
Matt: You suddenly-- everything goes dark, and you feel yourself being pulled into the dark interior of the kraken, the burning numbness of the acid of its interior beginning to burn away at the outside of your flesh. You are restrained, you are inside, you are blind.
Travis: Cool.
Laura: Oh my god.
Matt: You watch Grog, even in his large form, just disappear inside the kraken's maw. That's going to bring us to Grog's turn!
Travis: Cool. I'm in the womb again.
Matt: Yes you are.
Travis: There's fluid. Do I hear a heartbeat?
Matt: Very faintly you hear (heartbeat sounds). It's like a triple heartbeat.
Travis: Nice. Right. Cool. Am I restrained anymore?
Matt: Yes.
Travis: Because I'm in the gut?
Matt: Because you're inside, being crushed by its interior muscles that are pulling you towards its digestive tract.
Liam: It's fun, isn't it?
Travis: Nice, cool, yeah.
Laura: How do you break free of being restrained?
Travis: That threw off my plan.
Liam: Attack with disadvantage.
Travis: How about-- Yeah, let's try-- God, can I even make a melee attack here?
Matt: You can, it's at disadvantage.
Travis: Yeah, let's give it a whirl, and I'll make it a reckless attack.
Marisha: Yeah yeah yeah!
Liam: Bless.
Matt: Okay, go for it.
Travis: Bless.
Matt: Now it's a regular attack, just one roll.
Liam: Bless roll. Bless roll. Make that big roll.
Marisha: Come on. Come on. You're still blessed yeah?
Travis: Yeah, I'm still blessed.
Taliesin: #blessed.
Travis: That's a 30.
Matt: 30 hits.
Taliesin: You hit a creature from inside of it--
Marisha: Inside of it, yeah yeah yeah.
Taliesin: There's literally nowhere your fists could go that wouldn't hit it.
Liam: But it's like--
Travis: 23.
Matt: 23, okay.
Laura: Are you punching it?
Travis: Nah, I'm hitting it with the dwarven thrower.
Matt: All right.
Travis: Two hits.
Matt: Attacking again?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: Same thing?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: One roll.
Travis: 10. 26.
Matt: 26 hits. Roll damage.
Travis: 22.
Matt: 22. All right.
Travis: And my bonus action-- I would like to be very discouraged about my current state of affairs.
Matt: Just regular rage right now, right?
Travis: Yep, just regular. Can I use my bonus action to go into a frenzied rage because I have never been swallowed? And I don't like it.
Matt: Okay. Let me check one thing real fast, as far as the frenzied rage goes.
Laura: That's good, that's good, that's good.
Taliesin: How do you get un-swallowed?
Marisha: Please don't kill the kraken!
Travis: Fuck this big squid.
Marisha: Gonna have a really hard time explaining that to my ancestors.
Travis: We can kill them, too, it's not a problem.
Marisha: That's not-- no.
Laura: Maybe we can just rip open its guts and then leave it.
Matt: All right, so we'll leave that as the turn. So you go into a frenzied rage as your bonus.
Travis: Yeah.
Taliesin: We'll resuscitate the kraken if it comes to it.
Marisha: I could do that!
Taliesin: If we have to resuscitate a kraken--
Taliesin: -- we can resuscitate the kraken.
Marisha: -- we can resuscitate the kraken.
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Okay, that ends your turn, Grog.
Travis: Yes.
Matt: Tary.
Sam: Pfft. Still grappled, yes?
Matt: Still grappled and restrained, yes.
Taliesin: Grappling with many things.
Sam: I feel like I should not be here, but there's no way I can break free. He's super strong, and I'm not. So--
Taliesin: Keep fucking with him.
Matt: As a note, too, those--
Marisha: Find the lodestone. I did tell you to find the lodestone.
Matt: I forgot earlier.
Laura: He's grappled.
Sam: (muffled) Okay!
Matt: Any of you that are grappled or restrained by the creature have disadvantage on your dexterity saving throws. I forgot about it earlier. It's fine going forward. Keep that in mind.
Travis: Okay.
Liam: Okay.
Sam: Okay. On dexterity saves.
Taliesin: Thanks, chat room.
Matt: Mm-hm. I just remembered from the rules, here.
Liam: Oh.
Sam: I will rip off--
Matt: I'm sure chat room was on that.
Taliesin: I'm sure chat room was.
Sam: I will rip off another patch. I'm just using all my tricks.
Taliesin: You don't need no stinkin' patches.
Sam: I will rip off another patch and use, because I'm touching it, I will use Vampiric Touch.
Liam: Ooh!
Laura: Ooh!
Travis: Ooh!
Matt: Okay!
Taliesin: Take you to a goth club.
Liam: The twins like.
Matt: Hah, take you to the goth club. All righty.
Sam: I think that's a touch spell, right?
Matt: It is, you still have to roll an attack to hit it--
Sam: Shit.
Matt: But it's a melee spell attack, I'm pretty sure. So Vampiric Touch. All right, so you use your action to cast it on yourself and then make a melee spell attack against the creature, so go ahead and roll a d20. With disadvantage because you are restrained.
Sam: Aw. So the lower of those two.
Matt: Yeah.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Sam: I can't use Luck on the lower of those two?
Matt: You can.
Sam: Oh. Okay. Okay, that's better. Still not gonna be enough. Plus my spell attack bonus? Is that what, how--?
Matt: Yes.
Sam: That's still not gonna be enough. So that's 20?
Matt: 20 hits!
Sam: Oh!
Matt: Yeah!
Taliesin: Worth it.
Matt: All righty, so that's 3d6 necrotic damage
Sam: That's not a lot
Laura: Ooh!
Taliesin: That'll help.
Sam: That's not a lot.
Laura: No, that's something.
Sam: Oh, nine, 14!
Matt: 14, so you do 14 points of necrotic damage to the kraken, and you regain seven hit points.
Laura: (gasps)
Liam: Hey.
Sam: Nice!
Matt: As you draw its life force away, grabbing onto the tendrils of its tentacles like, "Argh!" You watch as the necrotic energy pulses into it and pulls the life force into you
Sam: Okay.
Matt: All righty.
Sam: Y'know, small but okay.
Matt: All right.
Sam: And once again casting, recasting Sanctuary on myself.
Matt: All righty.
Sam: Because it went away when I did that.
Matt: Sanctuary is concentration?
Sam: No, well, I don't know, but it goes away when I attack him.
Matt: True. However, if Sanctuary is a concentration, 'cause Vampiric Touch is also a concentration.
Sam: Well, it would have gone away either way, right?
Matt: I'm saying, if Sanctuary is a concentration spell--
Laura: Oh, you can keep up Vampiric Touch if you want.
Matt: Yeah, you could do it every turn, if you wanted.
Sam: Oh, I can?
Liam: Just keep yanking that out.
Sam: Oh, well then, I'll just keep it going.
Matt: If you wanted to.
Sam: Yes, I do, I do.
Matt: The Sanctuary is not concentration. It lasts for a minute. So your Sanctuary's still on, you don't have to cast it again-- Oh no, you did attack. So you cast it again.
Sam: So I do have to cast it again.
Taliesin: Oh.
Matt: But yeah, so you can have both on.
Sam: Okay. I have both on.
Matt: There we go. There we go, we figured that out.
Liam: Lot of rules.
Matt: All righty. Top of the round. Vax, you're up.
Liam: Okay, I'm gonna use Disengage to kick away from this big fucking thing and start-- I'm hasted, so I should be able to get to Keyleth.
Matt: (counting)
Liam: And she's grappled, correct?
Matt: She is.
Liam: I'm just gonna start cutting. So, try to do what I did with Grog before.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: So, athletics, you said?
Matt: Yeah, I'd say cutting at the tentacle-- I mean, both are pretty rough for you because you don't do a lot of damage with the dagger. I'll say for the sake of going forward in this, go ahead and make an attack roll.
Liam: Attack roll. I'm gonna use my last Luck of the day. Because that was a one.
Marisha: Can I say anything to him in the process?
Matt: Yeah, you can.
Marisha: I can?
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: I say (garbled) Lodestone! Right there!
Liam: I ignore and I keep cutting.
Taliesin: I like that we all keep doing that with the fingers.
Sam: That's, we got that one already.
Liam: 16, 29, that's very high. 31.
Matt: 31 hits, go ahead and roll damage.
Sam: We don't know where the next one is.
Taliesin: She does.
Matt: Not Sneak Attack.
Liam: Right.
Marisha: No, this is the next one!
Sam: You found it?
Taliesin: She found the next one.
Marisha: This is the next one, I found it, where I am!
Liam: Because even though she's grappled, it's still way far away.
Matt: Yeah. The actual body, the sensitive part of the body is away.
Liam: All right, so, where the hell-- two, plus ten-- oh boy.
Marisha: I'm right there. That's me, the lodestone is over here somewhere.
Sam: (sings) That's me in the ocean
Sam: (sing) That's me in the spotlight--
Taliesin: (sing) That's me in the spotlight--
Marisha: (sing) That's me in the spotlight--
Liam: That's 15.
Matt: 15 points of damage?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: All right, you just rush to the side of her and begin hacking away at the tentacle. You watch as you're carving into it and it begins to break away. It doesn't fully--
Liam: I've got one more attack, so I'll keep going then.
Matt: Okay, go for it.
Liam: All right. This is venom. That's 24, plus--
Matt: That hits.
Liam: Okay, good, plus nothing. Where the hell do I keep putting my dice? Where's a four? Where's a fucking four? There it is, plus four is ten. I'll unload some poison in it, that's a DC 15.
Matt: Okay, it succeeds.
Liam: Okay. Is it halved then, or nothing, for the poison?
Matt: What does it say on the item?
Sam: Percival! Take this down..
Taliesin: Sure.
Liam: It doesn't say anything about halving it.
Matt: Yeah, so it's just--
Liam: So I guess that means zero.
Matt: Nothing.
Liam: So ten, for the second.
Matt: Ten points of damage. Okay, it doesn't quite carve away entirely.
Liam: God damn.
Matt: It's close, you can see it's taking damage and the tentacle's starting to pull away--
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: But it's still holding her fast. You're still grappled.
Marisha: I'm still grappled.
Matt: That's the end of your turn?
Liam: That's the end of my turn.
Matt: Okay. End of your turn, it's going to make a Bash action. Since Taryon and Percival are right next to each other, it takes the two tentacles, pulls them back,
Travis: Oh my god.
Matt: Whack! And slams them into each other.
Taliesin: Augh.
Travis: (cackles)
Matt: Both of you guys take 11 points of bludgeoning damage
Taliesin: Oh my god.
Matt: And are pushed adjacent to each other, which you already are.
Travis: I like this thing.
Matt: So, that's that.
Taliesin: I am not having a happy time. 11 points?
Matt: All right. Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: Hm, hm hm hm. So I'm still attached?
Matt: You are, yes. Yeah, there's a 30-foot reach on each of these tentacles, so you're still just on the outskirts of its reach. It's damaged, it's hurt, it would be easier to break free, but it would take your action to do so.
Marisha: Hm. I turn to Vax, grappled, and I say Lodestone!, and I point with the best direction that I can with my remaining--
Matt: Okay, so you point this way.
Sam: Did it make its wisdom saving throw when it attacked me?
Matt: Actually, you are part of the Bash, so that is an 18, plus 12. So yeah, 30.
Sam: Well then, yes it did. (all laugh)
Matt: Yeah, sorry.
Travis: Well, fuck. No need to add it up.
Taliesin: Oh, I have a saving throw, constitution-- I have a concentration--
Matt: Yes, you do.
Taliesin: No.
Matt: What'd you roll?
Taliesin: A one.
Marisha: A one.
Matt: Yeah, Hex is gone, sorry buddy
Marisha: Who's still grappled?
Matt: You are.
Taliesin: We are.
Marisha: Taryon and Percy?
Matt: Taryon, Percival--
Matt: Grog has been swallowed.
Taliesin: Grog is in the belly of the beast.
Marisha: And Grog.
Travis: Don't worry about me.
Matt: Yes.
Marisha: Okay--
Taliesin: He's happy. He's in a better place.
Marisha: I look at the twins, and I say "Lodestone! There-ish!"
Laura: I'm on the other side of the rock but I can hear you.
Marisha: Lodestone! And I do Control Water?
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: And I'm gonna redirect flow, and I'm gonna push all of us-- I don't give a fuck, we'll be fine, in this direction. You see my laser?
Matt: This way? You push yourself--
Marisha: I want to point us away. So I'm gonna redirect flow and go poof! And push us away from the lodestone, in the direction of everyone else.
Laura: (gasps)
Matt: This way. How many feet of movement?
Laura: Oh my god, can you get the water away from the kraken and maybe it'll just be on, like, landlocked?
Marisha: I can redirect the current of the ocean for a temporary amount of time.
Laura: Right, right.
Matt: Okay, so you and Vax both?
Marisha: All of us, just, me and the kraken, and I guess everyone who's still grappled by him are going this way.
Matt: Okay, keeping Vax away.
Marisha: Vax and Vex are probably still away.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: I'm going (sound effects)
Matt: Okay, so I want you to roll a d20 and add your wisdom modifier.
Marisha: Roll a d20 and add my wisdom modifier?
Matt: Yes.
Marisha: I've got advantage on that, right?
Matt: No.
Marisha: Because of Heroes' Feast?
Laura: (gasps)
Matt: It's your wisdom modifier. It's a wisdom check, not a wisdom saving throw.
Laura: Not a wisdom save.
Liam: Not a wisdom save.
Marisha: Ooh! That's good! That's a 17!
Laura: (laughs) That was, like, such a grandma reaction. "Ooh!"
Marisha: Plus 11, eight, 28! Ooh!
Matt: The strength of your control water does actually--
Marisha: 28!
Matt: -- is stronger than the kraken's current ability to hold itself in place, so yes--
Marisha: Fuck yeah it is!
Matt: The kraken gets pushed this way about 20 feet.
Sam: Does it lose its grip on us?
Matt: You guys get dragged around by 20 feet.
Marisha: Did he lose his grip, come on!
Matt: And you get dragged along with it 20 feet.
Marisha: Wait, who? Me?
Liam: You.
Laura: You.
Matt: Yeah, it pulls you--
Marisha: Not Vex and Vax?
Laura: No.
Matt: Not Vex and Vax. Just you.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: You forced the kraken this way. So yes.
Travis: Nice.
Matt: Maintaining concentration, your Locate Object fails, but you're still controlling, and you push the kraken, and the rest of the allies that are grappled, along with it.
Marisha: Get the lodestone!
Laura: Right.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Were we supposed to get something?
Matt: That finishes Keyleth's turn. We're at the top of this here. So, let's see.
Marisha: Bathroom, I'll be back.
Taliesin: Yep.
Liam: Same.
Taliesin: Here to help.
Laura: Ah!
Sam: (sings) That's me in the kraken...
Matt: As the water begins to force the kraken this way, with it being pulled and dragged across part of the rock nearby, and seeing everyone pushed in that direction, it turns and tilts sideways, and as it does, it pulses with muscles, and releases this giant cloud of ink--
Travis: Yes!
Matt: -- that swallows this vicinity 60 feet in the area. The entire surrounding vicinity of the battlefield, all of a sudden, is now heavily obscured by black ink.
Travis: Awesome.
Laura: I bet it looks really cool with the daylight passing through it, though, huh?
Matt: It doesn't-- it encompasses the area and blocks out the daylight.
Taliesin: It's like watching creamer in coffee in reverse.
Matt: Kind of, yeah. Like the ancient in Neverending Story.
Taliesin: (sings)
Laura: Awesome.
Matt: Basically, yeah.
Laura: "I can't, I have to keep my feet on the ground!"
Matt: Vex, it's your turn.
Laura: That's me.
Sam: Now that Vax and Keyleth are gone, do you guys hear the faint flapping of wings and moaning?
Laura: Oh, creepy. Really creepy. I am going to-- Matt's like.
Taliesin: God damn it.
Laura: -- swim up and over towards my brother.
Taliesin: Thank you for that.
Laura: Towards where she was pointing the lodestone.
Matt: That's one movement there.
Sam: Lodestone!
Laura: That's with the altered self?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: Okay.
Travis: Just like her.
Laura: I'm gonna have Trinket-- wow, okay.
Matt: You just move out of range of the kraken, but it does not see you because of your hide check earlier, so it does not get an attack of opportunity.
Laura: Awesome. I'm gonna have Trinket, for my bonus action, swim up on top of the kraken's back.
Matt: All right. We'll say Trinket's right there.
Laura: And try to claw through, because he saw Grog get swallowed.
Matt: Okay. There is Trinket, currently grappling onto him.
Laura: He's just claws, like, thinking he's going to get to the belly. He's going to attack him with a claw attack.
Matt: Okay, so make your claw attack against him.
Travis: Does it have to be at disadvantage?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: Damn it, that was a good one.
Matt: I mean, all attacks are at disadvantage underwater.
Laura: Oh!
Taliesin: It's good. Nothing bad happened.
Laura: 25.
Matt: Okay. 25? That does hit. Go ahead and roll damage for cr-- for Trinket.
Laura: For creamer! Did you say creamer?
Matt: I was thinking "Crinket".
Laura: Oh, okay.
Matt: Different creature. That was with disadvantage, right?
Laura: Yes.
Travis: Yes.
Travis: 18 and a 16.
Matt: Nice.
Laura: Five plus eight is...
Travis: 13.
Laura: 13!
Taliesin: If only we'd brought your robot.
Matt: 13 points of slashing damage, as Trinket just rakes into the side of the kraken, cutting four distinct lines through the side of its armored crustacean exterior.
Travis: It does have that armored out like a lobster? It's not soft and rubbery like an octopus?
Matt: No, no, there are parts of-- the underside is, but a lot of it has this crustacean-like armor on the outside.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: All right.
Laura: And I guess I still have an action, because I can't get close enough to search for the lodestone?
Matt: Correct.
Laura: So I'm gonna try the thing that I saw very noisy Keyleth try earlier, which is to shoot out Grasping Vine and try to break someone free with it.
Matt: Grasping Vine is a bonus action spell.
Laura: Grasping Vine-- oh.
Marisha: Not concentration, bonus action spell.
Matt: Yeah, but she already used her bonus action to let Trinket attack.
Marisha: That sucks.
Laura: Oh. Okay! Then I'm gonna cast Conjure Animals and I'm gonna try to cast-- that's third level. I get summoned fey creatures, so what's a fey creature that swims underwater?
Matt: I don't know, what's a fey creature that swims underwater?
Marisha: You know, things that the Player's Handbook does not tell you. I just want to point that out.
Sam: I will say this, I know this for a fact, that it says in the Player's Handbook, the Dungeon Master will help you select a fey creature. (all yell)
Matt: You realize this doesn't help you...
Taliesin: Player's Handbook says a lot of things, doesn't it?
Liam: You just got chat roomed.
Marisha: Conjure Woodland Beings, it says right here--
Sam: Does it say it?
Marisha: Hang on.
Matt: To what CR, does the spell say?
Laura: To what?
Marisha: The DM has creature statistics.
Liam: CR.
Laura: Oh, CR.
Sam: Okay, it says the DM has creature statistics.
Matt: Great.
Taliesin: Do you have creature statistics, DM?
Matt: Let me pick one out for you.
Laura: I have my card, wait--
Taliesin: We're gonna get little fey minnows.
Marisha: Roll initiative for the summoned creatures as a group.
Liam: Edge-of-your-seat action from Critical Role.
Sam: Who can look up the stats first?
Matt: A fey creature...
Taliesin: Full-contact stats.
Matt: There are a lot of fey creatures in the Monster Manual, Wizards of the Coast. Just want to point that out.
Marisha: You know, I will say, it's a little bullshit.
Taliesin: There's shade being thrown in every direction tonight, isn't there?
Marisha: It's a little bullshit.
Laura: What is a rating one? Is that super lame?
Sam: Yeah.
Marisha: Yeah. Yeah.
Laura: Rating two is still super lame?
Marisha: Well, okay, so us as killer whales, we're challenge rating three. Except none of us are killer whales.
Matt: Okay, so you're conjuring a fey creature of challenge rating--
Laura: Two.
Matt: Two. One creature.
Laura: Yes.
Matt: Of two or lower. Okay. So.
Travis: You make Sebastian the crab.
Marisha: You get one fey creature--
Matt: I fucking hate Summoning spells so much, they are the bane of my existence.
Laura: I'm sorry!
Matt: Oh, it's okay.
Marisha: They're friendly, they roll initiative--
Matt: Because they're not in the beast section.
Taliesin: They sing like Disney characters.
Marisha: And they sing like Disney characters.
Taliesin: They braid your hair for a bonus action.
Marisha: Basically, Tangled. But not.
Laura: I'm sorry, Matthew!
Matt: It's fine, it's cool.
Laura: I'm sorry!
Matt: I remember all this. It's gonna be great.
Taliesin: Have we finally broken Mercer?
Marisha: You know, but like for real, they never tell you the best creatures.
Laura: It can be-- you know what? It can be an animal. I'm conjuring an animal. I can conjure an animal. I'm gonna conjure a shark. I've seen a shark.
Matt: Fey creature.
Laura: Why does it have to be a fey creature? I'm conjuring an animal.
Taliesin: Wait, I can do this.
Marisha: You know, that's a good point.
Matt: You know what? I'll let you. Sure.
Sam: Sea hag!
Marisha: (gasps) Is that a thing?
Laura: It's considered fey.
Sam: Sea hag is a fey. Two challenge.
Marisha: Thank you, Google.
Sam: Sea hag!
Laura: It says, 'Each beast is considered fey.'
Matt: Oh, I see.
Laura: You can summon fey spirits that take the form of beasts.
Marisha: And you can get a hunter shark--
Matt: You are right.
Marisha: -- which is a challenge rating of two.
Laura: Okay. I cast a shark.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: Hunter Shark!
Matt: Where do you want it to appear?
Taliesin: It's a hunter shark, but it's fey because it's dyed its hair with a pastel pattern.
Laura: Right around the kraken. I want it swimming around the kraken to distract it.
Matt: All right, we'll say it's right there. You get a shark now at the kraken.
Marisha: And a hunter shark has blood frenzy, which means the shark has advantage on melee attack rolls against any creature that does not have all of its hit points.
Laura: And it's gonna attack him.
Matt: All righty.
Sam: And get eaten.
Matt: I'm glad we worked this out.
Marisha: We're those assholes right now. I just wanna point that out.
Matt: All right. Go ahead and make your attack on it.
Liam: For 80-something episodes, yeah.
Matt: Bite attack. Plus six, with advantage.
Laura: Roll what?
Matt: It has advantage, because it's been damaged. Plus six.
Laura: 11.
Matt: It bites-- a battle of futility against the armored exterior of the kraken.
Laura: It's more for distraction purpose anyway.
Taliesin: Caramel. Caramel. Ow.
Sam: Totally working.
Laura: It will be, if it uses up a fucking tentacle.
Sam: Yeah, no, it's great.
Taliesin: Yeah, no, we're in.
Travis: Yeah, he is so ready to use a tentacle on the hunter shark.
Laura: Hey.
Matt: All right. End of your turn. It's gonna go ahead and use another one of its points to do a-- let's see.
Taliesin: This is how he's been plotting our death.
Matt: Yeah, it's gonna go ahead and make a tentacle attack against Trinket, who's biting at it currently. That is a 23 to hit.
Laura: That hits.
Matt: All right. Trinket takes--
Laura: How close am I? How close am I? How close am I?
Matt: 20 points of bludgeoning damage.
Laura: Halved. Because of his armor.
Matt: Because of his armor. And Trinket is grappled, currently.
Travis: Jeez.
Laura: Everybody's grappled!
Travis: (sings) Everybody was grappled underwater! We're all... fucked enchiladas.
Matt: All right, as that's the end of your turn, Percival, what are you doing?
Taliesin: You know, I'm not having any luck getting out of this thing. Ah, god. And I get the distinct impression that the whole point of this creature is there's just no escaping it. I'm gonna start trying to cut my way out of this thing. I give up. I'm cutting my way out.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Just so long as we don't kill it.
Taliesin: No.
Matt: What are you using to attack?
Marisha: Just don't kill it.
Taliesin: I'm gonna use my longsword.
Matt: All right. So attack with disadvantage.
Taliesin: Attack with disadvantage.
Marisha: Please don't kill it.
Taliesin: I can't, it's just gonna--
Laura: It's just a tentacle, it's not--
Taliesin: Yeah, it's just a tentacle. With the intent to leave. Oh, that's not bad.
Marisha: I'm sorry, I just saw a flash of my future.
Taliesin: 23.
Matt: That hits. Go ahead and roll damage. It is not a dragon.
Taliesin: Okay. I do not have Hex anymore, so that's--
Laura: What if you turned us into animals now? Will that break the grapple?
Marisha: I could, yeah.
Taliesin: 13.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: And another attack.
Matt: All right. Go for it. With disadvantage.
Taliesin: Also 23.
Matt: That hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
Taliesin: Also 13.
Matt: All righty.
Taliesin: And again.
Matt: Third attack with your sword, with disadvantage.
Taliesin: 28.
Matt: 28 hits. Roll damage.
Marisha: Did you roll both 16s?
Taliesin: Yes, they're both 16s.
Marisha: You did. They're both 16s.
Taliesin: I know. It's a metaphor. Oh.
Marisha: Oh! That's good.
Taliesin: 15.
Matt: 15. With that, you manage to finally--
Taliesin: Drop it, drop it, drop it!
Matt: -- cut through the tentacle. It tears open, you can see the dark purple blood beginning to cloud around the area, as you feel yourself freed from the tentacle's grasp. That's your action.
Taliesin: I am booking towards the big red--
Matt: This way?
Taliesin: No, the other way. I'm booking that way.
Marisha: Sorry, this thing looks very red to us.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Marisha: This thing.
Taliesin: Oh, and it's not red! Oh, that's so weird.
Marisha: It's not red, but on camera it looks very red to us. This thing.
Matt: So you're heading this way?
Taliesin: I'm heading the opposite direction of that fucking nightmare monstrosity.
Matt: This way?
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: Okay, you can move five, ten--
Taliesin: I'm gonna get behind that boulder and hide, if possible.
Matt: Here? All right. Okay.
Taliesin: Bonus action to hide, or no?
Matt: Well, it's a bonus action for rogues to hide.
Liam: Rogue shit, yo.
Taliesin: So for my bonus action--
Travis: You just faceplant.
Taliesin: Is Minor Illusion a bonus action or not?
Matt: I'm pretty sure Minor Illusion is an action. Sorry.
Taliesin: I can't remember, I haven't done it in so long. And I'm feeling so useless. Yeah.
Matt: Welcome to fighting a kraken, buddy.
Taliesin: Oh, I'm gonna use-- I have a heal. I'm gonna heal. I'll use my bonus action to heal.
Travis: Selfish.
Matt: Okay, go for it.
Taliesin: 1d10 plus 12. Where's a d10? That's not bad. Okay, 18 points. Okay, good, I get 18 points back, yay.
Matt: Okay, there you go. At the end of your turn, Percival, it's gonna use its third and final legendary action to attempt to hit you with a tentacle. That is 21 to hit.
Taliesin: Yeah, that hits.
Matt: All right. You take--
Marisha: You're so grappled again, aren't you?
Matt: -- 26 points of bludgeoning damage, and you are grappled once more. (all groan)
Travis: (cackles)
Taliesin: 26 points of bludgeoning damage?
Matt: Yes.
Liam: Fucking meatbag, getting knocked around all the time.
Marisha: You spent your entire action getting away from him.
Taliesin: Yeah, that's fine.
Travis: That's a piece of shit. I love it.
Matt: Does that end your turn?
Laura: Krakens suck.
Matt: All right. Top of the kraken's turn.
Marisha: Fuck this.
Matt: Grog?
Travis: Yes? Yeah.
Matt: The acid from the interior of the kraken begins to--
Laura: Oh god.
Matt: -- begins to slowly pool around you, and you feel your flesh on the exterior begin to singe and burn and melt away.
Liam: Oh jeez.
Matt: That's a lot of dice. I'm going to go ahead and use the app here.
Taliesin: Oh god.
Laura: Oh my god, is it like being in lava?
Travis: I'm sure it ain't great. I'm sure it ain't like being at a fucking spa.
Matt: That is 45 points of acid damage.
Travis: Okay.
Laura: Gulp.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: Holy shit.
Travis: Fuck.
Matt: And so, turning around, the kraken's going to make its way back-- oh no, Trinket. Oh no.
Laura: Oh no!
Matt: Trinket is left this way, it's going to swim past to there--
Marisha: Okay, hang on. My Control Water spell has a concentration and I create a current--
Liam: Ooh, buddy, what are you doing?
Matt: Correct.
Marisha: In a direction for several minutes.
Matt: I agree. The kraken has an ability called Freedom of Movement, the kraken ignores difficult terrain, and magical effects can't reduce its speed or cause it to be restrained.
Marisha: Well, that's just great.
Matt: Sorry.
Marisha: That's wonderful.
Laura: What about my shark? Does it get an attack of opportunity?
Matt: Your shark does, yes. As does Trinket, technically.
Travis: This little bastard's high-spirited.
Marisha: Motherfucker.
Liam: The dungeon master is giddy tonight.
Laura: I get advantage, right, on it?
Taliesin: You are annoyingly cheerful.
Matt: From the shark? Yes, you do. Trinket has disadvantage.
Laura: Okay. 16 plus six is 22.
Matt: 22 from the shark. Nice.
Sam: Cast Hunter Shark on it.
Matt: All righty. And disadvantage for Trinket?
Laura: Oh. 14 for Trinket.
Matt: Trinket, unfortunately, his claws strike against the back of its armor as the kraken passes. No effect. All right.
Laura: Do I roll for the damage? Of the shark?
Matt: Yes. Oh, that wasn't the damage. Yeah. That was to hit. So yeah, roll damage for the shark.
Laura: 13.
Matt: 13 points of damage from the shark. Nice. Yeah. All right, so as the shark bites, and watch as it tears away, makes its way over towards the grappled Keyleth, its jaws open with its beaked mouth.
Taliesin: There's no room for anything else in there.
Liam: Hey, don't eat my girlfriend. I just got her.
Matt: That is 24 to hit.
Marisha: Yeah, I mean, yeah.
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: Does it ever not hit?
Sam: Oh no. Oh no.
Marisha: Am I about to be swallowed with Grog?
Sam: Yes.
Matt: 22 points of piercing damage, and Keyleth, you are swallowed by the kraken.
Laura: (gasps)
Liam: Seven minutes in kraken.
Laura: You can do something from the inside.
Marisha: 22 points, you said?
Matt: Yes.
Taliesin: Whoever actually succeeded in changing anything from the inside? Let's be honest here.
Laura: Aw.
Taliesin: You become part of it.
Liam: Let's not get--
Sam: Part of the system?
Taliesin: Just know somehow that this is a metaphor.
Marisha: 48 points.
Taliesin: For what?
Travis: Well, now it's a tribute.
Laura: Yeah, this one's crazy.
Taliesin: This is bad.
Liam: Let's shift to the fire realm.
Marisha: Do I see Grog?
Matt: You see nothing. It is black, blind, darkness on the inside, and it's not Darkvision blindness. It is folds of internal muscle, tightening flesh across your entire body, so not only is there no light, but there is no room to actually see anything, even with your Darkvision.
Liam: Fuck.
Travis: (fart noise) I'm here!
Marisha: Can I like-- a free action to be like, Grog, I'm in the kraken! as a free action?
Matt: You scream into it like, Grog!, as you're being devoured, sure.
Marisha: Grog! (gurgling noises)
Taliesin: Ew.
Matt: All right, that ends the kraken's turn, Grog, you're up.
Travis: Right. Can I reach around? Do I feel any dangly bits or something I might be able to yank on?
Marisha: Or like-- hands?
Travis: Or is it smooth? I know I'm like this, but--
Matt: You are unable to really feel around. You're like holding your hammer here, and the whole thing is squeezing against you and the muscles are pulling in, tense.
Travis: There's no way that I could try and push out with my legs to try and pull something out of the bag of holding, is there? It's too tight for that.
Matt: Well, what are you trying to pull out?
Travis: Maybe the alchemy jug?
Matt: You could probably pull the alchemy jug out if you wanted to, yeah.
Travis: I pull out the alchemy jug.
Matt: All right. And you force it out and hold it on the inside.
Travis: And I get super fucking wasted-- No, I'm kidding. (all laugh)
Travis: I look inside of it, and I say, oil.
Matt: Okay. The jug now produces a bunch of oil.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: It gets to fill up the inside of the jug.
Travis: You know, sea creatures like oil.
Laura: Ew. Like, if you swallow cod liver oil, you vomit? Yeah?
Liam: Like castor oil?
Travis: Yeah.
Liam: It greases you up.
Taliesin: Unless you're a cod.
Matt: Or a kraken. All right, so you produce a bunch of oil for your action, inside the jug.
Travis: Yup!
Taliesin: Grease me up!
Matt: Is that your turn?
Travis: Yeah!
Matt: Okay. That brings us to Taryon. Taryon. You just watched Keyleth, the pinnacle of leadership, the guiding force in this whole adventure, get swallowed by this terrible, writhing sea monster.
Sam: It must be part of the plan. You're all seasoned veterans, right? This is all part of the plan, right? (screaming)
Sam: Oh! I've made a horrible mistake! (all laugh)
Sam: Caligo, take me away! Oh my God.
Matt: What are you doing, Taryon?
Sam: Well, I saw Percy cut his way out of the tentacle, so I will try to do the same.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: For all the good it did me.
Sam: I can move my hands, right?
Matt: You can, it's just any attacks are at disadvantage, and you can't move.
Sam: Okay. Then I will reach into my magic bag and pull out a vial of acid, and slam it on the tentacle and see if I can burn through the tentacle.
Matt: Okay! Go ahead and make a-- This would technically be-- a melee or ranged, but we'll say because it's so close, roll a D20 twice with disadvantage, so.
Sam: Oof. Oof!
Taliesin: What. What. What.
Sam: Terrible.
Matt: So, with your attack bonus for the attack.
Sam: Yeah. 12.
Taliesin: Did you just grease? Did you just grease that with tears?
Matt: Twelve? You reach out to pull it out and throw it. It tenses once, and then-- And it just-- It floats away.
Laura: Oh no.
Matt: Before it just slowly sinks into the sand and rests there.
Taliesin: Clink.
Sam: Damn it.
Laura: At least it's still retrievable.
Sam: Sure. Yeah. Yeah. That's good. And then as my bonus action, I will say to Percy, Percival, take this down! I, Taryon Darrington, being of sound mind and body, hereby do not leave my belongings to anyone, but prefer to be buried with them. (all laugh)
Taliesin: I'm going to gaze at him, as a professional gazer. I'm going to gaze at Taryon. And just allow my head wound to just bleed out.
Matt: You channel Brazio, and stare at him, to give him disapproval. With, wordless. Okay.
Liam: Sweet.
Taliesin: I hate you. And you.
Matt: That ends your turn, Taryon. That ends your turn, I believe. All right, Vax, you're up.
Liam: All right. I have just gone--
Marisha: Lodestone! Lodestone!
Liam: I have just gone whiter-- My face has gone whiter than it has since I became a paladin of the fucking Raven Queen, seeing Keyleth just get swallowed up, but I am going to trust that Grog and she are going to get themselves out of there, and I am going to look to where Keyleth pointed, and try to see a lump or something, in the sand.
Matt: Okay, make an investigation check.
Liam: Okay, I made a-- hold on, 18.
Matt: 18? 18. Okay. You just get to this part of the sand and you start sifting through and it's causing this cloud and you hear the water just being rapidly whipped through and cut behind you from the rapidly moving tentacles. As you pull through, you just begin with your action to uncover what looks to be the very peeking top of the final lodestone.
Liam: Is that one action? Because I have an action and a bonus action, so I'll just do as much as I fucking can to dig this fucker out.
Matt: Bonus action is a weapon attack. So you manage to--
Liam: I'm hasted. The hasted action is only a weapon attack?
Matt: Correct.
Liam: Okay. Fucking hell.
Marisha: Dig. Dig. Dig, dig, dig.
Travis: Hey, man, you're making progress.
Liam: I can't do anything, I can't do anything.
Travis: You're A1 sauce right now brother, you're doing all the good things.
Marisha: You're so good, you're so good.
Laura: Can you use a bonus to help anyone?
Liam: No, I mean I'm on concentration for Bless and they're both in there and they probably fucking need it.
Marisha: No, you're great, you're great.
Taliesin: Throw a knife.
Marisha: You're hot. You're great. You're good. You're warm. You're finding that stone.
Liam: I'm done. I'm done.
Matt: All right, that ends your turn. Then it's going to use a legendary action to attempt to hit you with a tentacle. That is a 28 to hit. All right.
Liam: Oh shit, 22. No. Hits me.
Matt: Yep. That is--
Liam: Oh, uh, hold on. Two. What's 28 to hit? Nah, wouldn't hit 28. Never mind. 'Cause I'm blessed but it's not much--
Matt: 28 points of bludgeoning damage. LIAM. Okay. Uncanny Dodge?
Matt: Okay, so reduce that by half, so it's 14 and you are grappled.
Liam: Oh, good.
Matt: As the tentacle wraps around you.
Taliesin: Does it have a limited number of tentacles?
Matt: Currently now nine.
Laura: Nine tentacles?
Marisha: More than us.
Travis: It had ten.
Matt: It had ten, now it has nine.
Marisha: More than us.
Taliesin: But if we keep playing it may have eight, then seven, then six.
Matt: That might possibly be an option.
Laura: Or it might just swallow all of us.
Marisha: More than us.
Laura: And then we just Planeshift from the inside of the kraken, and everything's okey-dokey.
Marisha: Which, I have Planeshift if all goes terribly wrong.
Laura: But we all have to be holding hands.
Marisha: That's true.
Travis: Ha, just you and me live. (all laugh)
Taliesin: The Grog and Keyleth show? I would watch that.
Matt: All right, so. That's Vax's turn. Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: Grog!
Travis: What, jesus, I'm right fucking here. Yes, it sucks.
Marisha: Grog! And I reach out. He's saying. Do I feel him?
Matt: We'll say that you're just, as the muscles squeeze you deeper in its body, you kind of slam into what feels like a hard bottom of a boot.
Marisha: I still have Control Water. As a concentration.
Matt: Make a constitution saving throw as you were damaged by the piercing maw.
Marisha: Yep, you're not wrong.
Matt: Which is, we'll say 24, so go ahead and-- can't remember what the number was but we'll go with that.
Marisha: Come on. Concentration?
Matt: Which you have advantage on because of your Warcasters.
Marisha: Which I have advantage, oh, I'm a Warcaster! That's 16. No, I'll take the 16. What?
Matt: Constitution saving throw.
Marisha: Okay. 22!
Matt: Okay, so you maintain concentration.
Marisha: Okay. And I find Grog.
Matt: You do.
Marisha: And I Control Water.
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: Is it watery in this?
Matt: No, it is muscles tensing, and a thin layer of acid.
Travis: And oil.
Matt: And oil is inside the jug.
Taliesin: You didn't pour it.
Travis: Oh! Is it not just floating amniotic, like water, in this esophagi?
Laura: No, that's what he just said, there's no water.
Matt: Currently you're in the stomach, not the esophagus.
Travis: Anatomy.
Marisha: No water, though? I can't like jettison myself out of this guy's mouth? All right.
Matt: You can spend your action to try?
Marisha: Okay. No. That's fine.
Taliesin: There's options.
Matt: There's not a lot of water in this space. Right now, it's mostly like actual stomach acid of the creature and muscles that are tensing around.
Marisha: Okay. We have oil. Right?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: I tell Grog, I say, Hold on, and I cast a Fireball right in front of us, to try and jettison ourselves out with my Spire.
Travis: I'm a big fan of this.
Marisha: With my Spire of Conflux I go (explosion) and try and give this motherfucker the worst heartburn he's ever experienced.
Travis: Yeah get your Zantac 75 now, bitch.
Matt: Okay!
Taliesin: You put that kraken on Hot Pepper Gaming.
Matt: I need you both to make dexterity saving throws with disadvantage.
Laura: He's going to shoot out some watery lodestones.
Travis: I'm at advantage, though, so I just roll one.
Taliesin: Lode liquid.
Matt: Yes. Okay.
Liam: Jackpot. Dex save at disadvantage.
Travis: 11. Oh wait, man, wait, blessed.
Marisha: I'm making a dex save?
Matt: At disadvantage.
Marisha: At disadvantage.
Travis: 13.
Marisha: At disadvantage? That was eight. Plus dex, which is five, so that's--
Laura: Plus bless!
Marisha: Plus blessed!
Taliesin: Hashtag.
Marisha: #blessed. Ooh, that's good, that's good. That's 13, so that's 18!
Matt: What's the DC on the spell for your staff?
Marisha: It doesn't say.
Matt: So it'd be your spell DC.
Marisha: Which is 20. If I'm fully equipped.
Matt: Yeah, so you do not make your save. Your spell's too powerful. So you go ahead and roll damage.
Marisha: On myself.
Laura: Oh!
Travis: Oh, like a, 13.
Matt: Yep. So go ahead and roll 8d6 damage, to you, you and the kraken. Usually if a creature's fully submerged in water it has damage resistance because of the water around it. However, the spell is inside of it so I will say that it does not get the fire resistance.
Travis: I do have fire resistance, so I'm okay. I'm excited about this.
Matt: You take half damage.
Laura: Oh my gosh.
Marisha: I will be exceedingly angry if I have to--
Taliesin: We will save the kraken.
Laura: If you knock yourself unconscious with your own fireball?
Marisha: I don't care about that, I care more about the kraken at this point. This is my life's work. Literally Keyleth's life work.
Taliesin: Oh wow, a lot happened there.
Marisha: Okay, five, six, seven, eight, nine, plus four, which is 13, plus another six which is 16, 19, and a six which is 25.
Travis: 25.
Matt: 25, was what you needed to force it to make a constitution saving throw.
Travis: 25 exactly? Wow.
Laura: Wow.
Matt: Well, based on the circumstances I halved the damage required for it to make the saving throw to regurgitate. However a fireball explosion based on the--
Marisha: Three, four, five, six, seven, eight. I'm sorry. You said 8d6?
Matt: Yes.
Marisha: It's actually 29 points.
Matt: All right. So--
Marisha: Please don't kill this thing.
Matt: No. As the Fireball explodes, the oil that you created inside ignites and also detonates.
Taliesin: Yes!
Travis: Alchemy jug!
Matt: Roll a d20 for the strength of the jug.
Laura: No! It could kill the jug!
Marisha: Who? Him? No, Grog!
Laura: That's good.
Travis: 15.
Matt: Okay. The jug withstands the force of the blow. (all cheer)
Taliesin: Good jug.
Matt: The jug, however, detonates.
Taliesin: Yeah! I love everything that's happening.
Sam: That's gonna be extra damage to you, Groggy-pants.
Matt: For an additional 18 points of fire damage to both of you.
Liam: Kraken's gonna get burning squirts.
Laura: Oh shit.
Taliesin: And the kraken.
Travis: To half because I have fire resistance.
Matt: And the kraken.
Marisha: 18 points, that I can deal with.
Sam: Plus 25.
Marisha: Wait, plus 25?
Matt: This is on top of what you did.
Travis: So 39.
Matt: Correct.
Marisha: So 25 plus 18 which is what--
Sam: 43.
Matt: That would be 43.
Marisha: 43 points of damage!
Taliesin: You're alive!
Travis: 22 to me, because, resistance.
Marisha: I am alive.
Matt: Fucking rolled a natural one!
Travis: Did you? (all yell)
Matt: I'm not even joking. On its constitution, it's a DC 25 constitution saving throw, even with +15, it's a natural one. And so (explosion) it bursts inside, you watch the eyes bulge on the outside of this kraken as suddenly it vomits out a burst of smoke, dark, kind of bloody water, acid, and both Keyleth and Grog are jettisoned out of the front of the kraken's mouth.
Taliesin: What are the chances it dropped any of us while this happened?
Matt: Nothing.
Taliesin: Nothing.
Sam: Yeah.
Marisha: But Grog and I are out?
Liam: But, everyone on the outside just goes--
Taliesin: Kinda what I was expecting, to be magnificently frank.
Sam: I see him vomit, and I'm like, you and me both, buddy. (all laugh)
Marisha: Do I still have a bonus action?
Matt: You would, yes.
Marisha: I'm going to cast Healing Word on myself.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: At second level. Sorry.
Matt: Go for it.
Marisha: That's two. Because I'm hurting.
Matt: Remember, you still have your Wild Shape forms too.
Marisha: Oh, I know.
Matt: Okay, that ends your turn, Keyleth.
Marisha: Four, five, plus-- six. Yep, that ends my turn.
Matt: All right. Secondary legendary action to go ahead and as soon as you guys emerge, one of its tentacles wraps out in your direction, Keyleth. That's a-- plus 18, yeah that hits you for like 32. So as soon as you emerge, you look around, one of the tentacles wraps around you, and you take 19 points of bludgeoning damage.
Taliesin: Oh, god.
Matt: And you are grappled by the tentacle.
Marisha: So glad I healed myself.
Laura: Mother fuck.
Marisha: 19 points.
Sam: What are you down to?
Marisha: Seven points.
Matt: All right. That brings us to the next lair action.
Taliesin: God damn it.
Matt: Everything is still obscured in this black inky space, by the way. Oh, you guys missed that while you were away. The kraken did an ink jet and filled this entire 60-foot radius with ink. The whole area is drastically obscured.
Marisha: Even though there's my Control Water current going outward? Which lasts for ten minutes!
Matt: Well, lasts for ten minutes while you're concentrating, did you maintain concentration--
Marisha: I haven't broke concentration--
Matt: That's true--
Marisha: I saved for it.
Matt: Well, save right now.
Marisha: I already saved for it while I was inside of him. I can save again.
Matt: Right, but you just took damage from the--
Taliesin: From the tentacles.
Matt: From the tentacles. However, you are correct, the water jet did clear out the ink from this area.
Marisha: It's not terrible. My wisdom-- 19.
Matt: Not wisdom, plus your constitution.
Marisha: Not as good.
Liam: Bless!
Marisha: Plus bless, which is good. Wait, what was that?
Taliesin: Three.
Marisha: That was three, thank you, three. Sorry, constitution.
Sam: Constitution.
Marisha: 16! 16!
Matt: Okay, that's enough, you maintain concentration. So yeah, so you've now cleared out this section, this section is cleared of ink. Control Water, the stream you've been doing has cleared out this area, so yeah.
Marisha: Jeez, guys.
Laura: Slowest math.
Marisha: Gil. Gil bought us kraken.
Matt: All right, so--
Marisha: Blame Gil.
Liam: Kraken for kraken.
Marisha: Don't fuck me, Gil!
Matt: All right at this point, as it is now the 20 count on the lair action, the kraken once again gives another pulse of electrical energy, everything in the area, I need everyone to go ahead and make a constitution saving throw.
Sam: 25!
Matt: All right, five points of lightning damage.
Marisha: Player-killer, not great.
Taliesin: 18.
Matt: 18? You take ten points of lightning damage. Keyleth?
Marisha: Seven.
Matt: Ten points of lightning damage.
Taliesin: And she's out!
Marisha: I'm unconscious.
Liam: 19, Deathwalker's Ward
Matt: So five points of lightning damage.
Marisha: Keyleth is unconscious.
Taliesin: Just barely.
Laura: 16 for me.
Matt: Ten points of lightning damage. Grog?
Laura: And 14 for Trinket, so--
Travis: It's a 15, but I have resistance, so--
Matt: So five points of lightning damage. And Trinket was what?
Laura: He is ten points.
Matt: Ten points, okay, so. Keyleth goes unconscious, you watch as she just gets jettisoned out and the lightning streaks through her and eyes darken and she kinda falls limp in the water as the tentacle begins to slowly draw her back to its maw.
Laura: Fuck.
Taliesin: God damn it.
Matt: Vex, you're up.
Laura: Okay. I'm gonna keep moving towards the lodestone and my brother.
Laura: I see where it came out, right?
Matt: That's as close as you get right here in this position.
Laura: So can I use my-- can I get it out of the water and put in my bag of colding?
Matt: You spend your action to free it and you get it out of the water and put it into the bag of holding.
Marisha: That's all three, right?
Matt: So you have a bag of holding?
Laura: I have a bag of colding.
Matt: Colding? Okay, yeah, you can put it there. It has enough space.
Marisha: Three?
Taliesin: We've got all three.
Marisha: We have all three?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: You have all three lodestones currently.
Laura: Okay--
Liam: Is Keyleth--
Laura: We're all going to die, but we have three lodestones doing it.
Liam: Is Keyleth still grappled while unconscious?
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: Correct.
Liam: Shit.
Laura: And I guess for-- god. For my bonus action, can I-- I don't know what to do. I'm going to have-- while I'm thinking about this, I'm going to have the shark attack him.
Sam: 'Cause it's shark week.
Matt: Okay, shark moves here.
Taliesin: Bite the tentacles.
Laura: The shark's gonna bite the tentacle that's holding onto-- who's that right in front of him, Percy?
Matt: Yes.
Laura: No.
Travis: In front?
Matt: Right there this is Percy. This is Taryon.
Laura: He's going to swim towards Percy.
Sam: Wait, friendly shark! (all laugh)
Matt: Okay.
Laura: And bite the tentacle to help free Percy. And he gets advantage?
Matt: Correct.
Travis: Awesome.
Sam: Oh, shark ally!
Laura: 15? Is that enough?
Matt: 15. Unfortunately, it's just gnawing at it, but it's not quite breaking through, it's tough hide.
Laura: Okay. I look at my brother and say, can you get out of this?
Liam: Yeah, yeah, I'm fine.
Laura: Okay. I swim back and use my bonus action to try to hide.
Matt: All right. So you swim backward this way?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: How far? Which direction?
Laura: Towards the rock, towards the--
Matt: Towards the rock here?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: That's about as far as you can get, unfortunately.
Laura: Well, I try to hide--
Matt: You have Alter Self on you right? You cast it--
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: So you can make it. We'll say that's as far as you can get, no reason to hide, you're still out in the open, you don't have anything to hide behind, unfortunately.
Laura: Can I sit on the ground? I wanna sit on the ground and wrap my cloak around me and make myself look like a rock.
Matt: Actually, you do back up into the ink cloud, so you can.
Laura: Hey!
Matt: Which is not obscured to the kraken. So, you cannot hide. He can still see you in the ink cloud.
Laura: Oh really?
Matt: Yeah, so--
Marisha: Also did my Control Water--
Matt: It didn't-- this whole area is filled with ink, so you just cleared out this area here.
Laura: Well then, if I can't hide from him, can I use my bonus action to do something else?
Matt: Sure.
Laura: Then I'm going to have Trinket attack him.
Matt: All right. Trinket on your turn moves up to the back of it--
Laura: He'll attack the tentacle that's holding Tary.
Sam: Oh, friendly bear?
Matt: (bear noises)
Laura: Oh, Trinket-- Trinket's grappled!
Matt: Oh, Trinket can't move, you're right!
Laura: Trinket's going to attack the tentacle that's holding him.
Matt: Yeah, Trinket can't move, right.
Sam: Never mind, friendly bear. (all laugh)
Laura: Oh two 19s, and that's a critical for Trinket!
Liam: Yeah!
Marisha: Yeah Trinket!
Taliesin: (sing victory fanfare from Final Fantasy)
Marisha: (sing victory fanfare from Final Fantasy)
Taliesin: Aren't you unconscious?
Marisha: You know, they get it.
Laura: That's ten!
Matt: Ten points of damage. Trinket just tears with his jaws into the side. (growls)
Laura: Did he get out?
Matt: No, he did not, I'm sorry.
Laura: Damn it.
Matt: That ends your go, Vex. At the end of your turn, it's going to use its third and final legendary action to go ahead and attempt-- let's see--
Taliesin: Fuck, man.
Matt: It's going to attempt to make a bash attack against Percival and Vax. Which pushes you two together. There's no way to escape it, you just whack! Slams you both together. And you take--
Liam: (groans of pain)
Taliesin: (groans of pain)
Matt: You take 13 points of bludgeoning damage, both of you.
Taliesin: Okay.
Matt: All righty, that ends that. Percival, you're up.
Taliesin: Okay. I'm going to--
Liam: Don't do that, Marisha.
Taliesin: Hm? I know, she's making us feel really guilty right now. I'm going to hack away at this thing right now, so I'm going to try and hack away at this tentacle to get out.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: Disadvantage, correct?
Matt: Correct.
Taliesin: God, I'm really not enjoying this. That's a 17.
Matt: 17 does not hit. The first one you can't quite get your arms free, and you swing-- you just barely-- carves like a centimeter into the creature's flesh.
Taliesin: 19?
Matt: 19 hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
Taliesin: I know that natural 20 is just going to waste.
Marisha: It's so close, I know. That's good, though.
Taliesin: 13.
Marisha: Yeah?
Matt: 13 points of damage.
Taliesin: And I'll take another one, that's not going to roll well, here we go. My third hit is 16.
Matt: 16 does not hit, unfortunately.
Taliesin: So I'm going to burn my Action Surge and I'm going to take the Alter Self. That coin you gave me is--
Matt: Takes an action to do so.
Taliesin: What does it give me, just full movement?
Sam: Gills and full movement.
Marisha: It allows you to alter yourself based on what you chose, which is give you gills and fins--
Matt: Yeah, in this circumstance the best bet you want to have is gills and fins. So you can swim.
Marisha: Within moderation.
Taliesin: Yeah, so I burn my Action Surge for that.
Matt: Okay, so your Alter Self is in.
Taliesin: I'm going to go find my healing potions to find out what I have, but I'm going to do that-- yep, moving right along.
Matt: That ends your turn, Percy?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: That brings us to the kraken. Legendary actions return.
Taliesin: Fuck.
Matt: Kraken is going to shift around up and over there. So we'll say for the purposes of this--
Taliesin: We really need to leave badly.
Sam: Does the shark get an attack?
Laura: Is the kraken an animal?
Matt: Not quite.
Taliesin: No?
Liam: Monstrosity.
Matt: Going to curl over the top there, Trinket does get an attack of opportunity.
Travis: Does Grog?
Matt: No because it just moves into the space between you and Keyleth.
Sam: Laura, attack!
Taliesin: Does the shark?
Sam: Laura! Trinket!
Matt: The shark does not--
Travis: He's grappled. Trinket's grappled.
Sam: Yeah, but can still attack.
Matt: Yeah, 'cause the shark was attacking Percy's tentacle, so it was not in reach to attack the creature.
Laura: Was Trinket within range for a (chomps).
Matt: Trinket was not. He already moved before, 'cause Trinket was grappled before he could get into space with it. All right, it is going to use its Lightning Storm. So I need four bolts of lightning. That's going to be against-- That's going to be Vex, Taryon, Percival, and we'll say Vax. Dexterity saving throws, you guys.
Sam: You said something earlier about dexterity saving throws?
Matt: At disadvantage.
Taliesin: At disadvantage?
Matt: Yes.
Laura: Only if you're grappled.
Matt: If you're grappled.
Laura: Yeah.
Sam: Five.
Taliesin: 15.
Liam: 16.
Laura: 29.
Matt: So, hold on, was that five?
Sam: Yes.
Matt: 25 points lightning damage. Percival?
Taliesin: 15.
Matt: 15? 25 points of lightning damage.
Liam: 16 and Deathwalker's Ward.
Matt: So 25 reduced to half. 13 points of damage.
Laura: 29.
Matt: 29? You take 13 points of lightning damage.
Liam: Oh, and if I fail dex saves it's half damage, so I'm getting quarter damage right now.
Matt: Well, it's Evasion, so if it's half you do nothing.
Liam: If I succeed, it's nothing. If I fail--
Laura: But you're grappled.
Liam: I failed, it's halved.
Matt: You failed, so it's halved, so yeah, you take a quarter.
Liam: Plus the Deathwalker's, so down and down.
Matt: Right, I got confused, so yes. So half that as well. All right, that ends the kraken's turn. Grog, you're up.
Travis: Ha! Ha! Am I near Keyleth?
Matt: You are right next to Keyleth.
Travis: Great! I'm going to use my action to shove a greater healing potion in your stupid unconscious mouth. (all laugh)
Matt: All right, so that is 4d4 plus four.
Travis: I roll that?
Laura: You want some more d4s?
Travis: No.
Laura: Okay.
Taliesin: 4d4.
Travis: Great.
Laura: Yeah!
Travis: Four, six, eight, 12!
Marisha: Healing points?
Matt: Mm-hm. You get 12.
Liam: That's a number.
Marisha: I get 12.
Matt: Grog, you still have your bonus action. You are frenzied and you have your movement.
Travis: I do! I want to (doop doop doop) like Mario in the water world, and I want to go up on top of the kraken's face, and I want to punch him in his stupid big eyeball with the dwarven thrower.
Matt: Okay, so you come up onto the actual--
Travis: Yep.
Matt: -- kraken, okay.
Liam: Madman, love it.
Matt: So you're right there. Okay, so go ahead and make your attack.
Travis: Reckless!
Matt: So just a single roll.
Travis: Yep. 28.
Matt: 28 hits! Roll damage.
Laura: Eyeball death!
Travis: That's 14, 25. 25!
Matt: 35--
Travis: 25.
Matt: 25 points of damage. You just, whack!, bash it in the side of its face. (growls)
Travis: Eyeball took it pretty well, man, jeez.
Matt: Yep.
Travis: Those eyeballs are hard.
Matt: That ends your turn, Grog?
Travis: It does.
Matt: All right, Taryon.
Sam: I mean, we're just trying to leave at this point.
Laura: Yeah, we're just trying to get away.
Marisha: Yeah, yeah.
Taliesin: Yeah we're running, running.
Sam: So I will once again try my acid trick, and this time try to hit it and pull another bottle out and smash it on the tentacle.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Oh, where'd it go? That's shitty. So I'll use Luck. Oh, better.
Taliesin: Better.
Sam: 20.
Matt: 20 does hit, roll damage.
Sam: It's 7d6, right?
Laura: Whoa.
Sam: 22.
Matt: 22 points of damage. As you slam it and it begins to dissolve it, it is not enough to break free but it is fairly hurt and still holding onto you.
Sam: All right, for my bonus action I just say, oh, friendly shark! (all laugh)
Sam: I could use a bite over here! My animal handling is negative one, by the way. (all laugh)
Matt: Good to know. All right, Taryon, that's your turn. Vax, you're up.
Liam: Okay, I take Whisper out, and I'm throwing it at the ground ten feet away from you right next to Keyleth on the ground, and bamfing out of its tentacle to it.
Matt: Okay, go ahead and roll attack with disadvantage just to see it doesn't get caught in the water and float away.
Liam: (gurgling noise) 23.
Matt: Yeah, it's just enough strength for you to chuck it and (swoosh) hits the sand right next to her. You are no longer restrained--
Laura: Yeah! Oh, what a clutch fucking vestige.
Matt: You are next to Keyleth.
Liam: Plus Grog is whaling on its head, so I'm going to Sneak Attack the tentacle that's holding Keyleth. Yeah?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: I am whaling on its head.
Sam: Right now, somewhere in the world, Scanlan is eating a like calamari and going-- (all laugh)
Marisha: Gets a little bit of a nosebleed.
Matt: Basically yes.
Marisha: Not sure why.
Sam: Huh, that's weird. Little acidy there.
Laura: Would have been great if Scanlan were here just to like Dominate Creature.
Liam: 34.
Matt: 34.
Marisha: All that inspiration.
Matt: With that, the tentacle holding Keyleth is torn asunder. You, using your dagger to cut her free, and the cloud of blood left behind, and withdraws, she is freed.
Liam: Okay, and I will-- I can't use a bonus action to pull her, right, that's too much, yeah?
Matt: Yeah.
Liam: Yeah. I will use a bonus action to stand over and in front of her.
Sam: So brave!
Taliesin: Water wings.
Matt: All right, that brings us to Keyleth.
Laura: Don't get swallowed.
Matt: Keyleth, you are freed from the tentacle,and you are conscious, but up above you as you look up into space you can see the giant kraken maybe ten, 15 feet away from you. Grog is slamming in the side of its head and Vax is right there looking over you right now.
Marisha: Yeah, I'm just like a poodle over a pool right now, just doggy paddling instinctually. Do we have the lodestones, do we have all of them?
Taliesin: Yes! Yes!
Laura: Get us out of here!
Liam: While you were out.
Sam: You and your fucking lodestones!
Marisha: And I do Animal Shapes and I turn all of us to-- who's grappled? A lot of us. Right?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: Yeah, Trinket, Taryon, and Percy are currently grappled.
Marisha: I'm going to turn us into like little electric eels. Maybe it's because we made that joke earlier, I don't know.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Is that bad? Is that bad?
Matt: No, what do you wanna do?
Marisha: I just want something that is going to swim fast and then we all--
Laura: And we slip out of its grasp.
Marisha: Swim. We slip out of its grasp and swim to the portal. To the portal! And we go.
Matt: Don't have rules for eels.
Sam: There's a water snake in there.
Marisha: There is a water snake, which is kinda what I'm basing this off of.
Matt: We'll use that.
Marisha: The giant constrictor snake--
Laura: (laughs) He loves looking up animals.
Marisha: Has blindsight-- ugh.
Sam: They can swim really fast, and I know because I tried to turn into one when we were in the dragon. They have like a 40 swimming speed or something.
Matt: Saying a giant constrictor snake has a swim speed of 30 feet, that's the same speed as--
Marisha: Normal?
Taliesin: Normal?
Laura: I don't wanna be a giant constrictor snake. We wanna be teeny ones, or little ones.
Taliesin: No, it would be a normal, or like a swimming creature, though, what's the speed of a swimming creature?
Matt: Make your choice, Keyleth.
Marisha: Okay, okay, okay.
Matt: Most snakes are 30-foot swim speed.
Marisha: Most are and hunter sharks are 40-foot swim speed, killer whales are 60-foot swim speed--
Laura: So make us killer whales.
Marisha: But they're bigger motherfuckers, so can we do a giant eel that's got a swim speed of 40 feet?
Sam: Young sea serpent that can swim 60 feet?
Laura: Yeah, that!
Marisha: Ooh I wanna be that!
Taliesin: Thea Therpent.
Matt: Sea Serpent.
Sam: I don't know what that is.
Taliesin: (lisp) Help me, Cecil, help!
Sam: Oh no, that's huge, that's a huge monstrosity, she can't do that.
Matt: Monstrosity you can't do.
Sam: Can't do that, no.
Matt: What are you doing?
Liam: Killer whale, man, killer whale.
Marisha: Look, I'm bound by what the Player's Handbook gave me! So--
Taliesin: Let's go whale.
Marisha: So I'll go--
Matt: These are creatures you would know.
Marisha: Ah, fuck, whales are fucking big, though!
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: Whales are big.
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: So I'll be eels with a swim speed of 40 feet? So we can slip out?
Matt: What creature are you choosing is my question.
Marisha: Well, that's going off of a snake speed.
Matt: Snake-- I'm sorry, you need to pick a creature, you can't make up statistics here. Let's see here. So.
Laura: What are you reading, what are you reading, Marisha?
Taliesin: The giant snake is a land snake is the problem.
Marisha: It's a land snake.
Taliesin: Let's be whales.
Liam: Be whales, get the fuck out of here.
Laura: It still can hold us.
Marisha: Okay, but whales are 60 feet, sharks are 40 feet. That's our problem.
Matt: Most snakes I'm seeing here have 30 feet swim speed.
Laura: Then I think snake is probably better to wiggle out, that's the thing.
Marisha: Yeah.
Laura: He's going to be able to hold whales maybe.
Liam: Okay.
Laura: I don't know. I don't know! I don't know.
Marisha: We'd be slow to be snakes, but more possibly--
Travis: It's your Aramente. It's your Aramente.
Taliesin: It's your Aramente.
Laura: It's your Aramente.
Matt: What are you doing, as you're casting your spell. It's your Aramente. What are you choosing? What form?
Marisha: (yells) We're going to be eels! That's what I said at first!
Liam: Eels, we're eels.
Marisha: Swim, 30 foot!
Liam: Eels.
Matt: Okay, eels, we're using the statistics for a snake.
Marisha: I wanna use a statistic for a snake, but swim speed, fuck! I'm trying to be elusive here!
Matt: All right.
Marisha: Fuck.
Matt: I-- whatever. Fine.
Sam: We'll do it live!
Taliesin: We'll do it live!
Matt: You are all water snakes. You're majestic, ten-hit-point forms as water snakes. You all suddenly transform--
Taliesin: Mine has glasses.
Matt: -- into these tiny snakes.
Marisha: Go, go, go, go.
Matt: We'll say for the current purposes of this, until it comes to the kraken's turn, everyone who is currently grappled is not grappled, because you are a smaller form. Until the kraken's turn.
Sam: Ooh.
Marisha: Oh, god.
Matt: So we'll have to see whose turn order is what.
Laura: And we all just book it.
Matt: All right, so--
Marisha: Double movement.
Matt: That brings us next to the initiative counter 20. So. I need all of you guys, as snakes, to make constitution saving throws.
Laura: We're all just gonna bamf back to-- but at least, hey, we're ungrappled.
Sam: Matt. We're eels.
Marisha: I don't know what that did.
Matt: I know.
Sam: Eels.
Taliesin: Wait.
Sam: Hey! I did pretty good.
Taliesin: Electric eels-- if they're electric eels--
Marisha: I did okay. And we're still blessed.
Travis: And we still are blessed, right?
Taliesin: Constitution saving throw?
Liam: Keyleth is not. You are, and I am.
Matt: You did choose electric eels.
Laura: Oh!
Marisha: Okay, that went off the rails.
Matt: Which--
Marisha: That's not bad.
Taliesin: Aha!
Marisha: Okay, okay--
Matt: No, hold on.
Travis: Hold on.
Liam: We gots to be immune, man.
Laura: What are we doing?
Matt: I know. Because you chose eels--
Liam: Winging it.
Matt: -- the electricity has no effect.
Taliesin: Ah!
Sam: Matt hates everything right now.
Matt: Weirdly--
Marisha: What?
Matt: -- this worked to your advantage for the 20 initiative count.
Laura: Ah.
Marisha: (sings) Shocking like electric eels.
Matt: So as the pulse of electric energy shoots out from the kraken, it shocks around and through all of you, but your physical eel forms take no damage.
Liam: Feels good!
Matt: As they're used to conducting energy.
Taliesin: Ah!
Marisha: Sweet!
Matt: Vex.
Laura: Yeah?
Sam: (sings) Can't stop the eeling!
Matt: Your turn.
Laura: As an eel, I'm gonna swim around the big brown rock, away from the kraken, towards the door.
Matt: 30. And you're gonna use your action to dash, as well?
Laura: Yes.
Matt: That's as far as you can get. All right, finishing Vex's turn. All righty.
Laura: I feel like I'm just leaving everybody behind-- oh, and Trinket's gonna do the same thing.
Marisha: No, run, run, run. Get out, get out, get out.
Liam: But only because you are.
Matt: That's as far as Trinket can go, there.
Laura: Can he use his double action to do the same thing?
Matt: He doesn't have a double action.
Laura: Just kidding.
Matt: He moves in your turn.
Laura: But I am gonna make my shark attack him! The shark's gonna just swim up in his face.
Taliesin: What is happening?
Laura: Swim up in his eyeball, and just be like, wah, look at me, I'm--
Matt: Roll an attack for your shark.
Laura: I'm a shark!
Liam: Who hasn't gotten punchy at the end of a long D&D game?
Taliesin: I-- man, nothing makes sense anymore.
Liam: This is real D&D.
Laura: 21.
Matt: 21 hits. Roll damage.
Laura: Yes!
Taliesin: Good shark.
Laura: Okay, that's a bite attack, that is--
Liam: You went British again.
Laura: Okay, wait-- oh, that's more than that! Anyway.
Taliesin: I figure since I'm an eel, I'm gonna attack this thing.
Laura: 12.
Taliesin: I think I've got a shot.
Matt: All right. 12 points of damage to the kraken. Gotcha. All righty.
Taliesin: Ahaha. Sorry.
Matt: It's gonna go ahead and use Lightning Storm, costing 2 of its actions. It's going to focus this on--
Liam: Stupid kraken.
Matt: -- Taryon, Grog, and-- because you were the source of its magic and it is horribly frustrated, Keyleth. I need the three of you guys-- oh fuck, it's Lightning Storm, it's not-- you're all eels, what am I doing?
Marisha: Electric eels. We are electric eels.
Liam: Oh, no.
Sam: Oh, Matt hates us.
Matt: I'm-- it's been a long week, and I keep forgetting my fucking shit. It's okay.
Taliesin: This is the Winnie the Pooh of krakens. It's just trying its mild calisthenics to just try and make things.
Matt: All right, so it makes a lightning storm--
Liam: I thought he was being nice to us.
Matt: -- that strikes you guys--
Liam: He was just being nice to us!
Taliesin: And it tickles.
Liam: He's tired!
Matt: -- and, yeah, it tickles your fancy a moment as two of its legendary actions.
Laura: Aw.
Matt: All right, Percy, it's your turn.
Taliesin: I am going to book, double speed--
Matt: Respect. Respect on the electric eels that I gave you.
All: Yay!
Matt: Weirdly, saving your ass right now.
Marisha: Dumb idea that worked out.
Taliesin: I'm going to book through this weird little log.
Liam: 5.9, 6.2, 6.3--
Taliesin: I'm going to go straight through it.
Laura: Ooh, yeah!
Matt: 20, 25, 30. You just get out the other side, just barely seeing the eel-Vex ahead of you, just swimming through.
Laura: I wink at him, with my eel eye.
Sam: Ugh.
Taliesin: Ahh.
Sam: You know what, this is like an electricity between you guys.
Matt: Oh.
Taliesin: Wait, wait, right in the eye. Right in the eye.
Matt: End of Vex's turn, it's gonna use its last legendary action--
Liam: Hey. Fish porn.
Matt: -- to attempt to make a--
Sam: He throws water at us.
Matt: -- a tentacle attack at--
Travis: He throws water at us.
Matt: -- at you, Vax. The one that just recently severed one of its tentacles.
Liam: Okay.
Marisha: It's one of those mega water balloons.
Matt: That is a 28 to hit. Ten plus 18.
Liam: A what to hit?
Laura: Well, you're an eel.
Matt: 28.
Liam: Oh okay, do I not have-- am I hasted? Do I still have advantage on my dex saving throws? As an eel?
Matt: The effect is still on there, so yeah.
Taliesin: Very clever eel.
Liam: So it's, 'cause I'm blessed as well-- oh, it's a 32.
Taliesin: Yeah!
Matt: For dex saving throw?
Laura: But wait, no, it's-- is it an eel's--
Matt: No, it's an attack roll.
Liam: Oh, it's an attack roll. Oh, okay.
Matt: Against your AC, which as an eel is like, ten, so you take damage.
Liam: Oh, okay.
Marisha: You take its physical--
Laura: -- attributes.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: That is 18 points of bludgeoning damage.
Liam: What did it roll? Sorry, I thought--
Travis: 32.
Matt: 28.
Liam: Oh it definitely hit. Yeah, I'm sorry.
Matt: 28.
Laura: Plus, you're an eel. It's a 10 AC.
Matt: So your eel form is destroyed--
Liam: Got it. Aw.
Matt: -- and you take eight points of bludgeoning damage, and you are grappled.
Laura: Fuck.
Taliesin: He's got the dagger, though.
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: Wait, why is his eel form destroyed?
Laura: 'Cause it was 10 hit--
Matt: 'Cause it has almost no hit points.
Liam: 'Cause it smacked the shit out of me.
Matt: The lightning did nothing, but it just bludgeoned and grabbed and squeezed around the eel, and then you formed back within its grasp.
Taliesin: It's not a giant eel, it's just an eel.
Laura: Yeah. He's got like no hit points as an eel.
Marisha: Yeah, all right.
Taliesin: I can kill an eel. Anybody can.
Marisha: All right.
Liam: I'm sorry, Matt, what was the hit point damage?
Matt: "All right", you arguing?
Liam: There's so much shit--
Laura: Eight. Eight.
Marisha: No. No, we're not arguing.
Taliesin: No. No, we're not arguing.
Marisha: "All right" is not the statement of someone who's arguing.
Matt: Just making sure. I know. It's all good.
Marisha: "All right" is literally "all right."
Sam: Snakes have, like, two hit points.
Taliesin: No that's a kitten, have two hit points. Snakes have, like, six.
Matt: I just, I ruled you guys to have ten hit points in that form.
Taliesin: Yeah, we're ten-hit-point eels.
Marisha: That's fine.
Taliesin: That's fair.
Matt: Yeah, flying snake is, like, five hit points, so. You're fine.
Marisha: Sure.
Taliesin: They have flying snake? Never mind, I don't want to know.
Matt: So that ends-- all right, so that was on Percy's turn. End of that turn. It's back to the Kraken's turn.
Travis: Great.
Matt: The kraken gets its legendary actions back.
Liam: Shit.
Laura: Shit.
Marisha: Did you skip me?
Sam: You did plenty.
Liam: You turned us into eels.
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: I thought I was after Vax?
Matt: Vax went, then you turned everyone into eels.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: And then it went to the 20 count.
Laura: And then I went, then Percy went.
Matt: So now it's back to the kraken.
Liam: I just got whacked.
Marisha: I confused you with Percy.
Matt: You did, it's okay.
Taliesin: It happens.
Matt: All right, the kraken's going to do three bashes.
Liam: It's all right. We're both sad.
Matt: It's going to be against Grog, it's going to be against Keyleth, it's going to be against Taryon.
Sam: Yeah.
Laura: Fuck.
Matt: Grog, that is 29.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: Taryon, that is 31.
Sam: Nope.
Matt: (laughs) And, Keyleth, that is 34. All right. So against Grog, that is 24 points of bludgeoning damage.
Travis: Halved to 12.
Matt: You are an eel and grappled. You are out of your eel form and you're grappled. So-- well, your eel form just goes dead then you take-- what did I say again? It was 24--
Travis: 24.
Matt: You take 14 points of bludgeoning damage-- still raging-- halved to seven.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: Taryon, your eel form is destroyed.
Sam: Mm-hm.
Matt: That would be 22 points, so you take 12 points of bludgeoning damage.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: And you are grappled. Keyleth-- lucky roll. That is 14 points of bludgeoning damage. Your eel form is done. You're grappled, and you take four points of bludgeoning damage.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: Eel freed itself, so now you're back up on your feet.
Marisha: Who's still an eel?
Sam: No one.
Laura: Me and Percy.
Taliesin: Neal the eel.
Matt: Taryon as well.
Travis: Can I make a retaliation since he smacked me?
Matt: You can. Against him or the tentacle?
Travis: The tentacle.
Matt: All right.
Travis: Reckless.
Matt: Reckless.
Laura: Ooh, that's good.
Travis: That's a 31.
Matt: That hits.
Travis: Seven, 22.
Matt: 22 points of damage. You slam into the tentacle and it's still holding, but it's looking severely damaged. It's starting to-- the muscle's starting to tear apart. All right.
Marisha: Don't kill it.
Matt: That brings us to Grog, your turn. Grog, your turn.
Laura: It's okay, it's okay.
Taliesin: We can bring it back.
Travis: May I make my first strike a vengeance upon that stupid tentacle?
Matt: Go for it.
Travis: Yep. Reckless! That was not a roll. 30.
Matt: 30. (all laugh)
Sam: I need some d8s.
Travis: One, 16 points of damage.
Matt: 16 points of damage. You slam it again. This time the tentacle tears open and you're free. You are no longer grappled.
Travis: Sweet. Who's in the tentacle next to me?
Matt: You're gathering at this point, like, somewhere having around 30 points of damage gets rid of the tentacle.
Taliesin: Are we down three tentacles now?
Laura: Yeah, how many tentacles are we--
Matt: You now are down four tentacles total. Six left.
Taliesin: Oh. Six left.
Travis: Who's in the tentacle next to me?
Matt: Just below you about ten feet is Keyleth and Vax.
Travis: I mosey over to the one that Keyleth is in.
Matt: All righty.
Travis: And I will smash that tentacle.
Matt: All right. Keyleth, I need you to make a constitution saving throw, by the way. With advantage.
Marisha: Ooh.
Travis: Should I go ahead and roll?
Matt: 'Cause you took damage-- with the shift form.
Laura: Oh, right.
Marisha: Oh boy.
Laura: Is Beast Shape concentration?
Marisha: Oh that's good. 15.
Matt: You're fine.
Travis: That's a natural 20.
Laura: Oh! That's a natural 20!
Matt: Go ahead and roll damage for that plus your-- ha. So, roll the d10.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: Times two.
Travis: Which is a nine.
Travis: 18.
Matt: 18.
Travis: And I get a two additional damage die.
Matt: Yes, you do. So roll two more d10s.
Travis: Okay. Actually, I do nine plus the rage damage, and then I just roll this twice.
Matt: Yes.
Travis: Right. Okay, so that's--
Matt: Well, nine plus rage damage-- well, 9 times two, so it's 18 plus rage damage, plus your strength modifier. You destroyed the tentacle. The tentacle's dead.
Travis: Cool. (all laugh)
Matt: Yeah, Keyleth's tentacle is just smeared like a-- you slam into it and watch as a cloud of dark purple liquid kind of goes past her face. The blood from the kraken clears and the tentacle just goes limp, the section that's been removed from the rest of the tendril.
Travis: Not that you even need it, but I try and release Vax as well.
Matt: Go for it. So roll for--
Travis: Reckless! 16. 30-- 20-- 32.
Matt: Yeah, it hits.
Travis: Cool. Seven. 22.
Matt: 22. You slam into the side of Vax's tentacle, bash it, bash it. It's starting to tear apart, but it's not enough to free him entirely.
Travis: Cool. I am going to biggity-buck the fat out! (all laugh)
Matt: All right, your movement is 50, and you've not used Alter Self, right?
Travis: No, 'cause I don't have that!
Matt: Yes, that's--
Laura: Yes you do. You have a coin!
Travis: Oh, but that--
Matt: Yeah, but you have to use an action to do so. So that's five, ten--
Laura: But that's good to know.
Matt: -- 15, 20, 25. 'Cause your movement's 50 normally.
Travis: Nice.
Matt: So that's as far as you can get just kind of swimming by, trying to get over there. Ends your turn, Grog.
Travis: Thank you.
Matt: All right.
Travis: Making real good distance.
Matt: End of your turn, it's going to use Lightning Storm. Two actions. It's going to hit Grog, Vax, and Keyleth. Need all three of you to make dexterity saving throws, with Vax at disadvantage.
Marisha: Is this considered a spell?
Matt: Nope.
Marisha: Okay.
Travis: Are we all at disadvantage on the dex throws?
Matt: No, just Vax.
Travis: Okay, so I get two.
Marisha: Don't fuck me, Gil!
Liam: 21.
Marisha: What am I doing? Dex save?
Matt: That's not going to make it, unfortunately.
Liam: So the fail means I take half damage.
Matt: Correct.
Liam: Plus the Deathwalker's Ward, so quarter damage.
Matt: Correct.
Travis: 17 for me.
Marisha: 22 for--
Matt: And Taryon as well, actually.
Sam: Oh! Great.
Travis: Oh, wait! Blessed. Blessed! #Blessed, bitch!
Laura: Still?
Taliesin: Add a d4.
Marisha: (gasps)
Liam: I haven't made a constitution save in a while.
Sam: I mean, I'm grappled, right? So.
Matt: Well, it's not at disadvantage.
Sam: Oh. Okay.
Marisha: Not great.
Sam: 12.
Matt: Wait, you're restrained, you are-- yes. So yes. You do.
Sam: Natural one. (all groan)
Matt: Yeah, so 24 points lightning damage.
Sam: Okay.
Taliesin: You're awake.
Marisha: 21 total for me?
Matt: 24 points of lightning damage.
Marisha: I'm unconscious.
Matt: Keyleth falls unconscious once more. Vax.
Liam: My turn? I'm just going to repeat what I did before. Attack--
Matt: No, no. What-- you take 24 reduced to half--
Liam: To a quarter.
Matt: Yeah. So 12 points of lightning damage. Reduced to quarter--
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: -- six.
Liam: Six.
Matt: Then Grog--
Travis: 19.
Matt: 24 points lightning damage reduced to half.
Travis: 12.
Matt: 12.
Matt: All right, so! That was the end of Grog's turn. Taryon, your turn.
Sam: I reach into my magic satchel, this time pulling out a powerful healing potion, which I drink by myself.
Matt: Okay. (all laugh)
Sam: Okay. 14, 21--
Marisha: Is that what you needed all the d8s for?
Sam: Uh-huh. (laughs)
Taliesin: Could have had a d8.
Sam: 35.
Matt: All right. Heal yourself 35.
Laura: Wow.
Sam: Yeah.
Laura: That's a major healing spell.
Sam: Yeah.
Marisha: Give me my d8s back. (all laugh)
Marisha: Fuck you.
Matt: You still have your bonus action, if you want to do anything.
Sam: Just sort of gently weep.
Travis: Weep! (laughs)
Sam: Yeah, just kind of weep softly.
Matt: Vax, you're up.
Sam: I'll do one more Sanctuary on myself! That's my last spell.
Matt: Sanctuary, technically, is still lasting, 'cause it's not concentration.
Sam: It's not! Oh, well then--
Matt: Well, no, every time you attack you lose it. You're right. I keep forgetting that, so yes.
Sam: But I haven't attacked him in a while.
Laura: You've attacked him with acid since.
Matt: You cut a tentacle.
Sam: I did. I did.
Matt: So Sanctuary is back up. Okay.
Liam: Is it on me now?
Matt: Yes.
Liam: All right. Keyleth is adjacent to me, right? On the ground?
Matt: Yes, she is.
Liam: Okay. So I'm going to use my first action to cast Lay On Hands and dump five hit points into her to wake her back up.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Next action is going to be to throw Whisper into the ground again. And bamf to it.
Matt: All right. You just escape the grasp.
Liam: And I'm going to use bonus action to back up fucking 30 feet towards the big-- yeah, towards the portal.
Matt: All right. By the way, all your guys' forms? You revert back to your normal selves. You are no longer eels.
Marisha: Yeah I kind of went unconscience.
Matt: So you're backing up 30 feet?
Liam: Yeah, backing up.
Travis: Unconscience?
Marisha: Unconscious.
Travis: Take it easy there, champ.
Marisha: Yeah, you know.
Travis: Take it real slow.
Matt: You are hasted, so yeah, 30 feet. You just get out of the range. It's going to take an attack of opportunity on you with its tentacle. That is-- nine plus 18 is 27 to hit.
Liam: Oh, that hits. Yeah.
Marisha: It's Gil's fault.
Travis: Yep.
Matt: You take--
Liam: Uncanny Dodge.
Matt: -- 21 points of bludgeoning damage.
Liam: Okay. Halved to ten or 11?
Matt: Halved to ten and you are grappled by the tentacle.
Laura: Ah, jeez!
Liam: Mother bitch!
Travis: Love America.
Sam: We just gotta get out of here. (all laugh)
Travis: I'm gonna kill this stupid sea puppy.
Laura: Don't kill it. Don't kill it.
Sam: Don't kill it, get us out of there!
Marisha: No! No, no, no. Get us out. Get us out.
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: Leave it armless.
Marisha: Leave it alone.
Matt: Keyleth, it's your turn. You come to consciousness. Once more you watch as Vax is darting off and a tentacle wraps around him. You see Taryon pulled, but the rest of your allies are rushing off in the distance.
Marisha: We have all the lodestones, right?
Laura: Yes, we do. All the lodestones.
Taliesin: Are you getting hit in the head?
Marisha: Yes! I literally have! Fuck!
Matt: What are you doing?
Marisha: Who is closest by the portal?
Matt: You can't see from where you are. It's actually blocked. You just see this giant, jutting underwater structure.
Travis: An ink cloud.
Laura: No, not anymore.
Marisha: There's an ink cloud?
Laura: No, not anymore. They got--
Marisha: I got rid of that, right?
Matt: No, you only got rid of part of it here. The ink cloud still sits in this vicinity.
Laura: Oh.
Marisha: Okay. Oh, dear god. I'm gonna Control Water again.
Matt: You're casting it again?
Marisha: Yeah, I'm casting it again.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Get outta there.
Marisha: Who's around me?
Matt: Around you it is Grog, it is Vax, and it is Taryon.
Marisha: I am going to--
Matt: And a shark.
Marisha: -- push us towards the portal with Control Water. Just (sound of rushing water).
Matt: All of you, towards the portal?
Marisha: Yeah. Control Water towards the portal.
Matt: All right. Say, 20 feet. Five, ten, 15, 20. Five, ten, 15, 20. Five, ten, 15, 20.
Marisha: Is there anyone still held on by the kraken?
Laura: No.
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: Oh.
Matt: I mean, Taryon and Vax are still grappled by it, and this-- the kraken gets moved to there.
Liam: It's got some long-ass tentacles.
Marisha: Vax is still grappled?
Matt: 30-foot range.
Laura: Yeah, and Tary.
Liam: Yeah. I was just at the edge of its range and it snagged me.
Matt: So you're right there.
Marisha: Okay. I'm gonna take a Grasping Vine, I'm gonna grab Vax and yank him towards me from this-- who's got the thing? From that-- that one closest by.
Matt: And yank him towards you?
Liam: Back towards the kraken?
Marisha: This one.
Laura: Why are you trying to yank him towards you? You are directly under the Kraken.
Matt: You cannot see this, unfortunately.
Marisha: I can't see that?
Matt: No, this is all obscured with ink right now.
Marisha: Can I see this red thing?
Matt: This thing got pushed this way--
Marisha: Can I see this?
Matt: Actually, with your Control Water that pushed this way would have cleared some ink in this area, but right now this whole structure is blocking it. You cannot see this rock.
Marisha: Can I see this red thing in front of me?
Matt: This here, you can. Vax is right next to it.
Marisha: Okay. I'm gonna drag him closer in. I wanna drag-- send him this way. [no audio]
Liam: -- wooden structure?
Marisha: Beyond it.
Matt: Well, the Grasping Vine only pulls things towards where it emanates, and since he's right next to this, it'll just pull him right against it.
Marisha: Okay, Tary-- where's Tary?
Matt: Tary's right here as well, it'll just pull him into the rock.
Marisha: Well, bullshit all the way around. Then I just swim desperately, doggy paddle towards the portal.
Matt: You still have your bonus action.
Marisha: There's-- what's left?
Matt: Your Wild Shape? Miss five hit points?
Laura: Oh, yeah, that could be smart. Since-- so you don't go unconscious again.
Liam: Whale it, dude.
Marisha: All right. I'll killer whale towards the portal.
Matt: Not to tell you what you're doing, but this is your thing and you're at five hit points, right underneath the kraken, the closest to it.
Marisha: Where am I?
Matt: You're here.
Liam: You're right under the kraken!
Laura: You're right under the kraken!
Marisha: All right. All right. All right. (LAURA laughs)
Taliesin: It's very hard to see from this-- I will say--
Marisha: It is very hard to see from what this is--
Taliesin: --this map is a nightmare.
Travis: Can we get some ammonia that we can pour on a cloth and just, like, take a big whiff of?
Marisha: Sure.
Laura: Just wake her up?
Matt: What are you-- what are you Shaping into?
Laura: Adrenaline.
Marisha: I'll go killer whale.
Matt: Killer whale!
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: All righty.
Travis: I think there's some in the first aid kit in the hallway. I'm pretty sure I stole some last week.
Taliesin: More kraken.
Marisha: That was true.
Taliesin: Oh my god, you actually have a mini for that one.
Matt: I don't actually. I did not come--
Liam: I remember that bag.
Matt: I'll say for the sake of this-- for the time being this--
Marisha: It's fine.
Matt: -- this naga will be your killer whale. Sure. That'll work.
Liam: So pretty.
Matt: All righty.
Marisha: And all of my Control Water direction is towards the portal.
Matt: Yes.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: You've cleared out some of the ink in this area. That's your turn.
Marisha: Sure.
Matt: All righty. Top of the round. The kraken is going to go ahead and-- the water current seems to shift in the opposite direction. I need each creature within 60 feet of the kraken, which is all of you, to make a strength saving throw.
Travis: Yeah!
Liam: Son of a bitch.
Taliesin: Aw, god damn it.
Marisha: Is that including me?
Matt: Yeah, all of you.
Sam: 11.
Matt: 11?
Taliesin: 23.
Matt: 23, all right.
Taliesin: Yeah!
Matt: So you only get pushed ten feet.
Marisha: 21.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: 18.
Laura: 23.
Liam: Ooh.
Matt: Pushed ten feet.
Laura: But only ten for Trinket.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: 22.
Matt: 22 is a failure. All right. So that is 60 feet away from the kraken for everyone who failed.
Sam: What does that mean?
Matt: So.
Sam: We're just pushed away?
Matt: You're right over here, pushed away.
Taliesin: It's doing a big like (raspberry).
Matt: The water just rushes through and pushes all of you away. Trinket is pushed--
Marisha: Who failed?
Matt: -- 60 feet that direction.
Sam: About everyone.
Laura: All right.
Matt: Roll for the shark, if you could. It's gonna maintain its grapple on you guys, you guys are just being yanked in that direction.
Laura: Does he--
Marisha: Wait, who failed?
Sam: Like, everyone.
Taliesin: Everyone.
Liam: Yeah.
Laura: I mean, 18 is what I rolled, I don't know what I add for it.
Matt: Yeah, so no, that's not gonna-- so the shark gets pushed up into that, there.
Sam: Fucking kraken. Do I get slammed into that thing?
Matt: Actually, you do, but it doesn't do any damage, it just kind of pushes you and the tentacle kind of holds you there. Keeping you grappled. It's not gonna release the grapple.
Taliesin: That acid's gotta be-- burn through that at some point. Is that a continuing--
Sam: That's a different tentacle.
Matt: Yep.
Taliesin: Damn it.
Matt: All right. So. That brings us to Vex's turn.
Taliesin: One less.
Laura: I mean, do I see any of this happening as I'm just fucking swimming away? I guess my--
Matt: All the ink has now washed away to the space, and everyone gets pushed away by the force of the water.
Laura: Fuck. I'm gonna swim up so I can see down over the rock.
Sam: (accented) Over the rock?
Matt: Okay, so there, and you can just--
Liam: What's your character's name?
Matt: -- see over this way, you can see your brother there--
Laura: Okay.
Matt: -- you see the kraken, you see everyone being pushed to this way, and everything being shoved to that direction.
Laura: I'm gonna try to shoot an arrow into the tentacle holding my brother.
Matt: All right, go for it.
Liam: Where'd the Key-whale go?
Laura: Oh. Disadvantage, right?
Matt: Yep.
Laura: Same thing. 25?
Matt: 25 hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
Laura: 15, 16, 17. 17 damage, with four lightning, which I'm sure does nothing.
Matt: Nope. That's enough. Your arrow goes right through, and that's the last bit of damage it needs to actually sever that tentacle.
Liam: Love you!
Laura: Sweet.
Matt: Freeing him. All right.
Laura: And then I'm gonna-- do I have any movement to swim back down and hide? As my bonus?
Matt: You could certainly try. If you land back down that way--
Laura: Oh, miss it.
Matt: So go ahead and roll-- breaking line of sight just barely, go ahead and make a hide check.
Laura: 22.
Matt: 22. Okay.
Laura: And then I'm gonna have my shark attack him.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: How many tentacles does it have?
Matt: The shark has a speed of what? 40?
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: 30, 35, 40. Just barely gets up into the space to hit it, so.
Laura: Plus nine-- 17 plus nine is 26!
Matt: 26 hits!
Taliesin: Good shark.
Laura: Good shark. Good shark. Good shark. With a bite attack--
Liam: Frickin' lasers.
Laura: Sweet. 14.
Matt: 14 points of damage. All righty.
Laura: I'm just using Trinket's stats, 'cause that's what I had in front of me.
Matt: Sure.
Laura: Is that terrible?
Matt: Yeah. But it's fine.
Laura: I'm sorry.
Matt: You haven't done enough damage, near enough, to really threaten the kraken yet, so you're fine.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: All right.
Travis: What turn's that?
Matt: Ending Vex's turn!
Marisha: No.
Matt: End of the turn, it's gonna use its last legendary action. It's going to go ahead and make a tentacle attack at you.
Laura: Oh, and Trinket's gonna swim towards the door.
Matt: That's as far as Trinket can get. All righty. That is a 29 to hit.
Liam: Shit balls. 28. Wait--
Taliesin: d4.
Liam: I'm Blessed!
Laura: It's your AC.
Matt: It's your AC.
Laura: It's just your AC.
Liam: Oh, fuck a duck, I thought I was doing it in-- a Dex save. Then it got me.
Matt: That is 18 points of bludgeoning damage.
Liam: Sure.
Matt: And you are grappled.
Liam: Uncanny Dodge.
Matt: Right. So nine.
Liam: Okay.
Matt: And it grapples you once more with that tentacle.
Liam: Okay.
Travis: How many tentacles were left, like three?
Matt: Five.
Travis: Five.
Laura: Fuck, he has a lot of tentacles.
Taliesin: They go down-- they go down fast, though.
Liam: Get out, get, go.
Matt: All righty. Percival. Your turn.
Taliesin: I am booking double speed to that door, 'cause I am useless--
Marisha: Get out, get out, get out, get out.
Matt: That's as far as you can go.
Taliesin: And I'm also-- I've got form this-- so I'm full speed.
Matt: What form?
Marisha: Alter Self. Alter Self.
Taliesin: Fins and gills. Alter Self.
Matt: That's right, you did, yeah. So, yeah.
Marisha: Alter Self. Go, go, go out--
Laura: And you're out!
Marisha: Out! You're out!
Matt: You leap out, you are through.
Laura: One's out! One's out!
Liam: Yes, one of us will live!
Taliesin: I am holding-- I am just, like, waiting on the other end for everybody.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: But you made it! That's good!
Liam: Who lives, who dies--
Liam: --who tells our story.
Marisha: --who tells our story.
Taliesin: --who tells our story.
Taliesin: Please, please no. Please, no.
Liam: It's too late!
Laura: It already happened.
Liam: It's done.
Matt: Top of the kraken's turn--
Liam: Jeez.
Marisha: Just tell 'em, tell 'em Percy! Tell Doty!
Matt: It's gonna move over here--
Taliesin: I'm just so useless in this fight.
Matt: Grappled, Vax?
Marisha: That's not true.
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: It's going-- giant beak--
Laura: No, no, no!
Matt: -- opens up towards you. That is a two plus 18, that is a 20 to hit.
Liam: No.
Matt: Because of the Haste bonus.
Liam: Yes.
Travis: Oh, he does not swallow you.
Laura: He doesn't swallow you!
Matt: I fuckin' rolled a two. Okay, all right, as it goes and snaps towards you--
Liam: Van Damme splits, just out of the way!
Laura: But grappled.
Matt: However, hang on. However, while you were attacked, you were restrained, so--
Laura: I'm gonna throw up.
Matt: -- restrained creatures, attacks against them do have advantage.
Liam: Okay.
Matt: So, that is a 28.
Liam: See ya later, guys.
Sam: You got swallowed?
Liam: Mm-hm.
Laura: What if you--
Marisha: What?
Matt: I just realised that, 'cause it says-- I forgot, it says here-- it says until the target's grapple ends the target is restrained, and attacks against restrained creatures have advantage.
Liam: Is that at all connected to dexterity?
Matt: No.
Liam: No. Okay.
Matt: Sorry.
Liam: It's all right.
Matt: So that is--
Sam: Are you dead inside of it?
Laura: Is this the ultimate fight of like--
Sam: Or just inside of it?
Laura: Yes! Ugh.
Marisha: No, he's just inside.
Matt: 15, 24, 34 points of piercing damage.
Liam: I'm out.
Laura: (gasps) you're unconscious inside of him?
Matt: And you are swallowed.
Travis: Holy fucking shit.
Sam: He'll be fine. He'll be fine!
Travis: This is insane. Oh my god.
Matt: All right.
Travis: Oh shit.
Matt: That is the kraken's turn, Grog, you're up. You watch as it just swallows Vax as his eyes go limp, and the jaws just take his not moving form and swallow inside.
Travis: Um.
Marisha: Does Keyleth see this?
Matt: You do, 'cause you're back here. Make an intelligence check.
Travis: An intelligence check?
Matt: I know.
Travis: Hold on, everybody. Prepare for an amazing--
Laura: Natural 20.
Travis: Nine.
Matt: All right. What are you doing?
Travis: I am gonna attack this big stupid sea-chicken.
Matt: Okay, so you just get into melee range.
Travis: Wait, I mean-- yeah. Yeah.
Sam: Yeah, 'course.
Marisha: Go for it, that's exactly what Grog would do.
Travis: Yeah, can I aim for one of its tentacles that is functioning?
Matt: Sure. Go for it.
Travis: Cool. Reckless. Natural 20.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Should've made it-- That's a--
Laura: Wow.
Travis: Ten, plus, 25, 30, 35.
Matt: 35 points of damage. You go ahead and sever one of the nearby immediate tentacles as it's whipping around you.
Travis: I'll take the next tentacle that works.
Matt: Okay. As you finish that strike, you feel this strange sense piercing into your relatively unprotected skull.
Travis: It's very unprotected.
Matt: As no language peeks through, but you get this very strong, angry, hungry sense-- this emotional force that says, "Oh, now you've made me angry."
Sam: Ooh.
Matt: You start realising very quickly that this creature, while it seemed like a force of nature, has been just feeding, but you've got its attention now.
Sam: Ooh.
Matt: Its instinct has turned now to its intellect to reach out to its food. You've made it angry. What are you doing with your next attack?
Laura: Fuck. We shouldn't have attacked it so much.
Travis: Apparently, my hammer is talking to me. Reckless attack.
Matt: All right.
Travis: 23.
Matt: That hits.
Travis: Okay. 17.
Matt: 17 damage? All righty.
Travis: Last attack-- that tentacle's still fine, right?
Matt: Yes it is, damaged, but it's still there.
Travis: Yeah. All right, Reckless. 31.
Matt: 31 hits.
Travis: Ten. 25.
Matt: 25. You destroy another tentacle, as three are currently remaining.
Sam: One of them's around my neck.
Travis: Yeah, so one of 'em's on Tary, and there are two free?
Matt: Correct.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: That ends your turn.
Travis: I am going to use my not incredible speed to just--
Matt: You used your full speed to move up to it.
Travis: I'm gonna just end my turn.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Yep.
Matt: Taryon.
Sam: I mean, I mean--
Taliesin: Do you have-- do you have a Hail Mary?
Sam: I mean-- No!
Taliesin: This is-- wow.
Sam: No, I have-- my Hail Mary I did on my first turn. I'm going to try to break free. I will put my finger up right next to-- against the tentacle, and just use that Ring of the Ram, and just try to punch through it.
Matt: Okay. So, how many charges--
Sam: I regained three.
Matt: Okay, so you use all three charges?
Sam: I have all three charges.
Matt: Go for it. So go ahead and make your ranged spell attack with disadvantage.
Sam: 12 plus nine is 21.
Matt: That hits! Go--
Sam: Oh wait, disadvantage, shit. That's less. That's 17.
Matt: 17 just misses. You try and squeeze it by and the ring releases and it smashes into the rock and destroys part of the nearby plant life, which then begins to just float away, chunks of rock and sand, and some of the underground dark soot begins to billow out. The tentacle still remains affixed around you.
Sam: Terrible.
Taliesin: Do you have a bonus action? Anything you can--
Matt: All right.
Sam: I mean, I don't have any potions, or anything, I-- nope, that's it.
Matt: It is going to use one of its legendary actions to attack Grog with one of its remaining tentacles.
Laura: He's a defeatist, if I've ever seen it.
Matt: That is a 34.
Travis: I think that hits.
Matt: Grog, you take 19 points of bludgeoning damage, reduced to nine--
Travis: Okay.
Matt: -- and you are grappled.
Taliesin: It only has one more tentacle left that is available.
Marisha: We can't fucking kill it, you guys, don't kill it.
Travis: I would like to make a Retaliatory Attack.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: A Retali-tali--
Taliesin: It can have no tentacles. It can still feed.
Matt: Against?
Travis: The one that grappled me.
Matt: Okay, go for it.
Taliesin: They'll grow back.
Travis: Reckless.
Marisha: They won't grow back.
Travis: That's a 31 again.
Matt: That hits. Roll damage.
Travis: Okay. 21.
Matt: 21 points of damage. You slam into it, it looks like it's pulling apart, but the muscle's still holding tight. Vax. I need you to make a death saving throw with advantage.
Marisha: Don't die.
Matt: Okay. Brings us to Keyleth.
Travis: Did it work?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: You're back here.
Marisha: Who's grappled and who's closest to the portal?
Matt: Grog is closest to you, grappled, and there is Taryon on the other side, that you cannot quite see.
Marisha: I still have Control Water up, correct?
Matt: You would, yes.
Marisha: Taryon and Grog are both grappled?
Laura: Yes.
Matt: Correct.
Marisha: And I'm free underneath them?
Laura: Yes.
Matt: You're free over here, yes.
Liam: Yeah, you got loose.
Sam: You're the naga.
Marisha: Okay. I used Alter Self originally, correct?
Matt: Yes.
Marisha: Alter Self. So I still have all my Beast Shaping, correct?
Matt: Correct.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: Well, you have your beast shape you used to turn into this form.
Marisha: Huh?
Matt: Your Wild Shape you used to into this form.
Sam: You're a whale right now.
Marisha: I didn't use Alter Self to do that?
Sam: No.
Laura: You used Beast Form on that.
Sam: Alter Self doesn't do that.
Marisha: Oh, okay cool.
Matt: Alter Self just gives you gills and fins, you used--
Laura: You used Beast Form to turn into a whale.
Marisha: Sorry, sorry, sorry, I meant, sorry, I meant-- Animal Shapes. No?
Matt: Animal Shapes you've already cast on everybody--
Marisha: I've used Animal Shapes to everybody?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Right, but you lost concentration--
Marisha: I used that to me, right.
Matt: -- when you went unconscious.
Marisha: All right. Cool, cool, cool. Cool. Okay. I'm gonna try to get Grog out of the grasp again with my Grasping Vine.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Bonus action first. See if I can--
Matt: Grasping Vine from where?
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: You can have it come out of the ground here if you want it to.
Marisha: He's right here?
Matt: Grog is right here.
Marisha: Correct? Yeah, yeah, yeah. So I wanna be over here-ish.
Laura: You're pointing at the TV screen.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Sam: (laughs)
Marisha: Yeah. It's hard 'cause I don't literally have access beyond this rock.
Matt: So pulling up this way?
Marisha: On the other side of that, closest to the portal? Yeah.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Marisha: Yeah, yeah. Yeah. That's what I want.
Matt: Okay, so we'll say, pulling this way.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: All right. Go ahead and roll a d20 plus your wisdom modifier.
Marisha: Don't fuck me, Gil!
Taliesin: Oh.
Marisha: What is that? What is that? Not-- What is that? What is that?
Taliesin: Oh, that's good! Okay, yeah, that's really hard to see, sorry, 'cause of the light. That's a 17.
Liam: Plus your wisdom modifier.
Marisha: That is a 17?
Taliesin: That is a 17, yes.
Laura: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Liam: 17 plus.
Marisha: Sorry, I don't want to feel insane. Plus my wisdom modifier.
Liam: Yes.
Matt: Correct.
Marisha: (nervous laugh)
Matt: Which is?
Marisha: 30-- sorry, 28! 28!
Matt: Your Wisdom modifier is plus six, right?
Marisha: Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, sorry, not a saving throw, so 20-- 17 plus six, which is 25?
Matt: All right, so you pull Grog this way, and with Grasping--
Laura: 23.
Matt: -- Vine, that's a range of what?
Marisha: 23? 17 plus five-- six?
Matt: What's the range of your Grasping Vine?
Liam: The range. The range of Grasping Vine.
Matt: How long-- how far does it pull?
Marisha: It's a 30-foot range, with another 30-foot range coming from me. So 60 foot total.
Matt: Right. So you-- okay, you can pull him out of the range, it does break--
Marisha: 30 foot.
Matt: Yeah. So you do break the grapple on Grog, and pull him away from that.
Taliesin: Drinking again.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: All right. So your movement.
Marisha: And then I have my action, and my movement.
Matt: Correct.
Marisha: And I'm a normal person right now, or am I a whale?
Matt: No. You're a whale, still. You haven't taken any damage. You just got pushed away.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: Which actually, technically, in whale form you couldn't cast the spell.
Marisha: I wouldn't be able to cast the spell.
Matt: So would you drop your form?
Marisha: Yeah.
Sam: For sure.
Matt: Okay. So Keyleth--
Marisha: Yeah, I would definitely drop the form.
Matt: Keyleth is back into that, cast the spell.
Marisha: And then I have another spell. Correct?
Matt: You have your-- well, you have your-- you can cast your--
Marisha: Second level or lower.
Matt: -- second level or lower as your action, and you have your movement still.
Marisha: So-- fuckin' A, this is complicated. Okay. Then I would cast, oh, shit. I got Grog out. Who's almost dead?
Laura: Well, Vax is inside of the kraken.
Taliesin: Vax.
Travis: Vax is inside--
Marisha: Yeah, I don't know if I can do anything about that right now, though. I can cast a second level or lower-- oh my god, this is awful.
Sam: Just heal yourself.
Marisha: All right. Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I'll heal myself-- sorry, for another Healing Word level two-- last level two spell.
Matt: Okay. And you're gonna move towards the--
Marisha: I'm gonna move-- no, I'm gonna stay close towards the kraken.
Matt: So you're gonna stay here?
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: Or move towards the kraken? Are you not moving?
Marisha: Where am I?
Matt: You're right here.
Liam: It's hard to see on the screen.
Marisha: You're actually not even on the screen.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: Right, but you can see my fingers.
Marisha: I can see your fingers-- let me move closer towards the kraken and towards the portal.
Matt: There you go.
Marisha: And that's all I'll do.
Matt: So we'll say there.
Matt: Okay. Got you. Top of the lair action--
Marisha: And I heal myself, sorry, level two--
Matt: Yes. Do that.
Marisha: -- which is 2d8. Healing Word.
Matt: All right. I need everybody to make--
Sam: Oh boy.
Marisha: Sorry. 2d4.
Matt: -- a constitution saving throw.
Marisha: That's-- both ones. That sucks. One plus six--
Sam: 12!
Travis: I'm not Blessed anymore, am I?
Matt: 13 points of lightning damage.
Sam: Great.
Matt: Percival.
Taliesin: I'm not there.
Matt: You're not there. That's right. Keyleth. Constitution saving throw.
Liam: Roll a d20.
Marisha: Natural one.
Matt: 13 points of lightning damage.
Marisha: 13?
Matt: 13. Vex.
Marisha: I had 12 hit points, so I'm unconscious.
Travis: Didn't you just heal yourself a little bit more, though?
Taliesin: For 12.
Marisha: I-- for 12. And now I'm zero.
Liam: But you would have 20--
Matt: Wait, wait, you were at five before.
Liam: You were at five. You couldn't have been at zero.
Marisha: And then I healed seven.
Liam: Oh, to seven to get to 12.
Laura: Ooh.
Matt: Ooh.
Marisha: And I healed seven 'cause I rolled two ones.
Matt: Yeah, Keyleth goes unconscious.
Marisha: So-- no, no, no, wait-- I rolled two ones on my d4s.
Matt: Yes.
Marisha: And I have--
Taliesin: Six plus two.
Marisha: -- a plus six, so that's actually eight.
Matt: Eight?
Marisha: Do I have one hit point left?
Taliesin: You're at one hit point, you're at one hit point.
Marisha: Is that accurate?
Sam: Eight plus five is--
Taliesin: Yes.
Sam: -- eight plus five is 13, you just took 13 hit points.
Matt: You're zero.
Laura: So you're at zero.
Taliesin: You're at zero. Never mind. Fuck.
Matt: You just fall unconscious.
Laura: You're at zero.
Marisha: I'm at zero.
Taliesin: Okay.
Matt: All righty.
Marisha: God f-- damn it.
Laura: I rolled a 20.
Matt: A 20?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: All right, so you take 13 points lightning damage.
Laura: Okay, and Trinket rolled a-- like a four.
Matt: 13 points of lightning damage.
Laura: Cool.
Travis: 20-- 23 and resistance.
Matt: All right, so that's 11--
Taliesin: It's gonna come down to Grog.
Matt: -- six points of lightning damage to you, Grog. All right, so Control Water is dropped.
Marisha: Get out. Out.
Matt: That ends--
Travis: Me?
Marisha: Get out. Get out.
Matt: -- Keyleth's turn. The 20 count.
Travis: What about him?
Matt: Vex, what are you doing?
Marisha: You're all-- I've got him. You've got three lodestones.
Laura: I saw--
Taliesin: You don't have--
Matt: You saw Keyleth just go--
Travis: I only have one.
Marisha: You and him.
Matt: -- get shocked as the burst of electrical energy shoots through the area, and she just kinda goes limp again, and is kind of floating in space.
Laura: And I saw Vax get swallowed? Did I see that happen?
Matt: You would've just barely seen it over your shoulder. And heard someone say it over the earpiece.
Laura: I-- fuckin' A. I swim up, and I swim-- god damn it.
Matt: You have your bonus action for a dash if you want to try and get closer, it's up to you.
Laura: I'm gonna try to shoot thorns, I guess, Hail of Thorns, maybe? Actually, I'm gonna try-- yeah. I'm gonna try--
Matt: What are you doing?
Laura: -- to shoot Hail of Thorns at-- directly at his mouth. I don't know, try to get him to like, do something to let go. Spit it up. It's the stupidest plan. I know. But, I'm not thinking clearly, my brother's got fucking swallowed.
Matt: Okay, what level Hail of Thorns?
Laura: I'm gonna do it at-- Oh, everything within five feet, and Keyleth is in five feet.
Matt: No, Keyleth is over here.
Laura: Okay. Is anything within five feet?
Matt: Currently, no.
Laura: Okay. Then I'm gonna-- I'm gonna cast it at fourth level.
Matt: Fourth level?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: You still have a fourth-level spell?
Laura: Oh no, I did Grasping Vine.
Matt: You did.
Laura: Did I?
Matt: That's when you pull--
Laura: No, I didn't.
Marisha: That was me.
Laura: No, I did Conjure Animals.
Matt: That's right, you did.
Laura: So fourth level.
Matt: Yeah, okay, fourth level? So that is an additional 4d10 piercing damage towards the attack. Go ahead and roll the attack.
Laura: 23?
Matt: 23 is the disadvantage?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Okay, that hits.
Laura: 11 plus three lightning and then-- how many? 4d10?
Matt: 4d10.
Laura: 18.
Matt: Okay, plus 18 points of damage. So as you fire the arrow, it sinks into the side of its mouth, just bursts with thorns in the vicinity. Kind of roils, but it doesn't seem to have any effect. You have your secondary attack if you want to.
Laura: Yeah, I guess I'm gonna try to shoot at his eye.
Matt: Okay, go ahead and roll.
Laura: 29.
Matt: 29 hits.
Laura: 16, plus four lightning, nothing.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: And I'm gonna-- This is so stupid. I'm gonna swim back down and try to hide. I've got nothing.
Matt: You already used your bonus action, unfortunately. To cast the spell.
Laura: Yes, I did. I'm gonna stand right there and say, fuck you, let go of my brother.
Matt: Okay. Percival, you're on the other side of the portal, looking through and you're watch--
Taliesin: How long-- Can I see what's going on?
Matt: I mean, you get a slight-- If you peek out the side. It's still obscured and like, the water--
Taliesin: And it's only been six seconds.
Matt: The Daylight spell is still kinda shooting out from underneath, so it's this beacon of light in the underwater area. So you get a decent view of what's going on. You see Keyleth kinda go limp in the distance. You see Grog there. You see Vex trying to shoot.
Taliesin: No. (inhales) I'm gonna try and-- how far do I have on that? I'm gonna try and stick my head through the portal. I'm gonna try and cast Minor Illusion? In front of the beast?
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: It can't be complicated, can it? It's gotta be small.
Matt: Nope. It is a cantrip.
Taliesin: It's a cantrip, so it's nothing. It's nothing fancy. I'm just gonna try and make a big meaty target appear. Just like a thing that looks like-- I'm gonna try and do like the shape of some aquatic animal? A small-- anything to try and get right in its face?
Matt: You concentrate through the portal and you watch just short of about 30 feet past you, a little shimmering space looks almost like a fish but it's sort of translucent and blob-like.
Taliesin: God damn it.
Matt: It's not really gonna help in this situation. Sorry.
Taliesin: I got-- Other than-- Yeah, I got nothing. Other than trying to distract it.
Matt: All right. End of your turn?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: It's going to use--
Taliesin: I pull back through the portal, obviously, but.
Matt: All righty. As you pull back through and it returns, it's gonna ahead and use-- It's taking another legendary action to make a-- This is gonna be a tentacle attack against you, Grog?
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: With advantage, that's going to be nine plus 18, that's 27?
Travis: That hits.
Matt: You take 12 points of bludgeoning damage plus ten, that's 22. Divided by that. 11.
Travis: 11.
Matt: All right, Percy's--
Travis: Can I make a retalito-ri-teh?
Matt: You already used it.
Travis: I did.
Matt: Sorry.
Sam: Retali-tali-tah?
Matt: It is now the Kraken's turn. At the top of the round, you lose a death saving throw?
Sam: To what?
Matt: As the acid begins to slowly burn away--
Laura: Oh yeah, this is gonna be--
Matt: Oh no, I mean like, you lose one. As the acid burns.
Liam: Oh, it just goes. Okay.
Matt: The acid is slowly digesting you. It's gonna move four, five, ten, 15, 25, 30. We'll say for the purposes of this, you're right there, Grog. Space is getting a little cluttered over there.
Travis: Am I grappled or did he just bitch slap me?
Matt: I mean, it hit you and grappled you.
Travis: Okay, cool.
Matt: One of its remaining tentacles--
Taliesin: Is Tary-- Tary's still held on?
Matt: Tary is--
Sam: Being pulled around.
Travis: Hah!
Matt: You're being pulled up over the rock and dragged across.
Liam: (make impact noises)
Laura: (make impact noises)
Matt: Like, oh god. Over there. That's a 34. You take-- this shit's getting intense.
Taliesin: (groans)
Matt: Oh my god.
Liam: Getting intense? Jesus.
Matt: (laughs) That is--
Marisha: God damn it.
Matt: -- 29 points of piercing damage, halved--
Travis: Okay, so that's?
Matt: To 14--
Travis: 14.
Matt: And it swallows you a second time.
Taliesin: Good!
Laura: Good, then you can get Vax out.
Marisha: Yeah, you can get Vax out.
Matt: Pulling you into its body--
Taliesin: Good! I approve of this.
Travis: You guys think this is part of a plan.
Matt: You are consumed and restrained once again in its dark space inside as you're pulled into the--
Travis: Fuck this tiny hole shit.
Laura: (laughs)
Matt: That ends its turn, Grog, you're up.
Travis: Ah, it's my turn now? I don't even get like a second to think about it?
Matt: Nope! Ah, as you're pulled inside the voice comes up again and it's now emanating outward to you as well, Vex, and in the unconscious darkness of Vax and Keyleth, the voice just says, "I've been here a long time, and I'll be here long after you are dust. Feed me and give me sustenance, I'll find my way through somehow." Grog?
Travis: I take a greater healing potion. Can I reach Vax at all? Can I find any part of his foot or anything and pull him down to me?
Matt: All right, so-- you can either reach around for him, try and feel for him-- you can take a healing potion as a bonus action if you'd like.
Travis: It's not for me.
Matt: Oh, it's not for you? You can make an investigation check to try and find him. This is gonna be your action to do so.
Travis: Is he rough at all? Even close?
Liam: The kraken.
Laura: The kraken.
Matt: The kraken? Not from what you've seen. You guys haven't been doing focusing damage, you've been trying to move around him. He's lost a number of tentacles, but--
Travis: Right, and those tentacles-- the tentacles don't count towards his overall damage?
Matt: No, they do.
Taliesin: They do, but--
Travis: (sighs loudly) What a choice. I am going to-- fuck it, I'm gonna make an investigation check for Vax.
Matt: Go for it.
Laura: (groans)
Travis: That's a big natural one.
Matt: Feeling around inside, you're unable to find any current form of Vax right now. However, you still have your bonus action and you are frenzied.
Liam: Take that fucking potion. Take it.
Travis: All right, I'll take the potion myself.
Matt: All righty.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: So, what potion is it?
Travis: It's a greater, my last greater
Matt: All right, 4d4 plus four hit points.
Travis: 4d4 plus four.
Laura: So that's 48 hit points healed!
Travis: Seven, eight--
Sam: (laughs) Thanks, Laura.
Travis: 11, 12.
Matt: Oh, Laura, do you want your shark to do anything, by the way?
Travis: 16.
Sam: Nailed it!
Travis: 16 points of healing.
Laura: Yeah, I want it to go and try and attack the tentacle that is holding Tary.
Sam: The shark? Hello, shark friend! Aquatic ally!
Liam: I'll be back.
Laura: 21? No, 22.
Matt: That hits, roll damage.
Laura: 14.
Matt: 14 points of damage, that was one that had previously taken 22 points of damage--
Sam: Ooh!
Matt: the shark actually does tear the tentacle free, so technically Taryon, before you're about to get dragged over the coals of the top of this, before the shark actually tore into and removed your grapple from--
Taliesin: And Trinket runs.
Matt: It is down to two tentacles.
Laura: Trinket runs--
Sam: Wow.
Laura: -- oh yeah, and Trinket ran towards the door
Marisha: To the door, Taryon.
Sam: I can't hear anything.
Matt: Four here, four there.
Taliesin: Well, and she's unconscious.
Sam: (laughs) I can't really see the layout-- is it my turn, by the way?
Matt: It is your turn now, yeah.
Sam: I can't really see the layout of that rock, can I see through it? Is there an under that I can--
Matt: There is actually-- there is a small, kind of under-- kind of a low bridge.
Sam: Well, ball sack. I can't move very fast now, can I?
Matt: You can move 15 feet, as you swim through.
Sam: Can I wiggle through, under the little outcropping there, and get to the other side?
Matt: 15. You can just get out to that side, yeah.
Sam: Do I have a clean line of sight on him?
Matt: On the kraken?
Sam: Yeah.
Matt: Yes, you do.
Sam: Okay. I mean-- I can't really--
Taliesin: How many tentacles does the kraken have now?
Matt: Two more.
Sam: If I shoot the thing, the people inside will die. (nervous laugh)
Laura: I don't know about that, it might keep them from getting digested
Sam: Nuh-uh. I don't think so
Taliesin: Only one-- I mean, it's not like you're saving them by not hitting them at this point
Sam: They're gonna die.
Taliesin: Yeah, no matter what you do.
Marisha: Don't kill the kraken.
Taliesin: Kraken ain't dying.
Sam: I mean--
Taliesin: Kraken got ten thousand hit points.
Sam: Wow.
Taliesin: He's not even vaguely dying.
Sam: Is there a part of the kraken I can see that looks like I can do damage to it without hurting the main-- what is that, the thorax? (laughs)
Matt: You don't see any-- it is a big creature. Your friends are somewhere deep inside its fleshy, digesting interior, the outside is armored, and filled with very, very taut muscle and hide, so yeah. You would probably not damage your friends if you were careful.
Sam: All right, well, then I will take off a diamond and blast it with a Prismatic Spray.
Laura: (gasps)
Matt: Oh shit.
Taliesin: Thank god!
Sam: Yeah, yeah, except half of the things won't do anything to it.
Taliesin: Yeah, but we are out of options!
Laura: Well, still better than nothing.
Taliesin: I am totally okay with a Hail Mary.
Laura: Oh my god.
Matt: Okay, so as a Prismatic Spray, in this direction-- out this way, it'll just crest past the front of the kraken and the tentacles-- let's see here. Prismatic Spray, that's a dexterity saving throw on that.
Sam: I'm sure it makes it.
Matt: That is a 23.
Sam: Yeah, of course it makes it.
Matt: All right, so roll for your first beam, which is against the kraken itself.
Sam: Do I roll a d8? Or wait, to choose what kind of beam?
Matt: Are you focusing on the kraken or one of its tentacles?
Sam: I mean, no tentacles are holding anything right now, right?
Matt: Currently, no.
Sam: All right, so--
Matt: So it'd be just the kraken.
Sam: Just the kraken.
Matt: All right, so roll a d8 to see which beam hits it.
Sam: Five?
Matt: Five, that is 10d6 cold damage.
Sam: Oh, cold! That's good.
Matt: So go ahead and roll that.
Taliesin: Want some d6s? Or are you okay?
Sam: Doesn't have resistance to that, right?
Laura: Maybe.
Sam: Ten, right?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Marisha: Yeah.
Sam: Eight, 14, 19, 30, 35.
Matt: 35 points of cold damage, reduced to half because it made its save.
Sam: (groans)
Travis: Disable those tentacles, man.
Matt: That's 13. All right.
Taliesin: If you do enough damage to it, it may vomit them out.
Travis: No, we gotta do it from the inside.
Matt: You get that sense.
Laura: (groans)
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: Do you have-- yeah, and the tentacles don't get a Prismatic Spray of their own?
Matt: Nah, it's one of those things where it just damages the creature, you have to focus a specific physical attack on one tentacle.
Taliesin: Oh, man.
Matt: All right, that brings us to the top of the round, Vax, go ahead and roll a death saving throw with advantage.
Sam: I can't do a-- rip off a patch and take a potion, can I, as a bonus?
Matt: A regular potion, you mean?
Sam: It's a patch potion.
Matt: A patch potion?
Sam: Yeah.
Liam: It's like a nicotine patch.
Laura: Would it be like a patch healing spell?
Taliesin: A Patch Addams.
Matt: Using the patch is an action I think, originally, sorry.
Travis: Can you chew it?
Sam: (laughs) I just chew on the patch.
Matt: So Vax?
Taliesin: It's just jerky you've sewn into you.
Liam: Good.
Sam: (laughs)
Matt: All right, so Keyleth, death saving throw please.
Travis: Oh, I forgot she's unconscious, too.
Taliesin: (groans)
Marisha: Plus my constitution?
Matt: Nope, just a d20.
Taliesin: Nope, straight.
Matt: What'd you roll?
Marisha: Three.
Matt: All right, so you failed one death saving throw. Let's see. Then after that, it's--
Sam: Percy's having a Mai Tai somewhere.
Matt: All right, Vex, Trinket and Taryon, make dexterity saving throws please.
Sam: 11!
Matt: 11. Six points of lightning damage.
Laura: 19 for me.
Matt: Six points of lightning damage.
Laura: And-- fail, like five.
Matt: Six points of lightning damage for Trinket.
Laura: Six?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: He's unconscious, so he's bamfed to my necklace.
Matt: All right, well, yeah.
Laura: Is he within a hundred feet?
Matt: Yeah, yeah he is. Keyleth, you fail another death saving throw.
Marisha: Immediately?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: You took lightning damage.
Laura: Oh my god.
Matt: All righty.
Laura: Oh my god.
Sam: This is not gonna go well, guys. (nervous laugh) We got nobody else on the field.
Matt: Vex, it's your turn, you have an unconscious Keyleth over here.
Laura: I'm gonna swim to her and try to cast Cure Wounds.
Matt: Okay. Cast it.
Laura: Good, I'm casting it at third level. So that's 3d8. That's cocked. That sucks. Seven, sorry.
Matt: So that was a total of what?
Laura: Seven.
Matt: Seven.
Sam: -- points. Hey Keyleth, you're alive!
Matt: So Keyleth, you are conscious.
Marisha: Seven points?
Matt: You heal seven hit points, you are conscious.
Marisha: (gasps)
Travis: Back in the game.
Laura: Save my brother! (garbled) Save my brother.
Marisha: (garbled) Okay.
Matt: All right. Ending Vex's turn. Percival-- actually, Vex, you still have movement if you want to.
Laura: I'm gonna try to hide.
Matt: You have nothing to hide behind.
Marisha: Get out, get out, get out.
Laura: I'm gonna just swim away from-- I'm just gonna try to swim towards the fucking door, but try to keep my distance from kraken while I'm doing it.
Matt: It's hard to do that right now, but you have the door that way, there's a little gap. All right, that ends Vex's turn. Percival, anything?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Sam: That thing do anything?
Taliesin: No, it fires electricity.
Sam: Oh.
Laura: Oh, shark is going to attack one of the last tentacles, if it can get to it.
Taliesin: I'm going to hold my action for--
Matt: It can just barely get there. Go ahead and roll an attack.
Taliesin: -- for the vague hope of something useful.
Matt: Okay. Holding your action to?
Taliesin: To attack-- I've already burned it, and it laughed it off. Just to attack the kraken--
Matt: Just sword at the ready?
Taliesin: If it gets close enough, just sword, just--
Matt: Okay.
Laura: 28.
Matt: 28 hits. Roll damage.
Laura: 12.
Sam: That shark is our most effective weapon.
Laura: The shark has been pretty great.
Matt: All righty. That brings us to--
Sam: What can you turn us into?
Matt: -- the kraken's turn. Top of the turn, the acid burns through you even further, Vax. You fail another death saving throw.
Liam: So that's two?
Matt: That's two. All right. Top of the kraken's turn, it's going to-- let's see who's in range, here.
Sam: (sings with the background music)
Travis: This is mindblowing.
Laura: And it's so late.
Liam: Yeah, it's midnight.
Laura: And we're just into the wee hours of the morning, watching ourselves die.
Sam: Guys, I think this is one of our tightest games.
Matt: This is kind of nuts. All right, it's going to make a tentacle attack at both-- at the shark, Vex, and Keyleth.
Laura: But he only has two tentacles left.
Matt: That's right, two tentacles. So it's going to make one at Vex and Keyleth.
Travis: But the shark is so dangerous.
Laura: The shark's been hurting it.
Sam: The shark is literally the most dangerous thing we have.
Laura: And Keyleth just is barely--
Matt: You gather this creature is far more intelligent than you think. It's not a natural beast. It's a fairly intelligent creature.
Sam: What if the shark gets the how do you want to do this?
Matt: That is a 26 versus you. You take-- well, the good news is I'm rolling shit damage. That is 18 points of bludgeoning damage to you, Vex, and you are grappled by one tentacle. And against Keyleth, you are-- it's technically not within five feet of you. That's a natural one. I was like, I'm pretty sure he had advantage because you're prone, but prone is the creature has advantage against any creature that is within five feet of the creature, otherwise it has disadvantage. So yeah.
Laura: That's great.
Taliesin: Oh, god.
Marisha: I'll just go back to doggy paddling.
Matt: That's one thing that saved you. And that's gonna be-- just the two attacks, that's all it can do this turn. All right. That brings us to Grog, you're up.
Travis: Let us whoop the everloving shit out of the inside of this kraken, Reckless, everything. Yeah. Just all three attacks, just hitting it--
Matt: Great Weaponmaster as well, or not?
Travis: It's not really a great weapon.
Matt: Two-handed, versatile means you can hold it with two hands.
Travis: Oh yeah?
Matt: Pretty sure that's how it works. I'll check real fast.
Travis: It's just a hammer, it's not like a greatsword or a greataxe. I thought maybe it was--
Matt: I'll double-check the wording, just to be safe.
Taliesin: You'll decrease the resale value of these books with how much you've been cracking the spines tonight. I'm just saying.
Matt: Oh, it's a heavy weapon. Not-- so yeah, you cannot. You were right.
Travis: I'll make 'em Reckless, though. All three.
Laura: (sings) My honest husband.
Travis: 29.
Matt: 29.
Travis: Hits, right?
Matt: Just gonna double-check, 'cause the internet's gonna get angry at me.
Travis: I'm just gonna roll the damage.
Matt: 29 hits.
Travis: First is a 20.
Matt: 20 points of damage?
Travis: Second one is a 22.
Matt: 22, hits.
Travis: Hits? Okay, good.
Laura: Don't.
Travis: 24 points of damage.
Matt: 24 points of damage, all righty.
Travis: Last one is a natural 20. (all cheer)
Matt: Roll damage.
Sam: Oh my Jesus.
Travis: That's a ten, that's 44, and that's seven, so that's 51 points of damage. 51 points of damage to it.
Matt: That, in its own attack, is enough to make its constitution saving throw. Let's see if it-- That is a four! Plus 15 is 19, is not enough to make its constitution saving throw. It vomits Grog and an unconscious Vax--
Marisha: Oh, thank God.
Matt: -- out in the front.
Marisha: Fucking hell.
Taliesin: Got to get a healing potion in that guy stat.
Matt: Jesus Christ, guys, you're killing me.
Laura: (groans)
Taliesin: Get it, get it in him.
Matt: So, Grog, it's you, you still have your movement.
Travis: I do have my movement--
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: Okay.
Travis: I am going to-- it's such a short shitty movement--
Laura: You better fucking heal him.
Travis: -- can I just rotate around him towards the door and stay within.
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: As far as I can get.
Matt: 25, you can get there.
Travis: Halved, yep.
Taliesin: Ah, fuck.
Matt: All right, ending Grog's turn, Taryon.
Sam: Ah, wait, is Little Elf Boy alive?
Matt: No.
Laura: No, he's unconscious.
Matt: He's unconscious with two failed death saving throws--
Sam: And Grog just ran away from him?
Marisha: But he's out of the kraken, he's out of the kraken.
Laura: Grog can't do anything.
Sam: Okay.
Taliesin: But if you can heal him for a point--
Sam: Nope.
Taliesin: In any way possible--
Sam: Nope.
Taliesin: Okay.
Sam: Nope (laughs). Can't do it.
Taliesin: This is not good, people.
Liam: True love's kiss?
Taliesin: I am very far away, right now.
Matt: There you go, Sam.
Sam: Is it my turn?
Liam: I just mean Sam.
Sam: I mean, that I would love to do.
Liam: Again.
Sam: (nervous noises) Nope, I got nothing. Prismatic Spray will kill everybody else-- ring of the ram's dead-- I can't throw anything that far, right? He's like 40 feet away from me?
Matt: Yep, no, you're right over here you're-- what would Taryon do at this moment?
Sam: 50 feet away? How far am I?
Matt: You're about 50 feet from him, yeah.
Marisha: You have a bag, right?
Sam: I can't throw something 50 feet underwater, and I can only move 15 feet.
Marisha: But you can swim out-- oh.
Sam: (laughs) There's very little I can do--
Marisha: But you can double your movement.
Sam: I will say "crossbow" and change my thing, my rod, into a crossbow--
Matt: Uh-huh.
Sam: And nock the poison bolt and shoot it.
Laura: (gasps)
Matt: Sure, I'll say-- all right, so--
Laura: Look at that, look at that poison bolt.
Sam: I'll also move 15 feet--
Matt: There you go, go ahead and make your attack with disadvantage.
Sam: Okay. (mock-sobbing) It was a one. (all laugh)
Matt: You pull it back and fire and it goes (kerplunk) and the bolt just goes and floats up and you're like, "Shit".
Travis: Wow. Wow.
Sam: But when I moved Matt, I want to move toward it, not away.
Matt: Okay, so you'll be--
Taliesin: I'm gonna get you a new d20 soon.
Matt: All right. Ending Tary's turn, Vax, death saving throw, with advantage.
Laura: (gasps)
Matt: With no Luck left?
Marisha: What what what no? No? Nothing? No luck? Come on.
Travis: Wow.
Marisha: Raven Queen shit? Nothing?
Travis: Wow. Really?
Matt: The last bit of air escapes the lungs of Vax, lifeless on the ground. All right. That ends your turn, obviously, Keyleth.
Marisha: Oh my God.
Travis: What the fuck?
Sam: The kraken.
Marisha: Who do I see?
Matt: You're right here on the ground, you see Vax not moving. You see Vex currently grappled inside there, and Grog and everyone rushing in this direction towards the portal.
Marisha: Vex is grappled, Vax is dead, and then there's me. How close am I to Vex and Vax?
Matt: You are ten feet from Vax and 15 feet from Vex, or ten feet from each, actually.
Marisha: I'm ten feet from each?
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: Can I swim with my Alter Self, grab both of them-- Can I do that? Can I grab both of them?
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: With my swim speed--
Matt: All right.
Marisha: -- Alter Self. Yeah?
Matt: You can, you can grab--
Marisha: In between them.
Matt: You can grab Vax-- and begin to tug him toward Vex at half speed so that's five, ten--
Marisha: No I've got Alter Self! I've got Alter Self!
Matt: Right, but you're--
Laura: You're tugging--
Matt: -- you're dragging him behind you as you go.
Marisha: Come on, man, do I have Vex--
Matt: Five, ten, 15, 20, 25, 30--
Marisha: 30.
Matt: You're like just in the space.
Marisha: (gasps)
Matt: What're you trying to do?
Marisha: And I cast, I cast Plane Shift and I get us out of here--
Matt: Oh shit! Okay. All right. And with that, the three of you vanish.
Marisha: Sorry, everyone else.
Sam: The three of you, wait, you, who, and who?
Matt: The shark vanishes.
Sam: Oh, the shark.
Travis: Who just vanished?
Marisha: Me, Vex, and Vax--
Taliesin: Everyone but you--
Matt: Plane Shifting where?
Marisha: It's you and Taryon left. Get the fuck out.
Travis: Where are you going?
Matt: Plane Shifting where, Keyleth?
Marisha: Back to Vesrah.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: We're out of the portal.
Matt: All right. They vanish. Grog. All right, so that finishes Keyleth's turn. Top of the scale here, I need both of you guys to make dexterity saving throws.
Marisha: Wait, who? Who?
Matt: Grog and Taryon.
Travis: And I have advantage.
Marisha: Wait, Grog is dead?
All: No!
Laura: Dexterity!
Matt: Dexterity.
Taliesin: Dexterity saving throw.
Sam: 18.
Matt: 18, all right, you take eight points of lightning damage--
Marisha: I thought you said death.
Matt: Grog?
Travis: 17.
Matt: That is eight points--
Travis: With resistance?
Matt: Yeah, reduced to four.
Travis: Okay, so just four.
Matt: All right, Percival.
Marisha: Wait, wait, are you grappled?
Sam: It's fine, you're not there.
Laura: Nobody else is grappled right now.
Taliesin: You're not there.
Liam: You're gone, you're gone. You're chill with me.
Marisha: Nobody else is grappled.
Taliesin: I'm-- There is nothing I can do.
Matt: All right. End of your turn, the last legendary action to attempt to grab and grapple Grog.
Marisha: (groans)
Matt: With advantage, because you--
Travis: That's right.
Liam: Fuck you, kraken.
Matt: That is 26.
Travis: That hits.
Sam: (exasperated sigh) Fuck.
Matt: You take nine-- ten points of bludgeoning damage, being reduced, and you are grappled.
Travis: To five? Oh, ten is reduced?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: Okay.
Liam: Whew!
Travis: And can I make my Retaliatory?
Matt: You can.
Sam: On that tentacle!
Travis: Reckless. 23.
Matt: 23 hits, go ahead and roll damage.
Travis: That is also a 23.
Matt: 23, that one had taken 13 damage earlier. That tentacle is destroyed. There is one left.
Travis: I'm not grappled?
Matt: You are no longer grappled. There is one slightly damaged tentacle left. As you do so, the voice says, "No. Come, join your end here in the depths." All right, that ends your Retaliation, Percy's, it is now-- Wait, so that was Percy's turn, right?
Taliesin: I already, I just--
Marisha: Can't do anything
Taliesin: -- there's literally nothing I can do.
Travis: Yeah, he didn't do anything.
Matt: Right, okay. It's gonna come forward here, it's gonna do Lightning Storm against both of you. I need both Taryon and Grog to make dexterity saving throws once more.
Travis: That's good.
Sam: 18.
Travis: 20. No more blessed.
Liam: Hashtag no more blessed.
Matt: All right.
Travis: Yeah, hashtag no more blessed.
Laura: Hashtag so not blessed.
Matt: That is a really shitty roll. 13 points lightning damage--
Sam: Dead.
Matt: -- 13 points lightning damage.
Laura: Unconscious.
Travis: 20 and resistance for me.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: So it was? Sorry.
Matt: It was 13 minus that to--
Laura: Tary--
Matt: -- seven.
Travis: Seven.
Matt: So Taryon falls unconscious.
Laura: Motherfuck.
Liam: Scanlan appears in a purple puff of smoke!
Matt: I know.
Travis: Are you really? Are you really? Where are you?
Sam: He's right near you.
Marisha: So both Vex and Tary are unconscious?
Matt: So, Grog, it's your turn.
Sam: You don't even like me.
Travis: I'm gonna take the coin--
Marisha: You're unconscious?
Liam: She's with us.
Laura: You took me!
Liam: You just bamfed us out.
Travis: -- I'm gonna Alter Self.
Marisha: Wait, who's unconscious?
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Tary!
Liam: Tary!
Travis: I'm gonna grow gills and fins.
Sam: Wait! Sh! He's doing stuff.
Matt: Okay. So the gills and fins appear, your webbed fingers, and what're you doing?
Travis: I see Tary fall... and I... ... bolt for the portal.
Laura: (gasps)
Sam: Going right past me.
Travis: Yep.
Laura: Oh, fuck.
Taliesin: I am staring you in the deadeye--
Sam: I love it. I love it.
Travis: And can I, can I like--
Marisha: We need, he has a purse.
Travis: -- can I like double my speed?
Matt: No, unfortunately, because you used your action to do the ability on you, however-- Oh! Wait, wait, you have the-- so you have the full movement--
Travis: I do.
Sam: Full movement?
Travis: That's right, 50.
Taliesin: We need the-- (sigh) we need the fucking lodestone.
Laura: Oh he's--
Laura: -- got the other lodestone.
Sam: -- got the other lodestone.
Laura: He does have the third lodestone!
Sam: Fuck you guys.
Travis: Do I make it to the portal?
Matt: You are just on the outskirts of it. And you see Percy yelling at you.
Taliesin: Lodestone!
Travis: What? Oh! (all laugh)
Travis: Right.
Laura: Oh, that was a great way to ensure that you got out of here, Tary. (all laugh)
Matt: All right, coming through at 20, Grog, I need you to make a dexterity saving throw.
Liam: Come on, girl. Get out.
Travis: 19.
Matt: That is 10 reduced to five, five points of lightning damage against you. Taryon, you fail a death saving throw--
Sam: Sure.
Matt: -- automatically 'cause you take the damage from the lightning.
Taliesin: How far is Tary from the-- how many feet is Tary from the portal?
Matt: Tary is--
Sam: 50?
Matt: 40 feet.
Taliesin: 40 feet?
Matt: Yep.
Taliesin: What's my running speed?
Marisha: Get out, get out.
Taliesin: What's my running speed?
Matt: Your running speed is 30.
Taliesin: Okay.
Matt: All right, Percival, what're you doing?
Marisha: Get out, get out, get out.
Sam: You can dash and get 60.
Taliesin: (deep sigh) God damn it.
Marisha: You still have the coin, right?
Taliesin: I've already taken it.
Sam: Your potion of haste.
Travis: Don't complicate this.
Taliesin: I don't have a potion of haste!
Sam: Yeah, sure you do.
Travis: Don't complicate this, I think we'll be okay. I think.
Matt: Percival, what are you doing?
Taliesin: I have a healing potion. I have a healing potion.
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: Fuck.
Marisha: Come on, Percy.
Taliesin: I don't know what the fuck to do.
Liam: That's the title for the episode.
Sam: What's your speed?
Taliesin: 60.
Sam: Yeah, so go over there and heal me, fucker! (all laugh)
Taliesin: Yeah, I'm not going to survive one round in there. I'm 16 points.
Sam: Oh, okay, I will.
Taliesin: Yeah, there's no-- is Grog looking rough?
Matt: Grog, how are you looking?
Travis: I'm okay.
Taliesin: You're looking fine?
Travis: I'm all right.
Taliesin: I'm just going to scowl at you. I'm actually, fuck it! I have something I can do!
Matt: What are you doing?
Sam: Science bros, man!
Matt: What are you doing, Percy?
Taliesin: I'm gonna cast Friends on Grog.
Matt: Grog. Make a wisdom saving throw. With advantage, because of Heroes' Feast.
Travis: I don't even know what that is.
Liam: Wow.
Travis: Three. Five. Zero modifier.
Liam: Holy shit.
Travis: I don't know what that is.
Liam: Love this game.
Matt: Actually, it's supposed to be charisma checks against him. What are you trying to do?
Taliesin: Just toss the nitwit through the door!
Matt: Wait, are you trying to intimidate him?
Taliesin: No, I'm begging!
Matt: All right. Make a persuasion check with advantage. That's how technically it's supposed to work.
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: But, I'm giving you--
Travis: Through the water?
Taliesin: With advantage, that was cocked, though, was it?
Sam: That's a 20.
Taliesin: Okay. Yeah, it was 20.
Matt: 20? Okay.
Taliesin: Natural 20.
Matt: Okay, Grog. You come through and see Percy looking at you, and oh shit, you don't wanna make him mad. He's your buddy.
Taliesin: Toss the nitwit through the door.
Travis: The nitwit. That's-- okay.
Taliesin: Yeah. I'm good. I'm good.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: I love you. I'm so proud of you.
Laura: What just happened?
Travis: The nitwit.
Taliesin: That's what I said.
Travis: Who do you think I'd think the nitwit is?
Taliesin: I think it's--
Marisha: Grog.
Taliesin: I can't take it back, what I said. I'm well aware.
Matt: All right.
Sam: (sings along with the background music)
Taliesin: I can start to argue with you if you start to do something stupid, which is fine.
Travis: You did cast Friends, so. Technically, I would think nitwit is me, and I'd be like, okay, here I go.
Taliesin: You might. I'm not gonna--
Sam: Why don't you roll for it, Travis?
Travis: No, he cast Friends, and the whole point is to-- yeah.
Liam: You don't know that.
Travis: Yeah, that's a DM call. It's not quite my call.
Matt: The kraken is going to go ahead and make a bite attack against you.
Taliesin: Ah, god damn it.
Matt: Because it only has the one tentacle left. That is an 18 plus six, that is 24. That hits you. You take--
Taliesin: Oh, shit.
Matt: That's 23 points of piercing damage.
Travis: How many?
Matt: 23. Reduced to 12 because of your raging. And you are-- oh, you were not grappled by the kraken. So it does not swallow you. (all cheer)
Matt: That saves your ass there, man. I was just about to eat you. Okay. Been good for you guys. Yeah, that's the kraken's turn. Grog, what are you doing?
Travis: I am going to aquaman run over to Tary.
Taliesin: You have full speed now.
Travis: Yep.
Taliesin: So you can double-speed if you want.
Matt: Well, it's 25 there. It's gonna take an action to pick him up.
Travis: Maybe I just wanna grab the bag.
Laura: He said nitwit, throw the nitwit through the door.
Matt: What do you want to do, Grog? It's your call.
Taliesin: I'm not gonna fight you no matter what.
Matt: Yeah, what do you wanna do, Grog?
Travis: He cast Friends, right? So I wouldn't want to make Percy mad.
Matt: Well, it's up to you. Friends affects him more than it affects you, technically. He just seems very persuasive.
Taliesin: You feel like I had a point.
Travis: I pick up Tary.
Matt: Okay. Moving back with him, because your strength doesn't reduce your movement. (counts) 25. You don't quite reach the edge.
Laura: Can he throw Tary through? Or is that an additional action?
Travis: Do I have anything to toss him through that thing?
Matt: No, it takes your whole-- to pick him up and get there, you only have your bonus action right now.
Travis: Can I take one of the tiny little healing potions, the regular-ass ones?
Matt: If you have one, yeah.
Travis: I have one.
Matt: So there you go. You take it.
Travis: I forget what it's called.
Liam: Red Bull.
Matt: It's 2d4 plus two.
Laura: It's a Red Bull.
Travis: 2d4 plus two?
Matt: 2d4 plus two. Ends Grog's turn. Taryon. Make a death saving throw.
Sam: 11?
Matt: 11. So you're fine.
Taliesin: That's one good one. You get a success.
Matt: That brings us up to the top.
Taliesin: Is it mine?
Matt: Not quite yet.
Taliesin: Fuck.
Matt: We are at the 20.
Laura: Lair actions.
Taliesin: God damn it.
Matt: All right. That's a dexterity saving throw from you, Grog. It's just all-out shocking.
Travis: 16.
Matt: 16. That is 14 points of lightning damage to you, Grog.
Travis: Halved to seven.
Matt: Yep, halved to seven.
Sam: Automatic death fail.
Matt: Automatic death fail. All right, that brings us now to Percival.
Taliesin: I am just going to lean out the fucking door and take three attacks at a tentacle and run back in.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: Since he's right there!
Matt: Well, currently there is no tentacle in your range.
Taliesin: There's no tentacle in the range?
Matt: Right now, the tentacle's in range when it's wrapped around somebody, you can hit it right there. Right now, it's just in the distance.
Taliesin: In that case, I'm going to run out, grab and help drag everybody through the portal if I can.
Matt: You can grab and pull Taryon.
Taliesin: Be cool.
Travis: Pssh. We'll see--
Taliesin: You're going to be fine.
Travis: --Friend.
Taliesin: You won't know for a while.
Travis: We'll find out.
Matt: You pull Taryon through, his unconscious body through.
Taliesin: And I'm-- healing potion. I've got a minor.
Matt: You have a healing potion?
Taliesin: I do. I've got a minor left that I haven't burned.
Matt: Okay. So, I'll say that between your movement, you'll have enough. Go ahead and 2d4 plus two to Taryon.
Taliesin: 2d4 plus what?
Matt: 2d4 plus two to Taryon.
Taliesin: So that's six.
Matt: Taryon is conscious.
Taliesin: Now, I'm standing at the portal ready to, yeah.
Matt: All right. It is now the kraken's turn.
Laura: Oh my god.
Taliesin: He got nothing.
Matt: The kraken is going to sit right here now, directly behind you, Grog. Its tentacles swarm. It's the one tentacle, all these broken tentacles that are trying to extend. You can see parts of it are regenerating and starting to extend a little bit. Not fully, but it's going to take a while for it-- but you can see it does regenerate over time.
Travis: That is a bad, bad creature.
Matt: You know what, at the end of Percival's turn, it's going to use one of its legendary actions.
Taliesin: God damn it!
Matt: To attempt to bash.
Travis: I don't know what that means.
Matt: Natural 20.
Laura: Oh my god.
Matt: So that is 17 points of bludgeoning damage against you, reduced to half.
Travis: To eight? Nine?
Matt: That would be nine, yeah. And, you are grappled.
Marisha: He's grappled?
Matt: Now it's the kraken's turn.
Laura: I think it's going to try to swallow him.
Matt: And it is going to attempt to bite attack you. It does not have advantage. That is a 20?
Travis: That hits.
Taliesin: God fucking damn it!
Matt: That is 18 points of piercing damage, reduced to nine.
Travis: Mm-hm.
Matt: And you are swallowed.
Taliesin: God fucking damn it. Okay.
Sam: So you get any attacks, Groggy? Mm-hm? Okay.
Matt: All righty. Grog, it's your turn.
Travis: All three attacks--
Matt: Go for it.
Travis: -- Reckless. That's a 32.
Taliesin: Things!
Sam: I can heal you!
Travis: It's 20 points of damage on the first one.
Matt: All right, 20.
Travis: 26 is the hit for the second one.
Matt: That hits.
Travis: 24 points of damage on the second one.
Matt: 24, all right.
Travis: And then 23.
Matt: That hits.
Travis: With 19 points of damage on the third one.
Matt: It has to make a constitution save. That is directly a nine plus 15. It's a 24; the DC is 25. It fails, and vomits you out again to the front of it! Jesus Christ!
Laura: Right through the door! Vomits him right through the door!
Marisha: Come on, through the door! He projectile vomits!
Matt: I'm going to take a picture of that so people--
Marisha: Come on!
Matt: -- are like, "That's a little too close."
Travis: With the rest of my movement, can I turn around and look at him and go, yo, O Ancient One, can you read my mind now? And I walk through the portal.
Matt: And you do as you step away through the portal. (laughs) I can't believe that shit!
Travis: Just double birds.
Matt: I just tweeted that final saving throw on his end. Wow!
Taliesin: I hand you my glasses and fall down.
Matt: And that's where we're going to end tonight's game. Jesus Christ! Jesus Christ!
Sam: That was terrible!
Matt: Don't fuck with the titan creatures, man! Hey, your first death, Vax!
Travis: Titan creatures? Titan creatures.
Sam: First death? He's dead! That's not good!
Marisha: He's still fucking dead!
Matt: Yep.
Marisha: He's still fucking dead.
Liam: May be my last death.
Marisha: God!
Travis: We don't know. We don't know.
Taliesin: I think he should just--
Matt: And if so, that's at the bailiwick of your Queen. But we'll find out where that brings us next week. One way or another, a climactic end to the Aramente.
Laura: Oh my god.
Marisha: And all of the guilt complexes.
Travis: Wow. I underestimated that whole thing.
Laura: That was so much worse than I ever thought it would be.
Taliesin: I don't feel good.
Laura: I feel like I'm going to throw up.
Taliesin: Yeah, I feel a little nauseous, and it's not just the kraken.
Travis: Thank you, Loot Crate!
Matt: Thank you, Loot Crate, for being our sponsor!
Taliesin: Thanks, Loot Crate, for the robot and the Legos.
Marisha: Who's still alive? All of us, but Vax and Taryon?
Laura: Everybody but Vax.
Matt: How many points did you have at the end there, Grog?
Travis: Eight.
Matt: Eight hit points?!
Travis: Eight hit points.
Matt: Holy fucking shit!
Laura: Yeah! I was watching him take it down, and I was like, oh my god, one more hit and Grog's unconscious!
Travis: 65, 61, 51, 44, 39, 27, 33, 26, 17, eight.
Liam: Wow. Wow!
Travis: If I didn't get barfed, we would have problems.
Taliesin: I was going to make a running, yeah. I was not willing to, yeah. I was not going to walk.
Laura: You would have been swallowed, too.
Taliesin: I had a thought, but it was a bad thought. I'm really glad I didn't have to go with that bad thought.
Laura: Oh, I feel so sick!
Travis: I guess Tary lives another day.
Sam: I've learned a lesson! Always carry an insurance policy with me.
Matt: Fair enough.
Taliesin: I want to cry.
Matt: Well, guys, well done! You got the lodestones and escaped with the body of Vax, though dead. Had that last death saving throw happened in the stomach of the kraken, there was no way you were getting back.
Laura: So, that's good.
Sam: So, in a way, we won!
Matt: That's a silver lining. Anyway, guys, thank you for sticking through a very long, climactic, intense battle, both players and viewers. Thank you, Lootcrate, for being our awesome sponsor.
Travis: Thank you, Lootcrate!
Matt: We'll be back next week to see the conclusion of this Aramente arc. Much love to you all, and is it Thursday yet?
Travis: Not for another week!
Matt: See you guys soon. [art]

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play Dungeons and Dragons. We have an Ashley Johnson in transit from the airport, fresh from her vacation. She'll be here asap.
Marisha: I wonder if she'll be nice and tanned.
Travis: (burps) Probably not.
Sam: That's too specific. Too specific, she might have gone to a place that wasn't a tannable place.
Marisha: Oh, that's true. That's true.
Sam: Too specific.
Taliesin: Could have been tundra. Could have been tundra.
Matt: This is true. Should be the tundra. Sounds like a great place to spend--
Liam: She could have gone skiing and just gotten a sunburn here, like this.
Matt: That's true. That's true. Anyway, so Ashley will be joining us as soon as she arrives. Coming in hot! In the meantime, let's go ahead and cruise through our announcements. Let's see. Do we have any updates on merch at all, Laura?
Laura: Yeah!
Matt: What do you got?
Laura: Okay. So we put our dice up for pre-order and they're already sold out in pre-order.
Matt: What?
Laura: But we're going to get more. I don't know when, but soon, very soon.
Travis: We're struggling to keep up.
Laura: Yeah. We have these still in stock though. Some of these are still left, which are awesome, and they're so soft. And we have all the other t-shirts as well, except for the 'dagger, dagger, dagger' that Matt's wearing. Maybe we'll be getting those back in. I'm not sure. But all the other stuff. The nail wraps, and the vinyl stickers, and the hats.
Matt: I still remember when we printed ourselves a hundred shirts on this show, hoping that maybe some people will buy some.
Laura: I mean, do you remember the party that we had when we all put them in the envel-- sorry, baby. (laughter)
Liam: How many dice are you able to build a night?
Laura: Oh. I hand-carve like ten to 20 depending how much time I have but--
Travis: (whip crack)
Liam: I mean, that's what the wait is for.
Taliesin: Mine's kind of wonky, can I get a new one? Got a little--
Laura: I'm sorry if they're misbalanced. I make them out of soap, so--
Travis: Stone. Soap-stone.
Marisha: Do you use Charlie to clean up the shavings?
Travis: He's a good little worker.
Matt: It's pretty cool, too, because if you want to balance or find out and make sure the dice are perfectly balanced, you put it in the water but then you can't use the dice anymore because it just makes it soap.
Laura: Yeah. But you smell fresh and clean.
Matt: This is true. So fresh and so clean. All righty. Taliesin, Wednesday Club coming up.
Taliesin: Yeah. We're talking about the Eisners this week. The Eisners got announced all in-- a couple friends of the show.
Marisha: Yeah, Jodie.
Taliesin: Jodie got announced. I think Max got announced for one. I haven't gone through the whole list, but we're going to start talking about the Eisners and it's probably-- we're going to break it up but I think we're probably going to have three talks about the Eisners. There's a lot to talk about. It'll be great.
Marisha: Yeah, like what are the Eisners?
Taliesin: What are the Eisners? Who was Eisner? And--
Marisha: And why Eisner?
Taliesin: What are these books? What does it mean? We don't know. We'll find out.
Marisha: And why do we care?
Taliesin: I don't know. But we do.
Matt: 'Cause they're awesome. So that's Wednesday Club on Wednesday at noon to 2PM.
Taliesin: Wednesday, noon to 2PM Pacific Standard Time.
Matt: Perfecto. New episode of Signal Boost went up this week. Marisha, you want to talk about that?
Marisha: It was Hannah Mahoney. It was good. You should watch it.
Matt: (singsong) Hannah Mahoney.
Marisha: She's got a cool name.
Matt: That's one of the coolest names.
Marisha: Yeah, Hannah Mahoney? That's a dope name. But yeah. Go check it out.
Matt: Pretty sure a Street Fighter character says that when they make an attack.
Marisha: Yeah, most definitely.
Matt: Like, I want that name so bad. It's amazing.
Marisha: And we're filming again soon.
Matt: There you go.
Marisha: We're filming soon. Maybe someday Sam will come on. Maybe someday Bailey will come on. Maybe someday Ashley will come on. It's a mystery.
Travis: She didn't say my fucking name. (laughter)
Marisha: I just assumed you're not interested, 'cause you've never been.
Travis: This is a sportsball.
Matt: Actually, can you please do that? It's ten seconds long, and that's the entire episode.
Marisha: I still wanna make Sportsball, but you won't let me. I wanna make it with you. See? He says no.
Laura: Don't say you wanna make it with my husband. (laughter)
Sam: Why don't we all make Sportsball without Travis, and just be terrible at talking about sports, and he'll be like, I can't, I can't watch this, I gotta go do it.
Taliesin: Which ones are the Gryffindors? I know one of these two teams is the Gryffindors.
Travis: I would watch every episode of that. I would correct nothing.
Taliesin: Oh wait, wait, that's the line de scrimmage, right? That's where they--
Travis: The lined of scrimmage.
Taliesin: The line of scrimmage, yeah. The line.
Marisha: How about this? Will you come on Signal Boost, and we can do a pseudo-pilot test of Sportsball with Signal Boost? Would you do that?
Travis: Nope, fuck that.
Marisha: See? And he wonders why I didn't ask.
Matt: All righty. So, next up. (laughter)
Matt: Once again, MomoCon's coming up very, very close, May 25th to the 28th. Taliesin, Marisha, myself, and Brian Foster will be there to talk about nerdy stuff. MomoCon? Two Street Fighter attacks in one intro. This is already a good Thursday, I'm excited.
Liam: How-do-you-want-to-DOUKEN!
Matt: And I would-- please, I would beg you, nobody put that laser in my eye. Please. I've already got lasers in them once. Children. Children! Thanks, whoever sent those. It's great. I love it. (laughter)
Matt: Why must you arm them? It's herding cats enough as it is. All right, and then Talks Machina is live on Tuesdays at 7PM, of course, we're gonna be next Tuesday with Brian Foster, talking about this episode, so come check it out on Twitch and Alpha. And do we have anything else anyone wants to--
Sam: I have an announcement. We have a fan out there who just got out of surgery. His name is Kurt Shappacher, but in D&D is known as Bork, The Most Eloquent Half-Orc, and I want to wish him a speedy recovery.
Matt: Speedy recovery!
Sam: And I'll kiss his surgical scar if I ever meet him.
Marisha: Wow.
Sam: Depending on where it is on his body. I mean.
Matt: Aw, that won't stop you, Sam. This is true. Awesome. And then we have this fantastic scenario.
Liam: You were not able to attend Critmas.
Sam: I was not.
Liam: But you were sent something very specific by a huge list of Critters.
Laura: Which just fell on the ground.
Liam: I will get that in a second. We haven't looked at it.
Sam: Am I to unveil it right now?
Liam: Right now. There could be something so foul on it, we don't know.
Sam: Can you help me unveil it, people at table one? It is a quilt. Oh my god. It's so big. It's so mighty. It's so many pictures of me! This is everything that I've ever wanted to sleep on.
Laura: Why is it velcro?
Sam: Why are you ripping this thing?
Taliesin: There's velcro!
Sam: Don't tear it! (laughter)
Matt: Yeah, it's a velcro duvet cover.
Sam: It's all posts and artwork of my character-- my former character, Scanlan Shorthalt! (laughter)
Sam: Wow, it's so great.
Matt: That's amazing.
Sam: Wow.
Laura: I need you to stand up with it so we can see what it looks like.
Matt: I love the giant mustache, there's a giant mustache on there.
Taliesin: I think it divides into four, actually.
Matt: Does it really?
Marisha: Wait, is it a cube? It is not a cube. Is it?
Sam: We'll find out at the break, we'll find out at the break. We're not gonna waste too much time, here.
Taliesin: Yup, that's a thing, okay.
Matt: There you go, yeah, there is a mustache, that's awesome.
Sam: It's so great. Picture of me, picture of me, another picture of me. I love it. (laughter)
Laura: There was one more thing.
Liam: This is a quick one.
Sam: There's another thing?
Laura: Yeah. You got a bunch of things, but these are the ones we're passing to you on the show.
Liam: It's an itty-bitty Doty.
Sam: Oh, it is a little itty-bitty Doty! And he's got a tiny little book! Oh, he's so cute. The little book actually has little pages. It's so cute.
Liam: I sold Travis's gifts.
Laura: Made a lot of money off of them.
Liam: Five dollars.
Sam: It was a real Heisman trophy. (laughter)
Travis: Damn, that would be awesome. If you have a real Heisman trophy, please, send it to our PO box. I will take that.
Matt: Unearned accolades.
Sam: If you get a Heisman trophy, will you do Sportsball: The Show?
Laura: Yes, yes, you have to say yes to that.
Liam: Teach me how to sports.
Travis: For one episode. If I get a legitimate Heisman trophy.
Sam: What about a Superbowl ring?
Travis: Yes, I'll do a whole thing of Sportsball. If you give me a Superbowl ring that's worth 45 grand? Yeah. (laughter)
Sam: You heard him, Critters! Go on out and-- for a shitty show?
Travis: Diamond-encrusted, super well-paid, yeah, I'll do that. We'll have lasers and smoke and all sorts of shit.
Marisha: Nope, can't get that from LDN. Cannot promise that from Legendary. Nope. Not for a Twitch show. If you make it an Alpha show, then I can get you money. (laughter)
Taliesin: The Alpha team is laughing right now.
Marisha: They know it's true. Just like we all know our logo looks like a weed shop sign. We all know it's true. I should probably stop saying this stuff. It might be a breach of contract. Let's keep going. (laughter)
Sam: We'll edit this out later.
Matt: We'll fix it in post.
Liam: Just like rehearsal.
Matt: All right, so, let's get ready to dive in. I know today's been a harrowing day for a lot of people. It's gonna be okay. And don't forget what this feels like. That's all I have to say.
Laura: And we love you.
Matt: We love you so much. It's gonna be all right. Don't forget. On that note, everyone, let's go ahead and bring ourselves in to dive into tonight's episode of Critical Role.
Liam: Whee! [dramatic music]
Travis: -- Tetris.
Matt: Welcome back. (laughter)
Matt: God damn it. Anyway. I expect everything else. Well done. Well done, Travis, well done. It's like worrying walking through a door 'cause everyone's just waiting to punch you as you come through. Every week. It's kind of amazing.
Liam: It's one of those videos where the guys are waiting with the big exercise balls to just wing them there.
Matt: Yeah, no shit, and you know what? I'm stronger for it. So thank you guys. You've been training me with weights on for two years now.
Liam: You have passed through fire.
Matt: So, last we left off, Vox Machina, having completed their venture over the past few arcs, having freed Whitestone from the tyranny of the Briarwoods, having brought down the Chroma Conclave, and essentially brought freedom back to Tal'Dorei, you closed up some loose ends, Keyleth finished her Aramente, and you all went to your business for a year-long time jump. You returned, and each of you recounted the things you wished to accomplish in that year, culminating in a Winter's Crest beachside vacation in the Bay of Gifts at the Port of Shamel, which involved some escalating pranks.
Laura: Wait a minute, is it really the Bay of Gifts? With a "T"?
Matt: Yes, with a "T".
Laura: I seriously thought it's the Bay of Gifs. This whole time.
Taliesin: The Bay of Jifs.
Laura: I'm sorry, okay, I understand now.
Liam: Retcon.
Matt: And it is so named because it is such a centralized port for trade across the various continents in that area, so it's a place where it's affluent, and it's funny, it's kind of ironic, 'cause everything there is expensive, as you found out. But, nevertheless, you returned to your home in Whitestone, and reconvened, especially after building your bake shop in Whitestone, but she's not paying attention, so that's fine.
Laura: I'm sorry, he was distracting me.
Matt: That's okay. Anyway, so.
Travis: Fucking twins.
Matt: (laughs) I know, seriously. But upon situating yourselves after you've returned, and enjoying this peaceful period of recovery and expansion of Whitestone itself, there was an arrival on the outskirts of the city. There was a cart, horses pulling a group of four gnomes that all eventually revealed themselves to be family of Pike Trickfoot. After taking them in, whether or not you were excited or eager to, nevertheless, you treated them with hospitality, you gave them a place to stay, you gave them food for the evening, conversations were had, information was passed around, and a handful of you, upon listening in on some of the conversations and pushing for information with the eldest of them, Uncle Ogden, discovered some sort of true purpose as to why they came to Whitestone, dealing with, apparently, a long-running blood curse that lies in the Trickfoot family. And Ogden, having visions, had, along with the rest of the family that takes care of him, made their way towards Whitestone as the information gathered by JB Trickfoot, the esteemed keeper of knowledge about your journey over the past year or so, and the exploits of her cousin, Pike, has told you. So, that being the case, you've promised them a tour of the grounds, and, perhaps, seeking more information about what the next steps are in regarding this curse, if there are any. So, with that, you all finish your evening. Eating of your meals, drinking deep of your cups, and eventually finding yourselves resting 'til the night took you and sleep was had. The morning comes, you wake up rested, and the day is yours. What do you wish to do?
Laura: I think we had talked about going to see Pike's great-grandfather, Wilhand, to talk about the curse with him, right?
Travis: Don't look at me, I have a tour to give.
Laura: Right, Grog and Percival, you were going to help with that tour.
Taliesin: Yes.
Laura: To keep him out of trouble.
Travis: What?
Laura: Huh?
Marisha: Maybe keep an eye on them, make sure they don't have sticky fingers.
Travis: They don't wash their hands?
Laura: Not very often. You saw how much candy they were eating yesterday.
Travis: That's really disgusting.
Liam: Do you want to do the talking and I'll keep an eye on hands?
Taliesin: I think, between the three of us, it should be fine if the rest of you want to go and--
Marisha: Talk to Wilhand?
Taliesin: -- talk to Wilhand and see what information you can glean.
Marisha: Percy?
Taliesin: Yes.
Marisha: I have a question.
Taliesin: All right.
Marisha: Ogden, in his ramblings, mentioned a shadowy figure with burning coal eyes. This doesn't sound like anything that you're familiar with, does it?
Taliesin: Well, I mean, yes, but that is honestly like saying 'a man with brown hair of average height' when it comes to these sorts of creatures. It could be anything. It's kind of the effect they go for.
Marisha: How did Orthax take his form with you?
Taliesin: No glowing eyes.
Marisha: No glowing eyes.
Taliesin: No. So, there's that.
Laura: He had a bird-like thing in the face.
Taliesin: A bit of smoke. Lots of smoke and bird-like.
Liam: It's quite an aesthetic.
Marisha: But you think it might still be of the same fiendish nature?
Taliesin: Honestly, who knows? We don't know enough yet. It's too general.
Liam: It could also potentially be bullshit.
Taliesin: It could also potentially be bullshit. We'll know more when they decide to open up, or if your travels for information bear fruit.
Marisha: Should we bring Wilhand back here?
Taliesin: I imagine that depends on him.
Laura: If he wants to come.
Sam: We're taking Pike to Wilhand, I mean.
Laura: Yes.
Sam: Pike, you want to go see Wilhand, right?
Taliesin: (high-pitched) Oh, yes!
Sam: Oh! I'll take that as a yes.
Matt: Get here soon, Ashley! Please! Have you guys informed Pike of this information?
Laura: Oh, yeah, yeah, we talked about it last time.
Matt: At the end of the last-- yeah, so she's like, "I mean, I think we should. Right?"
Marisha: Well, how about you guys go on your tour--
Laura: First. I mean, we'll head over there while you guys do--
Sam: Simultaneously, but we'll leave just a moment later.
Marisha: Yeah, theoretically.
Taliesin: So while this is both happening at the same time, there'll be some sort of narrative distance.
Marisha: Yeah, just a little.
Liam: What are you saying?
Taliesin: I don't know, I just had this weird aneurysm just hit my brain, I'm not entirely sure what it was.
Marisha: Just so when historians look back, and they want a detailed timeline of our lives.
Liam: Life is not a book!
Laura: Well, it depends on who you ask.
Taliesin: Have you met my friend, Lord Fourth Wall?
Laura: She wants to go see Wilhand, Pike definitely wants to go see Wilhand.
Marisha: We'll see you in 24 hours.
Laura: We'll head towards the old Sun Tree!
Matt: As you guys head down, you pass by the dining hall for breakfast. And there you already see Astra and Johann are in the process of having their own breakfast. By that, I mean you see Astra, who's currently hand-stitching new clothing from a clump of high-quality silks that she seems to have pulled from a number of noble dresses that are left within their guest quarters of Whitestone. As you glance on the table, there's a number of them folded over, but sections have been cut out, there's a pair of scissors on the side, and she's currently stitching through. As you walk in, she glances up and goes, "I've needed some new dresses for far too long. Y'all have some fine cloth here!"
Laura: Were those-- those didn't belong to your--
Taliesin: Oh. There's more. A few more at least. So. Yes.
Matt: And you watch as she fans out this new blouse. It's not the finest craftsmanship, but functional enough. She goes (sighs), rubs it against her face. "That's nice." And squeezes into it.
Laura: I go and grab a servant and tell them to quickly remove all of the clothing from the wardrobes in the guest quarters so that they don't do it again.
Taliesin: Anything that hasn't been cut yet, yes, please.
Matt: "Right away, Lady." Rushes off quickly. As this is happening, Johann's in the process of eating a breakfast that primarily consists of just fine cakes. He has clusters of dried baked good around the outside of his mouth and caught in his mustache, he's freshly washed his hair, freshly combed over and slicked with whatever equivalent of pomade he carries with himself. And as you walk by, you see this-- like he has the plate and there's just a crumb-circle around it that has emerged, and is in the process of his gluttonous eating, he stops and goes, "Such delicacies are a rare treat! You have to make time to enjoy the little things in life, don't you? At least when the opportunity arises."
Taliesin: Ah. A fairy circle. Make a wish. Ah. Anyway. We were hoping to gather the clan and take you on a tour of the estate when you're prepared.
Matt: Pulls up his shirt and dabs at his mouth. It barely touches any of the actual food that's around his mouth area. He stops and goes, "Right, right, of course, of course. We'll just wait for old Ogden to find his way down. He's a bit of a stickler when it comes to his time. So be patient, sit down, let's have a meal! Why not get to know each other a little better, yes?"
Travis: We do gotta wait for Uncle OG. By the way, since I'm the tour guide, do you have any plume-y hats? You know? 'Cause if you take like a campus tour, they have a flag and they're like, "Over here!" In case you get lost. Or like when tourists walk around and they're like, "Don't get left-- mm." Do you have anything like that?
Taliesin: Let me check. I'll be right back.
Travis: Good.
Laura: I'll go with him.
Sam: What campus tours have you been on? (laughter)
Liam: Is Trinket here?
Laura: Yes.
Liam: Trinket, breakfast, right around the little guy there. Go on. Free food.
Matt: At which point, as you're having this conversation, the large bear starts lumbering up, armor clattering as it approaches the table with absolutely no care or interest in the gnomish guy at the table, who immediately goes, "Oh! My-my-my-my!" And he backs out the center of his seat as the bear immediately (impact sounds) paws up and (slurps) starts licking up the crumbs and pieces of wayward pastry that have not found their way to the gnome's mouth, at which point he stands up off of his chair and rights himself. "Hm. Well. I'm stuffed. Let's go see how Ogden's doing. Astra!" "I'll be-- let me just finish this." "All right, we'll pick you up in a second. I'll go check in on Ogden." And he gets up and walks past, up the stairs. You are searching for what?
Taliesin: Oh, well, I've gone into my sister's bedroom and have begun to raid the spring clothing to find the most ostentatious hat I can find and start shoving as many things into it as I possibly can.
Matt: Make an investigation check, please.
Laura: I was going with you. I had said I went with you. Mostly to get away from the gnomes.
Matt: So you're both searching?
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: So make an investigation check with advantage.
Taliesin: 15.
Matt: Okay. Takes you a little bit, and you're being careful not to be too loud, 'cause the last thing you want is Cassandra to come in and watch you tearing through her outfits. But you do find what essentially amounts to a wide-brimmed captain's hat. It comes almost to a tri-corner point at the front and curves upward. It's mostly used for costuming purposes, it's reminiscent of masquerade balls, it's used for-- you actually recall, when she was younger, it was part of her masquerade ball wear. There was a mask with a long nose.
Taliesin: Sure, and it'll be very ill-fitting now.
Laura: Ooh, are there any ribbons around?
Matt: Yeah, you find ribbons easily enough.
Laura: I wanna tie a big purple giant bow around the top of it.
Taliesin: Get a feather in there, get the whole thing really. So it's very hard to lose him.
Matt: Make a dexterity check.
Laura: To see if I can tie a bow? Okay. Oh, that's a saving throw. This is low, but that's a 12.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: It's a bow.
Matt: Oh no. You successfully-- (laughs) You successfully create what is a bombastic bow of varying layers that plumes out three times. It resembles ribbon candy, almost, in the way that it billows out multiple ways, but it is pinned to the top, so it poofs as it cascades down the sides of the hat.
Taliesin: Are we missing something? I don't know. Is it finished?
Laura: A big feather, like a white, plumey feather?
Taliesin: I think we probably have a white, plumey feather. Oh, wait--
Laura: Or any color, really.
Taliesin: I'm gonna look to see if I can find some bells.
Matt: Okay. Not in Cassandra's room, but there is the royal stable not far away, which does have bells available in case they want to have parade accoutrements for the various horses and other afforded creatures.
Laura: Are these like jingle bells or big cow bells?
Matt: No, they're like jingle bells.
Taliesin: All right. I'm actually going to send you on that one, since you have the broom. We'll need two. I'll find a feather. All right. I'm going to just take a quill, basically, and stick it in there. I don't even care.
Marisha: You're making a Derby hat. That's appropriate.
Taliesin: I know, it's wonderful.
Matt: So yeah, over the next ten minutes or so, between your journey and your finding the proper feather plume, you guys manage to cobble together a delightfully ostentatious hat for Grog's presentory tour of Whitestone.
Laura: I want the bells to hang from either side like around his ears. Right here.
Matt: Okay, okay, cool. There you go. He has a couple of dangly bells.
Taliesin: I needed this.
Travis: It'll be good, it'll be like Karate Kid with the toy when he starts spinning it.
Matt: Perfect.
Travis: Oh, bells in my face. (laughter)
Matt: This magnificent mess of a hat that you guys have created is on par, if not slightly beyond, the previous helmet that he had acquired while in Syngorn.
Taliesin: Yeah, the horn helmet was pretty spectacular, but I feel like we may have topped it.
Matt: So. With that completed, what do you wish to do?
Marisha: I turn to JB real quick.
Matt: Well, JB hasn't come down yet.
Marisha: Oh.
Matt: Actually, while they're doing this, you guys are waiting, kind of having your own meals, and getting the day started. Eventually, you see Johann come down the spiral stairs that lead back to the main entryway to the castle, and behind, you see JB helping Uncle Ogden down, step by step, he still has his walking staff as he makes his way down. And they slowly make their way into the dining hall, sit down, and a simple meal of very, very soft oatmeal is presented for Uncle Ogden at their request before resting the night before, and JB gets her breakfast, and Johann is proud of the fact that he managed to acquire them, though it was not much of an ordeal on his end. Goes and joins Astra, and they seem to be eagerly awaiting the eventuality of this tour that they're all excited for. So you now can approach JB if you'd like.
Marisha: My question has been answered by their arrival, so never mind.
Sam: Was it "What does JB stand for?"
Taliesin: "What does JB eat?"
Marisha: It was "How long does Ogden take to get ready in the morning?" But now I know.
Laura: What does JB stand for?
Travis: I have a question for Astra.
Sam: Junior Bacon Cheeseburger. (laughter)
Travis: Best name ever!
Sam: That is a great name.
Travis: New favorite. Asterix, look, is there anything in Whitestone that you would fancy? Like, do you have any particular interests, whether they be art or education or geometry or buildings?
Matt: "To be honest, I just kinda want to see the history. I wanna see how long it's been here, I wanna see makes up the entirety of this crazy place. I haven't been inside a castle before, so this is a new experience for me."
Travis: Right. Did you want to see just the castle, or did you want the grand deluxe Poobah tour, which is around Whitestone as well?
Matt: "Well, how could I say no to that, honey?"
Travis: That's what I mean, yeah, that was a really good deal. Okay. Let me confer with my subordinate and we'll put together a tour package.
Matt: "I'm excited!"
Travis: Okay.
Laura: She's a little bitch. (laughter)
Travis: Hey, Percy?
Taliesin: Yes?
Travis: So Asterix says that she wants history of Whitestone and the castle, so like, I need a hotlist of things that we're gonna show her, but can we make it sound like I thought of it?
Taliesin: Yes.
Travis: Okay, good. Just keeping you on your toes, mate.
Liam: He's not talking to himself. We all have earrings, he's talking to the others. If you were wondering.
Matt: "Right. I'm not one to judge. I mean, you've seen Ogden." And you glance over at Ogden, who's now in the process of trying to comb the oatmeal out of his beard while he's muttering below his breath. (incoherent muttering)
Liam: Are you coming with, buddy?
Matt: "What?"
Liam: Do you want to go on the tour?
Matt: "Of course!"
Liam: Huh. Can we borrow Trinket for that? Oh, Vex isn't here. I'm sure we could borrow Trinket for the day. You ever ridden a bear, old man?
Matt: (snoring)
Taliesin: We actually have a carpet we were thinking of using for this.
Liam: The bear's funnier, though.
Marisha: Hey, Vax?
Liam: Hello? Oh, I'm right here.
Marisha: Yeah, I'm sitting next to you.
Liam: Are we not actually in the castle right now? Go ahead.
Marisha: There's no ceiling. I think he fell asleep with his eyes opened.
Matt: Which he did. He's staring at you, beginning to snore loudly, and JB's like, "Ogden. Ogden." She flicks him in the side of the head, and he goes (chomps) and takes the spoon that she's holding out with the oatmeal and just--
Travis: I like him.
Liam: I thought I'd get you a bear ride, but I was wrong. I'm sorry.
Matt: "Get me a beer?"
Liam: Yeah. Can we get three beers in here?
Travis: Shit, we don't even need the servants for that. I just pop out the chalice, little morning beer. Sunrise.
Liam: There you go. Three beers for you, Grandpa.
Marisha: You know, I heard a recipe the other day for a beer-mosa. It's like a mimosa, but with beer and orange juice. Would you like a beer-mosa, Ogden?
Matt: "No."
Marisha: Okay. Okay.
Travis: Oh, shit. Oh god.
Matt: And JB's like, "Ogden." She helps him put it back down on the table. "Ah. It's been years since I've had a good drink."
Travis: Years?
Matt: "Yes."
Liam: Oh, shit. Well, we're all gonna die. Have another one.
Matt: And you can see JB's looking kind of nervous. She's like, "Actually, he probably shouldn't." And she takes him and pushes the drink toward Grog. He's like, "I'm a grown boy!"
Travis: He is, he's very grown.
Matt: She seems outnumbered and extremely uncomfortable in the circumstance, as you look over at Johann, who's like, (laughs) "Oh, this is gonna be a fun tour, boy." As he watches as Uncle Ogden lifts the, what by his size is rather large, cup of... beer-- that's the one, it's been a long week. Finishes it in three massive gulps, sets it down.
Liam: Man, I couldn't do that.
Marisha: You know, I'm kind of sad I'm missing this tour with you guys, now.
Travis: Yeah, you fucked up.
Marisha: Yeah. It's gonna be fun.
Liam: The Grand Poobah tour? Yes, you are.
Travis: Gohan, what happens when Uncle Ogden has too much, you know, (drinking sound).
Matt: "I don't know. Honestly, he's been off the wagon for about 20 years, so I'm curious to see."
Liam: Well, this calls for a celebration.
Marisha: What did we do? We're the worst!
Travis: Life begins anew in Whitestone!
Sam: You know, 20 years to a gnome is like five for a human.
Marisha: We are consistently the worst.
Sam: I'm just saying, it could be okay.
Liam: A very wise man once said that life needs things to live, so.
Taliesin: And one of those things it needs is beer.
Laura: He says, as we walk in the room.
Matt: Carrying a magnificent hat in your hand.
Travis: Does Ogden seem to grow younger as he finishes the beer?
Matt: No, he seems to grow the same.
Travis: Okay. Never know. Never know.
Matt: He seems relatively unfazed.
Laura: Grog! We found your tour hat.
Travis: Oh, you did?
Laura: And it's wonderful.
Travis: Oh, great. When do I get to see it?
Laura: It was sitting on a special shelf, labeled 'tour hat shelf'.
Travis: That's lucky.
Laura: Yeah. It really was.
Sam: Is that it? What you have there, Percy, that hat?
Taliesin: Yes, here we are.
Liam: Oh, shit!
Taliesin: Magnificent, isn't it?
Travis: Wow! This is-- it jingles! It jangles! This is an official Whitestone tour hat?
Laura: Yeah!
Taliesin: So that we can definitely find you no matter what.
Travis: Yeah! Now, is there a long history of distinguished tour leaders before me?
Taliesin: You would think that, but honestly, I don't believe that we've ever had an official tour guide before you. You would be starting!
Liam: First Vex, now you!
Laura: Grand Poobah and First Tour Captain of Whitestone!
Liam: All of This and That!
Taliesin: This technically falls under "This and That," doesn't it?
Marisha: Keyleth bows and I take Vax with me by hitting the back of his knees.
Taliesin: It's customary to show respect by jingling the bells.
Matt: As you both bow, and you say this phrase, you watch as Johann and Astra, they bow low as well.
Travis: Yes. Percy, you should tell them the short names for my titles. You know.
Taliesin: I think it's just so much more exciting when you say it.
Travis: What was it, like Silly Bean, and Sweet Chestnut?
Taliesin: Why not?
Travis: Yeah! (laughter)
Taliesin: Grand Poobah of All of This and That
Travis: Please rise, rise! It's going to be a lovely day. We have a lot ahead of us, we do. Please.
Liam: Jeez, that hat is busier than K'Varn's whole fucking--
Laura: I know, right?
Travis: Is it, like, well-balanced?
Matt: No! Not at all!
Travis: I have to hold it?
Matt: No, here's the thing  it was designed for a much smaller head. So, even for you to get it on, it's like squeezing a tiny rubber thimble over your thumb. So it's like (creaking, boop!). It pops up on the very, very tip. So it holds itself, but it only really covers the very, very top of your head.
Travis: I'd be worried about circulation up there, but it's not really a concern.
Matt: You feel like it might fall off, but eventually you find a little strap inside.
Travis: Ooh!
Laura: Hey!
Travis: Fuck you! (laughter)
Liam: Ding, ding-a-ling, doodle-ding!
Travis: I was cool until the strap came in.
Taliesin: Breaking point!
Travis: I hate those fucking straps!
Taliesin: The breaking point is right beneath your chin! Who knew!
Sam: Birthday hat!
Taliesin: Been searching for years!
Matt: And as the strap finds itself solid across your jawline, the gnomes, one by one, line up behind you, looking at you excitedly, Ogden and JB at the rear, and he's like, "What's going on?"
Taliesin: We pull out the carpet, and invite Ogden and JB.
Laura: Please, take a seat!
Liam: Yes, it's no bear, but it's pretty good.
Matt: You see Johann and Astra, arm-in-arm, walk to the side, and as JB takes the arm of Uncle Ogden, walks him forward. He stumbles up in your direction, looks up, and goes, "That's terrible! Where are we going?"
Travis: It is time for the tour of Whitestone!
Matt: "Yay!" (laughter)
Matt: JB pats him and is like, "He's not very good with the volume control."
Travis: Oh, that's okay. I like it when they're loud, actually, I relate.
Taliesin: I understand.
Travis: Yep.
Laura: Which one of you two will be riding the carpet with them?
Liam: Of the Grand Poobah and myself?
Laura: Of you and Percy. Percy's going with you as well, aren't you? Are you? Or are you coming with us?
Liam: The carpet's above my station.
Travis: Yeah, I can't ride; I've developed a tour walk.
Laura: Someone has to ride the carpet with them.
Taliesin: I'll ride the carpet so that you can stay free for, yes. Right.
Marisha: Oh, she's coming with us.
Taliesin: I know, I know.
Marisha: You're on your own.
Taliesin: I'll be fine.
Laura: My darling.
Taliesin: Yes?
Laura: You'll be fine.
Taliesin: Oh god.
Travis: All right, Percy, time to learn about your castle. And I take off in a walk where you don't bend your knees, your legs just stay straight? That's the walk I'm adopting for this whole tour.
Matt: All right.
Travis: I've decided.
Laura: Like, legs going out to the side there?
Travis: No, like you kick your heel forward, like--
Sam: Like a goose-step?
Travis: Like a military.
Sam: Goose-stepping?
Marisha: I don't think you want to do a goose-step.
Travis: No, I'm doing it.
Taliesin: I'm okay with it.
Marisha: You sure?
Taliesin: Let's roll with this.
Marisha: Okay!
Taliesin: I'm totally fucking down. I'm in.
Liam: As we head out, I run over to Keyleth and say, try not to be too jealous! And I give her a smooch and then I chase after the gang.
Marisha: Have fun!
Liam: Oh, I will!
Matt: All right. So the three of you find your way, borrowing the carpet temporarily, you gather the gnomes. So, wait, who-- the weight of all the gnomes, the goliath--
Travis: I'm walking!
Matt: You're walking.
Laura: It's just Percy and the gnomes.
Taliesin: It's just me like, like a gondola driver.
Marisha: Yes, and Grog is like sherpa-ing.
Matt: All right. So.
Liam: My plan is to act casual but to be watching all the gnomes for thieving things.
Matt: Okay. Easy enough. All right. So. As you all leap onto the carpet except for Grog, Grog, you begin taking them around the grounds. You begin through the castle. Where do you want to begin?
Travis: Oh this foyer of Whitestone Castle was defended by myself and these fellows against the onslaught of dragons, giants, and hordes of undead. It has been in the de Rolo family for millennia.
Sam: Millennia? That last word?
Travis: Is that what the word is? Yep. Yep. (laughter)
Travis: And then I take them outside to get some fresh air before I overwhelm them with knowledge.
Matt: (laughs) All right. The carpet glides you guys to the outskirts of the castle. You begin taking them along the grounds, around the perimeter wall, and then through one of the underneath gates to the back garden, which you've recovered, and are now starting to actually grow again. You have like a small hedge maze back there, some rose gardens, and a small pond. You've filled in the exhaust holes that were used for the distillation of the whitestone and the acid pits that were installed by the Briarwoods. Now it is actually a garden once more. And so as this happens, you watch as Astra gets really excited at the edge of the carpet and is like, "Ooh my, look at this place, it's like natural!"
Laura: (laughs) 'It's like natural.'
Travis: Natural beauty, it abounds. It all comes from the Sun Tree in the center of town. (whispers) Percy, help!
Taliesin: The gardens were originally constructed by Melanie de Rolo, who is actually one of more interesting de Rolos of the time. She was of the third generation to be born into this castle--
Matt: (snores) (laughter)
Matt: Uncle Ogden is just staring forward.
Taliesin: Don't know why I bother. Melanie is--
Travis: Asterisk is interested.
Taliesin: -- Melanie was actually fascinating. She was eventually removed from her position for accusations of witchcraft and raising of the undead. There's actually quite a bit of interesting ghost stories if that's your sort of--
Travis: No, no we don't, we don't, nope, no.
Matt: "No, please, that's interesting!" Johann is like, "Ghost stories, you say, huh?"
Taliesin: Oh yes, the strange materials that are mined in this part of the world have given rise to all sorts of stories due to its pale appearance, the fact that under certain types of moonlight it can glow with a strange phosphorescent supernatural glow. There are even tales of people--
Matt: (snores)
Taliesin: -- seeing several of the more notorious de Rolos as spirits wandering about the halls, Melanie just being one of them. But she was very excited by the notion of a garden and actually, originally, many of these paths were--
Matt: Both of the gnomes now turn back to Grog and go, "Anyway, what's next on the tour?"
Taliesin: Thank you. (laughter)
Travis: Enough with, like, the boring shit.
Taliesin: I could keep going.
Travis: Do we have like an armory that we can bring them, where they make weapons?
Sam: Yeah, yeah! Get to the good shit!
Taliesin: Well, actually, why don't we take them to target practice? I'm sure that the Riflemen are probably at least doing a round of target practice. That might be fun to see.
Liam: Do we get to see the Musketeers?
Taliesin: I'm not allowed to call them that anymore.
Liam: Well, I will. Let's go!
Matt: Johann is like, "I like the sound of target practice, that's right up my alley. Take us there, boy!"
Travis: Okay. We now venture along these roads cast through the ages of de Rolo descendants as we make our way to the annals of Firecracker Alley. (laughter)
Taliesin: It's a shooting alley. It's fun, it's got some moving bits, but I'm sure you can understand exactly what it entails.
Matt: They both shake their head. "I have no idea what you're talking about, but let's go!"
Taliesin: This is quite possibly the only one in existence, so this is quite exciting.
Matt: All right. As you guys make your way along the rest of the tour, the rest of you, who are not on this tour, what are you doing?
Laura: We're going to the Sun Tree!
Marisha: We're gonna go find Wilhand!
Ashley: We're gonna go find Wilhand.
Marisha: We're gonna go find Willhand!
Matt: Okay.
Ashley: Before I left, did I see Grog in his hat?
Matt: Oh, it was amazing.
Ashley: Grog, you look so distinguished!
Travis: Go on.
Ashley: You look so great in that hat! Where did you get this hat?
Travis: Apparently this is the official tour hat of the house of Whitestone.
Laura: It's the truth!
Travis: And apparently I'm the first.
Laura: Yep, it was made hundreds of years ago, and was just sitting on the shelf waiting for the first official tour guide.
Travis: How it's not covered in dust or decay, I have no idea.
Ashley: Oh, Grog. This is just the perfect job for you.
Travis: Does it fit well? I feel like it's a bit small.
Ashley: You know what? It's just supposed to be a little jaunty like that, I think.
Travis: Oh, it's got a little swagger?
Ashley: Yeah, just a little-- it's great.
Taliesin: Makes you look bigger as well.
Ashley: Yes.
Travis: Yeah, I am pretty tiny these days. I have not been lifting.
Marisha: Is he wearing like a Lolita hat? Is that what's going on?
Travis: Like a maid cafe?
Matt: Kind of, a very oversized one. It's wide-brimmed and floppy and it's got all these ribbons cascading.
Travis: I like the Derby analogy. That's what I was going for.
Marisha: Derby Week is this weekend, I think.
Matt: Timely. There you go, Grog.
Marisha: You look like an old Southern white woman.
Travis: All I aim for in life.
Matt: So Vex, Pike, Keyleth, Taryon. What are you guys doing?
Laura: We're heading to the Sun Tree.
Matt: All right. You make your way to the Sun Tree. It's about ten in the morning, time-wise, by the time you get going, and you see them kind of gliding around the outskirts of the castle, doing their slow traveling tour. As you approach the Sun Tree, where are you going? Heading to Westruun?
Ashley: Let's go see him.
Marisha: Do you know of a tree that's close by his house that we can just be right there?
Ashley: Yeah, I mean, in the backyard we have a pretty large tree.
Marisha: Can I get us to that tree?
Matt: You've seen it before. You've been to the house, you've stayed there, so you know the tree she mentions, yeah.
Marisha: Okay. That tree. Psew!
Matt: All right, as you guys step through the portal created on the outskirts of the Sun Tree, you step through into-- I wouldn't say it's a yard, it's not a big yard, it's more of a small-- what would be used as a storage space behind this building, but you have the two-story red brick building that is your-- and, for a while, Grog's-- home of upbringing. Wilhand is not in the backyard, however, you do see that there is a lot of leftover building materials from the reconstruction of the second story, which sustained damage from the original assault of the Conclave. But looking up at the roof, which last you saw was amid disarray, looks like it's been reconstructed and completed, and the home is once again whole.
Ashley: Well, this is nice to see. It's put together again. Well. Shall we?
Laura: Find out about that curse.
Ashley: (exhales) Okay.
Matt: You knock on the door. There's a slight pause. A little voice inside goes, "Eh? Who is it?"
Ashley: Oh, Wilhand, it's Pike!
Matt: "In the yard?"
Ashley: Yeah. Yeah, we-- I just went around. (laughter)
Ashley: Just went around.
Marisha: The gate was open, the side gate.
Ashley: The gate was open.
Sam: The dog run?
Ashley: And the dog run. Just went around the dog run.
Marisha: No, the back door, the back door!
Matt: Another moment passes before the back door opens, which leads into the small kitchen. It's a humble home, but as it opens up, Wilhand is there, looking as liver-spotted and grinning as he was last you saw him. His balding top of his head and the crazed white mane of hair behind has gotten even longer and unkempt as he's now on his own and doesn't have anyone to really groom him. So he's going a little wild-gnome right now. You see his face light up immediately as soon as he sees your expression. "Oh, Pike! Pike, it's so good--"
Ashley: Oh, oh, oh, I'm sorry, I'm very strong.
Matt: "I noticed. Well, friends."
Laura: Good to see you again!
Matt: "Dex'avlia?"
Laura: That's right.
Matt: "And that's Keyfen?"
Marisha: Got it.
Matt: "And?"
Sam: Taryon Darrington. In Gnome, I say, it's a pleasure to make your a-taint-ance. (laughter)
Matt: His eyes go wide. "Ah. I almost heard that. Well, come in, come in." He turns around and muscles his way inside. You've never quite been in a gnome home before.
Sam: You grew up here?
Ashley: For the most part. For the most part.
Sam: And you seem okay.
Ashley: (laughs) Yes. I'm okay. And Grog did a little bit as well.
Sam: That's hard to believe.
Ashley: Well, he-- we made it work, you know? He slept outside a lot.
Laura: He was smaller then, too, right?
Ashley: He was smaller then. He was smaller then. He, you know.
Marisha: I loved sleeping outside, though. Did you guys have like a tree canopy thing?
Ashley: Sometimes we would make forts.
Marisha: That's good living, Taryon.
Sam: That sounds fun, sleeping outside when you have a perfectly good home to sleep in.
Ashley: Well, it's-- I'm an outdoorsy type.
Sam: All right.
Ashley: People have different preferences, and that's one.
Marisha: It's very freeing.
Sam: I'll have to try it sometime.
Ashley: We'll try it sometime. I think you'll like it.
Matt: As you guys are having this conversation, you watch as Wilhand is rushing around the kitchen, frantically trying to make tea. He's like, "I wasn't expecting guests, my apologies! Hold on!" He's like, one hand he's filling this tea kettle, and the other hand's trying to find some flint, and he's like--
Marisha: I light it up with my flame hands.
Matt: "I did it!" (laughter)
Matt: Sets it down. "Okay." He goes and sets the kettle onto the flame. "Don't touch. It burns. Anyway. I'm so glad you could make it. It's so good to see you, Pike!"
Ashley: It's so good to see you. Sit and relax, I know where everything is, you don't have to-- I'll get tea ready for everybody. Just sit and relax.
Matt: "Okay." And he sits down at the table.
Laura: As she gets up, can I just kind of whisper, 'cause he can't hear very well. Wilhand? Can you hear what I'm saying right now? Okay. Is it going to be all right, bringing this up around him?
Ashley: Sure.
Laura: Sore subject? Maybe.
Ashley: I'm not sure. Bring it up very, very lightly.
Laura: I'll let you do it.
Ashley: Okay. Okay. Wilhand.
Matt: "Yes?"
Ashley: First of all, I wanted to come see you 'cause it's been some time, and I'm so glad that the house has come along so nicely.
Matt: "It has. There's been some fantastic volunteers who've come by. They've rebuilt a lot of the city."
Ashley: That's fantastic. Oh, I know what we were gonna ask you.
Matt: "Yes?"
Ashley: Oh, wait. No, we knew Fassbender was gone. Never mind.
Matt: "Okay."
Laura: Oh, but what did the man look like who came and grabbed the big robot?
Travis: (whispers) The guy that owned him.
Laura: I know, I just want to make sure it was him. Your big mustachioed metal man.
Matt: "Oh, yes. The broad stone one."
Laura: Yeah, that's the one.
Matt: "Ah. He was retrieved by his actual legal owner, of which I was notified of. I don't know how you procured it off of him. Older gentleman. Standard human fare. Taller than me."
Laura: Was he kind of a dick?
Matt: "Kind of a what?"
Marisha: A penis!
Travis: Wow. (laughter)
Travis: Jesus.
Matt: You watch as his head turns in a confused way. He goes, "Um." And he puts his finger in his ear and clears it out and goes, "I'm sorry, what?"
Ashley: Like not a very nice person?
Matt: "Oh, yes, he was--"
Ashley: Rude.
Matt: "-- a bit... he was not the kindest or most forthcoming of guests, but he seemed to be a busy man of much esteem and left before I could finish making his tea."
Laura: I hope he wasn't very mean to you.
Matt: "No, no, not mean at all, just extremely forceful." (laughter)
Ashley: Well, we came-- well, first, I wanted you to meet Taryon, our new friend.
Matt: "Oh! What's your name?"
Sam: Taryon Darrington.
Matt: "Taryon. Pleasure to meet you."
Sam: Yes, it's a pleasure to make your a-cunt-ance. A-cunt-ance.
Laura: Wow. Wow.
Matt: He leans over and goes, "You're making interesting friends these days, Pike."
Ashley: Well, okay, I'm just gonna--
Matt: "Sarenrae was very specific about making sure that you avoid the bad folk, and you're currently dealing with what looks to be some ruffians using some naughty language."
Marisha: Is 'penis' a bad word?
Laura: Just don't say that word again, Keyleth. I mean, it's not.
Ashley: You know, I just feel like I like to be surrounded by all types, to sort of, you know, get to know--
Matt: (laughs) "Just messing with you."
Ashley: Oh. I thought you got--
Matt: "What, you think I didn't get drunk and say the off thing here and there? Back in my day, I was a bit of a rabble-rouser, whether you believe it or not. Mm-hm."
Ashley: You were. (laughter)
Ashley: Well, I might as well just come out with it. I'm stalling. So we had some visitors in Whitestone, where we're staying right now-- I'm just really nervous. It was Johann and Ogden and JB.
Matt: "Hm."
Ashley: They came to visit, 'cause I had sent them a little money and a letter.
Matt: "Well, that's very kind of you."
Ashley: And they came to town to stay and to just see the town, and they told me something a little disturbing. Ogden said he's been having visions and dreams about something about a blood curse. Does this sound familiar to you at all?
Matt: "To be perfectly up-front, I kind of escaped the Trickfoot lifestyle when I was maybe about your age. So I'm not as keen on all the familial history, but I can say that there's been more than one curse thrown at our family name."
Ashley: This is true.
Matt: "I don't know. I haven't spoken with them in quite some time, or really anybody else. I decided that you, there was something special about you, and it wasn't right to have you grow up in such an uncouth environment, so I wanted to provide something different for you. I don't know if I succeeded, but I did my best, and brought you into the light of the one that saved me. And look at you now!" And he leans forward and grabs your holy symbol from the front and goes, "Why, you're the brightest star she has."
Laura: I'm gonna be terrible. Can I insight check him? I just want to see if it looks like he's hiding anything.
Matt: Make an insight check.
Laura: (high-pitched) I'm sorry, Wilhand.
Ashley: It's okay.
Sam: He's an old man. He doesn't lie.
Laura: 14?
Matt: 14? He's hard to read in the sense that he's lived long enough and seen enough things in his time that he's open, but he keeps his history guarded, by nature. He seems genuine, but at the same time, you're not getting the whole picture, because he's not revealing the whole picture. He also spends a lot of time alone, too, so by nature he's a little hermited. So that's as much as you can make out.
Laura: Wilhand, how old were you when you left the Trickfoot family?
Matt: "Oh, I would've been maybe in my early 40s."
Laura: Oh. (whispers) How old are you?
Ashley: Early 40s.
Laura: Okay. Okay. So he was around for a while. Okay. Did you know Theobold?
Matt: "Yes."
Laura: And so do you know what happened to him?
Matt: "In what way?"
Laura: Well, Ogden said he was affected by the curse, that he was killed by it.
Matt: "I wasn't around for that."
Marisha: Insight check.
Matt: Make an insight check.
Marisha: 24. No. Hang on, wait wait wait. I keep forgetting my insight went up.
Sam: Well. It seems to have worked.
Marisha: 26.
Liam: Oh, he turned around. (laughter)
Sam: Whispers. We have nothing to sell.
Laura: Yes we do! We have these shirts that are still in the store.
Sam: Oh! Those shirts there?
Travis: Been out for a week.
Ashley: You can even fold up the sleeves to make them super fashionable.
Laura: They're super cool!
Liam: And soft like the hoodie.
Travis: Show 'em the dice on the back
Laura: (squeaky) There's a Critical Role logo on the back. (laughter)
Travis: That's the house voice. When we go home, it's all that.
Sam: Really? That's how she talks at home? Oh, boy.
Travis: Yeah. That's what we call the Bailey switch. Got home and it was like, fuck.
Matt: "I'm sorry. I just, I don't deal with them much these days. They wander, they-- I'm just an old gnome trying to live his twilight years in peace and the joy of the Everlight."
Ashley: So, I don't mean to press you on this, Wilhand, but did you know how he died? I mean, even if you weren't there, did you hear about it?
Matt: "I know that he had passed and I heard it was around mysterious circumstances, but like many Trickfoots before me and many after, they tend to die under mysterious circumstances. It's kind of the life they lead."
Marisha: Wilhand, if you don't mind me asking.
Matt: "There we are, yes?"
Marisha: I know you mentioned to Pike before about a blood curse. Do you actually believe in the curse or do you believe that it's because of the life the Trickfoots lead? I know you've worked hard to get away from them.
Matt: "I don't know. I haven't delved too deep into the history of the family. That's more Ogden's fare. I just wanted to leave it all behind me. For the most part, I don't even tell people I'm a Trickfoot. They just know me as old Wilhand. Don't want to live under the stigma. Sorry, I wish I could be of more help."
Ashley: I'm struggling a bit.
Matt: "What bothers you, child?"
Ashley: I feel like you've told me so much about the family, and when they came to town I feel-- I almost feel bad about the way that I treated them. And I feel like they're just, if anything, they're just odd. I'm odd and you're odd and that's just the way Trickfoots are.
Matt: "That's the way family is. Those closest to you are usually the most odd."
Laura: It's very true.
Matt: "There've been very upstanding people in our family in the past, and there've been some downright scoundrels. We're as varied as any other folk in Exandria. It just so happens that some of the scoundrels had a higher profile in the past and set us on a path of expectation. Besides, for gnomes outside of Kraghammer, it's hard to make a living outside of farming or courier services and other menial tasks. Tinkering seems to be already a very cluttered business. So how else are they going to make their means, I suppose, than pilfering here and there? I don't blame them for that. I just don't want to live it and didn't wish for you to live it either."
Ashley: Well, I thank you for that. I couldn't imagine my life any different.
Matt: "I just hope it was enough-- you and the mountain man."
Ashley: Well, he's my protector for sure.
Matt: "Good. I was hoping he would be. He was my protector at one time, as well."
Laura: It might be a small comfort to know that Pike's doing a wonderful job of changing the Trickfoot name.
Matt: "Really?"
Laura: She's a hero of the land. Trickfoot is known as hero, now.
Matt: "Hero? What did you do?"
Ashley: Well. I mean, I didn't do it, we all did, but we killed lots of dragons, and, you know, we've done some pretty cool things.
Laura: She's saved a lot of people.
Marisha: Plus she single-handedly helped lead the rebuilding of a Sarenrae temple in Vasselheim.
Matt: "Way over in Vasselheim?"
Ashley: I've traveled very far.
Matt: "You've made the Lady of the Everlight very proud of you, then." (laughs)
Sam: She also owns a bakery. Co-owns a bakery. With the rest of us. And she is one of the finest bakers we have.
Laura: It's true. It's true.
Matt: "Where did you learn to bake?"
Ashley: It just-- I think-- (laughs) I don't know. I think over, you know, this past year-- (laughter)
Ashley: We would drink a lot, and we would just be in the kitchen sometimes without anything to do, us girls and Taryon, just throwing some shit in a bowl and seeing what we could make.
Sam: The best bakers make it up as they go.
Matt: "You're all very lucky."
Laura: It's not a very precise sort of thing, it's funny, mix things together and then it just turns out.
Sam: We don't even have measuring cups, we just kinda pour it all in and shake it up and see what comes out.
Matt: "That sounds amazing."
Ashley: Here, here, I have-- it's only half 'cause I ate half of it in our journey through the tree. (laughter)
Sam: It literally took five minutes to get here.
Ashley: But it's half of a blondie that was made yesterday.
Matt: "Did you make this?"
Ashley: Well, no, I mean, he was making them, but it's our recipe.
Sam: I made it off of a recipe that she had cultivated, and it's quite-- you'll taste--
Ashley: I go and get some tea, make the rest of the tea for everybody.
Matt: "Oh, the tea!"
Ashley: I got it, I got it. Sit, sit, enjoy. Here, here.
Laura: Oh, thank you.
Matt: "It's a bit stale. Mm."
Laura: Imagine if it was fresh.
Matt: "You're a very good cleric."
Ashley: You know, I know, thank you for your honesty, they're great when they're fresh.
Matt: "I'll finish this later."
Ashley: I'll bring you a profiterolo, 'cause that you will love.
Matt: "I've gotta cut down, you know, the diabetes." (laughter)
Matt: "But thank you, I greatly appreciate the offer. A bakery? Wow!"
Travis: The old gnome diabetes!
Ashley: I could maybe try and heal you of that. Well, just one more thing. So Ogden, in his visions that he's been having, and he told this to Vex, that he saw visions of me dying, basically, by a shadowy--
Laura: Shadowy being with eyes like burning coal.
Matt: "Well, you'd best be avoiding anything with eyes like coals."
Laura: Right.
Matt: "Dreams are dreams. Visions are different. Now, was it a dream he had, or was it a vision?"
Laura: It's a recurring dream, very constant, and it has him very worried, if he's telling the truth.
Matt: "Do you know if Ogden has found faith?"
Ashley: I didn't ask him.
Matt: "Well. I can't say. Some given the calling, they don't know why that is given. I'd like to think that even the most dastardly of characters can be redeemed. My memory of their family is a dark one, but who am I to judge, as I have not engaged with their path for hundreds of years now? Maybe you should ask him."
Ashley: Okay.
Marisha: Why do you think Ogden is dastardly? What did he do?
Matt: "I don't know him that well, I left before we got to become friends."
Marisha: Just going off what you said.
Matt: "Just meaning the Trickfoots in general."
Ashley: So would it be-- (laughs) Would it be different if he had these dreams or visions if he was a follower of Sarenrae or has found faith of some sort?
Matt: "Well, those are the only visions I've received, and they've kept you safe this long, yes? It's the only life I know. I can't speak for him, but that would put me at ease. But I also don't understand all this--" He glances over at Taryon's dragonhide armor and the giant metallic man behind him with glowing runes on his body that's writing this all down, and goes, "You know. Them. Arcane stuff."
Ashley: It's, you know, to each his own. (laughter)
Matt: "Tea?"
Laura: Sure.
Matt: All right. You guys stay for a bit and have some tea with him and catch up, and let him know more of the adventures that you've had since last you checked up on him in Westruun. Anything else you guys want to work out here in Westruun with Wilhand?
Sam: I'll just ask him, is there any message you wish to send to Ogden or the rest of the Trickfoots?
Matt: "I would tell them that if they have a penchant for sweets, they should curb that a bit. Apparently there's a family history of diabetes." (laughter)
Sam: All right.
Matt: "Just a word of advice I'm throwing out there for their own well-being."
Sam: Okay. Family history, got it.
Matt: "Yeah."
Sam: All right.
Matt: "And don't be penises."
Sam: Very good.
Marisha: Wise words.
Matt: "See? Told you." (laughs)
Laura: Wilhand? Should you remember anything about this curse that we've asked you about, please send word? We want to protect Pike as much as we can.
Matt: "I understand. I'll look into some books. If I hear anything, I'll send word."
Laura: Thank you.
Matt: "Of course."
Ashley: I'm sure it's nothing, but in case you remember anything.
Matt: "I will be happy to do so."
Ashley: Okay. I'll just take the rest of it. I'll probably have it on the way home.
Matt: "Are you sure? I don't mind, it was delicious."
Ashley: No, no.
Laura: We'll send some your way that are fresh, I swear they're very good.
Ashley: They're very good, I promise.
Matt: "All right."
Sam: In Gnome, I say, it has been lovely making your acquaint-anus. (laughter)
Matt: He responds with, "And you're getting better, but perhaps some practice, in time."
Sam: I'll keep working on it.
Matt: "Until then, avoid anyone of any sort of gnomish nobility for a while. That's my recommendation," he says to you in Gnome.
Ashley: We're working on it. (laughter)
Marisha: Pike, is there anything you need from here before we leave?
Ashley: I don't think so. Real quick.
Matt: "Yes?"
Ashley: I get up and I stand behind him and comb his hair out.
Matt: "It's been a while since somebody's done that for me. Thank you."
Ashley: It looks so great, just all natural, out, ready for the world, but I wanted to make you just look a little bit more coiffed.
Matt: "Thank you. It's a bit unbridled, I would like perhaps to... the word escapes me." And he takes another sip of his tea, thinks for a second, goes, "I wish to be less crazy-looking."
Ashley: Well, can I just say, I think you look perfect.
Matt: And he reaches up and pinches the edge of your cheek and goes, "Well, can I just say that I never thought blue would be your color, but it looks fantastic."
Ashley: It hasn't washed out yet, but it's fun for a little bit, just to try something.
Matt: "Just to try something. Ah, I remember those days. Anyway. Don't be a stranger."
Ashley: Okay. It was wonderful to see you.
Matt: "Wonderful to see you as well. And please, do send me some fresher treats."
Laura: I will.
Matt: "Thank you."
Laura: Thank you for your hospitality.
Matt: "Of course. Thank you for coming. And a pleasure to meet you, uh--"
Sam: Taryon Darrington.
Matt: "Taryon Darrington. Pleasure to meet you, yes."
Sam: Not a firm handshake at all.
Ashley: Okay.
Matt: All right, you guys make your way back to Whitestone?
Ashley: What's that?
Matt: You guys make your way back to Whitestone?
Laura: I guess so, yeah.
Ashley: Shoot.
Matt: You guys return.
Ashley: Finish the rest of the blondie through the fshoom.
Matt: Just (chomps) as you step through.
Taliesin: Stale blondie.
Marisha: Stale blondie.
Matt: As you guys return, stepping back into the main thoroughfare of Whitestone, you gather, over this time, the rest of your friends have done a relatively decent-- they're like three quarters of the way through their tour of Whitestone. It's very basic, they're not going through every single detail, but they're going in various sections, and Ogden has been asleep pretty much the entire time. JB, Johann, and Astra have been eager, for the most part, asking questions, and some of the time, when you're not looking, kind of flicking the back of the hat. But you've come around now, you're heading back up north after coming from the graveyard, and both the Pelor church and the Raven Queen shrine that have been built there, and you've made your way back northward into the city proper.
Liam: We said we were gonna do Firecracker Alley. See the Musketeers. Can we do that? I really want to do that.
Taliesin: I'm not allowed to say that word out loud.
Liam: Well, I'll hush up around your sister, but it's just us right now.
Travis: Yeah, either that or it's like a pub crawl through Whitestone, one or the other.
Taliesin: I think they may be drunk enough. Let's go see the--
Matt: Okay. Is there any specific individual that you've set as the captain of the Riflemen of Whitestone?
Taliesin: Your boy. What's his name?
Liam: Kynan.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Marisha: (gasps) What?
Matt: All right, so. As you guys approach, making your way towards the northern barracks of the city, you hear a cluster of small, controlled explosions, at which point the gnomes all kind of shudder for a second. In that moment, Ogden goes, (incoherent yelling) "We're under attack!"
Travis: It's all right, it's all right, it's all part of the tour. No, it's all right. Oh man. It's okay. This is Firecracker Alley.
Matt: "Okay."
Travis: All right.
Matt: "All right."
Travis: These my people.
Matt: JB wipes the drool from his mouth. As you guys approach, you see there's a line of ten men and women in armor with rifles; they're currently in the process of reloading them, and there you see at the edge is a leather-clad Kynan, who is in the process of instructing loudly the reloading process, the use of black powder, and the preparation for the rifles for a secondary shot. As they all prepare, he goes, "All right. And aim!" Arm up in the air. They all (clatter) up in front. "Fire!" (gunshot) They all go off again, these big plumes of smoke shoot out from the front. You watch as across the way there are a dozen or so hay targets with what looks like cloth and some figures drawn on them that have a number of holes blown through them in multiple places. The shots don't have extremely good aim.
Liam: How many rifles are we looking at, here?
Matt: You're looking at ten different people with rifles.
Liam: Queen's Grace, that's a lot of guns, Percy.
Matt: As you guys approach, gently, as they're preparing for the next shot, you see Kynan bring up his arm and look over and see the rest of you, and immediately changes his posture. He was already in a formal leader position, but as soon as you approach, it's almost like, oh, the boss is here to watch. And he kind of (inhales). "Hold. We have company."
Taliesin: At ease, at ease.
Matt: Turns around and jogs up to the edge of the perimeter of this training ground. And he goes, "Hello. By what pleasure do we have you--?"
Taliesin: We are giving a very rare tour of the grounds and we thought that, these being Trickfoots, as in the family of Trickfoots--
Matt: "Oh. Oh!"
Taliesin: -- we would show them one of the things that makes this castle so special, and one of the things that makes this castle so special is you and your company.
Matt: "Well, it is an honor to have the Trickfoots among us. I am Captain Kynan Leore. I am the, as to recently assigned, captain of the Riflemen of Whitestone." And you see him go from-- his whole, structured presentation begins to quickly fade as the nerves kick in. You can see his voice get a little quivery and his posture begin to fall a little bit. "These are my Riflemen... and women! It's called Riflemen, but it's men and women. It's a formality."
Liam: Kynan--
Matt: "It can be changed, it can be changed."
Liam: Hey.
Laura: Riflepeople.
Liam: Hey, it's been months. You're looking on point.
Matt: "Well, we're trying. They're very, very good people. Aren't they? Yes?" And they all don't know how to answer and look at each other and look at him and--
Taliesin: At ease. This man in command of you all is one of the few people who could actually do a little damage to us in our time. He has great respect.
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: He puts his eyes down, slightly sheepishly and guiltily as you say that, but--
Liam: That's old history. How are you getting on?
Matt: "Very well. Very well. I mean, very few get a second chance. I just don't want to mess this up."
Liam: Are you being of use?
Matt: Looks to Percival.
Taliesin: Very much so. I could not think of anyone better for this particular occupation. I am nothing but prideful.
Liam: Well, that's enough.
Matt: "Then yes, I have been of use."
Liam: (whispers) How's Simon?
Matt: "Oh!" He looks over at the rest of the folk and goes, "At ease! Go get some food." The men break and make their way walking out--
Laura: And women. Because there's men and women.
Liam: Sometimes I sound like my sister. I'm sorry. I just like equality for all.
Matt: But he leans in and says, "Simon is doing well." And he pulls up the front of his armor a little bit and you can see the snake belt itself is still on him.
Liam: (whispers) Can I say hello?
Matt: "I mean--" Glances over at the men not watching-- and women.
Taliesin: I'm showing off some trick shots to the Trickfoots while we're--
Matt: Okay, so as you're doing a whole Buffalo Bill-- (laughter)
Matt: I should say, Wild Bill. Buffalo Bill is a whole different thing. Buffalo Bill's a very different thing. (laughter)
Matt: I need to specify.
Taliesin: That's a very different show.
Matt: Yeah, no. It's a whole different pit in Whitestone to go to. He goes ahead and does a little whistle, and suddenly the belt turns into a snake and winds its way up the forearm and (hisses).
Liam: Oh, fuck! Buddy! Can I hold him for a minute?
Matt: "Yeah! Well, he's still yours."
Liam: Ah.
Matt: The snake leaps to your arm and coils around.
Liam: Hey! Hey! You are bigger. What is he feeding you? What are you feeding him?
Laura: "Belt!"
Matt: "Well, nothing. It's a--"
Liam: Well, I fed him. I mean, you don't have to, I guess.
Matt: "I can! I can feed him. I just didn't think-- It's a belt! I don't know-- I'll feed him."
Liam: When was the last time this belt was a snake, before now?
Matt: "When you give it to me. I haven't had to use it! And then should I let it out? I don't know. I don't know how these things work, okay?"
Marisha: Not everyone can be a dope adventurer, all right?
Liam: I'm conflicted here. I did give this to you--
Matt: "Right. You gave me a belt. And I've used it, and it's been great."
Liam: Can I insight check Simon to see how he's feeling?
Matt: Sure! With your extensive knowledge of magical snake belts, let's see how well this goes.
Liam: Hey, this is all bullshit, man.
Matt: I know. I love it!
Liam: That's insight?
Matt: Yeah.
Liam: No, I'm gonna use wisdom. Excuse me, I'm going to use Luck. Oh, that's much better.
Travis: Luck.
Matt: Blow that Luck, baby!
Liam: That's 18.
Matt: 18. Yeah. He seems fine. As a magical snake, it can transform back and forth. It doesn't appear to require food or water when it's in its belt form. It wouldn't necessarily be conscious of the time in between. So as far as Simon's concerned, it's been a very short period of time.
Liam: Kynan.
Matt: "Yes, Vax?"
Liam: You are happy here-- happier here?
Matt: "Very."
Liam: I'm very glad for that. You seem happy. And everybody deserves a second chance. And I guess what I'm asking is: can I have my snake back?
Matt: "Of course. Yes! Here, I mean he was-- I was just borrowing it for a while."
Liam: Okay. I feel silly. I mean, I gave it to you a year ago or so, but, I don't know, I missed him. I think I missed him.
Matt: "Okay. Yeah."
Taliesin: I'm so glad I can't hear any of this.
Matt: As he looks over at Percy doing all these trick shots in the air and throwing things up and, like, showing the spinning. And the gnomes are like, "Whoa! Whoa! Whoa!"
Travis: As you can see, Firecracker Alley was constructed after the revolt of the Haybales of 1874... 39.
Liam: I let Simon crawl down and form a belt.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: And I give Kynan just a gentle little clap on the cheek and say, I'm glad you're fitting in.
Matt: "Me too. And thank you. Sorry about not feeding your snake. I didn't--" (laughter)
Liam: I think you're well on your way to being that hero you dreamed of when you were younger.
Matt: "Well, thank you, I was-- " (gun noise) And his rifle goes off like in the ground next to him.
Laura: Oh my god.
Matt: A big plume of dirt next to him, and he goes, "Uh--"
Liam: Happens to the best of us. You got all your toes?
Matt: "Men!" And he goes running off toward the rest of his Riflemen. Yeah, you shook him a little bit.
Liam: All right.
Travis: So how do you feel your tour has gone so far? Are you feeling educated, enthused?
Matt: "All of that! All of it, honestly." Johann at this point is still enthralled and goes, "Where does one procure such a weapon?"
Taliesin: One does not, sadly.
Matt: "Okay."
Taliesin: They're very rare outside of this castle, and traditionally when they're found outside of this castle, they're collected and the owner is often killed.
Matt: "Good to know! Good to know, Astra." And Astra goes, "What?! I think it's sexy." And Johann's like, "If you have one lying around you don't need, just let me-- "
Taliesin: I will let you know.
Matt: "Okay."
Travis: Hey Percy, I feel like we should end with, like, a big bang. Like, you know, like, the goods of Whitestone.
Sam: The old apple-in-the-hand?
Liam: (whispers) Do you think Grog and I could shoot a gun?
Taliesin: Yes, I think that's a great idea.
Liam: Yeah? Grog, we're gonna shoot guns!
Travis: Really?
Liam: Yeah!
Liam: He just said, he gave permission!
Taliesin: I will say yes to this. Not one of my guns, but thankfully we have a couple of the ones that are a little wonky.
Matt: The standard rifles. You do have those, yeah.
Liam: But I, like, I don't know. I throw things. Can you show me how it works?
Taliesin: Kind of, yes.
Liam: All right.
Taliesin: It'll be fun.
Liam: (shouts) Gun, please!
Matt: Eventually you guys are outfitted with two rifles. They're not loaded yet. You can show them how to load it.
Taliesin: I'm showing them through the basics of loading the powder. I do this very quickly, so I know it's very difficult to see.
Liam: You're fast.
Taliesin: Very fast, yes. I load it for them.
Matt: All right. You load it for each of them?
Taliesin: One at a time.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: Because this could go poorly.
Travis: We're not loading it ourselves?
Taliesin: You're welcome to try.
Travis: I am a self-made man. I would like to try.
Liam: I will let Percy load my gun.
Matt: Okay, so Percy loads your gun. Grog, make an intelligence check.
Taliesin: I give him an ample amount of powder.
Travis: That's gonna be negative something-- (laughter)
Travis: 12!
Matt: Okay. All right. You give him an ample amount of powder, and he uses it. He uses it the right way. It's a lot of it. But I mean, overall, he got the gist of it, and he's-- (laughs)
Taliesin: This is going to be funny.
Matt: Yeah. Both rifles locked in. The iron balls properly packed into the rifle. You both take aim. I would like you both to roll an attack roll using your dexterity modifier. You're not proficient, so it's just a d20 plus your dexterity modifier. Grog, you have disadvantage on this one.
Travis: Not going to need it.
Liam: Plus dex modifier?
Travis: Seven.
Matt: What did you roll?
Travis: Five plus two.
Matt: Okay, so it wasn't a misfire, at the very least.
Liam: 17.
Matt: Okay. You pull it up, Vax, aim and (gunshot). You watch as the top of one of the hay targets explodes off. You managed to make a hit. It's a little off, but you managed to at least make contact.
Taliesin: Very solid.
Laura: Did his feet come off the ground?
Matt: No, but it does come up and you have to catch yourself.
Taliesin: There's a bit of kick to these. You feel it in the shoulder.
Laura: So there.
Matt: Grog does not move at all when it fires. (explosion noise) When you do fire, nothing reacts. None of the hay reacts, and there's a pause, and about 300 feet back, you watch as a small tree goes (cracking, heavy impact).
Travis: Was that the Sun Tree?
Taliesin: Maybe.
Travis: I'm so sorry.
Taliesin: It's all right.
Travis: I could go stick it up and cover it with tape and stuff.
Taliesin: I think that's a great idea.
Travis: Okay. I take off running. (laughter)
Liam: Vax, who was really giddy a minute ago, takes the rifle and hands it to you. These are dangerous.
Taliesin: Extremely.
Liam: There shouldn't be too many of these.
Taliesin: There should not, which is why if we find them outside this castle, it's taken care of, one way or another.
Liam: Fuck.
Taliesin: I'm going to do a quick load shot just to air it out a bit.
Matt: Okay. You do, and it's a really rapid reload. We're talking Schwarzenegger T-2. Spin the shotgun one-handed. (gunshot)
Travis: I'm a hundred yards away. Shouldn't he have to roll to see if he shoots me?
Matt: Are you shooting at Grog?
Taliesin: No. (laughter)
Taliesin: The rifle doesn't have a super long range, either. It's more of a stopping power weapon.
Matt: Go ahead and roll, with proficiency and your dex modiifer.
Liam: You don't shoot with your gun, you shoot with your heart.
Taliesin: Yeah, this is 25.
Matt: The same target, Vax, the impact of the head you hit, you watch as the entire upper part of its torso and head (explosion noise) explode into a spray of slightly seared and slightly burning hay.
Taliesin: I will never, ever outlive the shame I feel for inventing these. I put it back down. Walk away.
Travis: From 300 yards away, I yell, (muffled) it is not the Sun Tree! (laughter)
Matt: As he runs back, you can see as Johann's like, "Is there any chance that we could shoot one?"
Taliesin: You know what? I'm going to say yes.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: You see Astra's (squeals).
Taliesin: One at a time.
Matt: They both look at each other and they both jump off the carpet.
Taliesin: You'll have to be very careful. It's very dangerous. Not just for what you're shooting at--
Matt: They're not even listening. They're both picking up the two rifles.
Taliesin: They're both empty.
Matt: They pick them up and are looking at it and holding it upward and aiming it sideways. They don't really know how to do it.
Taliesin: I'm going to go a little Luciferian here.
Liam: I'm back in security guard mode.
Matt: Do you help them load it?
Taliesin: I'm going to load one at a time. I'm going to mis-load; I'm going to let the powder roll so it creates a flashpan. It's going to be a big, ugly, loud mess. It's not going to fire a shot. It's just going to be a big, ugly mess.
Marisha: You're making a blank?
Taliesin: I'm making a blank. I'm making a blank with a powder pop. It's going to be a little singe-y.
Matt: All right, so for the purposes of this... okay. No terrible misfire. The first shot is Johann because he pushes Astra back and is like, "Let the men do this first." Takes the rifle from you. Picks it up and aims it at a weird angle. "And I just pull right here on the thing? Right over here?" (explosion) Before he finishes, it goes off. It goes flying from his hand, and he stands there for a second with his hands open, and as he turns back towards you, you can see there's a little bit of singe on his eyebrows. The burst of the smoke and the flash seared the front of his face ever so slightly. He turns to you and goes, "That was amazing. Did I hit it?"
Taliesin: You hit something. Well done.
Matt: "I hit it! You're up, lady." Astra's like, "Oh!" and she runs up. Takes the gun. Same thing?
Taliesin: You know, just because I'm curious, I'm going to give her a normal shot.
Matt: Okay, so you load it properly. She takes it and aims at one of the other targets. (gunshot) She manages to hold onto it; this one doesn't blast out of her hand. You don't see any point of impact.
Taliesin: Good form.
Matt: She's like, "Ow!" and she releases her hand because of the heat of the barrel.
Taliesin: That, as well.
Matt: She puts it on the ground and goes, "That was fun. I'm good."
Taliesin: I figured.
Travis: (panting) I heard shots. What's the problem?
Matt: Grog, you look down and notice that there's a little bit of bleeding from your knee, and there's a small bullet hole that you didn't notice as you were running back.
Taliesin: The Sun Tree was angry. It may have taken revenge.
Travis: (whines, groans)
Matt: It only went in an inch. It wasn't that hard of an impact.
Travis: Mine. (laughter)
Matt: Eventually, as you guys are heading back now, after the rest of your tour, you meet up with the rest of the party. As you guys finish the tour--
Liam: A minor thing. As we're walking back, I sidle up next to Percy and I don't say anything. I just do that friend thing where you just go-- and I keep walking.
Matt: Vax bumps you.
Travis: Do we want to show them the sphere?
Taliesin: No, I think that we've had enough for the evening.
Travis: Really? That's the craziest thing in this town.
Taliesin: No, I have to fill out so much paperwork for that one. We'll do it next time.
Travis: Oh. You know, I do know how to write a few letters now.
Taliesin: If you would like to try and fill out the paperwork...
Travis: Well, let's not get carried away.
Taliesin: All right, then. I certainly am not up to it, so I completely understand if you're not.
Travis: Fine.
Matt: All right. You guys catch up with the rest of the party, and you all make your way to the castle at about the same time.
Taliesin: Just checking. None of the gnomes had even the slightest tinge of reaction when he said that? Or no.
Matt: Make a perception check.
Liam: Other than when I was shooting the gun, I've been watching them like a hawk, as well.
Taliesin: 23.
Matt: Okay. Vax?
Liam: 29.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: Even a twitch?
Matt: No reaction. No twitch. They have no idea what you were talking about, and they have not stolen anything. You've been keeping a close eye.
Sam: Except your heart.
Travis: Ain't that the truth.
Matt: As you guys all reconvene for a mid-afternoon lunch at the castle, everyone's made their way in. The meal's been placed. Less pastry-heavy than the breakfast that Johann originally ordered, but there are meats and breads, and it's actually pretty hearty for a midday lunch, and they keep bringing more in. You get the sense that the Trickfoots don't eat like royals often, and they're definitely making the best they can of the situation. You see JB eating her meal and helping Ogden as you guys settle in. What do you want to do?
Laura: What the fuck should we do?
Taliesin: Perhaps it's time to have a difficult conversation.
Ashley: I think so. I'd like to talk to Ogden again.
Matt: Okay. He's currently at the table, and he's tracing his finger on the side, while occasionally, JB goes, "Uncle?" and taps him. "Oh. Right." She goes and takes a piece of bread and soaks it in the soup for a second and puts it in his mouth. He chews on it for a bit, and as you walk over, he pushes JB's hand out of the way and goes, "Oh, young Pike. Hello."
Ashley: Hello. Did you have a good time today?
Matt: "I did. I haven't had a rest like that in a long time."
Ashley: Well, that's good.
Matt: "Your city gets very loud."
Ashley: It gets pretty loud here. It's true. I take it you went to Firecracker Alley?
Matt: "That's the one."
Ashley: Yeah, it's real loud.
Matt: JB peeks over Ogden's shoulder, listening in. "It was quite nice, actually. We got to watch them fire these--" "Anyway!" Ogden pushes in, not even paying attention to her. "It's so good to see you."
Ashley: Will you take a walk with me?
Matt: "But of course." He takes his stick and stands up. JB's like, "Oh. Where would you like to go?"
Ashley: Well... I just would love to spend some time with you alone, Uncle Ogden.
Matt: JB, you watch her face go--
Ashley: I'll spend some time with you, as well, JB. I just want to make sure I get time with everybody.
Matt: "Of course. Enjoy. I'll just--" And she goes back to her meal and begins cutting it up with fervor or frustration.
Laura: Can I take JB and ask her, did you happen to see my home on the tour?
Matt: "I don't know where you live."
Laura: Would you like to see? I'd love to show you.
Matt: She sidelong glances at Pike helping Ogden up as they begin to make their way out. "You know what? Yes. I would love that."
Laura: All right. I take her.
Matt: So you guys begin making your way. While they exit, because Ogden's a little slower, you and Ogden eventually make your way out to the front part of the castle, walking along the side grounds. He's with his cane, walking. "What did you wish to discuss, young Pike?"
Ashley: I'm blanking right now. Is there a temple of Sarenrae here?
Matt: You have definitely had one constructed. It's a smaller scale. The larger temples here are for Pelor and such and you've been away. Most of your focus has been in Vasselheim and Emon, so you haven't done the full temple construct here, but there's a small shrine that you've built so at least you can go there.
Ashley: I would love to walk you to something that I was a part of building and creating here in the city, if you'd like.
Matt: "Of course. Lead the way. I am your guest. I am here at your behest."
Ashley: I walk him to the shrine of Sarenrae.
Matt: Okay. There was a big building that collapsed during the Briarwood period. The lot was cleaned out, and it's a small standing shrine to Sarenrae at the time being, to eventually be the placeholder for the full temple's construction that you'll build around it. But for the time being, essentially a few small benches, set in a circular stone fashion, and there's a fountain-like carving. A simple carving of Sarenrae for people to pray to. You eventually walk him to that centerpiece. It's mostly empty this time of day. Nobody's currently in the process of upkeep; there isn't a need for it. Some fallen leaves, and it's a little dirty on some of the benches, but you brush it off and you both sit on the bench, looking up at the big winged statue of her. He sits down.
Ashley: Do you know where we are?
Matt: "No idea."
Ashley: This is a shrine of Sarenrae, who I follow, and I wanted to bring you here because I wanted to share it with you.
Matt: "Thank you. It's very peaceful."
Ashley: (sighs) How are you feeling?
Matt: After looking around for a minute, he leans into you and goes, "Pike, we need to talk. I've been tying together the missing pieces of our history for most of my life. This information has helped me once before, and as I'm sure has been discussed at length with your friends, there is a curse upon this bloodline. My research has brought me some knowledge, and I've been able to cast this curse out of one Trickfoot before, but I failed once before that. And I miss her to this day. Do you want to know the history of our curse?"
Ashley: I would.
Matt: "Over four centuries ago, when our kin still occupied the city of Witterbach, up in the Cliffkeep Mountains, long before our bloodline took the name Trickfoot, there was a wily rock gnome called OG Pipemender. Now, OG grew jealous of his brother, Lons, and his business's success, and his marriage, apparently. So, seeking a means of balancing their standing, bringing Lons down a peg or two, OG plotted to undermine and shame his brother, and destroy his life. Now, he was successful in this plot, at least from what I've gleaned. Lons was ruined, but not before it was revealed to Lons that OG himself was the culprit. Now, cornered and fearing for his life, OG lashed out and slew his brother. He fled Witterbach and wandered the mountains for weeks, scavenging to survive. On a full moon, he was visited by a vision of what is believed to be the Lawbearer, Erathis herself. At least, an aspect of her, at the very least. Now, this grave injustice he had committed did not go unnoticed by the Lawbearer, and it required punishment. And a curse was set within the very blood of OG himself. One that lay dormant from generation to generation, unless those carrying the seed fell to extreme selfishness and wanton destruction of others. Now, we Trickfoots may not have the best reputation, but what we do, we do it to survive. And we hurt no other in the process. Those that wander too far into the dark call up this curse and the shades within them slowly hollow them out, leaving a ravenous, selfish beast of a gnome. These visions that I've dreamt, I've had them before. They were not wrong. I saw the shades within my beloved, Ishma, but knew too little at the time to stop them. I caught the shades within others since. Within Johann here, even, years and years ago. And used what I learned to exorcise them out. Now, these visions I have now show you, young Pike. A darkness within you far greater than the others, and I don't know what has drawn them to you. You walk with such light, and I am worried what could be hidden beneath all the layers of silver and gold and blue and Sarenrae's blessing that could still draw these shades to you. Where you've been, what you've done, I know not. I know not the justice of the goddess, can presume not to know, I don't bother myself with such unknowable things. But I am here to try and help, if I can. If you'll have me."
Ashley: Wow. That's a lot.
Matt: "I've had an entire lifetime to think and learn and research and regret."
Ashley: How long have you been having visions, in terms of this happening with me?
Matt: "This is only over the past couple of years, but I knew not where to find you until you sent your letter."
Ashley: And what are your thoughts on JB?
Matt: "She is very dedicated. She's very sweet. She's a bit distracted, at times. She cares much for the stories of you and your friends. The poor thing's been at my side for the majority of her youth. I feel like a burden. She looks after me and not much else, so she lives vicariously through the stories she manages to assemble of you."
Ashley: And she knows about all this, as well?
Matt: "They all know. We've had time to speak. I was the one that insisted we come see you, and I do apologize for the rest of them. They are unique."
Ashley: Well, I think I was at first shocked, and I feel like I need to apologize for my trepidation and wariness at first.
Matt: "It's understood. Like I said, we have a reputation. One that you've, as far as what I've heard, been able to kick to the curb."
Laura: (sneezes)
Ashley: Bless you.
Laura: Thank you.
Ashley: Just little fairies, sneezing fairies, around here.
Matt: "It's adorable. I don't see them."
Ashley: You usually don't. You just hear them.
Matt: "I don't see much, anyway."
Ashley: It's okay. You said you've had some successes in releasing this thing?
Matt: "I've cast it out once before. I've been trying to define a ritual that can do so."
Ashley: How do you define this ritual? Is this under any sort of faith that you have?
Matt: "I find little in faith. However, the exorcism is based in divine magics and some bits of information I've gleaned from the Age of Arcanum, long ago, back when possession was a common thing and gods still walked the earth. What I've found--" And he leans forward on his stick. "-- is to perform this. Pardon me, it's the breakfast. All the oatmeal. It's good for the fiber."
Ashley: It sure is.
Matt: "What I would require would be the highest point on the highest mountain in the vicinity. As high up as we can go. Like somewhere in those mountains there." He points a broad stroke to the north, northeast, to the Alabaster Sierras that surround the Parchwood. "And when the moon is full, as that was when the original curse was cast upon us, there, we hallow the ground to prepare. Perhaps you or another individual of a clerical background could do so, and it does take some time to hallow it. But with the ground hallowed, and the moon is full, I can perform the exorcism. Now, should the shades be strong enough to survive the exorcism, as they have once before, it will be up to you and your friends to slay them while they're bound on that land. And if you cast them to the shadows where they came, the blood curse on you would be no more."
Ashley: But they'll come back again?
Matt: "They are passed on through the bloodline."
Ashley: Is there any way to get rid of them forever?
Matt: "From an individual, yes. Overall, I know not. That involves silly, crazy god stuff, and, well, they haven't been around often. There are a few things we need to prepare for the exorcism that I don't have the access of. If you wish to go through with this, let me know. If you find this all mumbo jumbo and you don't believe me, I don't blame you, either, and we can be on our way. Choice is yours."
Ashley: So you want to perform the exorcism on me?
Matt: "You're the one the visions brought me to."
Ashley: Well, this is something that I'll have to think about. We'll have to talk about it with everybody else, especially if it involves them, as well.
Matt: "Of course. Take your time. They're about-- JB? JB, how close are we to the full moon?" He's shouting out into nothing.
Marisha: Can I do a nature check--
Matt: You're not there.
Ashley: Do I know?
Matt: Make a nature check.
Ashley: Nature check?
Matt: Nature check.
Ashley: Okay.
Travis: Get it.
Ashley: Let me find a d20. Oh, ten.
Matt: You're not sure. You're not very involved or invested in the cycles of the moon.
Ashley: You know, I could talk to Keyleth about that. She would know.
Matt: "Very well."
Ashley: And thank you for telling me all of this.
Matt: "Thank you for being so kind to family that you owe nothing to."
Ashley: I'm very grateful that you're here, and even though our last name has a reputation, I'm proud to be a Trickfoot.
Matt: "That warms my heart, and to hear you say that, maybe one day I will be, as well, before my time is up."
Ashley: I think we can make that happen.
Matt: "I think so, too." He reaches out and pinches the air about a foot off of your face. "There it is."
Ashley: Well, let's go back. I have some thinking to do.
Matt: "All right. Your gray blob is very nice."
Ashley: Oh. Yes, she is.
Matt: "Thank you for showing me. If you don't mind?"
Ashley: Oh, of course.
Matt: (grunts) You guys begin to slowly make your way back to Castle Whitestone. That's where we're going to take our break. We'll come back here in a few minutes.
Travis: (laughing) Kill him, Pike! Kill the bearer of bad news.
Matt: And Flame Strike! All right, guys. We'll be back here in just a minute. We do have another Wyrmwood giveaway in the chat room. This is for this awesome--
Ashley: Are we still going?
Crew: It's still going.
Ashley: Oh!
Matt: We're still going. This is lacewood. Lacewood deck box.
Travis: Is it made of lace?
Matt: It's made of wood that is lacy.
Laura: It is really pretty. I haven't seen that one.
Marisha: I'm kind of jelly. Why didn't we get lacewood?
Matt: I don't know. Well, now you get to get a wood that everyone on here is jealous of. If you go ahead and enter, the code word in the Twitch chat is 'family', so when you're prompted, go ahead and put 'family' and see if you can win. See you guys here in a few minutes. [break]
Matt: Hello, everyone, and welcome back to Critical Role. First and foremost-- nice try, guys. First and foremost, we have our winner for the break. It is, and pardon me for butchering your chat handle, emiliaaldean. E-M-I-L-I-A-A-L-D-E-A-N. Emelialdean. Congratulations! You won your fantastic Wyrmwood card case. It will come to you, signed by the cast, for you to put things inside. Put things inside! Put many things inside. Now! Back into the game, guys. So, Pike. Having walked him back to the castle, we'll jump in for a moment as Vex, you've been leading JB.
Laura: I have!
Matt: She walks alongside you at a comfortable three-foot distance, but she's walking with you.
Laura: You know you can walk next to me?
Matt: "I am walking next to you."
Laura: Oh, I thought she was walking behind me. Is she walking next to me?
Matt: She's behind and to the side.
Laura: No, seriously. Come over here. I don't want to turn my head when I'm talking to you, dear.
Matt: "Right." She quickens her pace. You know, gnomish gait.
Laura: I walk slower. So this is my home. We just built it. Isn't it wonderful?
Matt: "It's beautiful."
Laura: Yes.
Matt: "What's it like having a home?"
Laura: Oh. I went a long time without one, as well. It feels wonderful to finally have someplace to settle down.
Matt: "That's very nice. We're always moving from place to place."
Laura: Yeah. Why is that?
Matt: "We can't afford to put stakes down anywhere, and it doesn't take long for people to figure out who we are."
Laura: What are you?
Matt: "Trickfoots?"
Laura: Well, yes. I know. I know that. But my experience with Trickfoots has always been pleasant.
Matt: "Let's just say that some of our family aren't the most subtle." She looks down and to the side and averts her gaze. "They're good people. They're very good people. Johann has done a lot for us, but he's more prideful than the rest of us. As soon as anyone starts any shit, he's the first to get in their face about it. He's a fiery one. It's why Astra took to him."
Laura: She's fiery as well, it seems.
Matt: "She's something."
Laura: If you could settle down anywhere, where would it be?
Matt: She looks around at the whole city. "Probably right here."
Laura: Whitestone is quite wonderful.
Matt: "It's very nice. People here are far less dubious than the folks in Kymal, at the very least."
Laura: Pike's buttered us up quite well.
Matt: "I miss her a lot. We grew up together. I don't know if you knew that."
Laura: I heard. How old was she when she left?
Matt: "I don't know the specifics of it, but me and her were both in our first decade."
Laura: What was that like, having Pike leave and you staying behind?
Matt: "We were friends. She was my only friend, at the time. I've always been a reader. They tell me the first of my kind, so I didn't take to making new friends very well. That, and Uncle needs someone to look after him, and I didn't really want to drop the ball on that."
Laura: Well, you're a good person.
Matt: "I'm a person."
Laura: Would you like to see the library?
Matt: "You have a library?"
Laura: It's growing.
Matt: "Yes, please!"
Laura: I don't know how big the library is right now.
Matt: (laughs) In Castle Whitestone?
Laura: I mean, it's my particular--
Matt: Oh, your personal library? It's not huge.
Laura: I'm growing it!
Matt: I know, but it took a while to construct it, and then some books have made their way in. It's maybe a third full, but as you show her, she's like, "What kind of books do you have?"
Laura: Oh, well, a lot of books about really terrible gods. Some good gods. Oh! I have something about the Feywild; I remember picking that up. Would you like to learn about the Feywild?
Matt: "Yeah. I've only heard a few things."
Laura: I go dig through my books and find it.
Matt: She takes her straightened hair to the side, and she nervously steps back with it and smiles with her little gap tooth. "Are you sure?"
Laura: Of course. Have you ever learned anything about the curse on your family? Have you seen that in books?
Matt: She starts getting a little dark and says, "Not in the books, no. Nobody really writes books about the Trickfoots. I know what Ogden's talked about, and why we're here. I think he wants to try and help."
Laura: Right. Have you ever seen anyone be affected by it, personally?
Matt: "Not in my lifetime. The last one Ogden went to was before our time, me and Pike. It doesn't happen often-- the vision, at least."
Laura: Well, that's good.
Matt: "I don't know if it's a coming of age thing or not."
Laura: But you've never had any visions.
Matt: "No. I wish I did. That would be interesting. Would be different."
Laura: You are quite different. That's something to be proud of.
Matt: She takes the book. (sighs)
Laura: You know, one of my very best friends, Taryon Darrington, is an incredible writer, and I bet if you told him about the curse, he'd be willing to write it down.
Matt: "Really?"
Laura: Oh yes. You would go into complete detail about it, and he would make it sound very interesting. Maybe we could have somebody draw pictures for it!
Matt: (stutters) "Okay."
Laura: Trickfoots could be legends.
Matt: "Well, you already have one."
Laura: Well, yes. But there are multiple chapters.
Matt: "Okay. Well, we'd have to talk to Uncle Ogden about that; he knows it better than anybody."
Laura: Of course, yes. We'll sit down with him, but I bet you know quite a few details, as well, having taken care of him for so long.
Matt: "Maybe. I don't know."
Laura: We should find Tary. Take that with you.
Matt: "You're sure?"
Laura: Yes, yes. We can talk about it on the way back.
Matt: "Okay." She follows after you as you guys head back to the castle. Eventually you guys stumble up to the castle, and there's Taryon with Doty. What are you guys in the process of doing right now?
Sam: He's combing my hair.
Matt: "Tary."
Laura: Tary?
Sam: 33, 34, 35. Oh, LE Girl. How are you?
Laura: Hi, darling. So, our dear friend JB, here. I told her what a wonderful writer you are.
Sam: Well, yes. Unpublished as of yet, as we all know.
Laura: It's a growing book.
Sam: Budding.
Laura: Yes. And I told her it might be fun if we wrote down a little about the Trickfoots and their curse.
Sam: Oh.
Laura: Something so other people can learn about them.
Sam: Like a short story or something?
Laura: Mm-hm.
Sam: I mean, sure, they could write something like that. I would maybe even read it someday.
Laura: No, I want her to tell you about it, and you can write it down. That way we have all the details.
Sam: Oh.
Laura: You know, you're such a wonderful writer, dear.
Sam: I am a wonderful writer, but, you know, my story has intrigue and danger and romance--
Laura: There's all those things in the curse, darling. Maybe just write a new book for the time being, just a small other book?
Sam: Seems like a bit of a downer, just a book about a curse, I mean. You know how it's gonna end. Someone's gonna get cursed.
Laura: Doty.
Sam: What? Oh. Oh! Yes. Yes! Of course. I would be happy to take down her story. Yes, absolutely, if she'll share it with me.
Laura: I mean, if she's willing.
Matt: "I mean, yeah. We should get Ogden, though. He knows more than I do about it."
Laura: Of course, of course, you can just tell us a little bit about it while we go get him.
Sam: We could call it an outline and then Ogden can fill in the details later.
Laura: Of course. Flourish.
Matt: "Okay." And she goes in to tell you what she knows of the curse, in fair detail, talking about how, long ago, there was people in the family that apparently killed a brother and pissed off a god, and ever since, the family was cursed, so they left what was once the gnomish city of Wittebach. And the curse seems to manifest when a Trickfoot falls too deep into the spell of selfishness or dark thoughts and habits, and manifests in these shades that eventually hollow them out to the point where they are nothing but a being of avarice and greed.
Laura: Of greed, hm?
Matt: "Well, it's part of the reason that we have such a bad reputation. Those that befell the curse kind of tore a path through the countryside."
Laura: Now, you say 'hollowed out by shades'. Do you still look like a normal gnome, or?
Matt: "I haven't seen anyone. I don't know. This is stuff that I heard from Uncle Ogden."
Laura: Wow. I wonder what that looks like.
Matt: "Hopefully we never find out."
Laura: Well, no, obviously. But just for detail, so we can illustrate it.
Sam: The curse only manifests itself in those who bring it upon themselves with greed, or?
Matt: "Those that draw too close to it, that's what I know about it."
Laura: Well, how can Pike be at risk, then?
Sam: That seems odd.
Laura: She's one of the most generous people I've ever known.
Sam: Unless she's doing things that we don't know about.
Laura: No. (laughs) No. It's Pike.
Matt: "I know. That's why I'm worried."
Laura: Yeah.
Sam: Well, your narrative was crude and the language not at all descriptive, but I think we have the building blocks to work with here for something that we could turn into, you know, like an essay. An essay of some sort.
Laura: A good short book with a lot of drawings--
Sam: Not a book, not a book at all, nope.
Laura: -- leather cover with embossing on it or something quite lovely.
Sam: I don't think it would be thick enough for that.
Laura: Gold filigree, probably, something just very beautiful.
Sam: A pamphlet, maybe. A big pamphlet.
Matt: She's nodding. "All right, yeah."
Sam: We'll work on it.
Laura: Yeah. Let's head back.
Matt: "Yeah, I should go." You join up with Pike and Ogden. You guys reconvene, now. It's getting later in the day, dusk is taking. What do you wish to do?
Laura: Don't worry. I got so many details about the curse, I know all about it.
Ashley: Oh, great. I got some details, too.
Laura: Oh.
Ashley: Well, I think-- I would love to get everybody together and just talk some stuff out.
Laura: Good call. Should this just be Vox Machina?
Ashley: Yeah, just like us.
Laura: Okay.
Travis: Percy. The string's leaving a mark in my chin and cheeks. I feel like now is a good time to put the hat back in its place of holding. Will you guide me to the hallowed area from whence it came?
Taliesin: How would you know that it's leaving a mark if you had not disturbed the string? It's very important.
Travis: It itches, and I feel deadening of the skin in this U-shape.
Taliesin: Are you saying that it's too difficult for you to wear, that it's not working?
Travis: Nope. It's staying on.
Taliesin: All right.
Travis: I just wanted to know if you wanted it back.
Taliesin: Let me know when you are finished with it, and when it is time to retire it, I will make sure that it goes back to its resting place.
Travis: Cool. Will do. (laughter)
Matt: All right. Meal is prepared for the guesting Trickfoots, specified to keep separate from wherever you decide to have your meal, but you manage to gather the rest of Vox Machina at your behest to have a discussion, I imagine probably in one of your chambers, separately from the rest of the castle, where you can talk in private. So as you all slowly gather within, we'll say Pike's room for the simplicity of this, close the door behind you, and you have all been brought together.
Marisha: You have a really big room, Pike.
Ashley: Yeah, it is very large.
Marisha: Yeah, not that I'm comparing, I'm just, it's very nice.
Ashley: I feel like I don't need this much room.
Taliesin: I think my sister likes you.
Ashley: Well, we do get along very well.
Sam: You've called us together for a reason?
Ashley: So I talked to-- and I know you got information, too-- I talked to Ogden, and he told me some stuff that's a little disturbing, but I guess, you know, way back in our family there were these brothers, and one of them sort of was overcome with jealousy, and he killed the other one, and basically, long story short, our family has had a curse because of that action, and Ogden wants to perform an exorcism on me to get rid of this thing. But I don't feel any different, I don't feel like I have anything, and he said, you know, we would all have to be a part of it and go on a mountaintop while there's a full moon, and I don't know.
Laura: This seems weird.
Travis: That's heavy.
Marisha: When you list it out like that, really weird.
Taliesin: Bit odd. Seems a bit odd.
Sam: Most times, family comes into town, you show them a couple sights--
Marisha: You drink a lot of wine.
Sam: -- yeah, they leave. This seems like a strange family visit.
Liam: There's a curse on you?
Laura: Yeah, JB said it was brought upon by greed.
Sam: And avarice.
Laura: Whoa.
Travis: What?
Liam: Listen, buddy, you just learned the letter 'u' to say 'u-shaped', I think you should call that a win.
Travis: I did.
Sam: JB said that you would have to bring this curse on yourself. Have you been up to-- be straight with us, we're all on the same team, here.
Laura: You're not doing any drugs like Scanlan was?
Ashley: No!
Sam: Are you sure you don't have greed in your heart? Lust in your heart?
Ashley: No!
Travis: Pike, you look me in the eye.
Ashley: No.
Travis: She's telling the truth. (laughter)
Travis: Not a lie in that little soul of hers.
Marisha: It's hard to take you seriously, ever, but even more so now with that ridiculous hat.
Laura: Yeah, maybe you should take it off, it's kind of annoying--
Travis: Heavy is the head that wears the crown. (laughter)
Liam: Don't let these people tear you down, Grog.
Taliesin: At what point will (strained) the lack of circulation begin to make you talk like this?
Travis: I'm gonna get you for this.
Liam: And also, I mean, if we take you at your word, and of course we do, so the curse, you-- you're very in tune with divine things and with curses and things of fiendish nature. You don't sense anything in yourself. It doesn't really add up. Is it possible-- I mean, they're family, and I know you love them to a degree-- but is it possible they're jerking you around?
Ashley: Anything's possible. I just-- I don't feel like they're lying. Unless.
Taliesin: I don't feel like they're telling the whole truth.
Ashley: Yeah. I don't feel like they're telling the whole truth, but I think something's there, and I can't seem to get to the bottom of it.
Laura: Have you prayed to Sarenrae?
Ashley: No. I haven't, yet.
Marisha: I feel like we're not one to speak on curses and bad things not existing.
Travis: Yeah, what about a second opinion? Like one time it was really burning when I was peeing, and the guy's like, oh, eat this and it'll be fine, and I was like, mm, I'm gonna get a second opinion.
Marisha: That was cranberry juice, Grog, and that was a solid opinion.
Travis: Yeah, it actually turned out to be true.
Ashley: That's a very good analogy.
Sam: What if we do this  what if we go up to the mountain, full moon, go through the motions, and Keyleth, you're super-powerful, you must have some sort of way of telling if this Ogden is telling the truth, right?
Marisha: Um. I could look at his face and his weird tics and deduce very hard.
Taliesin: Talk to his tics. Does he have tics?
Laura: When is the next full moon?
Matt: Make a nature check.
Liam: Am I remembering that incorrectly?
Ashley: Yes.
Laura: So maybe just try to cure yourself of this curse. Is that possible?
Marisha: 25.
Matt: 25. Four days.
Taliesin: We'd have to start right now.
Sam: The other option is-- and I've been holding onto it 'cause it's valuable-- I do happen to have a Potion of Mind Reading, so we could go up there with him and I could just read his mind.
Liam: You could also do that now.
Travis: But what if he thinks he's telling the truth?
Sam: That is the smartest thing you've ever said.
Travis: This fucking hat is magic! (laughter)
Ashley: What if-- how much of that potion do you have?
Sam: One. I have one of it.
Ashley: I mean, gnomes are small, what if we give them all a shot?
Laura: We take the potion, and then we read their minds.
Ashley: I understand. I think I thought--
Marisha: You thought it was truth serum, yeah. Yeah, I was kinda with you there. Okay, hang on. I mean, we're, as Taryon said, awesome.
Sam: I said that about you.
Marisha: I was being generous.
Sam: Thank you.
Marisha: If we just go through with this, is there any harm in that?
Taliesin: We should start, at the very least. My worry is, if I understand this curse correctly, the only person I think that could possibly be at risk from it would be JB.
Sam: Why?
Taliesin: Think about it. What avarice have any of us ever experienced from Pike?
Ashley: I don't even know what that word means.
Taliesin: I...
Ashley: Like, if you were to just define avarice.
Sam: You know, it's sinful in a sort of vague way.
Ashley: I mean, I don't even--
Laura: Trinket doesn't even know, and he knows everything.
Travis: Scholars maintain...
Taliesin: What I'm saying is perhaps--
Sam: Google? Maybe we could Google it?
Taliesin: Please do, actually. Google avarice.
Sam: I think it's having hate in your heart? I think?
Taliesin: Hate and greed.
Travis: I thought it was pride.
Marisha: Hate, greed, pride, any of the seven deadly sins.
Sam: What is avarice?
Matt: It's Tary.
Taliesin: It's a covet-ness, it's someone is--
Marisha: Man, I feel like we're really getting off the point.
Taliesin: The point I'm trying to make is, and I'm having a notion--
Matt: My apologies for using a word with a--
Laura: Five-dollar word.
Marisha: Why did you use an SAT word, Matt? Why?
Matt: I read a lot of books growing up, I'm sorry!
Sam: Doesn't say.
Liam: It's pronounced av-riggle.
Taliesin: The point I'm trying to make in all of this is that perhaps they're trying to save one of their own, and perhaps they need to move the curse to another Trickfoot.
Sam: Oh, it's just greed. It's just greed.
Travis: Like I said, greed.
Laura: So, wait, I have a question. What if all of them are actually cursed, and they're trying to bring you in?
Travis: Ooh. Ooh! That's a good thought. We kill all of them. No.
Sam: Yes. Yes! Of course. They'll be easily killed, they're half our size.
Laura: What did Ogden say this exorcism entailed?
Ashley: He said that we go to the highest mountain, we have to wait 'til a full moon, you have to have it be hallowed ground, and just sort of set up a ritual, and he said maybe we could get help from whomever, and I was thinking of Vax, and I don't know! This is so beyond anything that I know!
Laura: And then what would happen? We just send the curse out of you and all is well?
Ashley: I guess? This sounds so ridiculous as I'm saying it out loud.
Travis: I mean, do you want to go see another cleric and see if you even need to exercise or not?
Marisha: Very fit.
Laura: Very strong.
Ashley: I feel like I like the mind-reading serum. We could just see. We have four days 'til a full moon.
Taliesin: We should start consecrating the ground, at the very least.
Liam: Also, do we really imagine whatever trouble they might be bringing to Pike's doorstep is something we can't handle? I mean, we've dealt with pretty terrible things. I have a hard time imagining it could be worse-- I'm not saying it's not dangerous, it should be--
Travis: Avarice.
Liam: Oh, I got a nosebleed. We could just do-- I mean, Keyleth could do her trick of turning us into ladybugs or flies or whatever and we could all hang out and follow along. I mean, mind-reading first.
Ashley: I think you're allowed to be there.
Laura: Yeah, we can be there.
Liam: We can just be there, they don't care? Oh. I was shooting guns today.
Marisha: Ogden at dinner the other night said that each generation is affected by a blood curse, and he believes it's you in this generation? Because you and JB are in the same age, right? So you're the same generation. So maybe Percy's theory isn't quite wrong.
Sam: Percy's very smart.
Marisha: I don't know.
Taliesin: I tend to veer towards the worst-case scenario. Somebody has to.
Laura: Will JB be there at the exorcism?
Taliesin: That is a question.
Laura: We need to make sure she is, just in case.
Marisha: Or isn't, just in case. Right?
Laura: No. If there is a curse, and she is affected, it would be good to get it out of her as well.
Marisha: But what if it goes out of Pike and into her?
Travis: What if it goes out of her and into Pike?
Marisha: Man, so many variables.
Sam: We should all be there together, because stronger in numbers, and if Pike's lying to us we kill her, and if JB's lying to us we kill her.
Ashley: Well, hold on. Well, okay, yeah. If it comes down to that, everybody, we have to know that that has to be--
Laura: (laughs) We're not going to kill you.
Sam: No, if you're infected with evil, we might have to--
Travis: Yeah, what does it do? Do you turn into a crazy beast?
Ashley: I have no idea.
Travis: Like, do you get tentacles?
Ashley: That's-- I feel like that would be an upgrade.
Travis: That's not really that bad.
Ashley: No. I doubt that's what it is.
Travis: Maybe we're approaching this the wrong way.
Ashley: I'm intrigued by this mind-reading serum.
Sam: I've never used it, so it should probably work great.
Laura: How much was that?
Sam: About a thousand.
Liam: That's not bad.
Travis: Do it.
Marisha: I mean, maybe Ogden just isn't telling you things because he's so old, it's locked away and he doesn't remember. You know?
Laura: Maybe we just have to ask?
Taliesin: I would check both of them.
Travis: Do it.
Ashley: All of them. And Astra.
Marisha: How long does it last?
Sam: I can only, I think, investigate one person-- or gnome-- at a time, but then I can move the spell to other people. Let me-- Doty, give me my notes on the spell that I took. Hold on.
Liam: What time is it right now?
Matt: Pushing close to dusk.
Laura: 9 46.
Taliesin: We should perhaps do this while we're setting up the ritual.
Ashley: Yes.
Taliesin: Since it'll just be up there and it'll be natural to talk about this subject.
Ashley: And to not go when it's a full moon, so we don't actually have to do it, but we can set it up.
Taliesin: Exactly. It's going to take several days, and I'm sure we're going to need their help.
Sam: I can shift my attention to other creatures' thoughts, or go deeper into the same creature's mind. So I can do some surface scans, and then if I get a hit, I can go deeper.
Taliesin: Prod your fingers deep into the recesses, the nooks and crannies of their--
Sam: Of course, I still defer to you as my teammates. I don't have to be the one who takes this serum. I did pay for it, but if one of you wanted to do the probing, you could buy it off me, I suppose.
Ashley: Well, I feel like they wouldn't be as on-guard with you.
Laura: Yeah, plus we already said you're gonna write a book about it.
Sam: That's true. It fits.
Marisha: It's an interview.
Laura: That's really good.
Liam: We could also just take them out for a drink and get their guard down.
Marisha: You don't look like you're reading someone's mind when you're doing it, right?
Taliesin: You don't have to do this.
Laura: You can definitely do it to Ogden first, then, 'cause he won't be able to tell.
Sam: He can't see.
Laura: He can't see, so if you look weird, he won't know. Perfect cover.
Taliesin: In case you have to look weird. Do you have to look weird while you do this?
Liam: I mean, you are dressed like a Faberge egg.
Matt: You are welcome to look weird while you do it.
Sam: I feel like that's a compliment.
Liam: Let's go with that.
Ashley: Is there anything-- do one of you guys wanna-- can one of you guys check me to see if there's something in there that I don't know? Vax?
Travis: You look good.
Marisha: You don't look in her ear--
Travis: Why not?
Liam: I don't think so. I mean, you're the holiest person in this city.
Laura: Can you check yourself? Just pray to Sarenrae, see if she'll give you a little hint.
Marisha: Don't you have that Divine Intervention-y thing? That Dear Sarenwae-- Sarenrae.
Ashley: Deaw Sarenwae. (laughter)
Taliesin: Are you listening, Sarenrae? It's me, Pike. (laughter)
Ashley: Tonight I'll see if maybe I can get some answers. But should we-- do we do this tonight, this mind-reading serum?
Taliesin: I say tomorrow on the mountain.
Sam: I was gonna say-- it's four days, right?
Taliesin: Yeah, we've got to start right now.
Sam: Well, I think we do it while we're up there.
Marisha: Is it four days and on that night?
Matt: Four nights from tonight.
Marisha: Four nights from tonight.
Taliesin: So we have to start this immediately.
Matt: Pretty soon. Make a history check, Percival.
Taliesin: No one bothered to listen to any of my exciting stories about my home. All right, that's a 19.
Matt: Okay. As far as-- from what Pike told you-- as far as high up in the mountains, and a good place that you can imagine for a moonlit ceremony, there is a place. It's a rock shelf to the northeast of Whitestone on the Salted Bluffs. It's called the Dawn Table.
Taliesin: The Dawn Table.
Matt: It's a rock shelf used for prayer when the spring rolls around. A lot of fishermen go there and leave offerings. It's meant to bring-- I wouldn't say a good harvest, but a good season for catching fish and trying to bring food back to Whitestone, so that's pretty high up. It's gonna be probably about two and a half days' travel on foot.
Taliesin: But we can carpet or teleport.
Matt: If you have a way of getting there.
Marisha: Are there trees nearby? Are there trees nearby?
Taliesin: I'll see if I can recall if there's a tree nearby.
Matt: That part of the mountain is pretty-- they do have trees, but the trees are pretty thin. They're like pine tree, that wide at the most, and you need a pretty thick tree to Transport Via Plants.
Marisha: I can get us close.
Taliesin: We can certainly get closer.
Matt: You can cut off about half a day's travel, about a day's worth of travel, I guess.
Marisha: We can also travel via being clouds, like we've done in the past.
Travis: We really don't wanna walk? It's so lovely out. Danger is at an all-time low.
Marisha: Or we can just hike and enjoy the scenery. It is a nice hike. The canyons. Yeah. It's rained a lot this winter.
Laura: Is it okay to leave everyone here while we go?
Taliesin: It's only a few days.
Sam: We've got the Musketeers guarding the place.
Liam: Kynan's on it.
Marisha: So, okay. If it's two and a half days' journey, and we're planning on doing this, then we would have to take Ogden and the gnomes and all things needed for this ritual, right?
Laura: Yeah, I think so.
Marisha: It means we would at least be framing it like we're committing. I mean, that gives you a long hike to be able to talk and mind-read the gnomes while we walk.
Sam: It lasts for one minute.
Marisha: It gives you a solid good minute of hiking to read the gnomes.
Taliesin: Maybe during the ritual set-up because, I don't know, would it work while you're walking?
Sam: I mean, maybe, but I feel like we wait for the big moment, and then see what's going on in his head.
Marisha: All right.
Sam: It's more dramatic that way, anyway, for the book. And for our lives.
Ashley: And, just so you guys know, I've been discussing with what Vex knows about it as well. I think, from what he said, it's like a bunch of shapes come out, and we would all have to fight them.
Laura: Shades.
Ashley: Shades, shades, shades.
Sam: Way to bury the lede, Pike.
Ashley: I forgot about that. My b.
Travis: It's like, I'm cool with shapes, but.
Taliesin: Not a rhombus, anything but that.
Ashley: We don't know.
Marisha: Wait, shades coming from you?
Laura: Maybe the curse? JB had mentioned that the shades infest someone and hollow them out. I don't know what that translates to.
Marisha: You don't look shady. (strained laughter)
Marisha: Vax. Can you do a thing to look inside of Pike?
Travis: Yeah, x-ray her!
Laura: Try it, just try it.
Liam: The best I can do-- I mean, I can cast Divine Sense and Lay On Hands and-- I mean, I can-- poison and disease are things I can help with, but not--
Travis: Well, you don't even know. Give it a try.
Laura: Divine Sense? Divine Sense. That sounds like something real--
Liam: Let's find out if you're a fiend or undead.
Travis: Yeah.
Liam: And I do it.
Matt: All right. You sit there and you close your eyes and you focus in front of you on Pike's gnome form. Interestingly enough... ... you get nothing.
Travis: Oh, shut up, man, don't fucking do that shit. (laughter)
Liam: You're welcome.
Ashley: Okay.
Sam: She's not wearing a wire. She's okay.
Liam: Is there some embarrassing thing hidden, tucked away, that you don't like to talk about? Like, are you afraid of pickles or you don't want to be--
Ashley: No, I mean, I talk about everything with you guys.
Sam: There's no secrets that you have?
Travis: You don't chew on your own toenails or anything?
Sam: No singular secret that you've kept from the entire group the entire time we've known you?
Taliesin: I feel like chewing on your own toenails is the worst villain origin possible.
Ashley: Of course I chew on my own toenails. I mean.
Sam: There's not some deep secret that you're keeping from us?
Ashley: No, I mean, I think about one time with Scanlan--
Marisha: Wait, I feel like a story was starting!
Laura: She was about to say something.
Ashley: No, you guys know this. When I got in a lot of trouble for taking a shit on that bed. Or killing the guy with the mace. Or sometimes I'll go to a brothel. But I don't do anything that bad!
Laura: That's not bad.
Ashley: I don't know. I don't know if there's anything in there.
Taliesin: I'm highly dubious of this entire endeavor.
Laura: I think you need to talk to Sarenrae.
Ashley: Okay. Well, when should we leave?
Marisha: Well, two and a half days, I can teleport us closer, and then we can either hike or cloud the rest of the way.
Laura: Would you be able to cloud the gnomes too, though?
Matt: Probably not in one casting but you could do double-cast, like two trips and get all of you up pretty quick.
Sam: But then we'll be sitting there for two days.
Marisha: With the gnomes or the tree stride? Or Teleport Via Plants?
Matt: Well, Teleport Via Plants, whoever can fit through there in that short time, you can probably get you guys and the gnomes through, but referring to your Wind Walk, which, how many targets can that affect at once? Up to ten willing creatures.
Marisha: And there's how many gnomes?
Matt: There's four.
Marisha: Four.
Matt: So you'd leave one behind.
Marisha: Then we'd leave one behind. Okay.
Matt: Which, you'd have to talk to them about that.
Ashley: Are there any other clerics that we know?
Liam: Not in town on your level.
Matt: There's Keeper Yennen, but he's like--
Laura: Yeah, where did Kash go to in the last year?
Matt: Kash has been in Vasselheim.
Liam: I mean, and Vasselheim is chock full of clerics, so maybe we could find help there.
Taliesin: Gilmore's out of town.
Ashley: Okay. Maybe we go ask them and say--
Laura: Yennen?
Ashley: The family. I mean, it sounds crazy, but maybe we just go up there, go through the motions.
Travis: Yeah, it's your show.
Laura: Just do it.
Taliesin: Let's do it. I'm going to get some tents and some food put together, so we're at least comfortable.
Sam: Are we walking, or can we get some horses at least?
Taliesin: It's not really horse-accessible.
Laura: We'll be fine, Tary.
Sam: I'm worried about the big guy.
Taliesin: The big guy will be fine.
Sam: I guess he can just walk.
Taliesin: He can cloud-stride as well.
Laura: Well, no, Doty can't mist-form, right?
Liam: Can Trinket and Doty ride in your--
Laura: No, Doty, I've tried to put him in the--
Taliesin: One of us, in theory, should actually perhaps take the carpet so we can put Doty on the carpet.
Liam: I'm sitting on the carpet right now.
Laura: How heavy is Doty?
Sam: Let me look at Matt's statistics.
Matt: Doty technically counts as a creature, though it is, much like a golem or a construct of some kind, it would be considered a creature. It is a construct. So in theory, you would have to tell Doty, "Doty, turn into wind." And that probably would work.
Sam: I could do that.
Marisha: It would take a slot out of our ten.
Sam: How fast does this cloud thing move?
Matt: It moves pretty quick. 300 feet. Flying speed of 300, which is ten times as fast as you walk. And without-- going straight up the mountain, you could make the full journey, talking with Percy about this, from the base of the mountain to the Dawn Table in about two hours.
Taliesin: We wouldn't even need the tree-stride, to be honest, we could just do it.
Marisha: Wait, from here to the base of the mountain?
Taliesin: I mean, we could do from the base of the mountain to the top in two hours, three hours, but we could make the entire journey quite quickly.
Laura: So she could just double-cast.
Matt: The entire journey you could make in about six and a half hours.
Laura: Solid. So some people go up, you come back, turn the rest of the people in.
Marisha: With my tree-stride.
Laura: No.
Matt: Without tree-stride.
Marisha: With the gas.
Liam: Let's go glamping.
Marisha: Let's go glamping. But as long as I can sleep afterwards.
Taliesin: We'll bring tents, we're going to bring some nice tents.
Matt: It lasts for eight hours, so you'll be using most of the duration to get there, you could probably fly back if you want to, or tree-stride back if you had a tree you could find up there to do it. So yeah, you could do that.
Marisha: I do that.
Matt: Okay. So what do you do? You go and gather up the other Trickfoots? You approach the rest of them, Ogden, JB.
Marisha: We're not leaving tonight, right?
Matt: Whenever you guys want to?
Marisha: Tonight? This is the same night we got back.
Laura: Oh, right, it is.
Taliesin: In the morning.
Laura: Okay, we'll leave in the morning, yeah.
Sam: At dawn, we leave.
Ashley: So I'll go to them at dinner. Okay, so we've had some discussions and I think it'll take us a little bit of time to get up there and do whatever setting-up you need to do on the top of the mountain, so we were thinking, if you guys are okay with this, of leaving tomorrow morning.
Matt: You can see Johann and Astra kind of turn over to Ogden. Ogden goes, "Yes, that would be perfect. When is the next full moon?"
Ashley: It's in four days.
Matt: "Four days, all right. That gives us time to prepare. I need a few things for this ritual."
Ashley: Okay.
Matt: "I don't know how to retrieve them necessarily. I require a jug of water that has been blessed by a priest of the Moonweaver." The Moonweaver is one of the gods, largely elven worship. You guys have crossed a number of temples that worship the Moonweaver in Syngorn and some other-- you do find them occasionally in civilization, but they're more the kind of shrines that you find out in the center of the forest.
Laura: I can totally get that.
Matt: Goddess of the moonlight and autumn. He says, "Also, as part of a reagent for the exorcism, a diamond worth no less than 1,000 gold pieces that will be consumed by the actual ritual."
Taliesin: That's doable, I believe.
Matt: "I also need a solid pound of dried lavender, and a half a pound of powdered sulfur."
Taliesin: I'm pretty sure we have access to that.
Matt: "And, of course, you, Pike. And that should be sufficient to complete the ritual."
Laura: She's not going to be injured in this ritual?
Matt: "No, no. Either the shade is cast out and destroyed, or it's cast out and then you destroy it. Either way, you should be fine."
Laura: Just the one shade, then?
Matt: "Depends."
Travis: You've done this before.
Matt: "Twice. Three times."
Travis: And it's always gone right.
Matt: "It's gone right twice."
Travis: What happened the time it didn't?
Matt: "That was the first time. I didn't know what I was in for, and I couldn't save them."
Travis: Oh, shit.
Laura: Right. What do the people look like after they've been taken over?
Matt: And you see he gets really dark and focused in himself for a second. You see the glimmer across the glasses on his face, and he goes, "They begin to grow hatred for all those they once loved. They begin to strike out at the world around them, take whatever they like, and those that stand in their way are merely to be cut down. Eventually, at least from what I've seen, they continue to take until somebody cuts them down."
Laura: Do they just look like--
Matt: "They just look like themselves. But their whole personality changes."
Travis: Cool. I'm encouraged.
Laura: Maybe they just turned into an asshole.
Ashley: That just sounds like someone who's an asshole.
Taliesin: Nothing a little lavender and sulfur can't cure, in my experience.
Ashley: I don't feel any of these things.
Matt: "What I've seen are just the visions I've had. If you wish not to go through with this, that is up to you. We can leave and be on our way. I've just come to help if we can. If we do this ritual and nothing comes of it, then you're right as rain."
Liam: Do you have any inkling of what would happen if you do nothing? Pike does nothing?
Matt: "Perhaps not now, but someday in the future, when met with a terrible choice, if you choose a darker path, that may be the window needed for the shades to take hold and begin to install in their dark interests."
Travis: Are there any elements needed for this? Water, fire?
Matt: "Well, I need some blessed water."
Laura: Which I'm totally going to go get.
Travis: Right, you did say that.
Liam: I have the lavender.
Matt: The sulfur represents the earth, the diamond represents the refraction of the moonlight, and the water is the catalyst.
Marisha: And the lavender and sulfur?
Matt: The lavender is to be burned. The sulfur represents the earth in this place, but the lavender is burned as a sort of incense that helps provide a space of the hallowed ground to present a cage for this entity so it cannot flee and come back.
Travis: We gotta find a priest.
Taliesin: I'm going to go get a pound for good measure.
Laura: They have all that shit in Syngorn. I can just go. Right? To one of the temples of the Moonweaver or something.
Matt: You could probably get most of that in Syngorn with one trip, yeah.
Laura: Solid.
Marisha: What if what you're seeing, Ogden, and I mean no disrespect in any way, is a possible outcome or future that might not ever happen?
Matt: "Then Pike will be safe, I'll look the fool, and we'll go our separate ways."
Taliesin: What's a diamond?
Laura: What's a diamond for our dear Pike? It's a good price, I say.
Ashley: I say what you say that is what I say. I say, you know what? I'm bored and I think we should do it, even if it's hogwash. No offense.
Matt: "None taken."
Marisha: And as Percy and Tary, as the science bros have said several times, at least a negative outcome is still an outcome, or something like that.
Taliesin: Something similar to it.
Sam: Yes. Yes.
Marisha: Yeah. We'll learn things for science.
Sam: For science!
Ashley: For science.
Taliesin: Exorcism for science. Why not. (laughter)
Matt: That's a good bumper sticker.
Laura: I should probably go to Syngorn before it gets too late.
Taliesin: We'll get the lavender and sulfur together.
Liam: I have lavender with my armor.
Marisha: You need a pound of it.
Liam: I have a pound of lavender with my armor. (laughter)
Taliesin: I'm sure I can dig up a pound of sulfur. I figured, let's just get double what we need, just to be safe.
Laura: Just to be safe. Do you have two pounds of lavender?
Taliesin: We need half a pound.
Ashley: Do you just tuck it in to make it smell nice?
Matt: You can cause existing lavender to bloom stronger, otherwise the lavender you create in the space will vanish once the spell is done. But yeah.
Liam: It's not in my-- I keep it in a box with my armor so the armor won't smell like shit anymore, people. It's not-- is there a problem with a man having lavender in his possession?
Taliesin: You keep your armor in a box filled with lavender?
Liam: Yes, I do.
Laura: Yeah, so it smells fresh and clean.
Taliesin: Does it smell fresh and clean?
Liam: It does now, man.
Taliesin: All right.
Liam: I've had 12 months of downtime to figure my shit out. My armor is tight now.
Taliesin: Your armor now smells like a grandmother's bathroom.
Liam: Take your guilt trips and bring them back to dad. I don't need them.
Laura: What are you talking about? I'm on my way to go give those guilt trips.
Sam: I have little potpourri bags in almost everything I own.
Taliesin: He does, it's true.
Travis: Really?
Sam: Yes.
Laura: He started leaving them around the house.
Taliesin: He calls them sachets.
Sam: Let's do it.
Matt: All right, so you guys go to bed.
Laura: I go to Syngorn.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Can I attune to my blood axe instead of the thrower before I go to sleep?
Matt: That you can.
Travis: Thank you.
Taliesin: I'm going to let the castle know I'm taking a brief, brief run up the hill and grabbing supplies for this, so letting everyone know. Grabbing a few tents.
Matt: They have supplies for you at the ready. You gather them easily from the Pale Guard. They have some tents that haven't been used for a while, you take those with you. Supplies are given. You head to Syngorn. Make an investigation check.
Laura: I should probably have brought someone with me just in case I suck at this. That's cocked. That's cocked if I've ever seen cocked.
Liam: That's good. That's a good one.
Laura: Investigation. 20.
Matt: Yeah. Within a short time, as the evening draws in, it's not a full moon, but it's still a very big moonlit night and you find in Syngorn one of the larger temples to the Moonweaver, there's a night guide there named Nusem, and it's the temple of the Pale Light. And so, as you approach him and give your request, he's like, "A jug of our blessed water, that is an unusual request. We take no money, but offerings in trade of equal value as you honestly see fit."
Travis: Give him a high-five. (laughter)
Laura: Right. Well, I don't have very much on my person.
Matt: "Whatever you feel would be a viable trade within the eyes of the Moonweaver herself."
Laura: What do I know about the Moonweaver?
Matt: Roll a religion check.
Laura: Oh god. Imma roll my moonstone dice for this.
Matt: Do it.
Laura: What am I rolling?
Matt: Religion.
Laura: A religion, jeez. 11.
Matt: 11. You know that she is the goddess of the moon, the night, and of autumn. She is known as-- she doesn't fall on the good or bad spectrum, she's generally a bit of a trickster, but however tends to be used or at least called to by young love to bless trysts to not be discovered. That's kind of the gist of what you can pick up on that roll, yeah.
Laura: All right. I have a small flask of Courage. I feel like she would appreciate this.
Matt: Takes a moment, looks at it. "I think the goddess will be pleased." And he puts it in his robes and he takes the blessed water and hands it to you. It's a small, pretty heavy-- especially when it's filled-- clay pot that is sealed at the top with multiple rounds of rope and some sort of a dark black tar-like substance that seems to seal the top and he passes it over to you and you take it.
Laura: I didn't think this part through. Thank you very much.
Liam: Strength of seven.
Laura: That's right. What is my strength? It is seven. I'm as weak as Grog is stupid. (laughter)
Laura: No, I'm just a little bit stronger. Not quite as bad.
Matt: All right, so you gather that, you find your way back without issue. We'll say without issue.
Laura: You know what, I'm just gonna pass it over to Trinket and make him hold it.
Matt: Okay, so you attach it to Trinket's armor on the top. Easy enough. So you guys eventually make your way back to the town. You guys find an evening of rest, you complete, restore your spells, you, sulfur, go ahead and make a tinkering check. This is intelligence modifier and proficiency bonus.
Taliesin: That's okay. 19?
Matt: Yeah, okay. For you, 'cause most of the sulfur that you have currently has already been put in with the salpeter and other means of creating the gunpowder, so you have to reverse-engineer a lot of it. It's not going to be pure, what you have, or at least not all of it. I mean, you have some pure sulfur still, but to get the full half-pound of it, it's gonna be a little dirty. But you manage to get it to happen. And Vax is providing the lavender. Okay. All righty. And the diamond, who's giving the diamond? Or do you have one?
Laura: I've got a diamond.
Matt: How much is it worth?
Laura: I've got multiple diamonds.
Matt: Well, choose a diamond.
Laura: I'll choose one that's worth-- in my bag of gems-- no, that's not right.
Liam: "In my-- nah. Right here in my-- nope."
Laura: All right, fine, I've got two diamonds, both worth 1,500. I don't have a thousand-gold diamond.
Matt: All right. That'll suffice.
Laura: Yeah, but it's a waste. It's okay.
Ashley: It's a waste of 500.
Matt: All righty. So.
Laura: It's Pike. It's worth it.
Matt: As the morning comes, you all awaken, you gather your materials, you assess as a pool what you have at your disposal and presenting these various elements that you've gathered before Uncle Ogden, he inspects each one very carefully, sniffing the sulfur, feeling and tasting the lavender, takes the water and brushes his fingers through it, takes the diamond and inspects it, sets it all down on the table, and goes, "Yes. This will suffice. Whenever you're ready, let's make our way to wherever you find is necessary to do this ritual."
Taliesin: I think you'll be quite pleased.
Matt: "Very well."
Laura: Keep an eye on those goods, brother.
Matt: "Trickfoots. Trickfoots? Trickfoots!" They're all right around him, and he's like, "Hello? Anyone?" Johann reaches out and touches his shoulder. "Ah! Yes, there you are. Come, we have an exorcism." And so they follow you as you grab your materials. How are you doing this? You're doing multiple trips?
Marisha: I was tree-striding us all to the base of the mountain, right?
Sam: Nope, you were gonna gas us all the way there.
Marisha: That's what I'm doing? Okay. Double-gas.
Taliesin: It's a gas.
Matt: Okay. Early morning, with the Wind Walk, you can get ten creatures, which is you seven, plus-- you put Trinket in your necklace-- Doty, which is eight, and you can take two of the gnomes if you'd like, or would you prefer to leave with the four of them and them come back for them?
Taliesin: I would say, let's get all of the gnomes up there first so they can begin setting everything up.
Laura: Yeah. I'll stay behind.
Liam: I'll go with.
Sam: I'll stay behind as well.
Marisha: No, I'm gonna take Tary.
Sam: I bid you adieu. (laughter)
Laura: Percy can stay, right?
Taliesin: I'll stay as well.
Sam: Ugh, gross.
Marisha: I'm making a trip back. I'm gonna take Tary, Pike, the gnomes, Vax, me, how many's left? That's it, right?
Taliesin: Take Doty so he can set up the tents.
Laura: I think you can take everyone except for me and Percy, right?
Taliesin: Yeah, that should work.
Travis: Yeah, please, I wanna go with Pike.
Marisha: And Grog will go.
Matt: All right, so you guys go ahead, and utilizing the--
Marisha: Why don't you guys start off on the rug?
Laura: Oh, you know what, you can tree-stride us through, and then you guys head up and then we'll just meet you up there on the broom.
Marisha: That is a good idea. That's what I'll do. I'll tree-stride some through.
Laura: Just me and Percy.
Matt: All right, easy enough to do. You've seen these woods, or the perimeter of the woods, at least, so you know vaguely a tree in the direction that Percy points you towards. So with that, you touch the edge of the Sun Tree, the exterior of it opens into a doorway, and through that-- (laughs) The trust-fall that is Percival and Vex rushing through the Sun Tree before it closes behind. You trust that they are at the destination required and will meet you there.
Marisha: I'll meet you there!
Matt: It closes.
Taliesin: Lock the door!
Matt: And with that, with the supplies gathered, the rest of you all have the spell commence, and you are able to concentrate for a minute to turn your physical form into that of a white, cloud-like mist. You watch as the gnomes do so, and this is the first time you're doing this as well, Taryon, and it's a unique experience. You're about as giddy internally that you cannot express it through word because you are a cloud of mist. But you watch as the smaller gnome mists also kind of appear and some of them start swirling around excitedly, and one of them just seems to drift.
Laura: (laughs) Oh no. Oh no.
Matt: One of the other ones comes by and cuts it off and shows the direction. (laughter)
Matt: Eventually you guys start making your way--
Laura: He's sleeping.
Travis: (snoring)
Matt: Following towards the path which Percival pointed you guys. So. This is about a six-plus-hour journey as you're coasting over the entirety of the Parchwood Forest. And it is beautiful, it's actually not too cloudy today. You've come past Winter's Crest, it's been a few weeks since.
Marisha: (sings) Butterfly in the sky.
Marisha: (sing) I can fly twice as high.
Ashley: (sing) I can fly twice as high.
Matt: (sing) I can fly twice as high.
Matt: Yeah, so you get a few dotted clouds in the sky, but for the most part there is blue visible and there is sunshine coming down, Pelor's blessing upon the land of the Alabaster Sierras. After quite some time, and having to maybe go back a few times to keep everyone together as you have four people who have never done this before who are just awed by this, you lead them towards the northeast very, very top of the Salted Bluffs of the Alabaster Sierras, and you begin to see what Percival described to you, which is a shelf-like bluff at the very top, where you see a few clusters of rock and one large rock archway that comes up right to the cliff before it drops down into the sea to the north. And this is where these offerings were left. Eventually you guys make your way there, and given the speed, you still get there before Vax and Percy do.
Marisha: Really?
Matt: Yes.
Liam: Vex and Percy.
Matt: Sorry. Vex and Percy. Five years of this, and let this be a lesson for when you name your characters for your campaign. As you guys approach, you all condense back into your mist form, except for the four other clouds that are all circling and circling.
Sam: They don't know how to break it, do they? Damn it.
Matt: Eventually one of them kind of congeals and turns back and it's JB.
Marisha: I would've told them.
Matt: Well, you do now. And they all eventually come back. And you see before you, it's this clifftop flat entry with a series of rocks that jut out at certain places and rubble and some general erosion has occurred, and there at the very edge of the cliff-- and it is this cliff that shoots out over, you can look over the side and see the sea to the northeast, just above the Shearing Cliffs, you see the sunlight hitting thousands upon thousands of small, distant sparkles, as the waves catch elements of the sunlight down below. And as you come up to the edge and look down, it is a very, very long fall. Thousands and thousands and thousands of feet to rocks and ocean.
Liam: Right on the edge, looking down.
Matt: But there's a large stone archway there.
Travis: Are you wearing your armor?
Liam: I am, yeah. We left, we packed up. Some thoughts I just have inside my head.
Laura: Are me and Percy there yet?
Matt: Not yet, you guys are just making your way there. You do notice, the rock archway looks both ancient and very well-constructed, and it's impressive that even though the erosion and the nature of the strong, cliffside winds that come up there, it's kept as well as it has. You also see a number of long-rotted baskets and sacks and dried, decomposing fruits and fish bones. You can see where basically the remnants of different offerings were left up here as part of the Pelor blessing to the fishermen that walk through the Salted Bluffs. Eventually, Vex and Percival make their way up here as well, and you guys are now, full journey, about midafternoon, with three days until the full moon.
Sam: Three days to kill.
Laura: Hey. That cliff's really high.
Marisha: Well, time to pitch a tent and make it fabulous.
Laura: Let's not do the ritual site right next to that cliff.
Ashley: That's a great idea. Is there a way to move it sort of--
Laura: -- inward?
Matt: You can move back a bit, yeah. The bluff itself is maybe about 70 feet from one side to the other. It's flat. So you can move it further back towards this edge of the cliff, as opposed to being the one that's seaside.
Laura: Yeah. Yeah.
Matt: Okay. So you guys have a few days here to relax, get to know each other, ask questions and hear stories about young Pike, embarrasingly. Get to tell them of the tales of what you guys have done, and inform them from a firsthand basis of what Vox Machina has accomplished for the past few years. They all seem enraptured, JB more than anybody, and she seems to almost finish some of the tales. You get the sense that she's been very, very well-versed in what you guys have done and is genuinely invested in the stories as they happen. Anything else you guys want to accomplish in the three days in particular?
Liam: I think the twins will probably look around and make sure that nobody has been here recently other than us, or see if there's anything hinky.
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Laura: Yeah, we do that. Definitely. 23.
Liam: Eight.
Matt: Okay. You do note this in the first couple days: while it's been long blown-over and destroyed and scattered, you do see elements that seem like a large nest that have been wind-scattered up here and left for a long time. And as you look through the chunks and pieces, you see bits of dried leather, flesh, and with that in mind, over the next two days, you begin to see, way off in the north, what appear to be a number of flying entities that group in clusters that kind of exist over the cliffside, down along the actual mountain edge, and occasionally have apparently made distant nests and are still maneuvering in the distance.
Laura: Do I see the type of feather it is? Can I tell what kind of creature it was?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Laura: 32.
Matt: Using the combination of your broom and your ranger-like vision, you've encountered these creatures once before, at the Salted Bluff, but avoided them. There are small clusters of harpies that make their home here on the cliffsides by the ocean.
Laura: Yeah, they took all our horses.
Matt: Yep. They picked them apart last time you first made your way to Whitestone. So you're very careful to make sure that whatever camp you set up is camouflaged as best as possible. Since that is one of your specialties as a ranger, it's not too bad. Go ahead and make a stealth check, please. This will be your stealth check for the camp.
Laura: I can't cast Pass Without a Trace?
Matt: Not on your camp.
Laura: No, probably not.
Liam: Come on, rogue.
Matt: I'll say, for the purposes of that, no.
Laura: Do I-- (laughs) I'm scared to ask it. Okay. What am I rolling? What am I adding?
Matt: Add your stealth.
Laura: 22.
Matt: Okay. So.
Laura: But would I have used my-- what is that shit? Hide in Plain Sight? Could I have used that?
Matt: Not on a camp. For yourself, maybe. And it helps you-- it allows you-- your ability to camouflage elements of your space allows you to help and use your stealth for this whole endeavor. But two days go by, harpies don't seem to pay mind. There's a couple of close calls where a couple fly overhead, but you all see them coming and get low and tell the gnomes to go inside, and get behind the rocks, and they seem to pass without actually noticing your presence.
Laura: That's good, that's good.
Matt: Eventually, you make your way to the fourth day, and the sun begins to set. At which point, the gnomes begin to gather up with the rest of you, and Ogden hobbles his way in your direction, going-- waiting for her to cross camera. Okay. (laughs) "The time is nigh. We must prepare the ritual." And, for the purposes of this, can we bring in the battlemap that is on this side?
Sam: Battlemap? Just call it a map, Matt, don't call it a battlemap!
Matt: This side, please.
Ashley: Battlemap over there? That means there's another one over there?
Travis: There are several options, I think.
Laura: What? Here it comes. Here comes the battlemap. Here it comes.
Sam: Oh my god, what is this? There's color changes happening.
Laura: It's like the birthday cake coming out.
Matt: This way's great. (impressed noises)
Taliesin: Okay, that's a lot.
Liam: That is extra.
Sam: It's weird, the blue light makes it almost-- I can't even see what it is.
Marisha: It's hard to see with the blue light.
Matt: Is it really? That's a problem.
Sam: It's okay, we'll figure it out.
Marisha: It could be this monitor. I don't know.
Matt: All right, so. Here are the gnomes, clustered.
Sam: Matt, in preparation for this ritual, I would like to cast-- can Doty use an item that I cast magic into?
Matt: Doty cannot, I believe.
Sam: Okay. Well, then I'll cast Revivify into one of my coins and give it to Vex and say, use this on me if I fall. Oh, and also, I'll give her my five Needle Arrows that I made.
Laura: What are these?
Sam: They're just regular arrows that have a +1 to hit.
Laura: Badass.
Sam: So just a little extra accuracy.
Laura: Tary, you just keep surprising me.
Sam: You're worth it.
Ashley: With Ogden saying they're ready, can I just be alone in the tent for a second?
Matt: Sure. And actually, this is a point as well, because part of this was supposed to be hallowed ground, which requires the Hallow spell, which is a 24-hour casting period. Or, let me see the actual casting time on that. You would know this, and he would have spoken to you in advance to do this, so we'll say, yeah, Hallow, its casting time is 24 hours. The herbs and oils and incense required to do this one alone costs 1,000 gold, which the spell consumes, so that's 1,000 gold you have to mark off to do this.
Laura: That's party funds. We got you.
Matt: But you infuse this area with holy energy during this time period you guys are waiting. And doing so, this whole ground becomes hallowed. Now you get to choose a second effect of this, if you'd like, which is affected creatures can't be frightened while in the area; darkness fills the area, if that's what you want; daylight fills the area, don't know if that's going to affect the ritual or not, seeing as how it's a moonlight-based element; affected creatures have resistance to one type of damage of your choice, except for bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing; you can have energy vulnerability; silence. What would you prefer?
Ashley: I think to not be frightened.
Matt: Okay. Affected creatures cannot be frightened. So any of you, and any creatures that end up in the space, cannot be frightened. The 60-foot radius, which is pretty much most of this area, becomes Hallowed. So. As the night draws to a darkened close-- or as the day draws to a darkened close, you guys can choose your positions to prepare for this.
Laura: Oh, jeez.
Marisha: It takes Pike 24 hours to cast this?
Matt: Yes.
Marisha: So we have to protect her for 24 hours, yeah?
Matt: Yeah, we'll say this happened-- this isn't the ritual, this is a different spell to prepare for the ritual. So while you were doing this was during the time in which you managed to go ahead and avoid being seen and use your stealthiness. This was in advance of it. The Hallow spell has been completed, the area has been locked in. The spell is cast. Now the final ritual is mounting. So. At this point, you're asked for some help by Ogden to move some of these rocks out of the way. You guys slowly shift this pile of rocks over here. He begins to then, with the help of JB, take the sulfur and begin to scatter it around in a circle in this opening right here. So the other two are gonna stay back.
Taliesin: I think I'm gonna want some high ground up on that hill.
Matt: Up on there? All right, so Percival gets up onto the high ground there. All righty.
Laura: I'll get on the high part on the other side.
Matt: Over here? All righty.
Travis: I would like to stay near Pike if I can.
Matt: All righty. So you want to stay near this central rock there?
Travis: Yeah, as long as I'm out of the way of the ritual. Just near Pike.
Laura: Trinket stays near Grog.
Matt: Okay, Trinket's gonna hang next to Grog. Perfect.
Liam: I'm gonna play lookout and go out towards the edge past the arch, but sink in against the wall a bit and hide.
Matt: There a bit, right there?
Liam: Into the cracks of it, yeah.
Matt: Okay. So you're hiding on this side. Poking through. Keyleth?
Marisha: I'll go by that spire closest to you.
Matt: Over here?
Marisha: Yeah, little close to the stalagtite.
Matt: Over here?
Marisha: Yeah, thank you.
Matt: Okay. There's Keyleth. Taryon?
Sam: I'm just gonna stay where the gnomes are all within 30 feet of me. So close to the action.
Matt: Okay, so pretty much where you are? Okay.
Sam: Within visual 30 feet.
Matt: Got you. So Pike, the circle puts you at about there, in the centerpiece. You watch as the sulfur is drawn around you in a wide circle. All right. JB now begins taking the water and splashing it throughout the center of the circle. She opens the jug with the help of Grog and walks around with Grog and is just taking big handfuls and splashing all the blessed water to fill in the circle between-- oh god-- where the sulfur was, in the interior of it, all around. So it soaks all the dirt, you can see it actually goes darker in color as it absorbs the liquid, and it seems you can now very, very clearly see the circle. And at this point, as the night has really hit the moonlight, the full moon is plainly visible, and that bright, bright white moonlight is making stark shadows and a very visible perspective of everything on this field. So, Pike, you're asked to stand in the center there, as right over here next to Taryon, facing you, Ogden hobbles over, looks at you. He holds the diamond in his hand. "Pike. Are you ready?"
Ashley: Two seconds. Just quietly, just sort of muttering to myself, or not to myself, to Sarenrae, I don't know what this is, I just hope that you're here and watching, and please be by my side and guide this ritual if it is your will. Okay. I'm ready.
Matt: Okay. Ogden is holding the diamond out. "Close your eyes. Concentrate on the goodness within you." He holds the diamond out in front of him and just starts chanting slowly under his breath.
Sam: Okay. I'm gonna drink the Potion of Mind Reading.
Matt: Okay, you drink the Potion of Mind Reading.
Sam: Yes.
Matt: Okay. He's loudly--
Laura: What if he's stealing her soul?
Matt: He's holding this diamond forward and he's loudly speaking in a language I don't think any of you understand. (mutters gibberish)
Sam: I'm going to scan his surface thoughts, what is most on his mind in that moment.
Matt: Currently, at that moment, it sounds like a bunch of gibberish. (mutters gibberish)
Laura: What is he speaking?
Sam: As an action, if it's my turn again, I will attempt to probe deeper into the same creature's mind.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: He makes a wisdom saving throw.
Matt: Against a DC of?
Sam: 13. It's not very good.
Matt: Okay. As you focus your attention, pushing in to probe deeper, all you get is the gibberish.
Sam: More gibberish.
Matt: Natural 17, sorry.
Sam: Ugh! Waste of 1,000 bucks.
Laura: You can't try the other gnomes?
Sam: I believe that breaks the spell.
Matt: Is that what it says?
Sam: It says if I probe deeper, he makes a wisdom saving throw. If he succeeds, the spell ends. And! He's aware I was probing.
Matt: As he's chanting. (mutters gibberish, pauses, continues to mutter gibberish) Goes right back into concentrating again.
Sam: The plan failed! The plan failed!
Matt: What languages do you know?
Sam: I know Sylvan, Common, Gnome, Draconic, Undercommon.
Matt: Languages?
Taliesin: Common, Celestial, Elven.
Marisha: Common, Elven, Celestial-- sorry, Sylvan, Druidic, Primordial.
Liam: Common, Elven, and Abyssal.
Laura: Elvish, Common, Undercommon, Abyssal, and Draconic.
Ashley: Gnomish, Common, Undercommon, Dwarvish.
Travis: Come on. (laughter)
Matt: Barely Common.
Travis: I just have spoken Giant, that's it.
Matt: Okay. None of you know the language he's speaking. It just sounds like gibberish to you. Oh, and Dwarvish, because you have the belt. As he begins chanting, the diamond begins to glow faintly, a greenish color. Just very, very, on the inside, just ever-so-gently. He begins to chant louder and louder. (louder gibberish) As he does, the diamond flashes brighter and brighter green, and eventually the green coloration fades and the diamond vanishes from his hand.
Sam: Another thousand!
Matt: And he falls to his knees. (heavy breathing) "Look!" And as he points forward, towards Pike, you guys glance over and look at Pike, and you watch as from the ground around her, this black cloud-like mass begins to pour out of her legs and knees in a swirl around her person. You, Pike, look around you as it begins to fill the space around you and it begins to coalesce into this large cloud of darkness. It rumbles and gathers like a miniature thunderstorm, and you watch as the clouds begin to churn, forming dozens of screaming faces, all wailing in a discordant moan.
Sam: That don't look good. That's tall.
Matt: Roll initative. (yelling)
Laura: Oh my god, I totally thought he was gonna steal your soul and stick you in that diamond, I was like, this was a bad idea.
Matt: All righty. Who's at the top? We've got 25 to 20.
Liam: 21.
Taliesin: 22.
Travis: 20.
Ashley: This music.
Matt: All righty. 20 to 15.
Laura: 18.
Matt: 18.
Marisha: 15.
Matt: 15, Keyleth.
Sam: My plan was foolproof.
Matt: 15 to ten?
Laura: You really should've tried that when he was speaking English.
Matt: Ten to five?
Laura: Common.
Marisha: Oh, sorry, eight. Sorry.
Ashley: Pike fashion.
Matt: Tary, what'd you get?
Sam: Three.
Travis: (laughs) That happens a lot for you.
Liam: If it makes you feel better, I rolled a one and used Luck.
Sam: And then got?
Liam: 21.
Sam: Oh, jesus.
Matt: Percival, you're up first.
Taliesin: Just 'cause this thing's weird, first thing I'm gonna do is I'm going to hit it with a Sharpshooter with-- where's my runs? With a Deadeye. So I'm getting advantage on it and hitting with Sharpshooter. And let's see what happens.
Sam: What if it's good?
Taliesin: With Animus.
Sam: You don't even know if it's a good guy.
Travis: Is it surrounding Pike or is it just next to Pike?
Matt: It's pseudo-surrounding her and right behind her, like it's kind of forming behind her and adjacent to her body.
Travis: What did you do?
Taliesin: That's, yeah, 30 to hit.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and roll damage.
Taliesin: That's-- my brain is made of swiss cheese. Here we go. 1d10 plus 1d6, so that's-- yeah, that's nice. So that's, oh yeah, that's really good. 26 points of damage, plus six points of psychic damage, and just because I'm irritated by this thing, I'm gonna drop some Cabal's Ruin into it. Let's just drop-- where's my pen? Here's my pen.
Sam: Where's my pen?
Sam: They took my pen!
Matt: They took my pen!
Taliesin: Let's drop five points of Cabal's Ruin into that. That's 5d6, if I recall?
Matt: 5d6 of Kids in the Hall damage, got it. (laughs)
Taliesin: So that's, ugh, three, four, five. Ten points of lightning damage.
Matt: Got you. So as you fire-- this is with Bad News, or with your--
Taliesin: This is Animus.
Matt: This is Animus, okay. So as you fire and turn it over, you look down and watch as the bullet just seems to pass through it, and then almost catch the edge of the rock here and splinter off, and doesn't seem to affect it directly at all.
Taliesin: The lightning and the psychic didn't do anything?
Matt: Nope. You watch as the energy kind of crackles and dissipates amongst the rock.
Sam: Wait, no damage, it took?
Liam: Best you can tell.
Travis: Doesn't seem to have affected it.
Sam: Oh shit.
Taliesin: I'm going to-- I don't know what to do.
Marisha: You just shot at it, you didn't do anything?
Taliesin: I just shot at it. I'm going to attempt to Hex it with a bonus action. Does it catch?
Matt: Okay. You go ahead and attempt to Hex it. As you focus on it, nothing seems to hit.
Marisha: Including a Hex?
Matt: The Hex has no effect, and you don't sense any connection with this creature, you don't see any of the smoke or shadow surrounding it. The Hex has no effect.
Sam: Maybe it's not there.
Taliesin: Maybe it's an illusion. I'm going to-- since I don't have much left, I burnt a little bit, I'm just I'm going to reload, hunker down, and watch what happens. I'm also going to watch the gnomes, all of them. Are any of them doing weird shit? That's where I'm gonna use the rest of my turn, to just look at the gnomes and see what they're doing.
Matt: Okay. Right now, the two other gnomes are just waiting off to the side, watching aghast, and you watch as Ogden is slowly, with his staff, backing up, hand out, looking freaked out, backing into Taryon. Look over and noticing his presence, and then focusing back on the horrible thing that's surrounding Pike right now, and he looks genuinely frightened. Is that your turn?
Taliesin: That's my turn.
Matt: Okay. Percival's done. Vax, you're up.
Liam: Before I decide, what is the thing doing to Pike? What am I looking at?
Matt: It hasn't had its turn yet. You're watching this 12-foot-tall swirling, almost slow-moving tornado of black cloud and smoke that is starting to form all these horrible faces, forming this cacophony of sounds and screaming and moaning.
Liam: Okay. I'm gonna click the Boots of Haste. I'm going to flip out the wings. And then I'm going to fly-- not through, because I don't wanna go by the thing, but around towards Keyleth and around towards Pike and grab Pike and fly her up next to Percival.
Matt: Fly her up next to Percival? Okay. So you try and pick her up. Make a strength check, 'cause she is a very heavily armored tiny little--
Ashley: Tank?
Matt: Tank of a gnome.
Laura: Strength check.
Liam: I don't make those. 17.
Matt: 17. You do, and it slows your movement to half when you're carrying her, but you manage to pick her up. As you do so, you watch as the form sends this pseudopod of a screaming face and arm swinging out towards you. That is a 17.
Liam: No.
Matt: You just pull her out of reach as it swings out in your direction. For the rest of your movement, you pull her just up to the edge of the rock, there, and you can set her down if you want. Oh god! Is that your turn?
Liam: Yeah, that's the end.
Matt: Okay. That brings us to Grog.
Travis: Gonna find out what this thing is, get up close and personal. I would like to Rage. Just charge right at the thing that was towering over my buddy Pike.
Matt: Right there. You come up right to the side of it, and you can look up and see it now. It's forming this wall of screaming faces at you, and a lot of them are watching as-- all of them are facing Pike as she disappears, and all of a sudden, all at once, a hundred faces go (shhhp) to you, and (gurgling growl). What are you doing?
Travis: All eyes on me. I swing at it. The first one regular.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: 28.
Matt: 28 hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
Travis: We'll see what happens now. 24 points of damage.
Matt: 24 points of damage. As you rush up angrily, you swing your axe, with additional?
Travis: Necrotic, four.
Matt: All right, 28. All right, cool. You swing, and as your axe cleaves through the side of it, you watch as parts of it break open, sending chunks of it flying, and the creature (shrieks) seems to scream in pain from the impact.
Travis: Nice. It screamed in pain from the impact.
Laura: Okay.
Travis: So the second one, can I make it-- we don't know how high this thing is. Can I do a Great Weapon Master for the second one?
Matt: Sure.
Travis: Okay. Minus five. That's gonna miss. That's 18.
Matt: 18. You hit, go ahead and roll damage.
Travis: Oh, really? 18 hit? Okay. Shit. 36. 36 points of damage.
Laura: Did you add your necrotic?
Travis: Nope. Sorry, I haven't used the blood axe in a while. 39 points of damage. Three points of necrotic.
Matt: That Great Weapon Master, man.
Travis: I know. That's why I wanted the blood axe back. Missed it.
Matt: You swing with the second strike. This time, you watch as some of the faces implode at the impact, and you see a flash of dark matter just get strung out about three or four feet from it as you strike through, and it (shrieks) gives a horrible scream in pain as it does so.
Travis: Okay, that's it. No bonus action.
Matt: You're not going Frenzied?
Travis: No.
Matt: Okay, that ends Grog's turn. It is now the creature's turn. It's going to move, moving upwards and trying to catch up to Pike. But, because of the nature of the Hallowed ground, it gets that far and then stops and is held in place.
Travis: Do I get an opportunity?
Matt: You do. Go ahead and roll an attack.
Travis: Can I make it Reckless?
Matt: Mm-hm. Actually, I think Reckless has to be on the first attack of your round.
Travis: Okay, that's fair enough. Shit, I picked it up. I think it was a seven. So 23.
Matt: Yeah, you hit.
Travis: Okay. That's a 12 again. 26.
Matt: 26. All right. With it being downed by that movement, it moves in and makes its way towards Ogden. Ogden, who is backed up against you at this point, Taryon, you watch as the spectacles-- you push him forward? (yelps) As it swings forward, and you see two of the mouths reach out to attempt to-- that's a three. (laughs) Both snap, and the old gnome would've been bit, except you pushed him forward, and he kind of like catches himself, and both of them miss him by but an inch, and he turns around, glancing at it, still has his hand forward like, "No!" as he's clutching his staff at his side to keep his standing. That finishes the creature's turn. Vex, you're up.
Laura: Okay. I-- what is JB doing?
Matt: JB is over here by Trinket, and is currently seeing this whole thing occur, and is about to go ahead-- it's not her turn yet, but she's going to probably-- looks like she's heading that direction to dart behind the rock.
Laura: Okay. Trinket's gonna go run at-- I'm gonna Hunter's Mark it if I can.
Matt: As you concentrate, Hunter's Mark finds no purchase on the creature.
Laura: Fucker. All right, Trinket runs up. I have a feeling this is-- and he is going to-- I don't know, do I get one attack and Trinket gets one attack? Is that how it can work? Or he only gets a bonus attack if I take an attack.
Matt: You either give Trinket the full round of attacks, and then you get one attack as a bonus action, or you get two attacks and then Trinket gets a bonus action attack.
Laura: Okay. And I already tried to Hunter's Mark him.
Matt: You did, as a bonus action.
Laura: So I'm gonna have Trinket attack him down there.
Matt: Okay, so two attacks from Trinket. Go for it.
Travis: C'mon, Trink.
Laura: Okay, okay, okay, one is a 25, and the other one is a 19.
Matt: Both hit. Go ahead and roll damage.
Laura: Oh, that's not as very good. Nine for his bite.
Matt: Nice.
Laura: And then his claw-- oh, come on, Trinket. 12 for-- no, 11 for his claws.
Matt: 20 points of damage from Trinket, not bad. Trinket rushes out and bites into the smoky faces and pulls back, and you watch as some of the shadow gets yanked with the teeth and then disperses and then vanishes in the air. And then turns around, big raking claw, and part of its midsection shifts with the impact and has to reform.
Travis: (whispers) What is this thing?
Matt: You gonna stay where you are?
Laura: I'm gonna stay where I am, and I wanna keep eyes on-- ooh, I wonder if you have to be in the circle to do damage. Fuck.
Marisha: Was Percy not in the circle before?
Laura: No.
Marisha: That's interesting.
Sam: But Groggy-poo was.
Marisha: And Trinket was.
Laura: I'm gonna stay out. I'm gonna keep eyes on JB to see what she's doing.
Matt: Okay. That finishes your turn?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: All righty. Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: Am I in the circle of what I know-- Pike?
Matt: You are-- you have to move five feet further in to be within the sulfur and water line.
Marisha: Okay, hearing Vex figure this out, I'm gonna step forward just a little bit into the sulfur line, and then I'm gonna cast Moonbeam right overtop of him at fourth level.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: And see what happens. Moonbeam. So a shapechanger makes its saving throw with disadvantage, and if it fails, it instantly reverts to its original form. If it's a shapechanger. But I don't really know, I'm just guessing.
Matt: Okay. Five-foot radius. Yeah, so you can-- it basically encompasses the whole size of the creature. So you watch as, in the middle of the sky, the full moon that's partially almost at its zenith, you watch as almost a secondary moon appears next to it for a moment, and a single column of bright moonlight hits the ground.
Marisha: Kinda harnessing the moon, you know?
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: Yeah, moon goddess shit? Yeah.
Matt: And it's illuminating the creature from the inside, and where the smoke is, you can now see there are portions of it that are burning on the inside, like there's small holes being dug through it as the beam continues to focus on it. Are you gonna-- you can still move the rest of your movement, or you can stay where you are.
Marisha: I'll kind of shift towards the front of the column, so I have the column behind my back.
Matt: Right there?
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. You leap over some of the leftover sacks and offerings there and put your back against the column. All right, perfect. That brings us to the gnomes' turns. These guys, you watch as Johann and Astra just move behind the side of the rock. They're too entranced to look away, but you guys seem to have this handled, so they're watching from the side. You watch as Ogden begins to-- oh god!-- he hobbles back behind you, Taryon, and goes like, "Excuse me!" and pushes alongside you to move behind the rock here.
Sam: I get an attack of opportunity. (laughter)
Matt: The creature does, though. And (whoosh) just misses over the top of his head. The gnome's size is too small, and it keeps missing him by about a foot. And he backs up, going, (heavy breathing), holding onto his staff. That ends his turn, and you watch as JB rushes over behind this rock here and starts shouting up, "Ogden, are you okay?" That's going to end her turn. Pike, you're up.
Ashley: Okay. Am I able to get back into the circle? How far am I?
Matt: You can, yes.
Ashley: All right.
Matt: I'll ask you to make an acrobatics check, 'cause you're having to leap down from these large five-foot stone drops.
Ashley: Okay, okay, okay. Come on, Gil. Don't fuck me, Gil. You fucked me, Gil. Four.
Laura: Oh no.
Matt: So you leap down this one. As you leap down to there, as you hit the ground, it's just too much height with all the heavy armor and all the chaos going on, that when your foot hits, the rock sprains your ankle, for a second it kind of folds to the side, and you fall down to one knee. I'll say with that, your movement's going to get you right there. You're not in the circle currently.
Ashley: All right. Then I will cast Spirit Guardians into the circle.
Matt: Okay.
Ashley: And I will have them attack.
Matt: Okay. Spirit Guardians here.
Travis: I don't think we've seen that before.
Laura: I know, right? I think she's done Spirit Guardians one other time.
Travis: Okay. Sorry.
Ashley: It's okay.
Matt: So you're designating them as the creature, their speed is halved. When the creature enters the area or starts its turn there, it has to make a wisdom save or take the damage, right? That's how it works. Okay. So. That ends your turn, Pike, as you cast the spell. There you watch as a series of small, ghostly divine-focused creatures appear on the horizon of the circle, all looming towards this dark entity. That ends your turn, Pike?
Ashley: Yes.
Matt: All righty. Taryon.
Sam: Oh god. All right. I whip out my String of Beads and I pull off a bead and I will throw it down at the creature's feet, just behind it if possible, so it and only it is in the cube of ten feet.
Matt: Okay. Let me see here.
Liam: (whispers) Where does he get all these wonderful toys?
Sam: Money! Lots and lots of money.
Matt: Okay. The bead hits the ground and detonates, and you watch as there's a flash of arcane energy in the sphere. As it encompasses, it doesn't seem to affect the creature.
Sam: So there's just a big spherical ball there with nothing inside of it? Or does the creature look like it's inside of it?
Matt: It looks like it's partway in and partway out and unaffected by the bead.
Sam: Holy shit.
Travis: You're just losing money left and right.
Laura: Oh man.
Sam: This is an expensive trip. (laughter)
Sam: Well then, I will do the heroic thing. As my bonus action, click my Boots of Speed, and run. Just sort of run behind that rock with the gnomes and try to position Doty in between me and the beast.
Matt: Do you move Doty forward?
Sam: Just between us. Not forward, just in a guarding position.
Matt: Okay, there you go. So Doty just. "Tary." All right, so that's all Doty does, is just get ready?
Sam: He can't do a separate attack, can he? No.
Matt: Yeah, he can.
Sam: Oh, he can?
Matt: He acts entirely different than you, yeah.
Sam: Oh jeez. I'm not used to having these things. Then yes, I'll just have him take a swing at the thing, a bash.
Matt: Okay, he can make a bash and a headbutt.
Sam: He can make two attacks? This guy's awesome!
Laura: Wait, he gets a full action and his companion animal gets to attack?
Matt: Yep.
Laura: Motherfucker.
Sam: We're friends.
Matt: Also, how helpful has Taryon been in comparison to Vex in the past?
Sam: Very, I would say.
Laura: Well, Tary or Doty?
Matt: Both.
Sam: All right, Doty's going to make two attacks, then.
Matt: Go for it.
Sam: Bash and a headbutt. What do I do? I roll something. I roll a natural 20 on bash.
Travis: Doty got a natural 20.
Sam: That is nine points of damage.
Matt: Awesome.
Sam: And then going in for the headbutt, one.
Matt: Doty swings forward, fist goes through, you watch as the creature (gurgling yelp), and then, as it's recoiling, leans forward and gives it a big old hefty rune-covered Doty headbutt to the creature, and it seems impacted by it. Doty? Not in the circle.
Sam: Oh.
Laura: Doty's not in the circle.
Matt: Doty's just outside of the circle.
Sam: But still caused damage?
Matt: Apparently.
Sam: What is this magic?
Marisha: What was the bead thing?
Matt: That ends Taryon's turn. Percy.
Taliesin: I'm watching all this and highly confused. I'm going to turn on my boots, and I'm going to run down towards the creature, and I'm going to attack it with my silver-laced sword and see what happens.
Matt: Okay, you rush forward at this side, you come up to it with your silver rapier.
Taliesin: And I'm taking a swing.
Travis: Come on, buddy. See how the other side lives.
Taliesin: No, it's okay, 'cause this is pretty good. 17.
Matt: 17. That hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
Marisha: Is it piercing?
Laura: Slashing damage?
Sam: You have to be close to it, like you have to hit it with your fists.
Taliesin: Eight points of damage.
Matt: Okay. You watch as you go in to stab it with the rapier, as you do it, (shrieks), it retracts and you can see parts of it kind of carve open from the impact.
Taliesin: I'm going to take another stab.
Matt: Go for it.
Taliesin: It's a 24.
Matt: 24, that hits.
Taliesin: I'm also going to, out of curiosity, run d6 worth of Cabal's Ruin through it, just to see what happens. So that's-- wow, that really-- that's 14 points of piercing damage and two points of electrical damage.
Matt: Okay, cool. As you stab through with the sword, electrical energy coursing through, you stab through, watch as it carves a big hole in the side of its smoky physicality, and it kind of shrieks in pain and recoils, now some of the faces turning towards you, noticing the impact.
Taliesin: The shock definitely did a thing?
Matt: The impact did, yeah, you watch the weapon hit and you watch the shock burst off and the creature reacted to it.
Taliesin: Okay! Just for fun, I'm taking a third hit. I'm gonna take a third shot at him. And burn, yup. No, a third slice and I'm gonna add, just for fun, let's do one, two, three, let's do four more points of Cabal and see what happens.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: So.
Matt: Third strike, you swing through heavily and you watch--- How much damage is that?
Taliesin: That's 15 points of piercing damage.
Matt: 15 points of piercing damage.
Taliesin: Seven, eight, nine.
Matt: With?
Taliesin: And 13 points of electrical.
Matt: Nice. Okay. You swing with one wide arc, and as you do, it leaves this large spray of electrical energy that is left behind in pulses after the blade has already passed through. It's almost like a lagging slow-mo burst of electrical energy behind the blade as it swings, and as it does you watch as the smoke dissipates and retracts from the impact, screaming, and small faces you see turn to black mist from where the blade passed through.
Taliesin: Yeah, and I'll take three more hits really quick. I'm going to burn an Action Surge. Just do three more real quick. Just going for it. I'll roll them all at once.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: So. That's-- Yeah, that all hits. It's a 11, a 13 and a 17. They all-- they all hit.
Matt: Yeah. So roll damage three times.
Taliesin: That's 11 points.
Matt: 11.
Taliesin: 13 points.
Matt: 13.
Taliesin: And ten points.
Matt: Ten points! In a series of Zorro-type slashes, you just carve through. And you watch as it's starting to break apart and dissipate. The screams went from aggressive to now (groaning). This, like, deep sucking inhale. It looks like it's starting to look pretty rough.
Taliesin: This is very therapeutic.
Matt: That ends your turn. All right, Vax. You're up.
Liam: Okay. I'm gonna shoot up and do a small little loop-de-loop and then slam down right next to Percival. Right up against it, so that I'm in a flanking position opposite Doty.
Matt: Go for it.
Liam: And then dagger-dagger-dagger with a little bit of Smite.
Matt: All righty.
Travis: With a little bit of Smite.
Liam: First one is a 33.
Matt: That hits.
Liam: Second one is a natural 20. Third one is a 30.
Matt: All right, all three hit. Second one's a crit.
Liam: Yup.
Matt: So, Sneak Attack for the first hit?
Liam: Right.
Ashley: Get 'im.
Liam: Okay, one-- and this is Smite on this. That one's a seven-- Can I put the Smite on any attack I want?
Matt: Yeah, you can put it on the crit.
Liam: I'll save it for the crit, then. Yeah, seven, 11, 17, 19--
Matt: Yeah, the ridiculousness of paladins. Oh, a crit? I'm gonna pump a Smite into it. Oops!
Liam: 24, 27, 33, plus the psychic damage. 33 plus-- 41. 48 for the first hit.
Matt: 48! For the first hit! Shit, man!
Travis: That's not even the crit!
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Rogues.
Liam: Second attack. Four plus one is five. Plus the psychic damage-- Is he a fiend? Is he getting anything extra from this?
Matt: No.
Liam: Okay. Five plus eight is 13, 14, 15, 14, so 28. 29 for the second hit. Then the Smite.
Laura: Do you double it because it's a crit?
Liam: I did.
Matt: Okay, 29? Then, third hit.
Liam: Oh, wait! I didn't-- Hold on. Hold on. four.
Laura: Is eight.
Liam: Four plus-- There's no bonus. So it was four plus-- then I got an eight and a two, right? It was an eight and a two?
Matt: 18 times two, 46. Plus one.
Liam: Plus 12, 14-- Yeah, that gets me there. 28. Doubles to 28.
Laura: Plus one. 29.
Matt: 29. That's right, you got it.
Liam: And then one little--- Then one little, itty-bitty--
Matt: Little, boop! poke in the side.
Liam: For four points.
Matt: Four points, all righty. As you rush down and stab it in the back, as the blade hits and flashes, with just the blast, the creature (groans), and you carve down, and it feels like you're cutting through a cloud, through air-- but you watch it separate around as the blade carves down. You come up with the second swipe, this time hitting directly. There's a flash of divine energy as the burst goes off. You watch the creature take the impact and separate slowly after where it hit, the clouds being pushed back by like a slow-motion blast of the divine energy you pulse through. Third strike, and you swing past and you see it catch the edge of the side (growls). Reacts to it slowly, but it seems to be having an effect.
Liam: Feathers. Feathers.
Matt: Feathers rest to the ground. Okay, Grog. You're up.
Travis: Frenzied Rage. Reckless. Great Weapon Master. All up on him.
Matt: All right, go for it.
Travis: All right.
Sam: Everything.
Liam: What's the plan? Rush it!
Taliesin: Get her!
Matt: That is your whole plan, huh? Get her! Scientific.
Travis: No, 30 to hit.
Matt: That hits.
Travis: Three plus seven.
Taliesin: This'll end well.
Travis: (sighs) 11.
Liam: Do the thing, Grog.
Travis: 28 on the first one? No. 38 on the first one, because of Great Weapon Master.
Matt: 38 on the first one.
Travis: 27.
Matt: That hits.
Travis: Minus five. Okay. Ten, 24, 34, 38. Four points necrotic. 38.
Matt: Okay. Ooh.
Travis: Third one--
Matt: Third hit.
Travis: 30 minus five. 25. 10, 24, 26, 36.
Sam: Is that four hits north of 25?
Matt: It's three hits. And that's over 100 damage in one round.
Marisha: Wow!
Sam: That would have just straight-up killed me.
Ashley: That's like-- yeah-- oh no.
Matt: As you swing up and make three giant axe blows, you watch as each cleave is carving a line through this creature. And as you hit with each axe blow, you watch as its faces begin to disappear in smoke. It's almost like with each blow it's beginning to lose physicality in the world and it's beginning to shrink in size. It's still wailing and screaming in your face, but the impacts are making an effect.
Travis: Nice.
Matt: That ends your turn, Grog. The creature is now going to go ahead and swing in a wide circle in its desperation. It's going to go ahead and cause this--
Marisha: Top of its turn?
Matt: Top of its turn, yeah.
Marisha: It takes 4d10 of damage.
Matt: Well it has to make a save. All right. So what it does is the moonbeam hits down on it, and you watch as it seems to not really react to it. Like it burns a little bit and you see some kind of sparkling white energy, but it's not reacting directly from it at the moment. It seems to be like generally trying to avoid it but it's not seemingly taking any damage from it. Now, it's going to go ahead and do a big sweeping strike to try and hit everything around it. You watch as these pseudopods begin to spin like a buzzsaw in the vicinity. What's your AC, Grog?
Travis: Advantage against me, too.
Matt: Yeah, that's right!
Travis: 17 is my AC.
Matt: Misses you. Against Trinket.
Travis: With advantage it misses me?
Sam: With advantage!
Matt: Yeah. What's Trinket's AC?
Laura: Oh-- 21.
Matt: 21. Misses. Against Vax-- That's a natural one. And against Percy, that is a-- What's your AC?
Taliesin: 18.
Matt: That misses.
Travis: What?!
Laura: What?!
Matt: Oh, and against Doty as well. Doty-- What's Doty's AC?
Sam: 12.
Matt: Misses.
All: What?
Matt: It spins around and it manages to just have no effect on any of you. You move out of the way, dodge, it misses you, it just passes right through Doty with no effect.
Travis: Bad show, mate.
Matt: That brings us now to Vex's turn.
Laura: Has he hit anybody yet?
All: No.
Sam: He's literally the worst.
Matt: He's literally the worst creature that's ever existed.
Marisha: Is it safe to like over my earpiece say like--
Matt: Wait 'til your turn.
Marisha: Oh. Sorry.
Matt: It's okay. What're you doing, Vex?
Laura: I mean, if I'm looking at that creature, does it look like an illusion? Does it look like something we've seen before? Does it look like it's really there?
Matt: You can make an investigation check to see, you might have to go closer.
Laura: I'll come down closer.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: I'll have Trinket attack for my bonus. But I want to just--
Matt: Trinket has to attack as part of your attack action. Wait, let me double-check that.
Laura: Trinket gets my bonus.
Matt: I know, I changed that. That's how it used to be. So yes, you can do that. You can do that.
Laura: Okay. So I can have him attack and then watch?
Matt: You can have him attack and then watch him.
Laura: I want to watch while he's attacking and see. And like make an investigation check.
Matt: Okay. Okay. Have Trinket go ahead and attack.
Liam: Voyeur.
Laura: Yeah. I want to watch! Ooh! That's a good one. 27.
Matt: That hits! Go ahead and roll damage.
Laura: Okay. 12.
Matt: 12! Is it a bite or a claw?
Laura: That was a bite.
Matt: Trinket reaches out and bites and snatches through and you watch as the black smoke dissipates in the area and screams again in his face as he pulls back. You're using your action to investigate?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Roll an investigation check.
Laura: 24!
Sam: What just happened?
Matt: Pardon me, buddy.
Sam: Trinket just became a ghost.
Marisha: What's going on?
Taliesin: Don't! No! No! No!
Ashley: Don't you look, Travis!
Sam: Do it, Travis!
Taliesin: Travis Willingham, you're going to get in big trouble!
Ashley: Step back! Step back!
Sam: (laughs) Draw dick-butts all over it
Matt: All right!
Sam: Trinket's a ghost!
Matt: That ends-- that's the end of your turn, right?
Laura: That's the end of my turn. I moved-- that was my full movement to get up there?
Matt: No, you can move.
Laura: I want to move over back towards the edge of that rock towards me. I mean, this way--
Matt: This way?
Laura: Sorry.
Matt: This way?
Laura: Yes. Closer to the gnomes.
Matt: Closer to the gnomes. Okay. Well, since I left my-- imagine you're flying for this one. I left my pillars at Force Grey. So. I'm going to have those back.
Laura: Oh! Am I flying?
Matt: I figured you were since you usually are. Unless you don't want to.
Laura: No no no. I'm not flying right now.
Matt: Okay. Then you're back by the gnomes. All right, cool. That ends Vex's turn. Keyleth, you're up.
Laura: And I can I say anything over my head-- My earring? Without the gnomes hearing me, I want to go, it's not real. It's not real. They're fucking us.
Sam: (gasps) The gnomes are?
Matt: Okay. Keyleth. Your turn.
Ashley: Motherfuckers.
Sam: Kill them!
Marisha: What?
Laura: Play it out. Just play it out.
Sam: Okay.
Marisha: Play it out?
Sam: Play it out.
Marisha: Okay, I want to step forward a little bit.
Matt: Okay. You step forward a little bit.
Marisha: Can I make out details of the space? Of the faces that are in it?
Matt: There are multiple faces. They're all different creature faces. They all look to be humanoid. They're all shouting and screaming and shifting and roiling inside.
Marisha: Can I do a perception check to see if I recognize either Pike's face in there or Ogden's face or any of the gnomes' face? Do I recognize any faces?
Matt: Sure. This would be your action to do that, but yeah.
Marisha: My whole action?
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: Make a perception check.
Marisha: Great, 17.
Matt: Okay. Glancing at it, all the faces seem relatively blank and it's mostly the same face over and over and over again. So there's no real variation to them.
Marisha: Okay. And that's my whole action?
Matt: That's your whole action, yeah.
Marisha: Okay. That's my action.
Matt: Okay. So at this point, the gnomes over here are just staying where they are. You watch as Ogden takes another hobbled step back past Taryon and goes, "Protect me!" and puts his hand up to you and kind of hides partially behind you, Taryon. JB stays there. She seems relatively safe and watches as Vex approaches and is like (heavy breathing) and moves along the side of the rock. Pike, your turn.
Travis: The gnomes aren't doing anything?
Matt: No.
Ashley: Well, that's a turn of events. Okay. Am I close to-- Who's the closest gnome? Can I get to them?
Matt: The closest gnome to you would probably be Astra. She's over here.
Ashley: Okay. I'm going to--
Travis: (whispers) What if they did all of this to get us away from Whitestone?
Ashley: Go up to her.
Matt: So you walk up to Astra. Most of your movement there as you back up.
Ashley: And I'm going to put my mace up to her throat and say--
Sam: (whispers) They're robbing the bakery right now!
Ashley: (laughs) Yeah! How many pastries did you steal?
Marisha: How many fucking pastries did they take?
Ashley: I'm going to say, what the fuck is going on? I know this is not real.
Matt: Make an intimidation check.
Sam: To whom?
Marisha: Come on, Pike!
Laura: To mustachio and his wife.
Laura: Oh, I thought that was a natural 20.
Ashley: Where's intimidation? 11.
Matt: 11? As soon as you put the mace she goes, "Pike! What are you doing?! Pike! The creature's still alive!" And she points over in that direction, she's not paying much mind to your threat.
Ashley: Damn it. Okay. (laughs) Oh, shit.
Matt: You still have your bonus action.
Ashley: Yeah, I know. Can I-- How accurate can I be with a Guiding Bolt? Is that dependent on--
Matt: You can be pretty accurate with a Guiding Bolt, but Guiding Bolt is an action.
Ashley: Oh shit, yeah. Fuck. I'm gonna drop the mace on her foot.
Matt: Okay, so this is less of an attack and more of dropping it on her foot. As it hits, we'll say, 'cause you dropped it on it, she goes (yelps) and she picks her foot off, pulling it out from underneath and it's-- She's wearing a light leather boot. It hurt her toe pretty bad. She's like (sounds of pain) and Johann's like, "Astra, are you okay?" "Pike, be careful!" He's kind of helping her. Does that end your turn?
Ashley: I guess so!
Matt: All right, Taryon, you're up.
Marisha: So wait, that's Johann? Or what's-his-name and his wife?
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: Where the fuck is JB?
Laura: They're over by me.
Matt: She's right there.
Sam: Are JB and Ogden together?
Matt: JB is over on-- like ten feet to your left. Ogden's just right next to you, almost holding onto your-- the back of your leg for protection. And he's like, "Protect me!"
Sam: Sure. Sure.
Laura: Hands up, motherfucker.
Marisha: Yeah, right? What's that? What is that?
Laura: I know! He's been holding his hand up like woo.
Sam: I'm just gonna break free from Ogden.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: And I'm going to whip out another bead and throw it right at him. (laughter)
Travis: Yes! Yes! Yes! Yes!
Taliesin: That's a good call.
Sam: It's a dexterity save. 15
Matt: That is a no. That is a no-no-no.
Sam: Oh, yeah. Oh yeah.
Matt: That was a natural four to an addled old man. All right, so roll 5d4 force damage.
Sam: Okay. Four, one, four, three. Oh shit, I should probably be adding these. That's nine. That's 12.
Matt: As you throw the bead down, it bursts in a flash of energy and light, and you watch as Ogden's staff just gets fucking thrown 25 feet in the air from the blast. He's like (yells). He falls on his side and gets back up, and you see him now encased in this sphere of force. Immediately this smoke creature vanishes.
Sam: I'll say, Doty! Carry him to the edge of the cliff.
Marisha: Oh shit!
Matt: Can Doty-- I don't think Doty can move the sphere, can he?
Sam: The sphere weighs one pound, regardless of what is inside of it.
Matt: Okay!
Travis: Really? That's fucking amazing. Are you serious?
Liam: Gently!
Travis: How big can the sphere get?
Sam: It's ten by ten. I mean, encircled--
Matt: Yeah, it's a hamster ball.
Ashley: (groans) I'm so mad!
Travis: You can carry him to the cliff!
Laura: Maybe it was just to steal a thousand-gold diamond. Maybe it was just to steal the diamond.
Matt: He's just like-- at this point, he goes, "You killed it! That's amazing! Pike is saved!" The sphere gets picked up. "Wait! Huh?"
Laura: I pick JB up by her wrist.
Matt: Okay, she's just starting to dart off and you grab her by the wrist. Go ahead and make a grapple check. Make an athletics check.
Laura: Oh no. Athletics, huh? Eight.
Matt: Eight? You go to grab for her wrist, and as you grab she wrenches out of it and goes darting this way.
Liam: I'm blasting off after her.
Marisha: I'm going to go after Johann and Astra. And can I do an Entangle spell around her?
Matt: What's the DC, or the save on that?
Marisha: I haven't done an Entangle in a second-- give me a second.
Matt: I have it right here. It is a strength check against your spell DC.
Marisha: Beat a 20, bitch!
Matt: So! You watch as they both turn invisible. And then all of a sudden a bunch of vines go (crinkles) around a gnome-like form. (cheering)
Laura: I'm gonna Grasping Vine JB as she starts to run off.
Marisha: Do it! Do it! Do it! Ranger!
Matt: She gets some distance. What's the Grasping Vine--
Travis: Is Ogden the one in the sphere?
Laura: Spell save 15.
Matt: 15, dexterity. Natural 20.
Laura: Motherfucker!
Matt: You put the Grasping Vine out and she just-- (heavy breathing).
Taliesin: Okay, forget this.
Liam: Wait-wait! I already said I'm winged and Hasted, I'm already there! She can't go anywhere.
Matt: I know, all right. So as you aim, you watch as a raven swoops down.
Taliesin: That'll do.
Matt: Go ahead and make an athletics check.
Taliesin: I'm going to keep watching.
Sam: Oh, Matt is so fucking good.
Ashley: Fuck.
Liam: 19.
Matt: Natural one.
Laura: Yes!
Matt: You grab her and lift her off the ground and she's now screaming as you pick her up into the sky, the moonlight still kind of casting down. Doty is now carrying this sphere and walking towards the edge over here.
Liam: Yeah, I'll take her 100 feet up and give her a good view.
Matt: Okay, she's breathing super, super fast. And at this point you see, as he's walking over to the edge, Ogden's like, "You-- Look! You saved everyone! Good job!" (laughter)
Sam: He's committed to this bit!
Taliesin: Don't overcommit! Don't overcommit! No!
Sam: So you rush over towards him, as Doty's got him maybe ten feet from the edge and now you can see as he's like, "Oh! Pike?"
Ashley: Oh, Doty's not finished walking yet. Doty, keep going.
Matt: "Pike, Pike. We have-- You have been saved from the darkness of a family line of terrible curses."
Laura: Dicks! Motherfuckers!
Matt: He's walked to the very edge of the cliff. "Pike, Pike, Pike, Pike, what would Sarenrae think? What would Sarenrae think?"
Travis: He's so lively all of a sudden.
Matt: Yeah, more so than you've ever seen him. He's been crotchety and immobile this whole time, and now you watch him up against the glass and he's standing up straight, and he's like, "Pike, Pike, seriously, it's fine. It's fine. What would Sarenrae think?"
Taliesin: I'm gonna walk below the cliff and just stand on the cliff and start knocking on the ball on the other side and waving so he can get a nice view of the drop down.
Matt: "Oh. No-no-no! Seriously, it's fine. We're family."
Ashley: Ogden?
Matt: "Yes?"
Ashley: Where's the diamond?
Matt: "I-- it was used in the spell!"
Ashley: No, it wasn't.
Matt: "The spell that we used to summon the creature."
Ashley: It's-- Ogden. That was bullshit.
Matt: Make an intimidation check.
Ashley: God damn it!
Travis: Does his fear grant advantage?
Matt: I'd say you have advantage, given this circumstance.
Laura: Yeah!
Matt: Given this circumstance, you definitely have advantage.
Ashley: 15.
Matt: He goes, (sighs), and holds the diamond out in front.
Ashley: Is he still in the ball?
Sam: Yeah, he's still in the ball.
Ashley: Push him out further.
Sam: Doty, just hold him over the edge.
Matt: Doty goes and-- "Tary." "No-no-no!" He's now looking down at the sphere of force below him and looking down to the waves crashing at the very, very small, distant shore. "You can have the diamond back! It's just--"
Sam: What's the play here? What's the game? What were you trying to get? Not that diamond. There's more to it than that.
Matt: "Look. We don't have a lot. You have plenty. We hear of all the great deeds you've done. All the dragons you've killed. All the vast amounts of money and gold you've procured the past couple years of your adventures. And we get sent a measly sum! A small hint of nothing but a paltry pinch."
Laura: She didn't have to send you anything, you dick!
Matt: "She didn't! And yet, we came to offer you nothing but a fantastical story of redemption and the healing of a family, and you got to know your cousin who you've not spoken to since you left."
Ashley: I trusted you. I put myself out there and I trusted you.
Matt: The sphere dissipates. It's been a minute. And he goes (screams) and just plummets off the side.
Taliesin: I was technically right below it.
Laura: That's true.
Taliesin: I'm gonna make a grab.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and make a dexterity saving throw.
Taliesin: I was kind of prepared for this.
Liam: I'm way up high and I say, I don't know what's going on, but it does not look good here. (laughter)
Taliesin: Dex saving throw? You know. I'm going to re-roll that.
Sam: What? You can just do that?
Taliesin: I'm going to use a Resolve. Yeah. It's the exact same roll.
Matt: What is it?
Taliesin: Dex saving roll-- it's 11.
Matt: (whiff) (screams)
Liam: Wait, in that second I can go 500 feet in six seconds, so can I blast down towards the cliff and dump her ten feet and keep going?
Travis: That's going to be the most gnarly drop-off ever.
Matt: Not safely?
Liam: Safely?
Ashley: She's gonna break some legs. it's okay.
Liam: Safely? Safely? I will go (whoosh) and let her take a little damage and hit the bottom. You know, I'm not gonna--
Matt: Where are you dropping her? You're over here right now, you picked her up and went over this way.
Liam: I can go like (plane sounds). I'll take a little turn up and let her-- she can take some damage.
Taliesin: She can take some damage.
Liam: Or we could let the dude die, but I'm already doing it.
Matt: She tumbles. Stops about five feet from the edge. She's still hyperventilating.
Liam: I've got 400 more feet to go.
Matt: You dive down. He's just like (screams). Just tumbling down as he falls faster towards the cliff rocks and you can just barely see the waves crashing from the moonlight that's hitting him as you're just in a full-on raven dive towards it.
Liam: Bullet train, baby.
Laura: Oh God!
Marisha: Can I take her and Grasping Vine and throw her into my entanglement and just keep all of them entangled?
Matt: Grasping Vine is a concentration spell, you'll lose the entanglement if you do it.
Laura: That's okay. I'm going to use the Rope of Entanglement that I have and use it on her.
Matt: And with that, without even really much of a resistance from her, she's tangled up in the rope, and falls on the ground on her side. Go ahead and make a dexterity saving throw.
Liam: Saving throw? Okay.
Matt: Actually, for this in particular, because it's less of a reaction, this is a-- make a dexterity check. This is just a plus your dexterity bonus.
Liam: Okay. I have Luck. I've got one Luck left. 20.
Matt: You reach out once and grab a section of the cloth and it tears-- and he keeps plummeting. You watch as the stones below-- it's a jagged base of the Salted Bluffs. About ten feet before impact, as his screaming has stopped-- and you grab him and just (whff) right across the surface of the water, but inches! His toes-- the tips of his feet skid across the surface of the water as you (whoosh) and rocket him straight back up towards the top of the cliff. It's going to take you a little while to get up there now.
Liam: Sure.
Matt: Diving is one thing. He is unconscious in your grasp.
Liam: And the Haste is gone by the time I've gone through all that?
Matt: Yeah. So you're slowly flying your way back up. You guys are bent over and you can see the raven wings-- you can't quite see whether or not he got him, but all you see is Vax slowly making his way back towards the top of the cliff.
Taliesin: Should we tell them if he survived? Or do you want to surprise them? I say loudly enough for everybody to hear.
Ashley: Surprise them!
Laura: How about you tell us.
Taliesin: I'm pulling back up. Oh yeah, he's fine.
Ashley: I'm going to walk over to JB. She's tangled?
Matt: She's wrapped up in the rope and she's like (breathing heavily).
Ashley: I'm going to slowly start untangling her.
Matt: "Hi, Pike."
Ashley: Hi, JB. For starters--
Matt: "I'm sorry. I'm sorry."
Ashley: Okay, that's fine. I'm sorry I didn't spend more time with you. But this is unacceptable. This is not how you treat family. And if anything, I hope you learn from this. What do you want? What do you want from me? Tell me and I'll give it to you.
Matt: "I don't care about the money, that's what they wanted. Honestly, I just used this as an excuse to get to see you again. It would have been fine if no one had found out anything. We would have been heroes. We would have had no reason to not be friends again. We would have saved you, as far as you know, from a terrible curse, and maybe that would have-- maybe then I would have been a hero to you. But I'm nothing. I'm a caretaker to a swindler and move around too much to make any real friends, so that's just my lot in life, I guess."
Ashley: It doesn't have to be.
Matt: "That's all I know."
Ashley: But you're very smart. I think there's more for you in this life than you know.
Matt: You can see now, she's just tears now, at this point.
Ashley: I'm going to walk over to Johann and Astra.
Matt: Okay. Yeah, they've let the invisibility down at this point. They're both just entangled. "Oh! There's some sort of misunderstanding here. We were under the impression that there was a terrible curse."
Ashley: "Money?"
Matt: "No! No! We-- Look. Look! Okay. Look, we have been following--"
Marisha: I tighten the grasp on them.
Matt: (squeals) "We've been following that man because he is-- He's my dad. And we're really broke. And we blew through all the money you sent us very quickly. I mean, come on. How much do you guys got? Like ten thousand gold? That's more than we'll see in our lifetime. Drop in the bucket. Changed our life. You would have been fine! You would have been great! You wouldn't have known any better. Our lives would have improved drastically. We would have gone our own way. But maybe stayed for a week! Made you dinner. But here we are. Are we bad? Are we evil? I don't think so. But that's up to you, Miss Priest." At this point, Astra's like, "Shh. Honey, honey! Just calm down." And he's like, "No! No-no-no-no. No. Okay. She can think she's better than us, that's fine. You want to fight the Trickfoot name, that's great. You're still a Trick--"
Marisha: And I go, and down.
Matt: He hits the ground and all you hear is muffled, "But she's still one of us." (laughter)
Matt: And Astra goes, "You did kind of drop a mace on my toe."
Ashley: Oh, I know. That was on purpose.
Matt: "Yeah, I gathered as much."
Ashley: Oh! I'm so mad!
Taliesin: Yeah.
Travis: Don't rush it. Don't rush it.
Ashley: Where's Ogden?
Matt: You wait another few minutes. It's a long flight up at this point without the Haste. I mean, the winds do help a little bit, because the winds are hitting the cliff and heading upwards. So the updraft does help a bit, but it takes about five or six minutes or so for him to eventually get his way back up to the top. Probably longer than that, even. Then eventually you watch as Vax returns and drops an unconscious, unmoving Ogden onto the rocky cliffside floor.
Liam: Old bugger looks so sweet when he's sleeping.
Ashley: Does he still have the diamond with him?
Matt: Funny thing. When that orb disappeared, and he fell, so did him and the diamond.
Liam: Windmill.
Matt: So he is not with the diamond. The diamond is nowhere to be seen.
Laura: That'll make someone's day, eventually.
Marisha: It was more the principle of the matter.
Ashley: Well, I'm sad.
Laura: Pike? If you send them on their way, think about JB. That's all I ask.
Ashley: Okay. Ogden?
Matt: He's unconscious.
Ashley: You're not listening to me because you're unconscious. (laughter)
Travis: Don't one of you people have the touch?
Ashley: I'm going to go over and backhand his face.
Matt: Okay.
Matt: "I've, uh--" His glasses are gone. His eyes that were once beady are now wide and he's like, "Oh. Hi, Pike."
Ashley: Hi.
Matt: "Hello."
Ashley: Listen.
Matt: "Gotcha!"
Ashley: Yeah. Okay. So this wrecked me. So here's what we're going to do. I'm going to send you guys on your way. I'm going to take out my purse of money. I'm giving you all my money. Stop. Don't say anything. I want you, and I want Astra, and I want Johann to leave and I never want to see you again. JB is going to stay here with me.
Matt: He glances over at JB, who's, right now-- head is down, just looking at the ground. You can see a little bit of moonlight that's coming by, you can see the wet streaks on her cheeks. He goes "That's very, very fair. That's very kind, and very fair."
Ashley: We're going to teach her things. I will put her through school. And her and I together will change the Trickfoot name. But if I ever see any of you again, I will fucking kill you all.
Matt: "As you should! Right, understood loud and clear, young Pike Trickfoot." He takes the coins. "So. Sorry. And how do we get back?"
Laura: You'll find your way. I pat them all down and make sure they didn't steal anything from us on the way out.
Matt: Okay, make an investigation check.
Ashley: Good call.
Laura: Wish I remembered my number. 14.
Matt: 14. Okay. I mean, they're all pretty prostrate at this point. Feeling through Ogden and Astra and Johann, you find about 400 gold worth of silverware. Various other coins.
Ashley: Bastards!
Matt: You find some random odds and ends from the castle that have all been pocketed and hidden in boots. Hidden in hidden pockets.
Laura: What is it with people and our fucking silverware? You can take the money! You can't have the items! These all have very sentimental value, including those fucking dresses you destroyed. You little--
Taliesin: And as a bonus, there is a diamond at the bottom of the cliff, if you're feeling nimble.
Marisha: I release my spell.
Matt: Okay. Entanglement drops. Gets up. "Okay, well. I guess we have a long journey ahead of us, isn't that right, Dad?" And Uncle Ogden is now standing without the hunch and is like, "I believe so. I think we have quite the journey ahead of us."
Travis: We're not killing anything?
Laura: Sinaeth, Grog. Sinaeth.
Marisha: Where did Ogden's staff go when it got jettisoned out of him?
Matt: It's about, maybe, 25 feet this way. It clattered against the rocks here and fell to the ground.
Marisha: I'm going to go gather it real quick.
Matt: Okay, you go and grab it. It's the same gnarled wood still--
Marisha: I'm going to cast Detect Magic on it.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: No. I don't have that. I have Dispel Magic. Hey, Tary?
Sam: Oi! What do you want?
Marisha: Does this look like anything to you? Does this look magical? Can you tell?
Sam: I will Identify it.
Matt: Okay. It is a Staff of Major Image.
Sam: Ooh! That seems useful.
Marisha: Here you go, Tary!
Sam: Ooh! Thank you! This will help make up for the 3500 gold I spent on this fight! (laughter)
Taliesin: I'm going to walk up to Ogden. Give a little-- When you make it down the hill, you will find your cart outside the city limits in perfect working order, searched for anything else you might have tried to stash away from my city. I'd also like to remind you that the Riflemen have seen your faces up close, and the next time you come anywhere near our castle, you will be shot on sight.
Matt: "Read loud and clear, Percival."
Taliesin: I release a low charge of Diplomacy right into him. Just so we're clear.
Matt: (panting) "Crystal."
Taliesin: Excellent.
Matt: "Well-- despite circumstances, and given that there's no reason to be false, it strangely has been a pleasure to meet you all. And Pike, it's good to see you doing so well for yourself. Come! We're leaving!"
Laura: Oh, and Johann!
Matt: Johann's like, "Uh, yes?"
Laura: Stay away from those sweets.
Matt: "All right?"
Ashley: There actually is a curse on our family. It's called diabetes. (laughter)
Ashley: So watch out.
Travis: Holy shit!
Marisha: There it is!
Matt: And with that, the rest of the Trickfoot family begins to make their long, meandering way down the mountainside, leaving you guys there.
Travis: You dropped a grenade, man. (laughing)
Matt: As you make your way back to Castle Whitestone with JB, we'll pick up that next time, as it's getting really late, and you can't really beat a button like that on an episode. Jesus. All right, guys. We're going to end tonight's session there. Thank you so much for watching. (laughter)
Ashley: Oh man!
Laura: Assholes!
Liam: And they were so tore up to hand over JB! It was like Les Mis.
Laura: I know! They didn't even give a shit!
Liam: "What to do? What to say? Can you carry our treasure away?"
Ashley: I was-- After the last game I was like, I feel so bad I treated them so badly.
Sam: Matt is so good! You played us! Every time! We're so stupid! He was rolling every time-- "Oh, he missed again! Oh! Wow, this guy can't roll real good, can he?"
Travis: Yeah, you fucking son of a bitch! You son of a bitch!
Sam: We were so stupid!
Travis: "Oh, he missed you with advantage? Yeah! He misses you! What's his AC? 12? He misses you!"
Matt: Interesting note, all of the attacks that didn't affect him were all the attacks that Ogden couldn't see happen.
Laura: Right?
Travis: Were you even writing down damage?
Matt: I was! 'Cause I wanted to make it look realistic.
Sam: Oh my God, this guy.
Liam: You're a liar!
Taliesin: How much damage did we do to your little fucking marionette?
Matt: I don't know, a lot.
Travis: "I wrote down numbers!"
Matt: I'm sure Critrolestats has a number of damage that was dealt to the air.
Taliesin: You were just doing the John Stewart bullshit, like "Ah. Ah!"
Matt: I wrote them all down.
Marisha: I'm like, this motherfucker has more hit points than a fucking dragon. What the shit is going on?
Taliesin: Are we healing it? What the hell?
Travis: Yes. Good investigate.
Matt: There was a little part of me-- a little part of me that was wondering, because-- my little hope was that Taryon was going to investigate, I tell him. And then keep it to himself until everything happened and they went off on their own. And then as they were walking away be like, "By the way, that wasn't fucking real." (laughter)
Matt: I could totally see you doing that.
Taliesin: Wow! That I could totally see playing out. I completely believe that you would do that, you son-of-a-bitch.
Sam: I-- How am I getting a "son-of-a-bitch"? He's the son-of-a-bitch! (laughter)
Matt: Anyway, guys, have a wonderful night. Rest well, tomorrow's another day. Pick up, move on.
Ashley: We all have work early, so we're in the same boat.
Matt: Love you all very much. Thanks for coming along with us. And is it Thursday yet? Have a good night. [music]

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hi, everyone! Welcome to Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play Dungeons and Dragons. Good job, Sam. Thank you for your patience. Sorry we were off last week. I'm doing much better, for those who are worried about it. Happy to be back. Missed you guys, and happy to be back at this table. So yeah! It's been a couple of weeks. Let's go ahead and get into some announcements real fast. First off, tonight we have our fantastic sponsor, Shadow of War!
Travis: Shadow of War! Oh shit!
Laura: Are we allowed to say what we did in it?
Matt: Yeah, a number of us actually worked in the game. It comes out October 10th, actually.
Sam: And the full name of the game is Middle Earth: Shadow of War, for all of those who are looking for it alphabetically.
Travis: The sequel to Middle Earth  Shadow of Mordor.
Sam: Yes, and many of us were in the game yelling our asses off. I played a little character known as Orc 4. It was so much! I did 20 recording sessions.
Travis: I remember talking to you! I was Commanding Orc 1.
Sam: Oh, nice.
Matt: I was Professional Orc 1, as well as the Witch King of Angmar, the head of the Nazgul. I'm pretty excited about that.
Laura: Oh, nice!
Liam: I was Troy Baker's fluffer. It's prestigious.
Sam: You were in it, right? No?
Liam: I'm in the first one.
Sam: Oh, what did you do in the first one?
Liam: The thing I killed two weeks ago? That was me.
Sam: Laura, were you in it?
Laura: I am in it. I play the Blade of Galadriel.
Liam: You play a sword?!
Laura: I know! Get this, so I'm an assassin elf, right? She's really cool. The DLC is going to be about my character.
Sam: Do you have a number after your character?
Laura: No, it's the only one. It's the coolest thing! I don't think I ever told you this. When I saw the character design? She's a combo of Vex and Vax.
Matt: That's pretty great.
Laura: No, seriously, though, she's an elf chick. So she's an assassin. She's got dual-wielding, and she wears feathery armor. It's so freaking cool! So basically, it's like if Vax was a girl, which is Vex.
Travis: But with the sex appeal of Grog.
Laura: Of course, baby.
Matt: I will never forget being at the Shadow of War panel at Comic Con, and you mentioning the DLC and then going, "Has that even been announced yet?" And there was five seconds where I watched Laura wither away into a shell of a human before they went, "Oh, yeah, it's announced." And you reverted.
Laura: Even at this very moment, as I said it, aftershocks. "Was I supposed to say that?"
Liam: They scare you so bad that, even when it's official, I'm like "I'm in the--"
Travis: It's such a dope game. The Nemesis system has been improved on from last time. We can testify.
Sam: We're supposed to mention that on the 18th of this month, Shadow of War will be debuting a brand new live-action trailer that will take you near the game? No! Right into the game. Soon we'll need to choose whether to save or slay. During the break tonight, they're going to be showing off some awesome videos from the game. It drops October 10th. Go buy it and try to pick out our voices in the game as you slay us.
Travis: And make us rise to the higher echelons of the orc order.
Matt: By the way, if you haven't played the previous game, the Nemesis system is one of the coolest things I've played in many games in a long time. I'm going to challenge you guys to try and pick out not only who you voice orc-wise, but then to try and make sure our orcs rise to the very top. So you have nothing but generals from Critical Role. I challenge you for this. Because that would be pretty cool.
Liam: I hope you like hearing the word ranger.
Liam: Ranger!
Travis: Ranger!
Laura: Ranger!
Matt: It's going to be fun. All right, thank you, Shadow of War for being our sponsor tonight. We're excited about the game, and hope you are, too. Also, there's been a lot of insane weather tragedies that have been in the news recently. I want to make sure that everyone knows that if you want to help support relief for both of the hurricanes that have come and torn through the U.S., we have a link to the Red Cross to donate and be part of that. It'll be available in the chat and throughout the rest of the game tonight, so if you have the opportunity to help out, I highly recommend it. Come help these people that have lost a lot in the past couple weeks or so. Give what you can. I've given, and we really appreciate that support.
Travis: They'll let you delineate between Harvey and Irma, too, in case you want to pick one over the other. Harvey had a lot of support from J.J. Watt's $30+ million dollars. Irma, the damage is still accruing.
Matt: I grew up in Florida. I know the area well, and I have family out there that endured it. It's very close to me. So if you can, greatly appreciate it. Let's see here. Merch! Laura.
Laura: This feels so weird to say after you mentioned that.
Travis: Nah, but we make happy stuff.
Laura: Happy stuff! Which, by the way, you're wearing your Dalen's Closet shirt, Matt, and it matches your eyeballs so beautifully.
Travis: Ooh!
Matt: I'll show it to you, and my back brace, to make it really better.
Sam: Are we selling those in the store?
Matt: The back brace?
Travis: Critical Role back brace! Do you DM 20 hours a week? We've got something for you!
Liam: We missed an opportunity to put Backblaze on that back brace. (groaning)
Laura: Next time.
Matt: Next time.
Liam: No next time!
Laura: There are Dalen's Closet shirts in the store. Go check them out. There's tank tops. They're really cool; they're cheaper because they are sleeveless. That's less material. Dagger, Dagger, Dagger; it's been re-released. We have the Scanlan tee; we have all the tees. And it's getting cooler now, so the hoodie is still in the store; the softest hoodie ever is there. Go check it out. We have hats and we have key chains and necklaces and pencils and aprons and tarot cards, and other stuff. And more stuff coming! So keep your eyes peeled.
Matt: Thank you, Laura. Also reminding you guys, we have up to episode 40 of Critical Role now released on iTunes, Google, and geekandsundry.com has all the information for it. So if you want to listen to the podcast, or your friends have been like, "I don't want to watch it, but I just want to hear it."
Laura: I want to watch it, but I don't want to watch it.
Matt: It's good for commutes.
Marisha: Also, clarification, speaking of saying things prematurely before I should have. I've gotten a lot of questions being like, "What happened to that plan of rolling out one a day once a week?" Yeah, that plan didn't turn out to be feasible. And I might have said that-- I said it, and then I looked down at the announcement sheet and it said in parenthesis afterward, "But do not announce this part." Which, why was it even on our announcement sheet? Still my fault.
Matt: To be fair, I remember looking down at the sheet as you were announcing it.
Marisha: Oh shit. Anyway, it's never going to happen because they're easier to do in batch. So ten at a time. That's what you get.
Taliesin: It's like one cookie at a time. You can't bake one cookie at a time.
Marisha: It's just better to do them in a block.
Matt: Thank you for the heads-up on that. We announced a while back the Critical Role six-issue mini-series comic book. We announced last week that it's going through Dark Horse, which I'm super excited about.
Travis: DM is very excited.
Matt: Oh, yeah. Dark Horse was my introduction. I was probably in fourth grade when I got into the Alien comics through Dark Horse. I didn't realize there was more to explore. Dude, I've been a fan of them ever since. Being able to take this into their realm is brilliant. I'm so excited. First issue drops on the 20th, guys.
Marisha: The digital issue. The first issue releases digitally this coming Wednesday.
Sam: Is it good? I haven't read it.
Laura: It's so good!
Sam: Why have you all read it and I haven't?
Marisha: Because you don't read your emails.
Sam: Yeah, that's fair.
Liam: You show up ten minutes after we start, you leave an hour before we end the game every week.
Sam: That's true.
Matt: So that's coming up. It will be on Comixology, iBooks, Dark Horse Digital, Kindle, Nook, Google Play, etc. It's written by our good friend, Matt Colville. It's drawn beautifully by our good friend, Olivia Samson from the Critter community, and the coloring and lettering by Chris Northrop. Super stoked, hope you guys enjoy it. So look out for that next week.
Liam: Looks fucking awesome! The writing is awesome! The art is awesome!
Matt: What he said.
Laura: Did you already say about the physical copies, too? When those will be released?
Matt: We'll have a trade available in spring 2018.
Liam: It's coming out with the DLC for Middle Earth.
Matt: Yeah, to tie in with it. Of course, we have Talks Machina coming up this Tuesday at 7:00pm Pacific, here with our fantastic host, Brian. We'll be talking about our episode tonight. So look for that next week. All the Critical Role episodes are now available on Alpha. They've gone back and added the bells and whistles, the information, the stats, everything, for all the episodes before Alpha even launched. So if you ever watched it there, it's all updated.
Sam: I really should check my email!
Taliesin: We would miss this sense of wonder that we get to share with the community. It's really nice.
Marisha: They get your unbridled reaction.
Taliesin: It's like watching Home Alone next to Macaulay Culkin. It's great. I'm getting so much out of it.
Matt: All righty. Last few things. One  this is Sub-tember, guys, by the way, for Twitch. Sub-tember means for the next few weeks, Twitch has a special promotion where subscriptions are half off for new subs for every Twitch channel, including this one. So if you've been watching and you've always wanted to subscribe, but you never really felt like you can give the full $5, it's half off this month. So if you want to subscribe to our Twitch, now's the month to do it. Just giving the heads-up. It's pretty rad, and thank you, Sub-tember. Last but not least, Laura and Travis, you are going to be at an event soon, aren't you?
Travis: Yeah! End of this month, we're going to be at Anime Weekend Atlanta. The last week of September. Hotlanta, Georgia. We're going to be there with other people like Jennifer Hale and people like that. But we're going to be there. Come out, say hi, smack our hands, not our faces.
Laura: Give a high-five.
Marisha: I love Atlanta.
Travis: It's pretty dope. I want to get in that aquarium with those whale sharks. That's what I want to do. We're not going to have time for that. And then, also, in the middle of November, we're going to be going to Australia. Laura and I are going for two weeks. We're going to be in Adelaide, Brisbane. So for all the Aussies-- what?
Laura: I've got to get my passport.
Travis: Oh shit!
Liam: Expedite!
Travis: So barring Laura's passport showing up--
Matt: You can hear the $400 burn away instantly. That's how much it costs to expedite.
Laura: Oh my god. I'm doing that tomorrow! I'm going to write a note in my calendar.
Travis: (sighs) Adelaide, Brisbane. If you're there, you want to see us, come see maybe just me. (laughter)
Sam: Everybody tweet Laura tomorrow at noon, saying--
Laura: No, but seriously! If you want to, feel free.
Travis: Will Friedle will be there, too. He's going to be my convention wife. Me and Friedle.
Laura: I'm writing an email to myself.
Marisha: Australia? Is that when we got caught with having to have those weird travel visas, as well?
Matt: Yeah. Make sure you get your travel visas.
Marisha: Yeah, we didn't know until we got to the airport. And then they're like, "You have to have one." And then we're like, "Oh, okay." Luckily, you can do it online.
Travis: Oh, I totally have that covered.
Matt: All right. Well, cool, guys! Thank you so much. Thank you for dealing with our long announcements. It's been a few weeks. However, I think, with that, it's time to dive into tonight's episode of Critical Role. [dramatic music]
Matt: Welcome back. I'll remember this. Why's everything targeting Scanlan in this battle? Welcome back, everyone. So last we left off, Vox Machina, preparing themselves for a final fray with the recently ascended god, Vecna, the Undying King, discovered that he had brought the city of Thar Amphala about 300 miles northwest, of Vasselheim on the continent of Issylra. Upon gathering allies to assail this region, you discovered that it was shifting, moving. And apparently the corpse of the long dead primordial earth titan had been risen and began marching its way towards Vasselheim with Thar Amphala embedded at the top of its torso, protected by some sort of magical barrier. With an advance army of wyvern riders at your back and J'mon Sa Ord giving you a ride between their wings, you made your way southward. Quickly depositing yourselves within a waterfall, expelling opening towards the hip of this large titan undead beast, you began to fight your way to the interior. Dealing with corrupted earth elemental shards, you began to make your way through the catacombs, the long ruined and abandoned dwarven city of Thomara, where you encountered the tomb of the dwarven king. Where you also managed to raid the tomb, found a magical item, and dealt with some fun traps in the process. Then, continuing to follow where this route led you upward, hopefully towards the underbelly of the city of Thar Amphala, you uncovered a mostly cleaned out vault and did battle with some undead trolls that immediately rushed in and attacked you. You managed to destroy them, and make your way out through a small cavern that had just momentarily collapsed, clearing out of the way. You all began to squeeze through the opening to find the next length of your journey. And that's where we left off. As you guys all crawl through this recently cleared opening, you come into a partially collapsed cavern about 20 or so feet wide in places with elements of the ceiling fallen in. You can see the rocks that are scattered amongst the ground rumbling with each impact of the feet of the titan you're currently riding within. It seems to be going at a steady incline beginning baseline and then about 20 feet ahead, begin to rise upward to about a 30 to 45-degree angle with the next 25, 30 or so feet.
Sam: How do you play Dungeons and Dragons?
Matt: Two weeks, Sam? It's too much for you?
Sam: I've forgotten entirely what we're supposed to do now. Insight check! I got nothing.
Liam: I'm going to do my due diligence and scoot a little ahead of everybody and start looking for traps or anything hinky.
Travis: Wait, Vax. You should consult that little scrawny NPC fellow that was supposed-- oh, wait. Oh, he's dead.
Liam: Did anybody see that guy?
Travis: Nope.
Laura: Yeah, we did. We saw him.
Matt: Well, you saw the corpse after it was there, yeah.
Liam: Nobody asked me about him.
Laura: No, because you did a good job of killing that.
Liam: That clearly undead cannibal dwarf eating flesh, as I saw it, so problem solved. We're on a time table, yeah?
Laura: We should keep moving upwards, I'm assuming?
Sam: Did we get any items recently?
Travis: No, I picked up that hammer that was hitting me in the face.
Laura: Well, yeah. But Percy, the belt?
Sam: Yeah, what does it do?
Taliesin: Stuff, things. I'm using it right now.
Marisha: Do we need to do a switchery-poo of our items?
Laura: I think we maybe should do that, actually.
Sam: We all have potions, right? Did we pass out potions?
Travis: We all have at least the one superior from the brass dragon.
Liam: Are we going to take a little 20-minute breather here?
Sam: This is just for us to remember what we're doing. I don't know. Should we stop? I think we're on a timetable. We should keep moving, right? Does anyone need to heal?
Marisha: We just stopped, right?
Matt: You'd taken a brief rest after the battle with the trolls where you guys began to look about the inside of the vault. And that's where the part of the exit collapsed.
Travis: I didn't roll any hit dice. Should we roll some hit dice?
Marisha: You dug things out?
Laura: But he was doing something? He was reading, or something.
Sam: Yeah, you were trying to read Dwarvish, or something. And it took an hour.
Travis: I clearly do not remember this. That's right, I remember. I don't remember what I read, but I remember.
Sam: It just said, "Do not enter."
Travis: Yep. There were things.
Liam: We're doing the Vox Machina thing and standing around like a bunch of dumb fucks trying to figure out what to do. I'm going to attune the Deathwalker's Ward to necrotic damage.
Matt: All righty. Necrotic it is.
Travis: We also need to be on the lookout for that sword, remember? In the story?
Sam: The sword of Kas?
Travis: Just saying. Keep your eyes peeled, high-perception people.
Laura: All right.
Taliesin: I literally can't see anything.
Laura: Wait, we have light.
Marisha: (whoosh)
Laura: Yeah, see?
Matt: Between her hand, his dagger, and Pike's mace, you have a few light sources that you guys maintain.
Laura: Pike's mace is lit up. We said that last time.
Matt: But do keep in mind that light sources also do make you a bright beacon in dark places.
Laura: Probably your hands are less noticeable than Pike's mace.
Liam: Oh, I don't know.
Taliesin: I think they would be less intimidated by a glowing mace than by glowing hands, at this point.
Matt: Glowing hands is like a small torch firelight. The Mace of Disruption--
Liam: Is like a headlamp.
Laura: So maybe we'll not have the mace on.
Liam: "Yeah, okay. I'll put this away."
Laura: That sounded just like her.
Sam: She's turning more and more Canadian as you go.
Liam: She's kind of Canadian already. Come on.
Matt: So if I could have a marching order, please?
Liam: Yo. Up front, looking for traps.
Laura: Did you want this acid-resistant armor? You'd at least be resistant to acid.
Travis: And Vex is probably with her brother. I'll be right behind the twins. It's the twins and then me. Who wants to be behind?
Taliesin: I'll be behind you.
Matt: Okay. Do you have Trinket out, Vex?
Laura: Yeah, Trinket is out.
Matt: Percy's after Grog.
Marisha: Me.
Matt: Keyleth, and then we have Pike and Scanlan holding up the rear. All righty, there you go. Have that marked down. How far ahead are you tracking?
Liam: 20 feet.
Matt: So 20 feet ahead, you begin to make your way up the incline, and it is loose rock in this tunnel. As you step, there are elements that skid and fall beneath the pressure of your feet, and you have to be careful as you progress up the incline based on how much it continues upward to keep your footing.
Laura: Brother.
Liam: Yeah?
Laura: Make sure you stay within 60 feet of me.
Liam: I turn around and look at her and go  all right.
Laura: You said you're 20 fucking feet in front of me, I'm using my fucking earring to whisper to you.
Liam: You're stage-whispering and that's very easy to hear.
Laura: Stay within fucking 60 feet of me, all right?
Liam: I love you. Perception check. Investigation for traps? Yeah. That is a 25.
Matt: Okay. No traps catch your attention. As you progress forward, you begin to notice the tunnel seems to be pincering a bit the further you go. The sides of the walls begin to close in and eventually, about 30 feet ahead, comes from the 15, 20-foot width that the initial entrance way into this carved tunnel was, pinches to about three feet wide.
Sam: How tall?
Matt: About five and half, six feet tall?
Taliesin: Is this pressure by design, or is this what's been done to the structure by the transformation?
Matt: You'll probably have to get closer to see. Where you are currently, it looks like part of the tunnel was carved outward and then shaken, and elements of it collapsed and loosened the earth that at one point was packed at the sides.
Laura: And the tunnel's rising steadily upwards?
Matt: Yeah. It's coming at an incline.
Travis: How's it look?
Liam: It's dark up there. I can only see about 60 feet up. Does it keep going beyond that?
Matt: The incline isn't increasing. It gets to about a 45-degree incline and then maintains that up until the outside of your visual range.
Liam: Okay. I'm a punching bag for this shit. Why don't you all wait here a minute. Wait.
All: Wait.
Laura: Do you want me to fly up there?
Liam: Well, will you go with me?
Laura: Of course. Can you not use your wings?
Liam: They're gone.
Laura: Well, then hop on.
Liam: This could be the last time we do this. Come on.
Sam: Oh god.
Liam: Well, there's only four games left, Sam.
Laura: You don't know that!
Liam: It's scripted! (laughter)
Marisha: That's going to be a Reddit thread later.
Laura: Do we have Pass Without a Trace on?
Liam: Yeah, I think that probably faded by now.
Matt: Not if you haven't recast it because after the short rest it would've been gone.
Laura: Should I cast that on us?
Liam: Yes.
Laura: No, wait! I shouldn't because I got a proficiency, so we're both stealthy stealth. We're fine. So we're just going to go. I'm not casting it. But here's the thing. Everybody stay right at the bottom. We're going to fly up, but we're not going to fly up more than 60 feet away from them.
Liam: Right. We'll go 60 feet up, see what we can see.
Laura: And then come back down.
Liam: Sure. Or you could stay there and I could go even further up 60 feet--
Laura: All right. As long as everybody's within 60 feet of me. Because we're getting really close and I don't want Vecna to see us. I've got this ring.
Taliesin: That's right. I forgot about the ring.
Liam: All right. Let's do that.
Matt: So as you guys glide up on the broom, stealthily, I want you guys both to roll a stealth check, please.
Travis: Pick from your fucking 300 dice.
Laura: Ooh, that's good.
Travis: Almost poked my eye out. You almost made me Vecna.
Laura: 30.
Liam: 29.
Laura: 30.
Matt: All right. That's impressive. So as you both quietly coast your way past this entrance way, squeezing into this two and a half, three-foot-wide location, you get just within the 60 foot range and look up and Vax, you step off the broom and make your way quietly up to the other side of the range. You get about 30 feet beyond the broom before your vision meets where this tunnel seems to end and it looks like there is a solid, rocky blockage.
Laura: What do you see?
Liam: It's corked up. It's all right. Yeah, it's blocked up with stone. I guess I'd have to get a closer look to see if we could get through.
Laura: Well, get a fucking closer look.
Taliesin: If we have to, we can just have Grog beat it down.
Laura: Yes, but quiet is the key word.
Taliesin: Is it? We can try and time it to a step.
Liam: Hand on the sides to get my way up closer to it. Looking for any traps.
Matt: Go ahead and make an athletics check as you're climbing up to maintain the strength, as the incline is now towards the end getting more and more steep.
Liam: Get ready to catch me.
Laura: I'm going to hover.
Liam: Yes! My athletics is a two, but I rolled a 19, so 21.
Matt: Deftly, you manage to find the proper handholds and pull your strength up as the final bit becomes a little bit of a upper body weight carrying situation, and you come to the edge of the rock and you see it. It does appear to be a rocky cave-in or larger boulder that has fallen or been placed to close. It looks to be one solid rock, yeah. At this point, the entrance is about four foot by two foot. And it's all blocked by one solid piece of rock.
Liam: Yeah. We're not getting through this. Hey. I'm not getting through this, you're not. Maybe Kiki can.
Laura: Do we see any other openings?
Matt: This would be a perception check.
Sam: Matt, my friends just told me to start paying attention to the cadence of the steps to see if they change in any discernible way.
Marisha: That's what we're doing. While they do that, we're timing the steps out.
Matt: Make a perception check.
Laura: 20.
Matt: 20? Okay.
Taliesin: Ugh.
Marisha: Ugh.
Sam: 15.
Marisha: 15.
Taliesin: 12.
Matt: It's not that difficult to discern the pattern of the steps. The entirety of this titan shifts and quakes with each footfall, so it's pretty easy to find the pattern. It rarely changes, and you imagine any slight shift that you feel as they're going about this is because it's stepping on or through terrain that is not flat. But it is a pretty discernible pattern.
Taliesin: We could go have Grog smash it down in tempo with the steps so that the sound will be covered.
Travis: Like Shawshank Redemption and the poop pipe.
Taliesin: I was thinking of the Tainted Love Levi's commercial.
Laura: Do I see any other--
Matt: Not really. It mostly looks like loose rock and the more you glance about with each impacting footfall, you see two or three errant rocks go. You guys watch as more rocks tumble down the incline.
Laura: Maybe we need to do this quickly. This doesn't seem like the most stable sort of tunnel. Hop on the broom, darling.
Taliesin: I like the idea of you punching this at the appropriate moment.
Marisha: It also saves me a 6th-level spell.
Travis: Well, that's what's most important. Are the Knuckles still doing that vibrating hum thing?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: Can I go into a rage?
Matt: You may.
Travis: And I would like to try and bash the shit out of this--
Taliesin: In tempo.
Laura: In tempo.
Matt: This is a tight tunnel for you. You have to crouch down, round your shoulders as you're doing it.
Travis: I'm going to do the one-inch punch.
Matt: Make an athletics check. With advantage, because you are raging.
Travis: Yeah, because I'm an angry monster. 21.
Matt: Okay. Here's the scenario  Vex and Vax, as you guys are on the broom in the tunnel, you look down and you know in Labyrinth, when the cleaner comes through the tunnel that fills the entirety of the space? You watch as this angry goliath starts up the tunnel towards you, and there does not appear to be much of any space you could squeeze through.
Liam: Is there a bubble at the top, maybe?
Laura: Grog?
Travis: What? (angry panting)
Laura: Can we pass under his legs or something?
Liam: Dive, dive!
Laura: Rage quietly.
Matt: You can both attempt to. Make an acrobatics check to attempt to squeeze between his legs.
Laura: At the same time? Acrobatics. 22.
Liam: 30-something.
Matt: It's not comfortable, but you both (popping) out the back, between his monstrous goliath thighs. From a backward perspective, those of you who are still waiting a little further down the tunnel from Vex: it's a unique sight, as the back end of your goliath friend suddenly gives birth to two half-elves. It's very Ace Ventura 2. However, you eventually climb your way angrily up to the very edge and there is the boulder, there, and you're about to go right towards it, but then stop and remember what your friends had said, and you wait patiently for the pattern of the next footfall. (boom)
Travis: (punch impact)
Matt: Go ahead and roll an attack.
Travis: Can I make it reckless-- oh, I didn't say it.
Laura: But you do extra damage because you're--
Travis: Oh, yeah, siege. Oh, it's fine. 30.
Matt: Yeah, all right, so roll 1d4 damage.
Travis: Okay, 1d4. Four!
Matt: Plus your strength modifier and your rage damage.
Travis: Eight. 27.
Matt: Whoa, wait, did you double it already?
Travis: No.
Matt: Wait, so it's four plus eight, 12.
Travis: And my rage damage is 15. Well, that's with the axe.
Matt: That's with the axe, yeah. No, that's your overall. So your rage damage at this level is four, because you just went up a level. So it's 12 plus four, so it's 16. So you do 32 points of bludgeoning damage with a single punch to this rock. With one hit, the entire boulder shifts and cracks, and you watch as part of it breaks away, and you see a brief glimmer of a dull light from the opposite side, as it rests back into place, heavily damaged.
Taliesin: (singing) Wait for it to go again and bump, bump, bump.
Matt: You wait for the next footfall of the titan (impact). You feel the impact and the shake. Do you want to go for another punch?
Travis: Do I hit it now?
Sam: Yes!
Taliesin: Yes!
Laura: Yes!
Matt: Roll another attack.
Travis: Oh, that's even better. 33.
Matt: Easily enough. Go ahead and roll another d4.
Travis: Two plus eight. Ten plus--
Matt: Four for rage damage.
Travis: 14.
Matt: All right, and so with that, your fist slams into the boulder a second time. It explodes and shatters into hundreds of crumbled pieces of rock and stone goes firing across the distance of this tunnel, now revealing a little bit of flickering firelight. As you're sitting there seething with anger and your muscles and veins bulging with each breath--
Travis: I'm so swole right now.
Matt: Yeah. You can see above you, this entranceway opens up into a five-foot wide, ten-foot tall hallway that goes to the right and left. As you emerge, it goes a little bit to the right and front, and then to the back and behind you that direction.
Travis: Hey guys, it's a Z.
Laura: What do you see?
Travis: Let me find out. So I wiggle up a little more.
Marisha: So you know the first and last letter of the alphabet? Don't worry about it.
Matt: So you squeeze out of the small entrance way and step up into it. You can see now a well-constructed hallway. You can see there are stone slabs that are carved. The patterns and the angular architecture of this hall as it comes up into a trapezoid position. The hall comes in a bit, and the hallway rooftop is a flat, even surface. This is apparently a hall of dwarven make and seems to be a continuation of some sort of structure or pathway of Thomara.
Taliesin: Let the twins take a look. I think it would be safe.
Travis: It's a well-constructed hallway of dwarvish make. (groans)
Laura: We sneak under his legs again to like see what's going on.
Matt: You guys all eventually make your way up into this hallway. Now, it is still a five -foot-wide hallway, so you're still here in single-file progression one way or the other.
Liam: Twins are already at the top looking for problems.
Matt: Right, so you guys would be able to because it's a ten-foot-tall tunnel. You guys would be able to occupy a space above another party member if you were both on the broom.
Laura: Oh, should we be on the broom? No, you should be off the broom because you might check for traps. I'll check for traps along the wall and ceiling. And he's going to check for traps--
Liam: I'll take the lower half. That's called advantage.
Matt: So go ahead and make and investigation check.
Laura: Both of us or just him with advantage?
Matt: Both of you separately because you're investigating different elements of the hallway.
Liam: 18 for me.
Laura: Investigation? Natural fucking 20!
Matt: As you guys glance up and focus on the surrounding location. The hallway behind you goes for about 30 or so feet before it looks like a cave in. It looks like a mass of fully collapsed, broken stone. You can see bits of the hallway slabs that originally held up that part are collapsed inward and broken, left scattered across the ground. The other direction you go continues on and opens into a dark chamber about 60 feet ahead of you.
Laura: We should go toward the cave in, don't you think?
Matt: There are small built-in sconces that are magically, perpetually burning firelight.
Laura: Does this seem like there's any traps that could be set off as we walk towards the--?
Matt: You do not notice anything, as you were investigating specifically for that.
Taliesin: Check the sconces, see if they trigger something.
Laura: I'll look at the sconces.
Liam: I will look at the sconces.
Laura: I'll look at them better.
Matt: I included that as your perception for traps above. You did not notice anything that would be considered a trap.
Laura: You guys, there's no traps. We should head towards this darkened room.
Marisha: Save a life, check a sconce.
Liam: I'm going to creep about 40 feet down the hall and continue that search.
Matt: About 20 feet before this darkened chamber is there before you. As you get to the edge, you can see a little bit the very inside of this chamber. You can see a darkened brazier. It's your mind playing tricks on you. You thought you heard a raven.
Liam: Every day when I'm on the crapper, Matt. Everywhere.
Matt: A cold metallic brazier in the middle of the room. And that's as far as you can see into the chamber, before the edge of your visual range goes dark.
Taliesin: People don't install those unless there's something awful that needs to be done.
Marisha: Do we have any idea how far we've climbed?
Matt: You can make a nature check.
Liam: And do I need to make a extra roll to look for traps around this brazier?
Matt: If you want to enter the chamber, you can. You're too far away.
Marisha: Hey! Natural 20! That's a Gil 20!
Matt: As you take a moment, and think back to how far you've traveled path-wise and inclines and where you entered this titan and to where the city of Thar Amphala is placed upon its torso, you gather you're close to halfway through its torso, if not a little beyond it.
Marisha: If not a little beyond?
Sam: He's big.
Marisha: Okay, all right. Nipple level?
Matt: Sternum.
Marisha: The heartburn region? A little acid reflux?
Liam: We are the acid reflux.
Marisha: He has acid resistance against reflux.
Liam: Jesus Christ. Whoever that is.
Matt: You scoot up to the edge.
Liam: I don't want to go further than roughly 60 feet away from my sister.
Matt: Right. Which will put you right at the entryway to this chamber.
Liam: Yeah. So I will peep in from here.
Laura: I follow up and stand next to him. Did you want to go in?
Liam: I did.
Laura: Feel free.
Matt: So the marching order is the same? We got the twins up the front.
Taliesin: Yeah. I like this marching order.
Liam: Let this shit blow up in my face, so everybody hang back for a second. And I'm going to pitter patter in and look around the sconce, the room.
Laura: I think I was more stealthy than you a moment ago, so are you sure you want to be in front of me?
Liam: I love you anyway. Here I go.
Taliesin: He's better at blowing up than you are, dear.
Travis: Yeah. His heart beats once a century, so let him go.
Liam: Slower than this titan's footfalls.
Matt: All right. So as you enter the chamber, it's a small, about 20-foot radius square-shaped dark iron chamber with rounded corners. So it's about 40 feet wide from side to side, 20 feet from the center where the brazier is and the corners are slightly curved. It doesn't come to a straight, hard corner. There is no exit door currently visible; the chamber comes to an end. The room looks mostly bare, aside from an eight-foot-tall, five-foot-wide mirror coated in dust, framed in intricate gold and brass that sits across the chamber on the opposite side of where you entered.
Liam: Mirror in brass. So it's an iron room, right?
Matt: Iron room with a brass edge around this eight-foot tall, five-foot wide mirror. You can tell it's a mirror from this side. What little bit of light there is behind you, you can see your silhouette waving mirrored in the mirror.
Liam: So doorway, brazier, mirror.
Matt: Mirror. And then the rest of the chamber seems fairly empty.
Laura: And the brazier is complete dark?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: It's cold.
Taliesin: Oh no.
Laura: This is not good.
Liam: Look at his fake innocent face.
Sam: I think it's just a vanity.
Liam: Going to check for traps from right here to start. All right. That's totally fine. That's a jellyfish. That is a 17.
Matt: You begin to glance around the chamber, best you can, to take in the scenery. You notice small gold piece-sized buttons or pressure knobs set in the rounded corners of the chamber on the mirror side. One's embedded within the upper left and right corners and within the lower left and right corners.
Sam: Pressure knobs?
Matt: They're like little buttons that are gold piece-sized that are embedded in the upper right and left corners and the lower left and right corners.
Travis: Push them!
Liam: Stubby, come up here. I have a real bad history with pushing buttons.
Matt: You also notice very thin light piles of black residue or ash scattered in places across the floor.
Marisha: Called it. This is a fucking incinerator. I knew it! This feels like an incinerator. No? What? He's looking at me-- (nervous laughter)
Liam: (sighs) So we've got buttons.
Marisha: Or lasers.
Travis: Incinerator or lasers.
Marisha: Laser incinerator! Duh!
Travis: That was a great jump for me and my character.
Liam: If something stupid is going to happen here, I don't want it to be on me alone for once. So we've got an unlit brazier, there's mirror over there, and buttons, yeah.
Laura: Maybe the mirror is a door.
Liam: I thought that, as well.
Laura: Should we try to walk through it?
Taliesin: Maybe a second interrogation room and there's another room behind it, maybe?
Liam: Can we get your hub up here, please?
Taliesin: I am up here. I'm right here.
Liam: Jesus!
Laura: Hi, darling. I don't know why he didn't hear you. You used to be so good at that. Is the mirror leaning or is it on the wall?
Matt: It's on the wall.
Marisha: Is it curved? No. The whole room isn't curved. It's a square room.
Matt: It's a square room but the corners curve ever so slightly so there's no direct corner and in those curved corners on the side that the mirror's on, so the far side from you, there's these little buttons in the upper right and left corner and the lower left and right.
Laura: Can I reach down and touch the iron on the ground? The floor? Does it feel warm?
Matt: Mm. It's cold.
Liam: I catch her wrist. Just a second. You two do the thinking, all right? And I take a step into the room.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: What do I do?
Laura: Go see if you can walk through the mirror.
Taliesin: Tap the mirror.
Travis: Light the brazier!
Laura: We've done that before and we all exploded.
Travis: Yeah, but it's Vax.
Marisha: Wait. Before we do that, can I reach some of the ashy stuff?
Matt: If you enter the chamber to, yeah.
Marisha: Hand me some ash. I'll test it.
Liam: I scoop some ash. Lady of the Grey Hunt, here. I scoop up some ash and I pour it into her hands.
Marisha: Okay. I do a nature check. What does this ash feel like it's made out of?
Sam: Human bones.
Marisha: Yeah, that's what I'm wondering. (groans)
Taliesin: Wow.
Laura: No. What is it? (groans)
Travis: Is it for real? You are lying!
Liam: Look at that face! You are not lying!
Marisha: Oh man. That's a one. Thanks, Gil. I blame Gil for his natural 20 in the balance of the universe.
Matt: It's light ash. You're not sure what the basis of what may have burned here. You see more of it gathered near where the brazier is.
Taliesin: Is it in piles that would be about human-amount of ash?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Taliesin: All right. I'll Gil this one. Yeah, natural 20. That'll do.
Sam: Only ones and 20s tonight.
Liam: That's it, yeah. Just quarters. Heads up, heads down.
Matt: More of it seems to be around the base of the brazier, but you do see there are thicker traces at different places throughout the chamber.
Taliesin: It's organic ash?
Matt: You've dealt with different types of ash. The carbon appears to have been organic-based at some point.
Liam: I pull off my belt and say  Hello, Simon. Wake him up.
Matt: Okay. (slithering)
Liam: Hi. Gosh, it's been a while.
Laura: Simon, go through the mirror.
Liam: That's right. Go check out the mirror, Simon, all right? Off you go.
Travis: Are we still in the room?
Laura: No, nobody's in the room. He's the only one in the room.
Matt: (slithering) Scoots over and heads up to the mirror and presses up against it.
Liam: I dart back one step out of the room as it happens.
Matt: The snake trying to push up against the wall but half of its body sliding against the mirror before it eventually scoots off and lands. It tries again, pushing against the mirror and then eventually (sliding).
Taliesin: I hate to say this, but tap the button?
Liam: That's on the list. Simon, buddy. Crawl up the brazier. Wrap around it. Go up to the top.
Matt: The snake slithers around and makes its way. It's a cross-metal cage. There are inch wide metal bars that all curl up like a basket and then there are bars that cross around it to hold the shape. It looks like there are some long-burned, blackened pieces of wood that have been left for a long time. So Simon curls up into the brazier and curls up around the metal, comes around the top of the outer rim of it, rests there.
Liam: There's two buttons low down. Oh man. The nostalgia here. All right, buddy. I take two steps back away from the door. Buddy buds. Will you go push those low buttons in the room?
Matt: Which one?
Liam: There's two, right?
Matt: There's four on the opposite side.
Liam: There's two high up. And I don't think he can reach the high, because he doesn't stick to walls. Get the one over here on the left first.
Laura: What if we all have to push every button at the same time?
Liam: That's true. That could be.
Matt: Simon (slithering) moves over.
Liam: I lean over to Percy, I say  science!
Matt: Hits the button. (click) Right on the entrance of where you are in the chamber, slams closed. Iron metal now closes off that entranceway.
Taliesin: I'm going to touch the door.
Sam: And say goodbye.
Taliesin: Simon, we barely knew him. Is it warm?
Matt: It is beginning to get warm.
Taliesin: It's an oven. I'm looking for some sort some sort of cancel mechanism somewhere on the outside of the door.
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Sam: Is Vax in the room?
Liam: No, I took two steps back from the door.
Laura: No, nobody's in the room.
Taliesin: Let's say that investigation was somewhere around a seven? (laughter)
Matt: It's pretty solid at this point. The walls that lean in towards the ceiling there-- it is a perfect solid iron slab that has closed off at the entrance.
Travis: No problem. I'll get it down.
Laura: No!
Liam: Wait. Simon is technically a magical item, so I don't think he would be harmed by anything going on in there, so why don't we give it five minutes?
Marisha: And maybe it'll open again.
Liam: Yeah.
Travis: Is there anything going on in the tunnel, on the outside of this door, where we are?
Laura: Coming up from behind us?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Travis: Temperature check, anything like that? Natural 20.
Taliesin: We have been gone so long!
Matt: Gone for two weeks and you guys can't find middle math. It's only extremes.
Liam: Yeah, we've had blue balls for two weeks, and it's all coming out now.
Matt: So as you guys glance back in the shadow of the tunnel behind you, nothing seems to be catching your eye. It's still dark. About two minutes in, what was once dark metal is now giving a slight orangish hue. You can feel the heat emanating from it.
Travis: There's no ash on the floor in the hallway that we are in right now, right?
Matt: I'd say, because of your perception check, as you glance around, there does not appear to be any ash.
Travis: I don't want that door to fucking open all of a sudden.
Matt: About five minutes go by as you guys are waiting. Eventually, the iron wall begins to descend. The dull orangish glow of it is still there. As it opens, a wave of heated air emerges from the chamber. You all have to immediately close your eyes. Some of you instinctually begin to step further back into the hallway. On the inside of the room, you can see the black iron interior of the chamber is also that same orangish glow. The mirror is unscathed. You all step back and watch and a few minutes pass as it slowly begins to cool off, the metal slowly darkening. You're too far away to look. You make a perception check to try and glance in?
Laura: Can't you call to him?
Liam: Simon? Come here, buddy.
Matt: There's no response.
Liam: (gasps) He's a magical item! Oh, but he could have turned back into a belt.
Taliesin: What's he going to say if you call to him? Was he going to say something?
Liam: He would come to me, Percy! Jeepers creepers! Perception check? 29!
Matt: You glance past where the button was that it hit. You see a limp belt left on the ground.
Liam: Okay, I'll get that in a minute.
Laura: When you go pick him up and put him back on your fucking waist.
Matt: Technically, since Simon's taken enough damage to revert to the belt form, Simon cannot turn back into a snake for the day.
Laura: How about that unseen servant?
Liam: I'm thinking, having no knowledge of magic, that we either want to somehow push all four of these buttons at once, as my sister said, or light this brazier, or both.
Laura: What about the brazier? Is it cold? Does it look like it's hot?
Sam: The brazier's the source of the furnace, I assume.
Travis: Are there still charred wooden pieces in the middle of it?
Matt: The pieces are still there, but it's black carbon. There's nothing in there that could burn. Whatever's been in there has been heated so much to the point--
Travis: It's not the source of the flame. Not for that much heat.
Marisha: If I was the person who designed this, why would I put a failsafe in here?
Liam: A way to get through that only the creator would know how to use?
Marisha: I feel like there's got to be another entrance because we can see another room, right?
Laura: There's no other room, it's a mirror. Oh, Keyleth, that's our reflection.
Marisha: No, I know that, but a lot of things have reflections.
Liam: Listen, all of you, or I, are going to be dead very soon. Are you sure you want to be that sarcastic right now?
Marisha: I go up to the mirror and check it out. It's cooled off enough, right?
Matt: Well, no. If you guys want to take a few minutes, you can wait until it cools off, if you want to.
Taliesin: Why don't we try pushing all four buttons at once?
Sam: Wait, before we do that, I'm going to enter the room and look around at the walls and the ceiling.
Matt: Okay, I take it you wait until it cools off. It takes about ten minutes or so for it to fully cool off, to the point where it's comfortable.
Sam: I'm looking for markings, indications of instructions, arrows, any hidden words--
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Travis: Look for Dwarvish. I'm aces with that.
Sam: Ooh, a lot. 29.
Taliesin: He's coming up with some bullshit.
Matt: Okay. Because the room is not fully cooled off, it's still warm in there, somewhat. You glance through. The ceiling and the walls all appear to be solid iron, and there's a layer of dust across a lot of it, a bit of ash from whatever previously may have been incinerated in here, long ago. As you look from the opposite side of the room into the reflection of the mirror, you see a very faint orangish glow in the reflection. It looks like, in the upper corner and the lower corner of the opposite side of the mirror as you're glancing off across to the other side. As you look over to the wall, of the room you're in, there's no glow.
Sam: Wait, so the wall that we came in through?
Matt: Let's say you enter the chamber and you move to the corner immediately to your right. You look in the mirror at an angle. You're now seeing the reflection of the corner opposite to you, right? Looking in that reflection, you can see this very faint orange glow in the upper and lower corner, but you glance over to the physical corner across from you, and it's not there.
Laura: What do your gnomish eyes see, Scanlan?
Sam: I think there's magical buttons in here and we need to find them? So I'm going to look in the mirror. I go to the opposite corner and do the same thing.
Matt: As you have this conversation and look back, those two glowing sigils are gone.
Sam: Even in the mirror?
Matt: Even in the mirror. What you saw earlier is now gone.
Travis: But they're revealed by heat.
Marisha: Where were they?
Sam: They were upper and lower corner, yeah.
Marisha: I walk over and I heat them with my heat hands.
Matt: Okay, so you take your hands and you put them up near there. As you put your hands on the wall, nothing seems to happen. As you glance through the reflection where she has her hands, that symbol seems to be appearing again.
Laura: What is the symbol of?
Sam: It's so far. I don't know. Can I see it?
Matt: It looks to be a simple triangular symbol, marked in a circle. Make an arcana check.
Sam: Oh yeah. 14 plus six, that's 20.
Matt: It's the most basic of arcane marks. It's a variation on a spell that basically is a mark that a certain enchanter or somebody places to mark as their own. However, this is meant to be a basic marker, a visual draw. There's no language behind it. It's just an indicator.
Sam: Keyleth, do that same thing to the lower one. Same marking?
Matt: As you head down there, the one above begins to slowly fade. As her hands go there, the symbol appears below.
Sam: Same symbol? Let's do that to the other walls and see if we can find other ones.
Matt: As you guys reverse, opposite sides, you go to the other corners, the ones that were immediately toward the entrance of where you walked in. Sure enough, two more symbols, mirroring where the buttons are on the far side corners.
Sam: So we push those? But there's a hidden button in there.
Travis: When you're a big fire, the walking thing--
Marisha: A fire elemental.
Travis: Sure. Do you take damage from fire? So you should be in here.
Laura: You should go in there, see if you can disengage the trap.
Liam: So you are impervious to being set on fire or burned?
Marisha: Well, when I'm a fire elemental.
Laura: Can you do that?
Marisha: Can I do it right now? Yeah. I just took a short rest, so yes, I can do that.
Travis: We also have an unseen servant.
Sam: So we're going to need four people.
Marisha: So what's the end goal? What am I doing?
Liam: Press all four buttons at once, although we've got at least three sharpshooters--
Sam: Not the buttons that we can see. What are these symbols here? I think they're buttons, as well.
Travis: It might be a depression on the wall or something.
Marisha: But what if the buttons are correlated with the symbols?
Taliesin: Let's try pushing all four buttons.
Travis: The regular buttons or the magic ones?
Liam: Please stand by.
Laura: I want to go look at where the symbol is and see if it's a fucking button.
Marisha: Yeah, if I touch the symbol, there's nothing there, right?
Sam: Was there anything there?
Matt: You put your hand on there. Nothing. The wall doesn't move.
Marisha: It's just a wall.
Travis: No depression, no toggle?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Travis: I've got this, you guys. Oh! Minus two. 17!
Matt: 17. Grog, as you step up and glare down at the place where Keyleth had placed her palm, you get frustrated and (sighs heavily). As you exhale, it looks like a bit of soot and ash that had been slowly drifting in and filling this space flutters away. You can see two lines, parallel to each other, about an inch tall.
Travis: Fifth Element, anyone? Oh look! Breath of Grog reveals all! Look, behold! Two. Lines.
Laura: What did you do?
Travis: I breathed on the wall.
Sam: What do they do? What do these lines do?
Marisha: I do a quick Gust cantrip.
Matt: Across the parallel lines? All right. As the wind blows across it, a lot more of the soot and the ash blows around the area. It creates an open space where it pushes out to the edges and darkens areas of the floor and the vicinity around Keyleth. That edge of that corner, where you blew the Gust cantrip that Grog had unfurled, is now clear, the iron revealed. Nothing beyond the two.
Laura: I fly up on my broom and do it to the symbol up on the corner and go (blowing).
Matt: Okay. So up there. You blow on that one and it looks like--
Marisha: Hang on, I've got a paper ready.
Liam: How many people at home do you think have figured this out already?
Laura: We already figured it out!
Sam: Wait, you guys are blowing on the arcane symbols?
Laura: Yeah, to clear them out!
Travis: If you're looking at the door we came in, Grog blew on the lower right?
Sam: And that's two lines. Boom.
Matt: That would be lower right.
Travis: Two vertical lines.
Matt: Correct.
Laura: I'm in the corner above Grog.
Matt: That would be upper right.
Taliesin: I'm going to do bottom left.
Matt: All right, you blow, and you watch as the dust reveals. It's two more lines.
Laura: Two lines? Shit. I thought it was going to be another--
Taliesin: Bottom left. Getting out a hanky and (blows).
Liam: Did you use your ascot?
Taliesin: Yes, of course. That's what it's there for. The back of it.
Laura: The one clean spot left on it.
Matt: That one has four parallel lines.
Laura: Ooh! I'll go into the corner above Percy. There was a reflection there, too, right?
Sam: Blow! Laura, blow!
Laura: (blows) I looked straight at the camera as I did it. It was really awkward.
Matt: All right, that one has a single line.
Sam: Wait, so we've got one, two, two, four?
Laura: Is there one with three lines, or are there any more areas we saw a reflection?
Travis: What about above the door? It is opposite of the mirror, right? If one's a door, and the other one's a door?
Laura: Okay, I'll blow above the door.
Liam: And I'm going to start blowing around the mirror.
Laura: We all walk around going (raspberries).
Travis: Constitution check to see who passes out first?
Matt: What was that?
Taliesin: Does the mirror have a fancy frame?
Matt: It's not extremely intricate, but it looks like there's a brass or bronze frame around it.
Taliesin: Are any of these symbols mirrored in the frame itself? Is there a mirror of any of these symbols in the frame?
Matt: As you look in the actual frame itself, you don't see anything that matches the symbols.
Laura: What if these are numbers and the order you have to push the buttons?
Sam: Except we have two twos, and no three?
Laura: I know. One, two, four!
Taliesin: No, because you have to hit one, and then you have to hit the two together--
Sam: And then why not three? Okay, all right. Can we do a sweep for more?
Travis: Can I clear off the door area that we walked through?
Matt: So Grog, you go through, (rapid blowing). Blowing around. Okay. Make an investigation check.
Marisha: I take my mantle and start doing a--
Matt: You clear that archway very well, around the door. You do reveal Dwarven runes on the upper right corner, upper left corner, lower right, and lower left corner of the doorframe.
Travis: I only know Dwarven writing. I don't know runes.
Matt: Well, the runes are part of the Dwarven language.
Travis: The runes are part of the Dwarven language, so I know them.
Laura: Pike goes over and she helps you.
Travis: Help me, Pike! Yeah, I would like to decipher what these symbols mean.
Laura: "If you lift me up, I could see the ones above the door!"
Liam: "Yeah, the last time I wanted you to do it on your own, but I think we're pressed for time."
Travis: I hold her up to the upper left corner of the doorway.
Matt: Okay, so turning around, upper left corner. Okay. That one is the Dwarven rune that represents the number three.
Travis: Three. All right. Now, to the upper right-hand corner.
Matt: That is the number one.
Travis: Okay. I put her on the ground and I say, okay, look at the lower right-hand corner.
Matt: So lower right-hand corner would be a two.
Travis: And now the lower left-hand corner.
Matt: A four.
Laura: Oh, yeah! We know! That's the amount of times you have to push the button!
Taliesin: So one-one, two-two-two-two, three, four-four.
Sam: Possibly.
Laura: Wait, I think we reversed it.
Liam: How long does your unseen servant last?
Sam: Not too long.
Liam: How long? An hour? Ten minutes?
Sam: I'll look in my memory. One hour, but I have to be close to it. How big is this room?
Matt: It's a 20-foot radius from the center of the brazier, so it's 40 feet on each side.
Taliesin: Is our physicality of this map correct? If we show you this?
Liam: Well, I have this jar. It's an oil of etherealness. You could potentially be standing in here, but not be in here. Lasts an hour, though. Same time gap as your friend. You could stand in here and not be in here.
Sam: From the doorway to the mirror, is it less than 60 feet?
Matt: Yes.
Sam: Oh, then I can be out of the door. Am I right with what I wrote down there?
Matt: All right, so this is the-- facing from the inside--
Sam: Yeah, from the brazier-- Frasier Crane. Looking at the door that we came in. Right?
Matt: I'm going to have to draw you one. I think you guys got confused on that one.
Laura: I think me and Travis got it right.
Sam: I think, Matt, you're wrong.
Travis: I have the same thing as Laura.
Liam: I'm pretty sure it's up up down down left right left right A B A B.
Laura: I hope we passed the test.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Did we get it right?
Matt: There, that's what you get! Sorry, I'm limited in my reach right now.
Marisha: I love that we all did something similar but all wrote something different. We're like, numbers, somewhere!
Matt: Yep, almost. Almost.
Marisha: Did you help us, or are you just saying "almost?"
Matt: I'm saying, looking back and seeing where the numbers lie and the runes in there, you have the correct configuration.
Laura: (victorious laughter)
Marisha: I think this is right. I think you have this. I think I have the right part of this and you have the right part of this.
Laura: We'll copy it and you can see what the fuck is correct.
Travis: Yes.
Laura: No, this is wrong. I'm just going to draw it. (counting)
Sam: Guys, Shadow of War! It's a great game by-- I don't know, who makes it? Warner Brothers!
Laura: Okay, so now we know the order to push the buttons and the amount of times to push the buttons.
Sam: Yes, so now we've just got to do it.
Travis: Should we check around the mirror frame to see if there's anything to dust off? The mirror frame?
Taliesin: I gave it a little bit of a rub.
Marisha: I'm going to go up and go tap-tap-tap on the mirror.
Matt: Okay. It taps.
Travis: Can I wipe off the edges around the frame and see if there's anything around the frame of the mirror, since I seem to be so good at this?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Travis: Three.
Matt: Three. You smear a bit of ash, but eventually get some semblance of shine through. Nothing catches your eye.
Travis: It's clear. We found everything there is to find.
Marisha: Grog draws boobs on himself in the reflection out of the ash.
Sam: All right, should we leave the room and have Mr. Invisible start tapping buttons? All right, we'll do that.
Laura: We step just outside the door again and let his invisible servant push buttons.
Liam: (singing) Scanlan Man, Scanlan Man. Does whatever a Scanlan can. Makes a guy, pushes buttons, Scanlan Man-- I'm out.
Taliesin: Look out!
Liam: (singing) Here comes the Scanlan Man.
Marisha: (singing) Here comes the Scanlan Man.
Taliesin: (singing) Here comes the Scanlan Man.
Sam: Would a person who cannot fly be able to touch the top buttons?
Matt: Nope.
Sam: Shit.
Travis: Well, there's no saying that it will activate if we do it correctly.
Liam: Also, what about shooting the button or firing an arrow at a button?
Laura: Yeah but the buttons are on this side.
Taliesin: How high up are the buttons?
Matt: The buttons? The top are about ten feet up.
Taliesin: So if he had something that was-- if he had a mop, basically, he could probably tap it.
Laura: The buttons are on the side of the mirror, so we could shoot arrows at them.
Taliesin: But only if we're in there and then we don't need an unseen servant to do it.
Sam: Want to give him a pole or something?
Taliesin: Let's give him a stick.
Sam: Do we have a stick in the bag?
Travis: I have a lance.
Taliesin: Yeah, he has a lance.
Travis: It's almost broken.
Taliesin: My god, it will finally be useful one last time.
Liam: We do have three trammels.
Taliesin: No! We are not disengaging a smoke alarm with a fucking trammel. There is a limit!
Travis: You have a slightly splintered lance.
Laura: Okay. Let's hit buttons. Let's do it! Let's get through this room.
Taliesin: Let's explain to the unseen servant what he's supposed to do.
Sam: Matt, can he hold a lance, or is that violating some-- he's not allowed to hold weapons.
Matt: He can hold them. He can't attack; he cannot be a combatant. It can hold things for you.
Liam: He's like a Kids in the Hall character.
Matt: Kind of, yeah. You're not wrong.
Sam: I conjure an unseen servant, whom I will name Simon Two.
Taliesin: Electric Boogaloo.
Liam: Not cool, man, not cool.
Matt: All right. There's this brief shimmer, and you watch as a bit of ash displaces on the ground where two footfalls (landing noises).
Sam: All right, Simon Two, take this lance. We're going to go tell you what buttons to press over there, good speed-- good speed? (laughter)
Sam: Godspell. You'll be fine. Hope you don't like burning alive. So you tell me what to tell him, because I don't have the paper. Upper left? Upper right? What do we start with?
Marisha: It's this. Tell him to do this.
Laura: The reflection of that.
Sam: Okay, so two upper right. Two pokes. Oh, wait.
Laura: So the upper left corner from where we're looking.
Sam: Yes, we're going to go mirror image of this, so project that across the room.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Oh, that was the mistake.
Matt: Okay, so pressing the upper left twice.
Sam: Yes, mirror image of this, so upper left. Let's try that.
Matt: Heads over, holding the lance. You watch the lance wobble, and it misses a couple times, (clicking) hits the button, and it clicks inward. The lance is pulled back and the button presses back out outward into its position.
Sam: Any door?
Matt: No door.
Laura: We'll know if we push it again then we did it the wrong order.
Matt: Second time, (clicking) pulls off, the button depresses.
Taliesin: All right, keep going.
Sam: So below it, two presses.
Laura: In the corner, bottom corner.
Sam: Just like your name, Simon  two.
Matt: (clicking)
Sam: Okay, opposite corner, up. One press.
Laura: Upper right-hand corner.
Matt: (clicking)
Sam: And then below that, bottom corner. Four presses.
Matt: (clicking) (laughter)
Matt: The fourth one hits. There's a moment of pause, and the mirror shimmers faintly. You watch as, almost like a stone thrown into the middle of a still pond, begins to ripple from the center, and as it ripples, each ripple seems to fade, until eventually the five-foot-wide mirror is now an oval portal that leads to darkness behind it.
Laura: Let's go in!
Marisha: I told you there was a room behind the mirror.
Travis: Yeah, let's go. Hurry! We don't know how long it will stay open for.
Sam: Simon Two is coming with us.
Matt: Okay. You hear the faint footfalls of sound behind, and Trinket takes a moment to try and squeeze through this small entranceway. Trinket had a hard enough time getting through the incline. (moans) Into the necklace. You make your way through the opposite side, and as you all step through, the portal remains open for at least a moment.
Laura: Hey, we did it, guys.
Sam: We beat a door.
Travis: We beat a door.
Marisha: Guys, it took 111 episodes, but we bested a door.
Liam: The last episode of the third campaign will be a door that we do not open.
Matt: So the darkness you step through leads into a ten-foot-wide hallway of similar dwarven stone. Same slightly angled hallways about ten feet tall or so, about five or six foot wide. You get a few steps in and about 20 or 30 seconds after you guys make your way in, the mirror portal behind closes up.
Liam: Can we see?
Marisha: Can you see through it?
Matt: Through the mirror?
Liam: I meant where we are. Are we in pitch black?
Matt: You're in pitch black, but you guys with darkvision can see there is a staircase not too far, maybe ten feet from where you stand into this next hallway.
Travis: Iron stairs? Stone stairs?
Matt: Stone stairs.
Liam: I've got a dagger out.
Matt: All right, lights up briefly and you get a little bit of a vision beyond that, and it's gradual stone steps. They're not too wide; they're made for dwarven gait, so there are many steps that are relatively shallow.
Travis: These are dwarven steps that are relatively shallow.
Sam: We can see it, Grog.
Liam: Pike says, "That's actually right".
Laura: Is there any traps?
Matt: You're welcome to search for traps.
Liam: And I'm going to scoot 40 feet up the stairs and look as I go for traps. One. I'm taking it, but I'm still going and looking for traps.
Matt: You do have reliable talent, don't forget.
Liam: Does that oversee ones? Because I've been counting ones as ones for a long time.
Matt: The reliable talent as a rogue specifically says any roll lower than a ten you take as a ten.
Sam: Any roll?
Matt: Well, not any roll. Any ability check he has to make.
Liam: Okay, well, we wrongly assumed that ones and 20s were king, but no.
Laura: So he rolled way better than me because I rolled a ten.
Liam: That's an 18. My one is an 18 now.
Matt: Yeah, because that's one of the cool things about rogues. You guys make your way up about 45, 50 or so feet up the stairway, you keeping an eye out, no traps, nothing catches your eye as iffy or strange, and the stairs now switch back into another set. It's a small landing and then it continues upward.
Liam: Okay, but I'm only going to go 40 feet in advance. That's like ten fucked rolls of mine from the past 30 games! Anyway, I love it.
Marisha: So it's a big 180, going right up?
Matt: Yeah, it's a switchback. The staircase ascends, then there's a landing, and it continues upward and around.
Laura: Do we hear anything?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Taliesin: I'll join in that perception.
Matt: So you're joining them up the staircase?
Taliesin: I'm behind. You know, the standard--
Matt: All right, so you guys are keeping up.
Marisha: Did you fuck the roll, too? Oh, what the fuck!
Taliesin: I got a 25.
Matt: Seriously, welcome back after two weeks and people just cannot-- wow.
Liam: But do you remember when we were at home and we'd go six weeks without playing and we'd spend 45 minutes trying to remember what we did, how the rules worked, what our names were, who you were.
Taliesin: Vex is right.
Travis: 25, you said?
Taliesin: 25.
Matt: 25. Okay. It's hard to discern what shifting in the distance is not the rumbling from the ever-occasional titan footfalls, but nothing seems to catch your attention. Occasionally, you hear dislodged rocks and stones clacking across the stone floor and the steps, and every now and then you catch a stone or two fall past and eventually come to rest either near or below you. You continue up the switchback stairs and lead into a third switchback that continues upward.
Liam: 40 feet in advance.
Marisha: We are following behind.
Laura: Are you looking for traps as you go, brother?
Liam: I am. That is an 18, anyway.
Marisha: I still have my hands guiding Percy, our blind human.
Matt: Leading the old man forward.
Taliesin: (old man voice) Where's Steven?
Marisha: (laughs) Where's Steven?
Matt: You do not find any other traps. There's no other issues that worry you upon this climb. You do eventually come to the top of the third switchback stairway and it leads you into a slight curved cavern. The stairs stop and it leads into a continuation of the dwarf-like hallway structure that you had below, but it is curving around now, in sections. I would say, as opposed to a gradual curve, the design in the structure here has a very rigid, geometric shape, so the curvature is in sections.
Liam: Yeah, I appreciate it as I go, and I look for traps.
Matt: All right, go for it.
Liam: Love it. That's an 18.
Matt: Okay. Coming around the edge  no traps, no plates. Nothing catches your attention. However, this tunnel comes to an end, and it opens up into a larger crevasse than the one that you previously saw that held a number of city buildings of the remains of Thomara. It looks to be about 100 to 120 feet tall, you assume, from the bits of the stalactites that you can see, barely reaching the edge of your visual range. Very faint bit of light here, bioluminescent fungus in a dull orangish color that dots the edges of this interior chamber.
Liam: And is it like where I killed that motherfucker? They were built into the cliff face, right?
Matt: Yes. This one is larger than the one you were in before, and you can see just beyond your visual range, a number of these buildings, partially crumbled in some places, some still standing obstinately against the ever-shifting interior of the titan's form, the chamber curling upward as the ceiling crawls higher and higher just beyond your visual range, and you can faintly see the images of dozens of thin bridges that weave over themselves across different levels, up into the higher portion.
Liam: I want to confirm an intuition and use my last Divine Sense and feel undead.
Matt: Okay, what's the range on that one?
Liam: 60 feet.
Matt: 60 feet? You do not sense any undead within the 60-foot range.
Marisha: I think we're in the lungs. I think we're in its chest cavity.
Liam: Speaking into the earrings; they're all behind me. I think we're in a more populous place with the undead cannibals, know what I mean? There's a very large cavern in here and a lot of room.
Taliesin: I'd be grateful if anyone got a sample of that bioluminescent fungus.
Marisha: I can get that. I'm interested.
Laura: Do you want me to fly up and get some?
Liam: We're on a schedule here.
Marisha: Well, if it's on the way. We have to go that way.
Laura: We have to go up, right? Does it look like there's openings in the ceiling?
Matt: Well currently you're the only one who's stepped into this entrance to look up, the rest of you are now exiting into the chamber.
Liam: I'll wait, obviously. Nothing's going to explode on my friends, so they catch up with me.
Matt: Okay, so they're all behind you now where this entrance is, and as you look past it, this hallway that you're entering, it looks like there was a doorway here. There was some sort of hinge on the edge that held a door that had since been broken or toppled forward. You can see pieces of the door that once held this entranceway, and a number of the buildings immediately to the right and left. That's where you stand, what do you want to do?
Laura: Does it look like there's any footprints coming in and out of the doorway that we came from?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Travis: Can I look for a doorknob or a keyhole?
Liam: Everything we were told is that this place is full of undead cannibals.
Laura: 23.
Matt: Not in a long time.
Travis: Is there shattered remnants of the door?
Matt: Yeah, you see a couple of shards here and there--
Travis: Any doorknob or a keyhole that's on the ground or anything?
Matt: Make an investigation check. Lot of investigation checks today.
Travis: Two.
Matt: You scramble about and find a couple of pieces that might be, but no, it's just more stone.
Marisha: Can I see any stairs carved in the side, in the walls, trying to head up to this-- is that what you just checked?
Laura: No, that's what I was about to look for, too.
Liam: Is there any movement, because there's bioluminescent shit on the walls in here, so there's a little bit of light, right? Yeah. 26.
Matt: 26. As you glance about-- once again, your vision, because there is very little light in here and the very, very faint bits of fungus in the distance that give you a sense of the shape of this entire chamber. There isn't enough light for you to make out any shape beyond the exterior of your visual range, so you can't really tell.
Liam: A second thing I want to look for is what other exits from this gigantic cavern. Ways through, up. Yeah, you looked, but I didn't look.
Matt: Let me finish what I was saying first.
Travis: Roll! Roll again.
Matt: But based on the size of this chamber and the bits of what small elements of structures that you can see of the architecture within, this definitely appears to be more of the heart of the city of Thomara when it was once at its ancient height. You can see at the very edge of your visual range a cracked central fountain that is empty and dry, and you see, just beyond your range, the exterior of a large temple-like building that rises out of the ability to see any more of its height and structure.
Taliesin: Temple.
Matt: But like I said, you guys are still standing at the entrance to this cavern.
Marisha: What about the temple? Why?
Sam: Want to fly through here? Can we fly?
Liam: I don't think we want to stay here--
Sam: I know, that's why we just fly through.
Liam: Find another exit, yeah, but where?
Travis: I'd like to see the temple, if I can.
Sam: What are you talking about?
Travis: Well look, all right, my gloves--
Laura: Keep your voice down.
Travis: (whispering) My gloves come from the heart of a ruined primordial titan. So if maybe they harvested pieces of my gloves, and it's in a temple, I don't know, you smart people could do something with that.
Liam: Right, what's your plan? You expect us to come up with a plan to explain why your gloves are connected to that temple, and you're going to get what? A Mighty Morphin Power Ranger bonus for doing so?
Travis: Yes.
Marisha: Are your Titanstone Knuckles exalted yet?
Travis: Yep. They're just buzzing.
Liam: Yeah, are they still dildoing on your fingers?
Marisha: Are they buzzing more?
Travis: Are they humming more?
Matt: Doesn't appear to have changed.
Travis: Nope, just humming.
Marisha: Step two steps closer.
Travis: Two steps closer to the temple.
Marisha: Do they appear to be buzzing more?
Travis: Are they appearing buzzing more?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Travis: Ooh! 19.
Matt: Not bad. Nope.
Taliesin: Is the temple on the way? Does it make sense to cross through the city, or does it make sense to fly up?
Liam: We're moving towards Vasselheim now. I'm negative on our chances of dealing with this before Vasselheim, but that's the goal, right?
Taliesin: We've got some time, and I feel like this city is an opportunity to find some more advantages.
Travis: We are also looking for the Sword of Kas. What's if it's in the temple?
Sam: Why would Vecna keep the thing that could kill Vecna near Vecna?
Liam: I'm pulling Percy aside. I hear you, but this is a city that has existed here for a long time. Vecna didn't create this city. Vecna doesn't own these people. This is a fucking mountain that existed and now they're going for a ride. What do these people have to do with Vecna?
Taliesin: It's not a city that just existed.
Liam: No?
Taliesin: This is a giant primordial beast that people inhabited. God only knows what existed in here.
Marisha: Yeah, but as we've already seen from the other tomb, it's already been heavily, heavily plundered.
Liam: And Vecna's just a user. This place was just sitting there. He lifted it up and took it away. These assholes don't have anything to do with--
Travis: Why did he choose this?
Marisha: How far away is the temple? Do we know? Can we football range guess it?
Matt: I'd say, because you guys have darkvision of 60 feet?
Taliesin: If gods really understood how this world worked, this would not be happening right now.
Matt: It's at about the 50, 55 foot areas where the wall begins, then it vanishes beyond that.
Liam: Percy, this shitbird has appeared like three times wherever we were.
Laura: Well, he's not going to be able to do that right now because I've got a fucking ring.
Taliesin: He doesn't necessarily know this place as well as--
Marisha: Hang on. How long have we been in here, versus how far have we been from Vasselheim? Because we are on a time crunch.
Travis: 200 miles away once we entered is how far away we are from Vasselheim. 200 miles. With steps of?
Taliesin: What was the average land speed of a laden undead?
Matt: You've been within the titan for, I'd say, roughly three and a half hours, maybe.
Liam: Yeah, he's 110 miles out from Vasselheim, at this point.
Travis: We have time to check the temple.
Sam: All right, let's swoop in and swoop out.
Marisha: Super fucking fast!
Taliesin: I'm not even saying look in it, let's take a look at what it--
Laura: Did I see any stairs?
Matt: You do not see any staircases within a 60-foot radius of where you're standing.
Taliesin: We might be harder to spot if we stay on the ground for now, anyway.
Marisha: I just want to say, we gave you guys the other temple, in which you found your stupid waistband, but we got really fucked up from it! Everything has a consequence and a price and shit. Nothing is free.
Laura: I'm going to cast Pass Without a fucking Trace. It's my last Pass Without a Trace, but I'm afraid--
Travis: No, don't do it.
Laura: What if we bring out an entire fucking city of undead dwarves upon us?
Marisha: Let me do it. I have Pass Without a Trace and one more 2nd-level spell left. I'll do it. Save yours.
Liam: I'm also going to put something on the table here: we're trying to save Vasselheim, but we're also trying to save the world. We might not be able to do this without recharging before Vasselheim.
Taliesin: I'm aware.
Sam: You want to go to sleep in this undead city?!
Liam: No, but we're trying to save the world, not just a city.
Sam: So sacrificing Vasselheim so that we can feel better about a fight?
Liam: What if we lose the fight Scanlan? Then who fucking cares? Vasselheim is gone. Westruun is gone. Kaylie is gone. Everything's fucking gone if we fuck this up!
Sam: Well, let's stay on the path and see how long it takes.
Marisha: How about this? Hold. Wait! We still don't know how to get up there, right?
Sam: Is that purple eyeliner?
Marisha: Yeah, do you like it? Thank you. It's a little metallic. Thank you, I bought it while I was waiting for--
Travis: Oh my god!
Laura: Oh my god!
Marisha: Okay. I hate to say split the party, but what if we split the party? What if a few of you check out your fucking temple, and then the rest of us try to figure out a way to get up.
Travis: I'm cool. I'll vote for a temple party.
Marisha: Temple party. Who else is on temple party?
Sam: They need somebody who can help them in there.
Liam: I hate the idea, but I'm the stealthiest motherfucker in this room.
Taliesin: And then you three on the carpet, you on the broom.
Travis: I need the carpet.
Marisha: So wait, just the two of you are going to go check out the carpet?
Laura: Vax is going in with you.
Sam: I feel like one person with magic should go with them. I'll go with them.
Taliesin: We're all ear-pieced.
Marisha: Okay, so Grog--
Liam: Everybody but Keyleth.
Sam: No, it's Keyleth, Vex, and Pike are going searching. The boys are going in the temple, and the girls are going searching.
Marisha: Okay, cool, I'm on board.
Taliesin: This is in no way, by the way, an amazing mirror of that one time underneath Kraghammer. They're just going to find another Clarota.
Liam: The boys all die. The girls go to glory.
Laura: I want to kiss Percy before he goes. Don't die in this stupid temple.
Taliesin: I will not die in this stupid temple.
Sam: I'm going, too.
Taliesin: I slap him in the face.
Laura: Right on, Scanlan. Sorry, Percy.
Matt: Who's traveling in what group?
Laura: Girls are going to look for stairs, the boys are going in the stupid temple.
Liam: I yank the druid in for a kiss.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Oh wait, shit. Your fucking ring.
Laura: Fuck! My fucking ring! We can't split the party.
Taliesin: Okay, can't split the party. We all go looking for the stairs. Oh, you asshole, stop it! (laughter)
Laura: He was really excited about it!
Matt: I was waiting on that.
Laura: Oh my god, he was so excited about it.
Sam: All right, into the temple. Come on, let's just fucking go to the fucking temple.
Matt: I was like, you guys literally had this conversation an hour ago, but okay.
Taliesin: Whatever we do, we can't split the party (fast-forward noise). Okay, we're going to split the party.
Travis: Sam saved our asses.
Taliesin: That was Cabin in the Woods shit.
Liam: 40 feet in advance, Vax walks ahead of the group, hating himself. Here we go.
Matt: Go for it. What are you doing, you're checking for traps?
Liam: I'm checking for enemies hiding.
Matt: So as you push forward--
Laura: We're stealthed, we're Pass Without a Traced.
Matt: Okay, then roll some stealth, guys.
Laura: She Pass Without a Traced us.
Matt: Right, then roll some stealth.
Sam: Oh, we're all rolling stealth?
Liam: 34.
Sam: 25.
Taliesin: 26.
Marisha: 26.
Laura: 39.
Travis: Natural one.
Marisha: Are you serious?
Sam: He's so excited about that temple.
Laura: Natural 20 for Pike! Oh wait, she gets disadvantage.
Matt: She has the boots that make it not at disadvantage.
Taliesin: First time ever.
Liam: But that's a lot of good.
Laura: So much good for one shitty--
Matt: You begin to push forward past the cracked fountain, heading ahead of everyone, keeping an eye out for what's ahead of you. The high walls of the temple-like structure begin to reveal themselves, standing ominous over the debris-strewn streets with shattered carts and bone fragments. The bone fragments faintly quaking beneath every footfall of the walking mountain that you currently are walking through. You see long-decomposed dwarvish bodies brutalized beyond reanimation lying scattered across the broken street paths ahead of you, deep grooves marking the splintered bone. A tangled network of partially ruined catwalks begin to reveal themselves above you, carved from the mountain, contains a ghostly image of a multi-level metropolis long fallen. You, make a perception check.
Liam: 29.
Matt: 29. You can see, as soon as you get to where the fountain is, the center of the street ahead of you. Dozens of slow shifting creatures moving throughout the streets and rubble of crumbling structures. You can see now, many of the undead citizens of the catacombs are now wandering, shaken awake by the lumbering titan that now carries them within. You also see a very faint blue pulsing glow emanating from one of the windows of the temple.
Liam: Can we put the goliath on the carpet so he doesn't kick something or be himself?
Laura: We don't know that he rolled shittily.
Liam: I know that, but he's a big, blundering mother fucking asshole when he wants to be--
Travis: On the chain. Literally on the text chain.
Matt: Which, as you're saying this, you hear a (clattering), and you glance over real fast and watch as Grog is walking by and the edge of his-- which weapon do you have attuned right now? You have the Blood Axe? The Blood Axe hits the edge of a large dwarven statue that had fallen off at a corner angle and is currently being held by a small barrel, and as the axe hits it, it shifts (crashing) and rolls and comes to a rest for a second with this clattering, grinding sound. Parts of it chip and break, but most of it remains strong and sturdy upon impact. At which point, you see at the edge of your visual range, about seven of the wandering creatures go (raspy groan) and begin slowly slinking their way in the direction of the noise.
Sam: So a rock just fell?
Travis: A big statue just fell.
Sam: And is in pieces?
Matt: Parts of it are broken. It's still pretty sturdy.
Taliesin: Let's try and serpentine around and see if we can trace back.
Liam: And they're to the right or the left or ahead of us?
Matt: They're ahead of you.
Laura: Do they look like they saw us?
Liam: Go left. Jenga, jenga, jenga. Can we put Grog on the carpet now?
Taliesin: Yep.
Marisha: We're trying to go up, right?
Sam: No, we're trying to go towards the temple.
Laura: Towards that pulsing light.
Liam: We've got a little bit of business, a little bit of activity ahead of us, so we want to curve to the left.
Travis: All right, we move accordingly.
Matt: All right. So you guys move along the left and curve around the side. As you begin to move along the edge, you watch as about eight of these mostly-skeletal dwarvish corpses begin to shamble in the direction of where the noise came from. You can see elements of their long-mummified skin pulled tight against elements of the rib cage and the skull. Bits of chipped teeth, now broken against whatever things it's attempted to chew on its long un-life. As they move past, two of them glance over in the direction of Grog, and then all of them shift over in the direction and begin rushing forward in your path.
Liam: What's the distance?
Matt: At this point, they're probably about 50 or so feet from where you are.
Liam: Oh shit!
Laura: We don't want to make too much noise. I'm going to shoot a couple.
Travis: We could just go straight up.
Laura: There's only eight of them. We can take eight undead.
Liam: Pickle walks forward and takes a knee and waits with her holy symbol of Sarenrae, waiting for them.
Laura: I take two of them by surprise. That's auto-crit.
Liam: Vax does the same, watching his badass sister, and Pike waits to turn whatever's left of them.
Laura: Yeah, they're super-silent arrows.
Liam: So what happens first?
Matt: All right. She's preparing for it, right?
Liam: Yeah. She's waiting until she sees them.
Matt: Oh, well she also has darkvision of 60 feet.
Liam: So she's waiting until they're within range of her holy abilities.
Matt: What's the radius on that one?
Liam: That's a good question, because I'm a rogue paladin. (sighs) Goddamn it.
Matt: That's all right.
Liam: What if I look in the sorceror rules?
Matt: Nope. 30 feet.
Liam: 30 feet. So she's waiting for the twins to do their work and anything that's left over she's going to scatter.
Matt: Okay. All right. So as she holds position--
Laura: So it's auto-crit?
Matt: They know you're there. It's not a surprise. There's as threat, and they're rushing. But you do have advantage on the hits because they don't see you.
Laura: Well great, that's great. 20?
Matt: That definitely hits.
Laura: Okay. Oh, the other one super-duper hits. It's a 19 plus 14.
Liam: 25, 31, natural 20.
Matt: Okay. All right. So go ahead and roll damage on those. Are you shooting two different skeletons or one each?
Liam: I'm after my sister. She talked before I did.
Laura: I'll see how the first arrow hits?
Matt: Okay.
Laura: 14. Oh, I didn't Hunter's Mark. Whatever. 14, 15, 16. Two lightning damage. Do I add anything? Sneak attack!
Taliesin: Been a while.
Laura: How do we D&D? Plus ten sneak attack.
Matt: Okay. So the first skeleton, the arrow hits it and the torso explodes behind with ribs shattering and scattering across the stonework, its body falling and collapsing to the ground.
Laura: I hit another one.
Matt: Yes, you do.
Liam: Oh, and we go first, so it's advantage.
Laura: 14 plus four lightning damage. And that is plus eight.
Travis: 26.
Matt: 26. This one right behind it, its jaw unhinged slightly. Its tongue made of this slick rotting material that dangles through the hole in the bottom of the jaw. Comes around the corner, and you watch as part of its head explodes off one side from the secondary arrow, taking out what remains of the center of its skull, and the body crumples to the ground. Two skeletons down.
Liam: Sneak attack hits the first time we connect, right?
Matt: Yeah. You don't have to roll damage for that one.
Laura: Oh. Sorry, I did sneak attack on the second arrow.
Matt: Well, you can do sneak attack once per round.
Laura: Okay. I did eight damage too much.
Matt: It was still enough.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: You don't have to roll damage for sneak attack.
Liam: So then that one's gone?
Matt: A third skeleton now is ruined. You hit it with the arrow in the middle of the spinal column, and it folds on itself.
Liam: Okay. So paladin action-action and my bonus action. So that's the first of three. The last one's the one that was a critical hit so the second one goes onto the next whole skeleton. It's just an eight.
Matt: Okay. This one the arrow slides into the side of the skull, and it keeps coming forward towards Grog.
Liam: Okay. And then the last critical hit, which is Whisper again, because it bamfed back, is two plus eight is ten. Two and three. It's not that much. It's 15 total.
Matt: Okay. And that one does finish it. So that's three skeletons down. Grog, I want to to individually roll an initiative check for me.
Travis: Natural 20. With Gil's dice.
Matt: So as you guys are watching this happen, the other five rush in to close the gap, but you are at the ready, and you get to strike before they do.
Travis: Nice. Am I hitting them? Yeah, Okay. Reckless, great weapon master. 31 for the first one.
Matt: That hits.
Travis: Okay, cool.
Matt: Your minimum damage will kill them. So as the first one comes up towards you, you swing up. As you slam into it, you watch as its bony body blows up against the side of the nearby stone building and then scrapes to the ground.
Travis: Can I use the other strike on another?
Matt: Yes, you can.
Travis: Reckless great weapon. That'll hit. That's like 30.
Taliesin: If there's anything left on Grog by the end of this, I'll try to swipe them off with my sword.
Travis: 32.
Matt: All righty. So two more detonate on this point. So there's three left. They're closing in on Grog. Does Pike want to take her turn?
Travis: We might want to save that Turnt Undead.
Laura: No, I think we should save.
Liam: I've already said it, but she's whispering to me to hold. She's half of Pike right now. You're half of Pike right now.
Taliesin: I'd like to pop in and see if I could take a couple--
Matt: Make an initiative roll.
Laura: Don't shoot, Percy.
Taliesin: I'm not; I'm going to use my sword.
Liam: Pike holds, breathing hard, looking at them coming on.
Taliesin: 16.
Matt: Yeah, that beats them by one. So yeah, as the three remaining ones start charging in towards Grog--
Taliesin: I'm going to run in, draw the silvered sword, and take some swipes.
Matt: Go for it.
Taliesin: Let's take three swipes right out of here.
Laura: Pike can use her mace on anything left in that area.
Taliesin: That's one natural 20, one natural 19. Do I crit on a 19 with the sword?
Matt: No.
Taliesin: Okay, never mind. And a two. But that might be enough, because I have a really high-- that's a 15 as my lowest to hit. Does a 15 hit?
Matt: 15 does hit. Yes.
Taliesin: So the 15 is-- That's 14 piercing damage to the first one with a silvered sword.
Matt: Okay. You rush up and you carve through the first skeleton, and it breaks on the ground in front of you.
Taliesin: Number two is 13 points of damage to the second one.
Matt: Okay. The second one, you bring the blade down into the skull and cleave it in half. You watch as part of its skull breaks off to the side and the jaw falls to the ground and the rest crumbles in place.
Taliesin: I twirl around and take my third wonderful pirouette attack, which is 20 points of damage.
Matt: Okay, and as the final one lunges forward, in a fervent-- strangely faster than you expect for a skeletal undead, it begins to accelerate towards Grog. And with that, you take the blade and take the head right off at the neck, and it falls and crumples to the ground.
Marisha: So it's like 28 Days Later zombies?
Travis: 28 Days Later, they run.
Marisha: He said that they were fast.
Matt: Well, the last one-- it was flavor.
Marisha: Just wanted to make sure they weren't special.
Matt: Okay. As you finish the fray and hold yourself, you wait and wait. You do not hear or notice any more advancing undead from that direction.
Travis: Okay, how about I don't move and somebody with flying ability go to check out that blue glowy window?
Taliesin: We have to stick together.
Laura: Is the glowy window within 60 feet?
Taliesin: No, it's far.
Travis: When we were at the opening, we were 50 to 60 feet away.
Matt: The temple where you guys were at, at the time was 50 feet away from you, but you would have crossed the other side of the hall. So now it's about 100 feet away from you. At this distance, you can see it's a round, almost cylindrical building, Colosseum-esque. And there's a small square window about every 25 to 30 feet. And it's big. It's large, but you can see that faint glow between multiple windows from this distance.
Travis: So should we fly up to that window?
Taliesin: I think it'd be safer to stay on the ground level and sneak. Because if we're the air, they are going to see us.
Travis: Let's do it.
Marisha: And we still have Pass Without a Trace, so let's go.
Laura: Yes, we do. She cast it.
Matt: All right, now that this brief combat has finished, those who took place in it, which would be you, Vax, Grog, and Percy have to remake your stealth checks.
Laura: You're like, "Gladly!"
Taliesin: Yes.
Laura: What about Pike? Because she just knelt down. She didn't really fight.
Matt: She stepped out of her stealth. She was making herself visible.
Laura: My natural 20 for Pike, wasted!
Taliesin: 23.
Liam: We still have Pass Without Trace?
Marisha: Yes. I didn't do anything.
Travis: 26.
Marisha: Keeping that concentration.
Taliesin: (singing) Concentration. Concentration.
Marisha: (singing) Concentration. Concentration.
Liam: You're the doctor! Keep your patients on the run!
Laura: 30 for Pike. 29 for me.
Matt: All right. You guys begin to slowly make your way along the left wall of this large cavern.
Liam: 37, by the way.
Matt: Good to know. As you slowly move through the shadows, dodging through open doorways and through windows, trying the best you can to stay out from the center thoroughfare of this opening, you see more and more of these undead. Dozens, maybe even a hundred have crossed your path at the perimeter of your visual range and you can see in the catwalks above too, with the faint bit of the orange glow, occasionally shapes breaking across the orange. This entire cavern is swarming.
Laura: (whispering) Do we still have the thing?
Sam: Oh, the filter? The censer?
Laura: Do we have it in the Bag of Holding?
Taliesin: We also have the herbs.
Laura: What if we use it? What if we use it and it just repels them?
Taliesin: When it's time. We don't have a lot of it.
Marisha: Yeah, it's a very small amount.
Liam: Is it ready to go, though?
Taliesin: Let's prepare it, and when it's time--
Liam: Is it ready to go, though?
Marisha: Yeah it's dried. I spent that time. I spent time during the break.
Taliesin: It's just burning the herbs, though. We don't need the censer. Just hold it in your hands.
Liam: Do we have any sense of where we started in this giant cavern? Or are we totally fucking turned around?
Matt: No. I mean you have a decent sense. You are maybe 100 to 150 feet from where you began. Because you've been moving slowly. Staying stealthily, you're moving very carefully and very slowly and judging by the shape of the cavern and where you are currently, you're about halfway through it, or close to halfway.
Taliesin: It's good that we didn't go on the catwalk.
Matt: The temple's on the opposite side of the chamber.
Liam: Oh! All the way on the other side. I thought it was central.
Matt: I'm sorry. When you entered the entrance, the temple was to the front and to the right of you. You guys curved around the left, on the other side of it, keeping a view on it so you could see it from across the way. Are you making your way across to the temple?
Liam: So it's pressed against the opposite wall of this big place?
Sam: Are the undead all around the temple?
Matt: Further in. Nothing directly around the outside of the temple. So you guys curve around the entrance where you came and slowly make your way towards where the temple emerges from the rock wall. About a third or so of its exterior wall is actually built into the side of this cavern, and the large cylindrical-like Colosseum temple structure curves outward. You can see as you get closer to it, there's maybe the three floors to it but edges of the top wall have crumbled inward and you can see areas where it looks like it's sustained some physical damage or eroded over time. You eventually make your way around the outside wall of the temple to one of the first doorways, and it is an archway, maybe six feet tall and about four feet wide. Very simple. This is an old temple.
Liam: Is that light you talked about coming from one specific source, or all over the place? Every window.
Travis: Is there a story?
Matt: It looks to be coming from the base.
Liam: From down below.
Laura: Can we see in one of the windows?
Matt: You can look inside. Make a perception check.
Sam: Are there any bone laying around?
Matt: Plenty.
Sam: I am going to pick up two bones, give them to Simon Two, and tell him to go across the street, 50 feet away from us, and wait there in some building. Hold these bones.
Matt: You watch as two bone shards slowly glide over, then stand there.
Laura: 34.
Matt: Okay. As you pull up to the window and glance down, you immediately look inside the temple, and you see about 30 or so silhouettes of shambling dwarven corpses all standing inside the base floor of this temple. You see the silhouettes and shapes because they are all faintly outlined from the source of this blue light. You see a small, baseball-sized, bluish crystal that is resting, not in the perfect center of the temple but somewhere in the open middle floor area, and it looks like these 30 undead are surrounding it, and standing.
Sam: Smash and grab. You could go in there and get that thing, be out before they even saw you in there.
Taliesin: Also, have your unseen servant make a bunch of noise and have them all--
Marisha: Be a distraction?
Laura: Yeah, but making any kind of noise would draw large crowds.
Taliesin: We can have the unseen servant pick it up.
Marisha: How far away can he be, though?
Sam: He's 50 feet away, right now, and he's waiting to make noise.
Taliesin: What if he were to go in and get it himself?
Sam: He could.
Travis: He is invisible, isn't he?
Sam: He could go and pick it up and come right back with it.
Laura: But first don't tell him to come right out, tell him to like walk a little bit to see if they follow the light.
Liam: But what are our options if that doesn't work?
Sam: If he picks up the crystal and it doesn't work, or it doesn't move?
Liam: I want to do that. If that doesn't work, I can click the boots, and I can be there in a heartbeat and run, but what do we do next?
Sam: We need an escape plan, right? How many can fit on the carpet?
Liam: This goes back to my conversation with you, which is: are we going to find a pocket and rest?
Taliesin: Yes, but not here.
Liam: Agreed, but we're talking about Vasselheim, and is damage to Vasselheim a sacrifice needed to be ready to do what's necessary?
Travis: If he destroys Vasselheim, he does his miracle, his display of power, and he will be even stronger. That is not an option.
Taliesin: If we were to be clever, if we're at the edge of Vasselheim, the Vasselheim forces will be distracting his forces, so we'll have less to deal with, so we want this fight to happen at the edge.
Liam: So we're talking about no rest. I'm not talking about a short rest.
Taliesin: There will not be a long rest, I don't think.
Laura: There might be.
Liam: Not without him spilling into Vasselheim.
Marisha: I've been very conservative with what I've been doing for a reason.
Travis: I don't think a long rest is in the cards.
Taliesin: I've only burned one thing that requires a long rest.
Marisha: I agree with Grog. We can't sacrifice having him gain all of those followers, because then the only option would be murder a lot of his followers, which I'm not really comfortable with.
Travis: And he may be too strong at that point.
Sam: We don't need to discuss this now. We need to get the crystal and get the fuck out of here!
Taliesin: If we can pull this off without burning anything important, then it doesn't matter.
Marisha: I want to go on record and say I think this is stupid. Okay, let's go.
Laura: That crystal looks really appetizing, and I want it.
Travis: How about we get ready to leave? I'll get on the carpet.
Laura: It looks really super magical.
Travis: Who's on the broom with Vex?
Laura: Me.
Travis: No, who is on the broom with you?
Taliesin: I'll be on the broom with her.
Travis: Do you want to get on the carpet with me?
Sam: Yeah, of course.
Marisha: I have to come with you because I have the Pass Without a Trace spell.
Taliesin: We all have to be together. We can't separate.
Travis: And he can fly.
Sam: No, he can't. He's done with his wings.
Liam: Yeah, that's right.
Sam: We have too many people for the carpet and the broom.
Liam: My wings are gone. There's no wings for Vecna unless we rest.
Travis: Well, kick Trinket out of the necklace, and I'll get in there.
Taliesin: I can also climb up the wall, if need be.
Sam: We can leave Trinket.
Liam: It's fine, I still have the boots. Just the wings. It was death or wings. I chose wings.
Travis: All right, so how do we fly? How do we do that?
Sam: I can burn a spell and be a giant eagle or something.
Taliesin: Just for shits and giggles, I'm going to take one last look around to see if there's any infrastructure for getting up. There must be infrastructure for getting up here. There wasn't layers of a city on top of each other.
Sam: We could just run.
Liam: But wait, where are we going though if we get this thing?
Sam: Up away.
Liam: We have no verification of an exit or a hole or anything!
Travis: Yeah, sometimes you just got to leap, okay?
Liam: That's my entire life, but this is the last moment.
Sam: Every organ in a body has an entrance and an exit, right? Wait, no, lungs don't; they just have the one.
Marisha: Wait up, we argued more this game more than anything else. Okay, we know we still have to fly upwards, including on flying up to the blue crystally thing right?
Laura: No, the blue crystal is right here.
Marisha: Well, then what the fuck?
Laura: I don't know!
Liam: We have a plan for getting the crystal, just not how to get the fuck out.
Marisha: We fucking fly!
Travis: Who burns a spell to become an animal?
Marisha: I can burn a spell.
Travis: You do that.
Marisha: We're probably going to take another short rest, right?
Travis: Probably.
Marisha: Okay.
Sam: I can recall Simon 2. I can send him across the room, make a bunch of noise, draw a bunch of people over there. You run, grab the crystal, and then we hustle out of there.
Travis: What if only half the room leaves, though?
Laura: No, you go get Simon 2 to go get the crystal.
Sam: And there's going to be a floating crystal that marches across?
Travis: They don't give a shit. Do it. I'm on the carpet. We're ready to go.
Marisha: You're on me? And you're on carpet, and you're on broom?
Travis: Percy and Vex are on the broom.
Matt: Gnomes on the carpet with Grog. You and Percy on the broom. You're transforming into what creature?
Marisha: Giant eagle.
Matt: Giant eagle.
Marisha: Not yet, though.
Laura: And then we all, within 60 feet of each other, fly up.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: Okay, who's doing what?
Laura: Simon 2.
Sam: Simon 2 is going to go get the thing. Let's say they all start watching the thing come towards us. Grog, are you here? Are you with us?
Travis: Yeah, I have to be.
Sam: Can you throw something across the room to make a noise?
Travis: Yep. I can absolutely do that.
Laura: I'll prime an arrow.
Travis: I have a hooded lantern that has fuel in it. It will even burn when it lands. It's been sitting in there for four years.
Sam: This is a terrible plan.
Taliesin: This is why we hoarded it in the first place.
Sam: Guys, I'm just going to say this one more time before we do this: he's way faster than Simon 2. Simon 2 could create a distraction. He could (snatching noise).
Liam: Scanlan, only with the boots.
Travis: If they chase the jewel, fuck the jewel, and we'll leave.
Taliesin: If they chase the jewel, we can grab it and run, anyway.
Sam: All right, Simon 2. Come back with your bones!
Matt: The bones shift over towards you ever-so-slowly.
Liam: (singing) Don't worry, be happy now.
Sam: All right. Simon 2, go to the middle of the room. Throw the bones away, far, then grab the crystal. You don't have pockets. Run back to us! Away, yeah. Should he cover it with a blanket or something? Do you have a hood?
Matt: The bones begin to drift.
Taliesin: Okay, I'm not saying no.
Laura: A handkerchief to put over the light.
Sam: So it blocks the light? All right, so go put this handkerchief on the thing, pick it up, and bring it back to us. Go, Simon 2. You're our only hope.
Matt: Is Simon holding bones or a blanket?
Sam: He's holding a blanket.
Taliesin: He's holding a hanky.
Laura: He's holding a hanky.
Travis: Put the bones down gently.
Sam: Give me the bones. I put the bones down. Here's a handkerchief. You'll put it over the crystal, pick up the crystal, and bring it back to us.
Matt: Simon begins to slowly walk, the handkerchief floating by.
Taliesin: This is like those little handkerchief ghosts you would make in kindergarten.
Matt: As you glance inside and watch as it happens, you can see all the undead that are in there are standing, unmoving, swaying a little bit in place. Simon's about 30 feet out from them. About 20 feet out. They don't notice his presence. You notice that all the undead are facing the crystal, by the way.
Laura: Why didn't you tell us that before?
Marisha: Why didn't you tell us that before?
Marisha: (laughing) That's crucial information.
Sam: Right before he picks it up, hock a rock as far as you can.
Travis: Not the lantern?
Taliesin: Not the rock, the lantern. Light the lantern and throw it.
Marisha: By the way, they're all staring right at you. They're 100 percent aware of what's going on.
Matt: They're not staring at you. They're staring at the crystal.
Laura: They will be staring at us. What if we destroy the crystal? I wonder if all the undead would die. Let's keep going.
Matt: The handkerchief makes its way forward. Simon walks between the undead, and they don't even notice.
Sam: That's a good guy, that Simon 2.
Marisha: What happens?
Matt: The handkerchief moves over onto the crystal, and all the undead look over to the crystal, and the crystal lifts, and they all begin to (groans).
Travis: I take the hooded lantern and I (laughs) I throw the fucking piss out of it.
Matt: Make an attack roll. Roll and add your strength modifier.
Travis: Oh, that's good! 19.
Matt: You're adding your strength modifier to that? Yeah. You're aiming at the opposite end?
Travis: If the entrance is here, I'm throwing it in the opposite direction of where we are.
Matt: With your strength? Easy enough. You lob it. It arcs over (flame noises) and explodes. The oil spreads across the ground. Flames ignite, and the bright light that emanates from it and the flames burst, and all the undead turn over (grunting) and begin to retract away. Two of them are following Simon. Only two of the undead are following Simon, currently. The others are distracted by the detonation of flame. They look confused.
Liam: How close are the pursuers?
Matt: They're making their way slowly. No, they're much faster than Simon.
Liam: I'm throwing.
Laura: I'm going to get down and shoot.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Just the ones following Simon!
Matt: Both of you guys roll an attack.
Travis: Are they far away from the other ones that aren't leaving yet?
Taliesin: It doesn't matter; they're not paying attention.
Laura: 25. No, 33.
Liam: 29.
Matt: Roll damage.
Taliesin: They drop out of nowhere. They faint. It's going to be good.
Marisha: So we hope.
Taliesin: I thought you were made of sterner stuff, Travis. Come on. Now is not the time to get squeamish.
Laura: 24.
Taliesin: We made a solemn oath.
Sam: They were innocent.
Taliesin: We agreed, weeks ago.
Liam: I rolled a 77 for mine.
Sam: 77?!
Matt: These two skeletons almost atomize. As they're walking, they're both gaining on Simon, and as they both start reaching towards where the dull bluish glow, mostly muted by the handkerchief, is floating in the air, they (growl) towards it. You watch as both their heads and torsos scatter across the ground, like a heavy wave of force blasted them across the stonework. The scraping sound hits as the detonation hits. The flames are dying down, and... no, no other undead see it. Slowly, the stone floats past, out of the doorway, and makes its way back to you.
Taliesin: Drop it in the Bag of Holding.
Matt: At this point, Simon's getting real close to the end of his hour-long casting time.
Sam: You've served us well.
Travis: Bag of Holding. It doesn't hurt my hand, or anything, does it?
Matt: No.
Travis: Cool! We've got that.
Matt: Whatever it is.
Laura: I guess we have it.
Marisha: Nothing happened to them when we put it in the Bag of Holding? They were like, (groaning) and kept going? All the undead?
Matt: All the undead inside that were distracted by the explosion of the lantern are riled up now, and they're starting to wander around, and some of them are starting to make their way towards the entrance to the temple. Some are making their way toward the staircase to head upward.
Marisha: Are we flying?
Travis: Yes, we fly up.
Matt: All right. You go into eagle form, grab Vax, and all of you guys make your way up into the cavern entrance.
Laura: Bubble. Tight bubble.
Matt: Currently, I believe the eagle form has darkvision. Right now, you have no light source.
Liam: I do. I can say things to her. I can see.
Matt: Right, so you guys are able to maneuver. So as you guys head up into the center part of the cavern, above the catwalks, you can see as you push through, about a third of them are still standing. A lot of them have collapsed in the center, and there's edges of bridges that come to a halt where they've collapsed and tumbled down into the cavern below. You can see straggling undead wandering the catwalks and these pathways along the edges of the cavern. As you pass forward through them-- I imagine you guys are cruising through as fast as you can?
Taliesin: Trying to avoid them.
Laura: We'll try to avoid the clusters.
Matt: A few of them seem to glance up and see you as you pass and reach, but they have nowhere to go. As you begin to cruise through the center of this cavern, following it to the opposite side, it widens further, and now as you look down, faintly, you can see bits of the orange bioluminescent fungus that are growing within this city below. You can see elements of these beautiful statues that are partially crumbled. You can see small homes that litter the center of this chamber. You can see some of the catwalks that meet in the center of this actually meet in a suspended platform that contains another dome-like structure that is partially caved in. With another shake and impact of the titan's footfall, you watch as one of its suspension pillars cracks, and the entire center finally gives way and falls and slams down, collapsing into the center of the chamber, it being there for the final moment of its tensile strength. As it slams down, you watch as it crushes about 40 or so various skeletons below, and from that blast, you can see something on the interior of it was apparently explosive or flammable, and it explodes, giving a brief flash of light into the center of this cavern. Where you had the brief outside of your visual range, you now look around and see the entirety of these dozens of catwalks and the city below you. Hundreds and hundreds of roving skeletons and mostly decomposed, mummified dwarven corpses that all glance towards this explosion. Some have been blasted away from it by the impact of the detonation. Others are making their way towards what the strange sound was, drawn towards it, but you're keeping this central safe space between, where none of them can grasp or assail you.
Laura: Were there other buildings like that, ready to fall from the ceiling?
Matt: Currently, what you see is just the one.
Liam: I'm looking for gaps or holes or anything in the ceiling of this cavern or anywhere to get out. MATT; You see entrances to homes that are built into the sides.
Sam: What about a tunnel or anything?
Matt: Make a perception check. Anyone who has darkvision can make a perception check.
Marisha: I have keen sight. Does that count?
Matt: You have advantage on your perception.
Marisha: Oh, shitty and shittier.
Liam: 27.
Travis: 18.
Laura: 18.
Sam: I didn't do one.
Marisha: 28.
Sam: I'm weeping over Simon 2.
Matt: Oh. Your keen eagle vision-- wait, you said you rolled shitty and shittier and still got 28?
Marisha: I have a plus 13, plus advantage.
Matt: Right. All right, cool. So glancing through your eagle vision, you can see the top of the chamber almost seems to come to a conical shape, and as you look up to the top of it, it emerges into a completely vertical chamber that rises up and out of the central opening of the city of Thomara.
Sam: Let's go.
Marisha: I take the lead, I guess. (caws)
Laura: (shushes) Caw quietly.
Liam: Vax is trying to appreciate his last ride.
Travis: Debbie Downer.
Liam: No way! I'm not going to stop. Fuck you all. Every game until the end, motherfuckers!
Matt: As the group of you make your way up into this vertical cavern, we're going to take a break. I need to take a break, myself.
Travis: Remember, we have the--
Travis: Sponsored announcement.
Matt: That's right. We have the Shadow of War video coming up at this break to give you a glance at this game coming up that we're all part of. If you haven't seen it, or if you have seen it, check it out, anyway. It's pretty awesome. Also, for this week's giveaway, Wyrmwood, we've got a little video for you here to show you what's up and what you can do and try to win it at the break, so pay attention, stick around, and we'll see you guys here in a few minutes.
Liam: This is what's up!
Travis: Yeah! [break]
Matt: Hello, everyone, and welcome back. All right, so last we left off, you guys were all traveling upward through various means of flight, through a peak in the central cavern chamber in the center of Thomara, the long-dead dwarven city. As you begin to climb upward through this 15-foot-wide or so upward hallway, this cylindrical cavern, you continue upward for about 50 or so feet since passing through the ceiling of this chamber, and then it opens up into a domed room. Immediately, as you fly up, you see a ceiling come up, and you have to coast off to the side. You catch yourself, hovering there as the rest of you guys make your way in there. This domed, mushroom-shaped chamber with a very thin, circular floor around the outside with the hole that you entered at the bottom. Whoever would stand on the edge there would have the opportunity to either leap into or toss something down into this hole that would then drop them right into the center of the city.
Taliesin: Weird question  if I were holding the blue gem and had dropped it down this hole, what would be the likelihood it would have ended vaguely where it ended up?
Matt: Not at all. It was a ways off.
Taliesin: Just checking.
Laura: Are there any undead around us right now?
Matt: Currently? Glancing around, you do not see any undead.
Marisha: You said things or people? Is this a body-sized hole?
Matt: No, it's about 15 feet wide. The full chamber is maybe 50 or so feet across. About a 20-foot walkway, circular, before the hole in the center.
Liam: Did you say the hole is a natural gap in the cave, or does it look made?
Matt: If you glance down and look about the interior of this chamber, it is not natural. It is all carved.
Laura: Can we look at the gem for a second, since there's no undead around?
Matt: If you want to. Grog has it.
Travis: Do you want me to pull it out?
Laura: Yeah. Can you do an arcana check on it?
Sam: Sure. I can look at it.
Laura: How big is it? Is it baseball-sized?
Matt: It's about that big.
Travis: No undead, right? No creatures, nobody that's going to (whoop) to the shiny blue light?
Laura: We can't see anything around us?
Matt: Not at the moment, no.
Sam: I remove the handkerchief. I look at it. I inspect it like a jeweler inspecting a jewel. 18 arcana check.
Matt: Okay. It's definitely magical. The blue light from it grows stronger, then weaker. Stronger, then weaker. It has this rhythmic flash to it, like a heart or something that has a pulse to it.
Marisha: How is it lining up towards the steps of the giant?
Matt: Not at all. It's much quicker.
Marisha: Much quicker.
Matt: It's cold to the touch.
Taliesin: Does it do anything to the Titanstone Knuckles?
Liam: Is it faster than my heartbeat?
Matt: It's slower.
Liam: Slower.
Travis: That's slow.
Marisha: So it's very slow, but not as slow as the rate he's walking.
Travis: Is it a cut jewel, or is it rough?
Matt: It's rough. No jeweler's hand has touched it. There are some edges that have flat surfaces; it looks like there have been things that have chipped off the stone.
Taliesin: Does it have the vibe of something petrified?
Matt: No, it has almost a quartz-like look to it. Elements of it appear to be cloudier or imperfect, and some areas appear to be clearer, and light shines through a little brighter.
Liam: It's like a hunk at the natural history museum of minerals.
Matt: Yeah, but there is an enchantment.
Sam: What about Pikey-pants? Can she detect if it's evil or good or something? Does she do that?
Laura: You should do that.
Liam: I'm going to do that.
Matt: Okay. You don't get a sense of any evil from the stone.
Sam: You said no sense of evil?
Matt: No evil coming from the stone.
Laura: Okay, I'm going to gaze into it super hard.
Matt: You look really hard into the stone as you hold it to your face, and your eyes almost cross as you glance into the very core source of this pulsating arcane energy. It's bright.
Laura: So bright, y'all.
Matt: It hurts a little bit, and you wince after a while.
Laura: I saw so many things.
Liam: She looked at the eclipse, too.
Travis: We don't have Identify or anything like that, do we?
Marisha: No.
Sam: No.
Laura: You know who had that?
Sam: No, who?
Laura: Our good friend, Tary. He was wonderful.
Sam: Who is it? Oh, the fancy fellow? He's probably dead somewhere.
Travis: I think we should try and smash it.
Sam: Don't you think that about everyone and everything?
Marisha: I'm not against this idea.
Travis: What else are we going to do to it before we face El Vecna?
Taliesin: My only other thought of how it could be useful, at this point, with what we know about it--
Sam: Is "El Vecna" Spanish for Vecna?
Travis: S.
Taliesin: It seemed like the undead were crowding towards it, which means that if we do get attacked by a group of undead, we might be able to shiny-object them, unless, of course, it's dangerous in their hands.
Travis: Or we spike it down the hole, and it causes a hydrogen bomb, and we shatter this titan in half.
Taliesin: That literally made the dungeon master laugh, so I don't know if that's necessarily--
Travis: It's blue, right? That is the color of hydrogen.
Taliesin: That's the color of Dr. Manhattan. I don't necessarily know if it's the same thing.
Travis: It is known.
Sam: Why don't we hang onto it for now? In a moment of peril, we can throw it or smash it.
Taliesin: Not crazy, trying to crack it.
Liam: What if it stops this thing where it stands? We're all thinking that this thing could be its heart.
Sam: Its heart?
Travis: It's palm-sized, right?
Taliesin: It could be a chunk of heart.
Laura: Is it the same color as his Knuckles?
Travis: No, these are stone-gray. This is blue crystal.
Matt: There's nothing about it that gives you the sense, based on what you've seen both outside and within the titan, that it is of similar essence to the titan, from what you understand.
Travis: It could be a soul or something.
Sam: Soul glow?
Travis: Does Pike have anything that detects a soul?
Liam: It's not evil. It's not good. It could be the thing that's keeping these undead moving.
Travis: Well, then I don't know what else to do. I think we keep moving.
Liam: I like the spiking idea.
Laura: I'm okay squishing it with the hammer.
Liam: I think that you should let me squish it, because if that blows up--
Laura: I think it's funny that we spent so much time getting it, and then we're going to destroy it.
Liam: We spent ten minutes getting this thing.
Travis: We'll think about smashing it when we take our rest. Maybe a cause will reveal itself.
Taliesin: Hold onto it for now. It could come in handy.
Marisha: It's like that dress you bought four years ago you still haven't worn. It might find a purpose.
Sam: All right, focus!
Laura: Let's get out of this dome.
Travis: Is there any writing or engraving or runes on the edge of the circle that's been engineered?
Matt: On the edge of the circle? No. It's smooth stone, intently designed to be a drop or opening of some kind.
Taliesin: Are there exits?
Matt: Make an investigation check. You don't see any doorways or passageways.
Marisha: Wait, there's not a hole that we can go up?
Matt: There's a hole that you came through to come into this chamber. Imagine a dome. You're in the chamber.
Taliesin: I literally rolled a one. I'm aware that there's a hole.
Matt: You get vertigo as you stand in the chamber.
Laura: Is this investigation or perception?
Matt: You look about, and you don't see any exit. Investigation to see if there's any hidden or not-immediately-noticeable exits or entryways.
Laura: 23.
Matt: 23. As you do a pass around, looking closely along the wall, you see two small domed doors that have metal rods jammed through, almost like a small barricade that's been placed down on one side of a doorway. However, they are closed from this side.
Laura: So you could open them up?
Matt: You could.
Laura: Are they trapped? I'll look to see if they're trapped.
Liam: On it.
Travis: Also fair to assume that whatever's on the other side of that door--
Liam: 27.
Matt: 27?
Laura: I rolled an 18.
Matt: You're both looking at the same one?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Neither of you notice any traps.
Laura: All right, then I'm going to try to jimmy open that lock.
Travis: Whoa.
Laura: I already said it.
Matt: Make a strength check.
Liam: Not locked.
Laura: Two! Wait. Yeah, that's straight-up strength, not a saving throw? Two!
Sam: Two?
Laura: I'm really fucking weak. You'd think I'd be stronger pulling the bowstring, but no.
Travis: Use your legs. Really, use your legs.
Laura: Okay. I put my legs up on the wall and (grunts).
Matt: It is not budging.
Liam: Can I use my finger skills to see if it's locked? Just my finger skills. I made a perception check to see if it's trapped. Wouldn't I know if it's locked?
Matt: The lock is the barricading mechanism on it. There is no handle.
Liam: I'm going to try to sidestep this lock with my lock-picking skills.
Travis: It's a barricade.
Marisha: It's a barricade.
Liam: There's nothing to do?
Marisha: It's like steel rebar in front of the door.
Travis: Is there any decorating or writing or scratching around the door frame or wall around the door? Anything other than a portal to go through?
Matt: Not from what you can see, no. The room's pretty simple. The construction of it may be older than most of the things that you've seen in the city below and previous chambers. It seems to be built almost for function rather than ceremony.
Laura: It's a trash chute.
Marisha: That's what I was going to say. Is it a water chute? Drainage? Is this a drain pipe?
Laura: We could fill the city with water. Drown all the zombies.
Matt: One thing you do notice, which is interesting as you're glancing around at the side, looking at the ground at the bottom of it, there's a very faint groove in the ground that leads toward the central hole at the base of each of these doorways.
Marisha: Does there appear to be any other type of chutes coming into this room?
Matt: No, just the two doors on the opposite sides.
Travis: How far apart are the doors?
Matt: Opposite sides of the chamber, yeah.
Taliesin: So there's a bar. The door is barred, then?
Matt: Correct.
Taliesin: So break it. Let's get out of the way and pop the bar. See if we can pop the bar right off the door.
Travis: Do we want to have Keyleth there in case 900 undead zombies start pouring through, and she can Wall of Stone the door?
Marisha: I'll be with you. Yeah. I'm right behind you, man.
Travis: I will try and remove one of the doors. I don't know how to delineate between them.
Taliesin: The left one.
Travis: Sure. Yeah. It's a circle. That one. 25.
Matt: 25. It immediately comes off to the side, and when you lift it, you realize that it's bolted to the wall to the side, and it curves upward and holds it in place. This is meant to stay in place.
Laura: Wow. Really? It was meant to move? I think I loosened it for you, Grog.
Travis: I didn't get that sense at all.
Matt: As you lift it up, the door is now unbarred.
Travis: Shall I?
Laura: Yeah, open the door!
Travis: Are the hinges on this side so it looks like it opens towards me?
Matt: It looks like it opens towards you, yes.
Travis: I'll pull open the door.
Marisha: I'm at the ready for whatever.
Matt: Okay. We'll say as you entered and landed, the door on the left. Okay, so as you pull that one open, immediately preparing yourself, a couple of rocks tumble out, and it reveals a packed-tight mass of earth and stone.
Laura: Shit! Let's try the other one.
Travis: Should I punch the rubble?
Laura: No, let's try the other door first.
Travis: I make my way around.
Taliesin: We set ourselves up.
Travis: 20 on the dot.
Matt: 20. (metal creaking) It lifts over without an issue. Pull the door open. You lift it open, and a few rocks tumble past, but a slick rockslide incline continues upward, dry, no water. Nothing.
Travis: A rockslide continues onward. Slick, dry.
Laura: How big is the tunnel?
Matt: It's about four feet wide or so.
Laura: So we can fit in?
Matt: Yeah, you can fit in.
Taliesin: We have some Immovable Rods.
Matt: When I say slide, I mean smooth stone, like an actual slide. You get the sense that there was some sort of aqueduct-type scenario.
Laura: We brace ourselves on the wall to make sure we don't slide down.
Taliesin: Whoever's in the back should have the Immovable Rods, so if there's a sudden rush of water, we can create a grate for ourselves.
Matt: You envision that at one point, long ago, this would have been a beautiful waterfall in the center of Thomara's chamber that has now dried.
Travis: Dope. That's awesome. I'm getting creepy as fuck now. I've got the Immovable Rod; I'll be the caboose.
Marisha: I've got the other one, so I'll be second.
Matt: So Grog is the caboose.
Marisha: Keyleth in front of Grog.
Matt: Keyleth in front of Grog? All right. Who's in front of them?
Sam: Me.
Matt: Scanlan.
Laura: Pike.
Matt: Then Pike. All righty.
Taliesin: Myself and the twins, I suppose.
Laura: Yeah. I want to be in the front.
Travis: I'll go ahead and take the Immovable Rod out and have it in my hand.
Marisha: Samesies.
Matt: So you've got both of those. Oh, I totally forgot there was a winner for this. I'm sorry. I should do that, huh? RyanBoo, you're the winner. Danoba will contact you and get you your cherry deck box soon. Now that's taken care of. You make your way up the slide, and it's relatively gradual; it's not too heavy of a scenario. You make your way upward, upward, and about 30 or so feet up, the walls of it separate out and appear to break into two smaller chambers, like this was a breaking point where a person could enter from either side to check on the flow or do maintenance on whatever the ducting was. The slide continues upward. Vax and Vex, you get to that portion and lift yourselves up, looking right to left. It ends on one side, and it looks like there's some dry-rotted wooden crates, and to the left, a staircase.
Marisha: So it looks like a landing?
Matt: It's a brief landing for somebody who needed to come in and do repairs, maintenance, or checking on the flow of water.
Laura: Keep going up the slide or take the stairs?
Liam: Quick glance in the crates?
Marisha: No, if you're going to take a quick glance, then we have to bust them open like a proper RPG.
Travis: They're dry-rotted. They'll break easy.
Matt: They will. What do you do?
Liam: Check them out. I eat some edamame.
Matt: So you lift the crates. There are only two of them, and they're relatively small: two feet by two feet. The first one, you open up and look inside, and there are rusted tools. Long iron bars; some appear wrench-like. It looks like whatever mechanism was used as the early aqueduct system for this, this box contained materials, though you're uncertain as to what their application was into this system.
Taliesin: I'll take a glance at these things to memorize their general shape.
Travis: After you're done with them, I'll actually take them.
Matt: You go and grab a few. There's five rods of varying widths. Some appear to be ratchet elements, where they fit around different metal caps. There's one that looks like a wide crowbar that's used to hold or wedge elements separately. Very basic; nothing too intricate.
Taliesin: This is some basic shit that you're picking up right now.
Liam: That was the first crate. What's the next crate? Is it whoopee cushions?
Matt: No, the next crate you open up and it looks mostly empty, but it looks like there are a couple of rows of small glass vials, half of which appear to be broken or shattered, but there are three remaining, with a faint bluish liquid on the inside.
Laura: Does that sound familiar to us at all?
Liam: Healing potions are blue.
Matt: These don't resemble healing potions, actually.
Taliesin: Do these resemble underwater breathing?
Matt: They do. You've seen these before.
Liam: For toilet diving.
Taliesin: Emergency, yeah. Let's take those.
Travis: Okay. I got them.
Liam: I give one of them to Percy for being so sharp. I give one to my sister. You don't need it. I keep one. No, I don't. I'm barely alive. I give one to Scanlan.
Sam: I give it to Grog.
Travis: I've got one. I've got two, actually.
Sam: All right, then I'll keep one.
Taliesin: Just in case.
Travis: I've got two vials of underwater breathing.
Matt: All righty.
Taliesin: Why is there no water running?
Travis: Any other boxes to smash?
Matt: No.
Marisha: I'd imagine because he's vertical now instead of horizontal.
Travis: And undead.
Sam: Let's keep going up the stairs.
Matt: All right. Heading up the stairs in the same order?
Liam: 30 to 40 feet in advance.
Matt: All righty. 30 to 40 feet in advance? Okay. You make your way up the staircase. Roll stealth.
Travis: Immovable Rod's out.
Liam: 28 for stealth.
Matt: Okay. Are you stealthing, as well? Are you going along with him, or are you letting him go ahead?
Liam: She's coming.
Laura: Natural 20.
Matt: All right, so the two of you very quietly make your way ahead, the rest of you keeping within, I assume, the range of the ring. The staircase doesn't go too far; it goes maybe 30 or so feet, and then it opens into a hallway. You're stepping up through the floor, and there's about ten feet behind and to the sides of you. There's a slight element of a cave-in to the left of you, where part of the stone seems to have collapsed, and a bit of the earth has filtered in. It's a smooth stone floor that's tiled in places. The walls continue on, a somewhat trapezoid-like angle. There are other portions of the wall that have caved in on certain elements, and there are two large pillars that mark the center of this hallway, either used as support beams or decorative, but they go from ceiling to floor. You glance over the side, and you see a distant staircase on the far end of this hallway, maybe 80 to 90 feet from where you are, if not further, with larger stairs. You've seen some of the dwarven-based ones. These seem to be a little more grandiose as they lift up higher and higher. Part of that hallway is completely collapsed; it's a wall of fallen earth. But there's a hole carved out of it. There's a tunnel that has been pushed through. You hear this very faint buzzing sound. Very faint. This (low humming). A very faint vibration. You also see a figure stepping from a side wall crevasse, an opening of a similar shape to the circular opening in the wall.
Liam: I hide.
Laura: We were stealthed.
Matt: You guys were stealthed. You re-hide, while stealthed.
Liam: That's what I do.
Matt: You hear some muttering across the way in the shadow. There's a faint source of light that looks like a glowing orb that's floating in the air above and giving this faint greenish-white light; a bauble that's giving a light source to whatever this cloaked figure is. You hear the muttering, and two more walk down the staircase to join them. You recognize, from the faint bit of light, a glimmer of metal around the neck of one of them that is the symbol, the hole with the metallic fork. You see Remnants of Vecna.
Sam: Remnants?
Matt: You don't see any faces. You see a glimmer or shine on the metal from the light cast from the bauble.
Marisha: What?
Taliesin: What?
Taliesin: This can't be happening right now.
Liam: We don't recognize faces? We don't see faces?
Matt: You see hooded figures that are walking in. There are three of them.
Marisha: Oh, so they're cultists.
Matt: Okay. So which ones are you aiming at? There's three of them.
Laura: I'm aiming at the first one I saw.
Matt: Okay, the first one you saw just stepped out of the center of the hall there, and then the two others walked down the hallway. You're aiming at the one that came out of the side of the wall?
Laura: Has he seen the two coming down the stairway yet?
Matt: There's been discussion over the shoulder. They seem to be aware of each other's presence, but they haven't come together to engage as three in the same area yet.
Liam: I will follow my sister's lead. If she attacks one, I send one to another one and two to the third.
Laura: I'll attack the first so he can take the second.
Liam: One. Two, three.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: All righty.
Laura: These are auto-crits, though, because we are surprising them.
Matt: This is true.
Laura: Can I Hunter's Mark him?
Matt: Yes, you can Hunter's Mark him.
Laura: Oh, so we don't have to roll for attack? It's an auto-crit.
Matt: Well, no, you still have to roll to see if you aim. You have advantage on the attack.
Laura: 27.
Liam: 27 on my first.
Matt: Okay, both hit.
Laura: Second attack. Oh my god, 20. 20 on the second attack.
Matt: Okay, that hits.
Laura: I got a one on both. Thank god they were both at advantage.
Liam: 27. 19, 25.
Matt: Okay, all three hit.
Laura: And they're all critical?
Matt: No, the first one crits.
Liam: Oh, really? Okay. The first is sneak attack.
Matt: They're not all crit. Once you hit the person they are no longer surprised.
Laura: Okay, so the first one is a crit. Solid! That's okay.
Marisha: Yeah, I feel so bad for you.
Liam: You are the most powerful person at this table.
Laura: 14, plus six lightning damage. Oh wait, you know what? Should I single out the lightning damage or say what all the damage is?
Matt: Well, it's an auto-crit, so lightning damage is doubled, as well.
Laura: So it's 12 lightning damage.
Matt: Right, plus whatever your sneak attack damage is.
Laura: Okay.
Taliesin: Yeah, that's happening.
Travis: You already did 40 point of damage without doubling.
Laura: Don't do that.
Sam: Travis, shut up! These two and their gigantic damage rolls.
Taliesin: Huge, mammoth.
Sam: Huge, bulbous.
Taliesin: Turgid.
Laura: I had already rolled that, but it was a six again, so 40, plus 12 lightning damage. On the first.
Matt: 52 points of damage.
Liam: I got 48 on my first, but that's it. 48, done.
Laura: I didn't do Hunter's Mark damage on that first guy.
Matt: This is on the other guy; the second guy.
Laura: Add ten because of Hunter's Mark on the first one.
Marisha: Little bit of that reach around.
Sam: The dice smell a little bit.
Liam: 48. 20, ten.
Matt: So 48 on your critical.
Liam: That's the critical. That's the dice damage. I rolled really low.
Matt: 20, ten. Okay, then. All righty. Are you shooting the same guy, Laura?
Laura: Yes, I was all on one, unless he went down. Would I notice?
Matt: No, he did not go down.
Laura: Okay, then the second one. 21 on the second one.
Matt: That does it.
Travis: How much damage? Total.
Matt: Total on that round from you would have been 110 with the first hit between the two of you on the first guy and the second hit. So the one that was off to the side, who is leaning forward, hunched over, and looking over his shoulder. The first arrow goes into the throat and he reaches for it, and as he does, the dagger (impact) into the face, into the socket where there is no eye, which then looks up with a groan. Finger goes out as soon as the second arrow takes the other eye out, and then falls back down to the ground, dead. Pointing your direction like (gasping). As soon as the two other daggers go into the other two, they both see the one crumple to the ground, the two left there, the guy who is standing at the stairs--
Liam: May I also dump some poison?
Matt: Sure, into which one?
Liam: Into the first one. I did one into my first target and two into the second; the poison would have gone into the second person. It's a DC of 15.
Matt: All righty. DC of 15? Yeah, that succeeds. 16.
Liam: So nothing, right?
Matt: Nothing, yeah.
Liam: Balls!
Matt: As soon as the one crumples to the ground and the two other daggers into the other two that are there, they (grunt). They see the one fall. The one in the center of the chamber glances over his shoulder and says, "It seems I'm the lucky one. Odell, run back and tell that Viskorad found sneaky prey." The one immediately to the left begins to run up the stairs.
Laura: Can I shoot him again before he runs away?
Matt: Nope because you took your turn. This is their reaction.
Sam: Oh shit. You need help, Matt?
Liam: Initiative!
Matt: We're about to roll initiative, motherfuckers.
Laura: Sorry, guys. We did it.
Marisha: Viskon? We've heard the name Viskon before.
Sam: We've also heard the name Odell.
Liam: Yeah, Odell.
Marisha: Odell comma tell Viskon we have visitors. Wait, when did we hear Odell before?
Liam: I just know we've heard it.
Sam: There's been three Jamieson's in our campaign, too. Matt isn't an infinite fount of names.
Matt: Everyone else is still down the stairs right there.
Laura: I wonder if we should have let them talk for a second. Oh, well.
Liam: That's not our way.
Matt: Apparently not, as recent events have shown. So now, I need everyone to roll initiative.
Travis: Don't fuck me, Gil.
Laura: No, it's okay. I've got advantage.
Marisha: Don't let them leave. I agree with that.
Taliesin: Leave one of them alive, but don't let them leave.
Liam: Not good for Pike.
Marisha: Did everyone roll shittily?
Travis: No.
Matt: 25 to 20?
Laura: 23.
Travis: 21.
Liam: Get that long range. Get that runner.
Matt: 20 to 15?
Sam: 18.
Marisha: 15.
Matt: All righty.
Marisha: What's up, bro?
Liam: I'm not fast.
Taliesin: 13.
Liam: 13.
Travis: That's weird for you.
Taliesin: It's almost as low as I can go.
Matt: 13 for Pike? No, that's Vax. What's Pike?
Liam: Pike clocked in at four.
Matt: Pike is clocking in as Pike.
Liam: Yeah. Where's the remix of this song?
Taliesin: I know. (beatboxes)
Matt: All righty, so beginning of the round. Vex, you're up first.
Laura: Okay, I'm going to cast Grasping Vine around here, so he can lash up and try to catch that wizard, the cloaked guy that's running away.
Matt: What's he have to roll for that?
Laura: He has to roll a dexterity save above 15.
Marisha: Get it! Get it, son!
Matt: That's an eight. He is running up the stairs.
Laura: So it snatches his ankle.
Matt: And then drags him.
Laura: Backwards. Then I'm going to shoot him twice.
Matt: All right. Go for it.
Taliesin: Not that one. That one looks like he knows too much.
Laura: What is that? 32.
Matt: 32, that hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
Laura: 14, plus four lightning damage. I don't get sneak attack on this guy, though?
Matt: No.
Laura: Okay. 14, plus four lightning damage, and then I'm going to hit him again. That is also a 32. No, that's-- well, it's very high. 27? 28
Matt: 28. All right, that hits. Roll damage. Grog, you're up next. You're in the back of the marching order.
Travis: We're not up at the top, are we?
Matt: No. So you've got at least 25, 30 feet before you can get to the top there.
Laura: 12, plus six lightning damage.
Matt: Nice. All right, 36 points of damage in one round. The arrows (impact) as he is pulled through the rock and rubble by the Grasping Vine that is currently wrapped around him.
Laura: I am going to use my movement to stand behind this little pillar right here.
Matt: Okay, go for it. Grog, you're up.
Travis: As I hear the sweet melodical Miami Vice tunes of warfare being played, can I double dash up past my mates and into the fray?
Matt: Sure, so at 30 feet, it'll get you right at the edge of the stairs. Still have 20 more feet you can go.
Travis: Yeah, straight towards them.
Matt: All right, so that's there.
Travis: Then can I use dash to go the rest of the way?
Matt: To close the gap there? Sure.
Travis: Now, I only have my bonus action left, so can I go into a rage?
Matt: You may, yeah. All righty, so at that point you go into a rage.
Travis: That's my turn.
Matt: All righty, so now it is his turn.
Marisha: You have that guy? But this guy was the runner, I thought.
Taliesin: Yeah, but he's vined.
Marisha: Okay. He's currently grasped.
Matt: Okay, as soon as you rush up into his face, you hear the individual, the hood pulled back at this point. You see shaved entirely bald, older, late fifties to early sixties, missing one eye, but in that socket you can see a faint spark of arcane energy. Shouting out amongst the space, "Glory and reward is mine! Wraiths, go forth and devour, while I bring oblivion to them." As you rush up, is going to cast Wall of Force right in the space between there.
Marisha: Between him and Grog?
Laura: (singing) The space between.
Sam: (singing) Your wicked lies.
Matt: It pushes you back five feet, and now there is a Wall of Force that is blocking that side of the hallway from where he is.
Marisha: Him and the other guy? Or just between him? How big is it?
Matt: Sorry, the entirety of this chamber is the Wall of Force.
Marisha: Fucking fuckface.
Travis: What does Wall of Force do? Can I walk through that shit?
Marisha: Yeah, it just might hurt.
Travis: Will it?
Matt: As soon as the wall appears there, you see a slight short barrier that forces you back about five feet. You catch your back foot, and now as the barrier finishes shimmering, it's invisible. Looks like there's nothing there. He's grinning from there. He glances over to the right into the hole in the wall where his friend was earlier.
Travis: Which was that way, right?
Matt: As he glances over, he goes, "Odell, bring me the sphere." You hear the humming noise, the faint humming vibrational noise, now louder. That ends his turn. Actually, he is going to take a step back up onto the stairs there. Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: I'm up? What can I do?
Matt: You're 20 feet down from the staircase.
Sam: My speed is 25.
Matt: That'll get you right up to about there, with five-foot steps.
Marisha: Don't let them leave!
Sam: Oh god, this looks like a crazy thing.
Travis: (counting) 60 is how far away he is.
Sam: Wow. There's a Wall of Force. Do I see a Wall of Force?
Matt: You don't. You actually rush up, and it looks like it's an open hallway right now.
Sam: Okay. I see Grog in attack mode, right? I see these two bad guys. I will send a Lightning Bolt at somebody.
Matt: Which one?
Sam: Looks like I can't see this guy because there is a pillar in between, so the other guy.
Matt: That's true, so it'll be that guy. All right. You'll have to move off to the side, or else you're going to hit Grog with the Lightning Bolt. It's going to be hard. He's up a few steps, though. You could probably aim it above and hit him without Grog. I'll let you do that. As you get to the top, you release your bolt of lightning. (crackling noise) It arcs forward, and as it gets right above Grog, it hits something solid and splinters. No effect.
Liam: So this Wall of Force visually is floor to ceiling?
Matt: You don't know; you don't see it. He saw a faint shimmer because something pushed him out of this space, but right now you have no visual perspective. That's going to end Scanlan's turn, I believe. All right. The other guy, who is currently held by the vine that falls limp off of his body--
Laura: It falls limp off of his body?
Matt: Well, it doesn't wrap around or keep him held. Every turn, it can pull something towards it. He's going to glance over towards the side, listening to what the other, Viskorad, said. Okay. At which point, that humming gets louder and louder.
Taliesin: He had the map. If he built the map, there's a way out.
Matt: You watch as a two-foot-wide black sphere of void-like nothingness comes carving through the stone wall immediately to the left of you, Grog, leaving a completely disintegrated form roughly the shape of its sphere. It's coasting in towards and into your space.
Travis: It's a Sphere of Annihilation.
Liam: Yes, it is.
Taliesin: Oh shit, son!
Laura: Oh god!
Sam: Is someone controlling it?
Matt: So Grog, I need you to go ahead and make a dexterity saving throw.
Laura: Oh my god, roll so well! Do you get advantage?
Travis: I do. I have Danger Sense. It fucks you up. Yeah, it hurts real bad.
Sam: I see this happening, right?
Travis: 16.
Matt: 16, okay. You manage to duck out of the way as it enters the space, and you can feel this weird energy. Your beard is almost being pulled toward it, and the loud vibrating (vibration) hum before you. It's like staring into an absolute nothingness.
Travis: Take my life, but not my beard.
Marisha: Who looks like he's controlling it? Odell?
Matt: The guy who is being pulled by her is concentrating and moving it over, at that point.
Laura: Oh, the guy in red? The guy in red is controlling it!
Matt: All right. That's going to end his turn. Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: (yells)
Matt: I've got to rest for a second. Controlling enemies hurt. It's okay.
Sam: We can get dudes behind you to hold you up.
Matt: We'll see how I can do it. Keyleth, your turn.
Marisha: Oh my god. So much has changed from what I thought I was going to do.
Matt: You're about 25 feet down the staircase.
Marisha: Yeah. So I come up from the staircase.
Matt: Okay. That gets you up to the edge there, where the staircase stops.
Travis: Does the Sphere of Annihilation get an attack of opportunity if I run away?
Taliesin: Probably not.
Sam: Is it a thing? Is it a weapon?
Matt: It's a black sphere of void. One of the guys is looking focused, concentrating on it, and it moved under his willpower in the direction of Grog.
Travis: It's real bad.
Marisha: Okay. I'm going to come up. I'm trying to think of what I have in range, and I'm terrified. And I'm going to stick with my original instinct and do Wall of Stone and try and wall these guys in so they can't run. I think they can still carve through it with their big black death orb now.
Travis: They can, but at least they'll be here.
Taliesin: They'll have to move the orb to do that.
Marisha: Okay. I can do ten ten-foot by ten-foot panels, so I want to be a semicircle block off, bring up a whole wall of stone behind them.
Matt: Okay. Hold on a second.
Travis: Who can get to the other side? You have Dimension Door. But that's it, right? That's the only person that has that kind of a thing.
Matt: As you attempt to concentrate and create a Wall of Stone, you are unable to pick a point or an area beyond the barrier.
Travis: The Wall of Force? No!
Laura: Say it again?
Travis: And you need to focus, or is it a random?
Matt: It doesn't fizzle the spell. You have no area to release it on. The barrier, while invisible, is preventing targeting a specific area to create.
Taliesin: We need to dispel this shit.
Marisha: I do have Dispel Magic.
Matt: You've used your action to attempt it. You didn't lose the spell slot, but you spent your action attempting it.
Travis: Hey, man. That was a nice try.
Marisha: Can't cast through it.
Laura: Good to know. But the orb went through it?
Matt: No, the orb is on the other side.
Marisha: Even though it's a nature thing, going up underneath there, I can't get around it? No?
Matt: You're targeting on the other side of the wall. It has to be in visual range for you to create it to happen.
Marisha: (singing) I'll see you on the other side of the wall. (laughter)
Matt: All right. That's Keyleth's turn. No, sorry. At the end of Keyleth's turn, you hear this (breathy noise) sound as these two shadowy figures emerge from the nearby walls.
Liam: Ghosts! Shadows!
Travis: No. What? Ghosts or wraiths?
Marisha: Wraiths.
Liam: There's ten different kinds of things like that.
Marisha: Hey, was wraiths what fucked me and you up when we were evil Vax and Keyleth?
Taliesin: Oh shit, and look what they're doing!
Matt: This one hovers over and lands behind Keyleth. And it's going to attempt, as it seems to shift through the pillar--
Marisha: I look over my shoulder and go  Oh no!
Matt: This one here stays within the pillar, and it reaches out, as it's incorporeal, and strikes at you. That is 24 against you, Vex.
Laura: That hits.
Matt: All right. You suffer 21 points of necrotic damage, and I need you to succeed on a constitution saving throw.
Liam: Fuck! Come on.
Travis: My fucking god!
Sam: It's a 20? (screaming)
Matt: All right. Well, you suffer the 21 points of necrotic damage, and your maximum hit points are reduced by 21.
Laura: Forever?
Matt: Until you finish a long rest. The other one's striking at you, Keyleth. That is a 16.
Marisha: Misses!
Matt: That's right, because your AC is 17 with the ring.
Marisha: That's right! I leveled up, motherfuckers!
Matt: All right. Cool. Technically, leveling up didn't affect your AC; however, calculating the magic item did.
Marisha: But I feated, so I'm good!
Matt: I know. So as it swings toward you, its claw streaks out and has no effect. And then they both vanish. You want to take an attack of opportunity? You can if you'd like to.
Marisha: War Caster?
Matt: War Caster. You can attempt to cast a spell on it as a reaction, if you'd like. This one's going to back away into the wall, as well. Vex, you also get an attack of opportunity if you'd like, with a melee weapon.
Marisha: Does it have to be a bonus action?
Matt: No, it can be an action. That's part of the War Caster feat.
Laura: I have a dagger, but I don't even have it drawn.
Matt: Then yeah, you're fine.
Liam: They're both out of visual range, right?
Matt: They both are now backing up.
Liam: One's in a pillar, and one went through a wall. Are they moaning and shit, in the wall?
Matt: You can't hear them.
Liam: I can't hear them. Can't see them, can't hear them. All right. Thanks.
Matt: No worries.
Laura: I have resistance to necrotic damage, by the way.
Matt: You do! Then you take ten points of necrotic damage, and your hit points are only reduced by ten.
Laura: Okay.
Marisha: Sorry, I'm trying to figure out what would be a good idea right now.
Taliesin: I have no ideas for anything.
Marisha: I have never done this before, but I have it learned. I will Ice Knife it in its face. Ice Knife! Level one, you create a shard of ice, fling it at-- oh, it's a flingy-thingy. But it's 1d10 piercing damage, and then it explodes?
Matt: Okay. It's right next to you. She has the feat where she can cast the spell as a reaction when something comes at her. Just know that whatever you're hitting is right next to you. So if it explodes, does any radial damage, it might come back and hit you.
Marisha: No, hit or miss, the shard then explodes, the target and each creature within five feet of the point where the ice explodes. Oh. I'm fine. I'm doing it anyway.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and roll to hit.
Travis: And Scanlan's in five feet of her?
Laura: No, he's behind her.
Taliesin: Oh, for fuck sake.
Marisha: What's wrong with us?
Laura: Wasted all of our 20s on goods.
Matt: Tonight is ridiculous.
Marisha: One.
Matt: All right, so as you release the Ice Knife, it slams into the wall. No effect. However, it does still explode, right?
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: So it does what damage?
Marisha: 2d6.
Matt: 2d6 damage. So go ahead and roll 2d6. To both you and the creature?
Taliesin: Yeah, all creatures within range.
Marisha: Technically, reroll ones. Three, four, five, six, seven. Yeah, each creature. Hit or miss, the shard then explodes.
Matt: All right, so you take seven points of ice damage, and it hits the wraith. However, the cold damage doesn't seem to have as much of an effect as you would expect.
Laura: It's a fucking wraith!
Matt: That ends their turn. Percival, you're up.
Taliesin: I hear a whole bunch of commotion, so I'm going to pop my head up out of the hole and see what the fuck is going on.
Matt: All right. You glance up and get just beyond where Keyleth is, pushing past. You have five more feet you can move if you want.
Taliesin: Well, I'm coming up the hole. I take a look. Oh, sweet god. I'm going to take a shot at the guy I see up on the table there.
Matt: Okay, go for it.
Taliesin: That's better.
Matt: Which guy?
Taliesin: Yeah, the gray. And that's 28?
Matt: Okay. (gunshot) You fire a shot and watch as it detonates against some sort of invisible wall that you didn't see was there before, scattering helplessly against the space in the air.
Marisha: I hate this force field shit.
Travis: It explodes near my head, and I'm like Stop shooting into this thing!
Taliesin: I'm going to drop back down the hall.
Matt: All right, you get right back down to right there. That ends your turn, Percy? Vax, you're up.
Liam: Here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to dance through to here, where I can see Grog and these guys, and I can see all my friends here, and I'm going to hold my action to attack anyone who comes right up to one of my friends within striking range.
Matt: Okay, good to know. Perfect. Ending Vax's turn, Pike's up.
Laura: Pike comes running up the steps.
Matt: She can get right up to here, and that's as much as she can move. She can still cast a spell if she wants to. She's going to cast Beacon of Hope for all of the allies within range, which is 30 feet.
Matt: All right, so that is everybody but Grog.
Laura: Sorry, Grog.
Travis: That's my fault.
Laura: That gives everybody advantage on wisdom saving throws and death saving throws, and any time you're healed, you regain the maximum number of hit points.
Sam: Even if we move out of the radius?
Matt: It affects everybody at that moment, and then you carry it with you.
Laura: Wisdom and death saving throws.
Liam: You got glitter-bombed with holy goodness.
Marisha: Wisdom and death plus what?
Laura: And full hit points when you get healed.
Taliesin: You don't roll; you get the max.
Marisha: Beautiful.
Matt: Okay. So ending Pike's turn brings us to the top. Vex, your turn.
Laura: Oh, great. Well, I've seen all the things explode. Fucking hell. I'm going to pull out my Vecna symbol, that necklace that we still had, and put it around my neck, because that fucking sphere is out and I don't know if it matters.
Matt: Okay, so you quickly throw it around your neck.
Laura: Do I still have control of the vine?
Matt: Currently, yeah.
Laura: Okay. And it's on the other side of the force?
Matt: This is true.
Laura: So I'm going to use it and I'm going to try to grab a hold of the guy-- the guy in gray is holding the force wall, right? But it probably is a concentration. The guy in red is holding the sphere.
Matt: Correct.
Laura: The guy in red is holding the sphere. I'm going to try to knock him down and see if I can break his hold on the sphere, maybe? Is that stupid?
Matt: He does not make his save. He isn't moved. It wraps around him and pulls him tight against the area where it is again, but it's barely shifted him, so he gets moved a few inches, but doesn't seem to affect him at all.
Laura: That's a bonus action. I still get an action.
Matt: Yep, and movement.
Laura: And movement. Oh god. I'm going to spread out. I'm going to come over here, maybe? Or here. Oh jeez. I don't know. I can't hit anybody! I'm going to wait. I'm going to hold my action until I see something getting through that fucking force wall.
Taliesin: Until there's something to hit.
Laura: So that I can attack him.
Matt: Sounds good. All right, Vex, that's the end of your turn. Grog, you're up.
Travis: I'm going to try and run through the Wall of Force. It's only five feet of my movement, and we'll see what happens.
Matt: All right, you slam face-first into a stone wall. Immediately, the anger fills through you, the familiar smell and taste of iron-like blood as you seem to have busted some element of your nose in the impact.
Travis: Probably some eyelids? Do I go anywhere? Not even an inch?
Matt: No.
Travis: What if I channel all the rage from my life, and I draw on the undead? Okay, cool. I'm going to turn around and run the other way.
Marisha: You didn't get through?
Travis: No, it didn't even give, apparently. (counting) 50, right there.
Matt: Okay. That ends your turn, Grog?
Travis: Yeah, that ends my turn.
Matt: This guy turns around and begins to make his way up the stairs and move double dash, and disappears up the stairs.
Marisha: (screams in frustration)
Travis: We can't do anything. Nobody knows Disintegrate or anything?
Marisha: Whose turn is it?
Matt: That finishes that guy's turn. It is now Scanlan's turn.
Sam: I'm going to take a few steps forward. I will inspire Grog, I guess.
Travis: Or yourself.
Sam: I'm okay.
Travis: Really? Okay.
Sam: I'll sing to him. (singing) Don't mess with that big black ball, it can really fuck you up. I really hate that big black ball, all it better do is miss you, make it miss you.
Matt: Oh my god, that was not my intent in creating this encounter. Take your d12 inspiration die.
Travis: Thank you.
Sam: And I guess I'll Dimension Door, try to go through the Wall of Force. We've tried this before, Matt. Who knows how this shit works?
Travis: And the previous ruling was it worked.
Sam: Yeah, but that could have been a gentle nod.
Matt: The wording is important on this.
Liam: I think the cultist shits his pants and his brain explodes. I think that's in the book.
Matt: I've had to look this up very carefully. With elements like this wall, it's a targeting thing. You cannot target something that is in full cover, total cover, which being behind a wall is. Teleportation, however, you're the target and Dimension Door and Teleport is unaffected by that.
Sam: Matt fucking hates this.
Marisha: Get the runner!
Sam: I don't know where the runner went.
Marisha: He went that way.
Sam: I don't see him, right?
Matt: You saw him run away, you just don't know where he is at the moment.
Sam: Can I gauge roughly how far he went down that hall? Do I see down the hall?
Matt: Not from where you were over there.
Sam: So I'm going next to the red guy.
Liam: Also, if you get out of range of Vex, Vecna knows all.
Laura: Oh yeah. Stay within 60 feet.
Matt: All right, so you Dimension Door there. That's your action.
Sam: That's my everything.
Marisha: We've got to take out these guys' eyeballs.
Matt: That's the end of your turn. At which point, Odell, who's standing there currently, is physically sweating, concentrating on this sphere right now. Looks over and sees you appear and goes, "Viskorad, the little one made it through!"
Sam: Who are you calling little?
Matt: At which point, you glance over your shoulder and you can see that the darting, cloaked one stops and spins and faces towards you.
Sam: That's not good for me, guys.
Marisha: It's not good for you, but it's good for us. Fuck them up!
Travis: Oh god.
Matt: That's as far as they can get. However, it completely disintegrates the central pillar. It is obliterated, like it lays with a top part and a bottom part, but wherever the sphere passes through, about a good six inches around it is turned to dust and is gone.
Laura: Oh my god, what if we fail these rolls?
Matt: He's then going to go back around--
Taliesin: No, he's grappled.
Liam: No, he's grappled.
Matt: No, it doesn't grapple. It just moves things toward it.
Marisha: You're confusing Entanglement with Grasping Vine. Two totally different things.
Matt: He's backing up, and he's looking over at the sphere, concentrating on it. You can see the beads of sweat pouring down his face, and he's glancing over nervously at you, but smiling at the idea that his friend is returning. That's going to end his turn. Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: Okay. Seeing Grog slam into that. Ugh, fuck. This is a pretty beefy spell, yeah? Force Wall? Should I do fifth or sixth level to dispel this? Okay. Fifth or sixth level? Sixth level. I'm going to Dispel Magic this wall.
Matt: Okay. As you focus and concentrate, you release the essence of the Dispel Magic, the burst of arcane energy casts forth, and falls harmlessly against the exterior.
Laura: It's a higher level.
Liam: It's a higher level.
Marisha: Higher than sixth level? The spell.
Matt: Didn't appear to have an effect on the wall.
Travis: Come on, maybe it needed to be something else.
Liam: No. He did what Scanlan does with Counterspell. He beefed it up.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: You can move.
Marisha: It's higher than seventh level? Did you have to roll?
Matt: No effect on it.
Taliesin: Okay, it's going to be okay. Everything's okay.
Liam: So about that long rest...
Marisha: I don't know now, you guys.
Laura: We're fucked.
Marisha: I move forward. I guess. I don't want to move that far forward. No, I don't move that far forward! (laughter)
Marisha: I don't want to die!
Matt: That finishes your turn, Keyleth?
Liam: (singing) I want you to be alive.
Liam: (singing) I want you to be alive.
Marisha: (singing) I want you to be alive.
Laura: Oh no, here they come.
Taliesin: Oh no, here they come.
Matt: They take minor damage being in the physical wall, but that's fine with them.
Liam: Boom, I attack! Sneak attack on the one near Keyleth.
Matt: Emerge. All right, so the one near Keyleth. Go for it.
Laura: What was I holding for? I was holding until I could attack something, or until I could get through the wall? I think it was through the wall.
Matt: The wall.
Liam: All right, 27 on that guy.
Matt: That hits.
Liam: Okay. So that is three, plus three is six, so ten. (counting)
Taliesin: If we can hit them, they're probably squishy.
Matt: You took out one of three between just two of your surprise attacks.
Liam: 34 for the first hit, and I have the second paladin attack, so if it's not dead, I will attack again.
Matt: Go for it.
Liam: That is eight for the second.
Matt: As it emerges from the wall, its blackened shadow form giving off small tendrils of dark black ether and abyssal energy, it reaches out to strike at Keyleth, and you immediately release two daggers in its direction. Both hit its form. It gives this pained sucking sound as you watch its beady, burning red eyes seem to blink in the pain, and it angrily lashes out at Keyleth, its form somewhat more disparate and unable to maintain a corporeal form.
Liam: When is Pike? Is it her turn? No? Okay.
Matt: No, she cast Beacon of Hope. So attacking against Pike. That is 21. What's her AC?
Laura: 23!
Matt: 23. It tries to strike at her, and she manages to take the shield and bash it away. The light from her mace arcing around causes it to flinch, and it actually strikes a little too wide. The one that's arcing towards you, Keyleth, that is fucking 16 again! Yeah, because it's plus six to hit. Okay. You dodge out of the way a second time. It's then going to move back into the wall over here. He's going to move back into the wall, as well. Both of you get reactions.
Laura: Pike definitely takes it. With her Mace of Disruption, she gets an extra 2d6 radiant damage.
Matt: All right, so roll an attack on that one.
Laura: That's a 21 to hit.
Matt: That hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
Travis: I am wickedly out of my element. I'm running from an 8-ball.
Taliesin: We've got to get everyone away from that thing.
Laura: 27 for Pike.
Matt: 27 points of damage?
Laura: Is it a fiend or an undead? So it has to have a wisdom save of 15.
Matt: If it has 25 hit points or fewer after taking the damage, which it does not. That one has not taken a whole bunch of damage. However, it did take a relatively decent hit, and you watch as she swings the mace out. As it pulls back, where the mace impacts, it seems to almost evaporate part of the shadowed form, and it shrieks as it disappears into the wall.
Liam: For clarification, that is the one I hit, as well, right?
Matt: No, the one that you hit is where she was.
Liam: Oh, Pike hit the other one.
Matt: Correct. Keyleth, are you doing anything as a reaction?
Marisha: Yeah, I'm going to pull out my staff and do a Burning Hands on him. Dexterity saving throw.
Matt: Natural 20, so it takes half damage.
Marisha: Half damage.
Laura: Ooh, that's good. You did the six and the four.
Taliesin: And then there was a third one.
Marisha: And then there's a third one that is a six? Was that right? Six and six is 12, so 16.
Matt: 16 points of fire damage reduced by half which is eight, and even that impact seems to be lessened by the wraith-like being seemingly absorbing some of the heat from the impact.
Laura: Radiant damage is the bomb!
Taliesin: Radiant damage is what we need in here.
Matt: All righty, that ends their turn. Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: I'm going to stay in my little cubby hole. I've got some good visual on a couple of these guys down here. I'm going to yell at everybody to get the fuck away from the ball. I'm going to hold my attack until something happens that's going to give me something to shoot at.
Matt: Okay, so as soon as an enemy reveals itself that you can shoot. Okay, that ends Percy's turn. Vax, you're up.
Liam: Fucking hell. I'm going to do the same thing except I'm going to move to here and wait for something to attack one of my friends.
Taliesin: That's awfully close to the ball.
Liam: I know it is. That's what I do. I'm waiting until one of them attacks one of my friends. One of the undead. I can't do anything about that. That's what I'm doing. That's my turn.
Matt: All right, Pike's turn.
Liam: Stupid, I know. That's what Vax does.
Laura: I can only do this as a bonus action so that she can have that up, right? Okay, she's going to cast Spiritual Weapon. Should she do it at a second level? Okay, she's going to cast Spiritual Weapon up near the wall as a giant sword that looks like it's on fire.
Matt: Whereabouts? On the wall here?
Laura: No, near the wall, yeah. Up close to the wall so that she can attack as soon as that thing is down. And then she's going to hold her physical action until there's something that she can attack.
Matt: Okay, she's holding her physical attack?
Laura: Yeah, her mace.
Matt: Okay, that ends Pikes turn. Vex, you're up.
Laura: Oh, that's me!
Matt: Yeah, that's you, actually.
Liam: You're Vex.
Laura: I'm Vex. I'm going to dart away from this ball as fast as I can, and I'm going to come up here.
Sam: Hey, you broke through!
Laura: I broke through the wall. I can't reach. I'm too fucking-- It's fine; I got it.
Sam: Make Matt stand up, Laura.
Matt: Please do. I appreciate it.
Laura: And I'm going to hold my fucking attack until something comes out that I can attack.
Matt: Okay. All righty.
Marisha: I can't believe I couldn't fucking dispel that wall.
Matt: Grog, you're up.
Travis: Yeah, I am, aren't I? Okay. Cool.
Laura: Wait, I have bonus action still.
Matt: You do.
Laura: Okay, I'm going to use that Grasping Vine that I still have up, and I'm going to re-grab onto that stupid guy's fucking neck and yank him towards the wall he's right in front of.
Matt: That's a 15. What's your DC on that?
Laura: 15.
Matt: He succeeds, unfortunately. It slaps out towards him and this time-- I forget the adage, but never mind. He dodges it. (laughter)
Liam: It took 425 hours, but we did it. We broke his brain.
Matt: Blame it on the painkillers. The vine whooshes out and tries to wrap around him. He dodges out of the way, and it slaps harmlessly against the stone and withdraws back into the small crack of stone where it's based. That ends your turn. All right, Grog.
Travis: I'm going to put my faith in Scanlan that some sort of impossible miracle happens. (counting) 30. Right up against the wall. Can I look to the left down that hallway? Can I see down there at all? Is it blocking the hallway off from vision? Is that a moveable space?
Matt: Looking off, it looks like the orb was being used to carve a path.
Travis: It hadn't finished doing it?
Matt: No. It was maybe 25 or so feet down and was hitting solid rock.
Laura: My spell DC may be higher. I don't know if I have increased that in a while.
Liam: It's eight, plus proficiency bonus, plus her spell bonus.
Laura: So my spell DC is 17.
Matt: You need to keep up on that, girl.
Marisha: That was how I lost to Grog in our battle.
Laura: I wanted it around his neck, just to make him annoyed.
Matt: It hits him against the wall. He's still glancing over his shoulder.
Taliesin: He's lost visual range of the ball?
Matt: No, he can still look over the rubble there.
Travis: Not enough to make a concentration check?
Matt: If that's what it does.
Travis: I'm there. I can't get into that hole anymore, can I?
Matt: Not with the way the Wall of Force is placed, no.
Travis: Fair enough. I will hold my action until someone comes within melee distance.
Matt: Okay, ending Grog's turn. At the top of the staircase--
Laura: Oh no! He's coming back for Scanlan!
Matt: This guy here, we'll say he got about that far from the stairs and continues that way.
Marisha: Sanctuary!
Taliesin: Like he's parting the Red Sea.
Taliesin: You shall not pass!
Marisha: You shall not pass!
Laura: Oh my god, we're going against Gandalf right now, you guys.
Taliesin: That's not Gandalf. That's a cosplayer.
Liam: Do you know many hobbits I have under my cloak?
Taliesin: Five hobbits in a cloak. That's all it is. It's not a wizard.
Matt: He glances down at the staircase where you are, and as he begins to smile, the flash in the eye begins to glow briefly, a pale comparison to Vecna, but there is an essence of energy lent to him from his worship of the newly risen deity. He begins to speak in a language you don't understand. And as he speaks one alien word-- how many hit points do you have?
Sam: A lot. 167.
Matt: Fuck, okay. I miscalculated. No effect.
Sam: Power Word?
Matt: Power Word  Stun. He assumed the smaller stature of the gnome was not as hearty.
Travis: He's upset that he miscalculated. The DM wants blood!
Liam: That's what he gets for profiling.
Matt: He's going to continue moving upward, 30 feet back up into the staircase as he keeps focusing on you. That's going to end his turn. You're up, Scanlan.
Sam: Hold on. I need to look up the range of a fucking spell. How far is he from me?
Matt: It's hard to tell at this point. You'd say somewhere between 50, 60, 70 feet.
Liam: I bet your spell is 120 feet, Sam.
Sam: I'm looking. That one's not.
Liam: Is it Thaumaturgy? Because that's right where your eyes are.
Sam: You said how far? Oh shit.
Matt: Between 50 and 70 feet from you.
Laura: You can move.
Liam: You can move.
Sam: Yeah, I'm going to move 25 feet towards him.
Matt: Okay, so that puts you up here.
Sam: And with my darkvision, do I get a sense for how far he is from me now?
Matt: Yeah, you'd say he's about 40 feet from you.
Sam: Fuck no, it's not. Shit, I need 30.
Laura: You can move five more feet. You've got more movement.
Sam: No. That's my movement. I have tiny little nubs.
Travis: Tiny little nubs?
Sam: Yeah.
Liam: What about long-range shit, man?
Sam: That's okay. Yeah, I've got longer-range shit, but it's not as bad news.
Marisha: Keep them from running away.
Travis: Damn it, Matt. Why'd you have to back up?
Matt: Because that tactically made sense.
Liam: Bigby's Hand him? Grab him?
Sam: I'm thinking. I'm trying to decide between two things.
Travis: Yeah, do it. Take your time, baby. Take your time. Taliesin, give him a backrub. Come on, let's focus up here. There you go. Support. Feel the love.
Marisha: This is all on you, man. This is all on you.
Travis: Do your thing. Listen, Shadow of War comes out October 10th. A lot of us are in it.
Sam: It's going to have a lot of wisdom. All right. I will Bigby's Hand. I assume he's got a lot of wisdom, so I will Bigby's Hand him. At level seven. And I will punch the shit out of him.
Laura: Punch him back toward us. Bigby's Hand on the opposite side of him and punch him back toward us.
Marisha: That's a good call.
Matt: All right, so that is 8d8 force damage if you hit. Roll a melee spell attack.
Laura: Inspire yourself!
Taliesin: Inspire yourself!
Sam: I didn't. I forgot. I rolled an 18.
Matt: 18 hits. He's a caster; he doesn't have a lot of armor.
Marisha: Kill him!
Matt: All right, so roll 8d8 force damage.
Taliesin: I have three.
Sam: And I've got one.
Liam: That's just some dude from Sea Org in a bathrobe. Punch him!
Taliesin: Wow, that was a deep cut.
Sam: Wait. Shit. What did I just roll? 16 plus four. That's 20. And then this is another-- 40.
Matt: 40 points of force damage.
Sam: 40 points of force damage.
Matt: All right, that's a 20 DC concentration check.
Sam: Yeah.
Travis: Come on.
Matt: 16. No.
All: Wall down!
Laura: Did we notice? Did we notice that the wall went down?
Matt: No, you don't see it.
Sam: I don't know. Right?
Matt: But Grog would feel it. Grog is sitting there waiting for something, as Bigby's Hand full-on sucker punches him in the body, and he slams against the steps and has to shake his head as he glances at the giant fist and down at you.
Sam: As a bonus action, can I do anything?
Matt: If you want to do a bonus action, you can't do Bigby's Hand again.
Sam: No, but can I throw something to see if it goes through the wall?
Matt: Sure. I'll let you do that. Roll an attack roll, just to aim it.
Sam: Sure. 17, plus I don't know.
Matt: What are you throwing?
Sam: Scanlan found these two really crappy daggers in the desk in the casino.
Matt: He pulls one of these jeweled daggers that he wore and throws it behind, and Grog, you watch as this dagger passes through.
Taliesin: I see that, and I take three shots at this fucker up here immediately. How far away is he?
Matt: Which guy? The who Bigby's Hand just punched? Okay, he is about 120 feet.
Taliesin: I'm going to use Bad News, then, because that is within range for my fucking sniper rifle. He's going to take that.
Laura: I'm going to shoot at the dude in red in front of me.
Taliesin: I can't use a bonus action, and I have to reload once, so I can only take two shots with my action. I can't take three. So two shots with Bad News. Here we go. That's a 25 and 27 to hit.
Matt: Both hit.
Taliesin: First shot is 22 points of damage. Second shot is not as good. 14 points of damage.
Matt: So as you fire those two shots, the echoing noise of Bad News's explosions echoes through the hallway and stairway above. Vex.
Laura: I'm going to sharpshooter him, the guy right in front of me.
Taliesin: There's a lot of noises going on in this place. I think it'll be okay.
Marisha: Oh, it's fine. There are tunnels collapsing and shit. It's fine. I'm not concerned about the noise at the moment.
Laura: 22 to hit?
Matt: 22 does hit.
Laura: 21 damage on the first. And then 19 on the second. That's also Sharpshooter.
Matt: Nice.
Laura: No, that's 19 to hit.
Matt: Gotcha. That hits.
Laura: 27 on the second.
Matt: All right, nice. The guy who's controlling the sphere, after the first arrow strikes him right in the chest, he looks and starts to run up the stairway, and as it does, you take aim with your second arrow and release it, and it hits the base of the skull. You watch him go down one of the stairs.
Taliesin: So the sphere is still there?
Matt: The sphere is still there.
Laura: But he doesn't have control over it anymore. This guy in red is down, so all that's left is the guy and the wraiths?
Taliesin: Was there a third guy?
Laura: We killed him. That was the first guy we killed.
Matt: That finishes Scanlan's turn, right?
Laura: Yeah, that was your turn.
Sam: Yeah, I'm done.
Matt: Keyleth's turn.
Marisha: Okay. I run up as far as I can, 30 feet. Do I see this motherfucker?
Matt: Yeah, you see him. You have a 60-foot range of darkvision?
Marisha: Or I see the glimmering of Bigby's Hand?
Matt: Yeah, I'd say you could probably see him okay. A little bit. It's very dark, but barely.
Marisha: Fireball! (laughter)
Taliesin: That's an answer.
Matt: As you rush up, from the edge of the staff, a bead of red light engulfs the hallway above in flames. You see a split second of him and Bigby's Hand's outlines before fire engulfs the space. Go ahead and roll damage on that. That's a natural 20 on his save, so he gets half damage.
Marisha: What the fuckballs?
Matt: I didn't even roll with advantage on that one.
Sam: You said Fireball on this guy? Bigby's Hand takes damage.
Marisha: Does he? Magical?
Sam: Yeah, he has hit points.
Taliesin: He could roll a save, though.
Sam: He could!
Matt: Let's check. Yep, it has no bonus, so you roll a d20 and see what you get.
Sam: 11.
Marisha: 29 points of damage.
Sam: It's fine. Bigby's Hand has 167 hit points.
Matt: Yeah, it has your hit points.
Laura: That's amazing!
Sam: Yeah, it's me.
Matt: That ends Keyleth's turn. He's still alive. This one's going to move through the hallway here.
Marisha: He's still going after my ass?
Matt: This one's going after Pike.
Liam: I get to attack. I've been holding.
Laura: Pike gets to attack. Pike has been holding her action to attack as soon as she could, too.
Matt: So Pike gets her attack, and so do you.
Laura: So 20 to hit on Pike.
Matt: 20 to hit? That hits.
Laura: Where is my other d8? Here it is. (counting)
Liam: When you hold, does bonus action carry over?
Matt: Nope, just the action.
Laura: So it's 22.
Matt: 22. All right. And what's the saving throw?
Laura: Saving throw is 15.
Matt: 15. Four, no. As it comes out of the wall reaching for Pike, she swings wide with the mace. As it slams into it, there's a flash of divine energy. Her eyes seem to pulse with a matching burst of radiant power, and as it hits, the creature squeals and squeaks as the light from the mace actually dashes it from this existence or any other. That is scattered into nothing from the shadows.
Liam: I rolled an 18 and a one.
Matt: 18 hits. One misses.
Liam: Okay, so sneak attack. One.
Sam: One misses?
Laura: I know, right?
Liam: 39 for the second attack.
Matt: 39 for the second attack. All righty. And with that, as this one reaches out towards Keyleth, your dagger strikes the back of its body, and as it impacts, you watch as its shadowed form turns into nothing but a splash of dark, half-existing ether, which then fades as your dagger clatters to the ground motionless.
Liam: Back to the belt.
Matt: All right. Percival, you're up.
Laura: Kill him!
Taliesin: Reload. Going to take another shot.
Matt: All righty.
Taliesin: Going to take a shot. Yeah, let's take another shot. Probably got a low AC. Let's make this a sharpshooter, just for fun. Yeah. That's a sharpshooter shot, so that's a 24 to hit?
Matt: 24 hits.
Taliesin: All right. So let's do (counting) 26 points of damage.
Matt: 26 points of damage. (gunshot) The echo of the impact as you watch part of the lower jaw and throat of the cultist in the robe gets blown apart. He stumbles back onto the steps that he had barely started to get up off to and you watch and you hear the horrible coughing sound as his last moments of life are robbed of it as it tries to get back up and then stumbles right back and bleeds out against the steps.
Taliesin: We can still interrogate him. He doesn't have to be alive for that. Any other problems?
Liam: How's the ball doing?
Matt: It's hovering there in the center of the hall.
Laura: We can't do anything about that floating ball. Cover it with a handkerchief.
Marisha: You beat me to it, man.
Taliesin: Let's rifle through these guys' stuff. Which one do we want to interrogate?
Marisha: Keyleth goes up to the red robe.
Taliesin: Let's throw gray robe into the annihilation ball. Let's get rid of him.
Travis: Vax. Why don't you go down the hallway and see if anyone else is coming? Keep watch.
Laura: But stay within 60 feet. Everybody gather up around me again.
Liam: Sis, come up to where Scanlan is so I can go a little further ahead.
Matt: Everyone is barely still within 60 feet.
Taliesin: Everyone gather up. We're going to get our stuff.
Laura: Avoid the ball.
Marisha: Vax, can I borrow a dagger?
Liam: Yeah. I give her Whisper.
Marisha: I take it and I stab it in his other eye. Red robe guy.
Matt: Okay. (splat) Other eye is destroyed.
Sam: I'm going to use Bigby's Hand to grab the sphere.
Matt: Do you? Okay. Bigby's Hand reaches over and grabs towards the sphere, and as Bigby's form attempts to grasp the chaotic point of destructive energy, Bigby's Hand suffers 26 points of force damage and is forced to pull back.
Sam: That's not so bad.
Matt: But cannot grasp it. Cannot move it. (electrical shock)
Laura: I'm going to rifle through the robes of red robe.
Taliesin: I'm going to get Odell.
Matt: That's the one she's rifling through.
Taliesin: Oh, okay. There was a third guy, right, that they killed early on?
Matt: Oh, the first guy. Yeah. Okay, gotcha.
Taliesin: Assume we're going through everybody and taking their shit.
Liam: I'm standing as far from Vex as I can, but I can't go much farther because obviously-- yeah.
Matt: Okay. Interestingly enough, based on the current scenario and what preparation has been, no money on them. They have no worldly possessions that are what you consider of use. They each carry a gnarled wooden wand that they've been using as a focus for their spellcasting. Beyond that, they have nothing on them except for the one that you shot has, you notice the left hand is withered and gray, the skin is pulled taut against the bone. But beyond that, there is no other possessions on them, beyond the symbol of Vecna they wear around their throat.
Marisha: How many of those symbols do we still have, and how many robes do we still have?
Laura: Well, we can grab their robes, I don't know how many of those we have, but I think we also have a necklace.
Liam: Also, we can have Pickle talk to one of these arseholes.
Taliesin: I think that's a good idea.
Marisha: The guy that I'm standing over, red robe, I'm going to rip his necklace off.
Matt: Okay. You tear it off.
Laura: I'm going to take his robes.
Taliesin: Oh yeah, we're taking all this shit.
Matt: So you take every set of robes. And these robes are different from the robes that you had seen in Thar Amphala before. These appear to be a little more ornate. They seem to have a little higher station, which is why it's interesting that beyond the robes and some basic undergarments and the wand, they have nothing on them. They are a sheer conduit of their own power.
Taliesin: Were they drilling? I want to take a little bit of an inspection. Were they drilling with this thing? Is that why they had it?
Matt: Looking around the pathway, you can see that a lot of the staircase probably was more caved in, but has been cleared out by the movement of this orb. It's being used as a form of excavation tool as they push deeper into the catacombs here.
Marisha: So they were holding on to that orb the whole time.
Laura: Yeah, the guy in the red was controlling it.
Marisha: Yeah. He didn't cast it, though. We didn't see him cast that.
Laura: It came out of the wall.
Matt: Yeah, it came out of that little gap on the side there.
Sam: I'm going to go over to the sphere and say to it: I command thee to respect my authority and obey me as your new master.
Matt: Are you trying to exert your will on the sphere?
Sam: I'm intimidating the sphere.
Matt: Make an intelligence arcana check.
Sam: Intelligence arcana check?
Matt: Just an arcana check.
Sam: Oh! 19.
Matt: 19? And you're standing right next to the sphere to push your will into it?
Sam: Yeah, I came closer to it.
Matt: Okay. As you stand there, you focus on the orb, and you can feel your will push past the event horizon of the sphere. However, the force is too strong inside, and as you pull out of it instinctually, it moves towards you. (screaming)
Taliesin: Why did you have to tamper with the fundamental forces of nature?
Matt: Yeah. Ten feet. Which is right where you are, so I need you to make a dexterity saving throw.
Liam: Matthew McConaughey is going to reach out of it for you.
Sam: That's not good. 11.
Matt: 11?
Sam: Bigby, save me!
Matt: The orb pulls back and slams into the edge of his gnomish face and chest, and you watch as his flesh is pulled towards and disintegrated at the exterior of the sphere.
Laura: Can we reach down and grab him away from it?
Marisha: Yeah, Grasping Vine!
Matt: You take 30 points of force damage, and it's currently now right in your square, right up against you.
Laura: I use my Grasping Vine and I yank him away from it.
Marisha: Yeah, move away!
Matt: Okay. So you all push him out of the way and the vine pulls him.
Travis: Two-Face!
Matt: Yeah, you look a little rough.
Laura: Scanlan, you're hideous now.
Sam: Don't look at me! I'm fine.
Travis: Some other voice starts coming out of him.
Sam: I think I can take this thing.
Liam: "So did you want me to talk to one of these guys?"
Matt: You got the sense that there is a way to exert your will over it the way these guys did, but in that moment, your will faltered, and you didn't quite understand the nature of the sphere.
Sam: I just need to try again harder.
Marisha: Wait!
Laura: You got to roll higher than a 19. Can you give yourself inspiration?
Sam: This is an ability check, right?
Matt: This is an ability check, yes.
Taliesin: Wait, was that a wisdom saving throw?
Matt: No. It was an arcana check.
Travis: It might be high, dude. You might have to roll a 30.
Taliesin: Let's leave it. Tend to the sick and leave the well alone.
Travis: Indiana? Let it go.
Laura: Or Dominate that shit.
Sam: I'll try one more time.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: All right. Let's all back up.
Laura: I get ready with the vine to yank him away in case it starts moving toward him.
Matt: Okay. And everyone else backs up a little.
Marisha: Keyleth stares with a vague familiarity.
Sam: I'm going to inspire myself.
Matt: Okay. So make your roll first, as you begin to focus and exert your will towards it. You add it on to it.
Sam: Pretty good.
Laura: Now inspire!
Sam: And inspire?
Matt: Up to you.
Sam: Okay. Plus my what? Arcana?!
Matt: Yes.
Sam: Ooh, that's a lot. 30.
Matt: Okay. As you this time begin to push your will towards the sphere, you push past the event horizon, your consciousness connects with some--
Sam: (garbled) Listen to me, damn it! Respect my authority!
Matt: Some ancient space of the void within this blackened circle. As it connects-- What's your intelligence modifier?
Sam: Plus three.
Matt: Okay. What are you trying to will it to do?
Sam: I'm trying to will it to-- Shit, it's just a big black ball. Slam straight into the ceiling!
Matt: It moves up ten feet and then it hits, devours the stone above it to create this small tunnel right directly above.
Laura: Oh my god! You did it.
Sam: We can use it!
Taliesin: Finally.
Sam: Have you guys seen The Explorers?
Taliesin: I'm in The Explorers, motherfucker. I'm in The Explorers.
Sam: You are?! That's one of my favorite movies of all time! Can I get your autograph?
Taliesin: No.
Liam: Were you kidding? Are you really in The Explorers?
Taliesin: Yes! I'm really in The Explorers.
Liam: Stop the game!
Taliesin: I'm one of River's little brothers. I'm Ludwig.
Sam: Oh, wow!
Marisha: Yeah, he knew River through that.
Laura: What if we use the orb and go straight up? We don't even keep tunneling, we juat go straight up to the city.
Sam: It only listens to me.
Laura: Yeah. Do you need us to heal you or anything?
Sam: No, this is a cool thing.
Travis: Yeah, but it only makes a hole its size. It's two feet across.
Taliesin: I think he's not ready to pop a wheelie on this thing yet.
Travis: Plus, remember the guy was concentrating super hard, so it's the only thing Scanlan will probably be able to do.
Marisha: But if he cores out a tunnel for us, we can carry Scanlan like on a palanquin? Like We Are The Champions?
Sam: Guys, I think we can make it. No, we can't! We'll never make it! Yes, we can!
Liam: All I'm thinking is I could come up and do Lay on Hands and heals, but I'm like, you made your bed, lie in it.
Taliesin: Yeah, no. I'm okay with this.
Laura: What do you think? Do you want to go up?
Sam: We're still investigating these guys and stuff.
Marisha: Fuck these guys! We got all their shit. Let's go!
Sam: I'm going to call this ball Simon 3.
Travis: Do we know how far the sphere can move in a single movement?
Matt: You watched him push it, and it went about 15 feet.
Travis: The sphere can only move 15 feet.
Sam: It will slow us down.
Matt: It's a very slow-moving ball of destruction.
Taliesin: Bring the sphere back down so that we can throw their bodies into the sphere so that they don't turn into undead fuckwads.
Liam: Wait a second, though! God, I don't know what this will do. I have a spell called Zone of Truth.
Laura: So it forces them to speak the truth? Does it work on undead?
Liam: A creature that enters the spell's area for the first time. If it fails.
Laura: So you could cast it, and then Pike could cast Speak with Dead, and it would come up into the Zone of Truth.
Liam: That's right.
Travis: No, they have to tell the truth when you do Speak with Dead.
Liam: No, they don't.
Matt: They don't have to.
Marisha: They can lie.
Taliesin: Here's a weird question  what saving throw do they have to make to speak the truth?
Liam: An affected creature is aware of the spell and can thus avoid answering questions to which it would normally respond with a lie. So it could avoid the questions.
Laura: But they have to answer the questions.
Liam: But they have to answer the questions because of the other spell.
Laura: Right?
Sam: Double mumbo-jumbo?
Matt: It can't tell a lie, as you're discussing this. Technically, a creature would be unable to lie in the area.
Liam: Unable to lie, and with Pike's spell--
Laura: They have to answer the question.
Liam: They have to answer the question.
Matt: Let me double-check for you.
Taliesin: And what's the save?
Liam: Charisma saving throw against my spell save DC, which is not huge.
Marisha: What is it?
Liam: 16.
Matt: I mean, it does have to answer.
Liam: I like it.
Taliesin: Are we going to try this crazy shit?
Laura: Let's do it!
Marisha: Might as well. Okay, hang on, though! What are we going to get from this guy?
Laura: Find out how close we are to Vasselheim.
Taliesin: Yeah, what's the plan? What are they trying to do?
Liam: What has Vecna got cooking?
Taliesin: What's Vecna planning? How many of them are there?
Marisha: I'm going to go pee, you guys.
Liam: He might not know everything. How long does it take for Keyleth to pee?
Laura: No, but how close we are to Vasselheim? What's the plan of attack in Vasselheim? How big is his army? We get five questions, I think, with Speak with Dead.
Taliesin: Five?
Sam: How close are we? What's his plan? Where is he?
Laura: Where is Vecna within the city?
Sam: Who's with him?
Laura: Who's the death knight?
Taliesin: He might not know that. But what are they excavating for? What are they looking for?
Travis: I think I know that.
Taliesin: I think I know, too, but I want to hear him say it. It'd make me feel better.
Laura: Let's do it! Cast your Zone, yo!
Taliesin: Get in the zone.
Laura: (singing) Autozone!
Matt: (chuckling) Autozone of Truth?
Liam: Shit. So can anyone drag him down on his roll to save, or boost me?
Taliesin: No. Not me.
Laura: I don't think so.
Liam: Does anyone have a cantrip? Okay. All right. Let's do it.
Matt: All right. So which one?
Liam: Well, first Zone of Truth, then Pike.
Matt: Okay. So you create the Zone of Truth, you create the area, the radial space where the divine energy kicks in and the compulsion to not lie remains within. And then Pike--
Laura: Casts Speak with Dead.
Matt: On which corpse? There are three corpses.
Liam: Red robe seemed more fancy.
Sam: Who seemed more senior?
Liam: Red robe did.
Matt: There are three, technically.
Sam: There was the guy they killed right when they burst on the scene.
Taliesin: We'll take the fanciest cloak.
Matt: Okay. It's relative, but the guy who was controlling the sphere seemed to be at least different.
Laura: He had a different color. Yeah, red robe.
Matt: All right. So as Pike takes the time to focus and recite the incantation, she grabs her holy symbol and focuses and speaks aloud the words in Celestial of the blessing of Sarenrae. And as she completes the ritual, she suddenly screams out in pain and grabs at her head and falls to her knees. No effect. And she suffers--
Laura: Oh no! What did he do to Pike?
Travis: Oh shit.
Matt: On 6d6, I rolled four sixes and a five. That's 31 points of psychic damage to Pike.
Liam: She tried to cast Speak with Dead Dumbfuck.
Matt: She's shaking and grabbing her face and rubbing her eyes, and it takes her a moment to come back to you and she looks around, and you can see a faint bit of blood slightly dripping out of the corner of her eyes. She's like, "All I heard was laughter."
Sam: Laughter?
Laura: And you said it was minus 36 damage?
Matt: 31.
Liam: Vecna is in these motherfuckers' brains.
Marisha: Everyone looks upset.
Laura: Pike got psychic damage from that dude.
Marisha: How much? A lot?
Laura: 31 points of psychic damage.
Marisha: Oh, that's a lot, yeah.
Taliesin: Burn the bodies. Fuck it.
Marisha: Throw them down the well.
Taliesin: Throw them into the sphere.
Marisha: Oh yeah!
Sam: Sphere! Do your worst.
Matt: One by one, you grab and take the corpses and thrust them towards the sphere, as they immediately crumple, fold and get pulled in, turned to nothingness, disappearing into the black void. There are elements of the way the sphere acts and manipulates things that remind you of the siphons, though differently. It's more violent in some ways, and it is its own contained magical entity. With each body, it vanishes in the sphere, and you all sit there for a moment taking a breath and deciding the next order of business in traversing the insides of this titan. And that's where we'll end tonight's game, because it's 11:30.
Marisha: I feel like I always come back from the bathroom right as we're ending games.
Sam: First of all, it's so great to be back!
Taliesin: It's so nice to be back.
Sam: Matt, thank god you're totally 100 percent healed and all better again.
Matt: It's great. Sorry. But yeah, missed you guys. We'll be back next week, pick up from here, see as the final charge gets closer and closer. What will you guys do next time? In the meantime, rest well, don't forget, if you can, to give to the Red Cross to help support the victims of recent hurricane battering in the US.
Laura: Look for Shadow of War.
Matt: Shadow of War coming out on October 10th.
Marisha: Our comic on Wednesday.
Matt: Yep, look for that. And we'll see you guys soon. Have a wonderful week, we love you, and: Is it Thursday yet? Good night. [music]

[END OF EPISODE]