The following lines contains multiple episode transcripts of a Dungeons and Dragons game played by a group of players. Each episode transcript is delimited by [START OF EPISODE] and [END OF EPISODE]. The transcripts are followed by a question about the game statistics. Answer the question based on the transcripts. Do not try to guess, estimate or approximate the result. Do not ask the user for clarification or follow-up. Do step-by-step reasoning if needed. Return the final answer in \boxed{{}}. 

The following lines contain the mapping between player names and character names.
Matt plays the character DM.
Laura plays the character Vex'ahlia.
Travis plays the character Grog.
Marisha plays the character Keyleth.
Orion plays the character Tiberius.
Taliesin plays the character Percy.
Liam plays the character Vax'ildan.
Sam plays the character Taryon.
Ashley plays the character Pike.
Felicia plays the character Lyra.
Mary plays the character Zahra.
Wil plays the character Thorbir.
Will plays the character Kashaw.
Kit plays the character Lillith.
Jason plays the character Garthok.
Chris hardwick plays the character Gern.
Chris perkins plays the character Shale.
Patrick plays the character Kerrek.
Noelle plays the character Tova.
Jon plays the character Lionel.
Darin plays the character Sprigg.
Joe plays the character Arkhan.

Use this mapping when answering the questions below.

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello, and welcome this evening to Critical Role, everyone. A show where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors play Dungeons and Dragons and have a good time. Guess we can go ahead and-- we forgot to do the format this time and start with the intro. We trying to do that going forward because it makes more sense. But for now, let's go ahead and jump to the intro and we'll be right back to describe what we have going on. [dramatic music]
Matt: Welcome back. So first and foremost, we got a couple quick announcements to get into for this week. For every 100 subs we get to the channel this evening we'll be doing giveaways. The giveaways this week will include a signed photo of the cast of Critical Role, as well as, for the first time offering, a large print poster of one of the classic moments within our campaign drawn by our illustrious Kit Buss, our official artist for Critical Role. I think Zac should be showing you that photo that we'll be giving away, a really nice, high-quality print of that signed by the cast. And we'll send that out to whoever wins the wonderful prize for the chat room. I think we're 50 away from our first giveaway. So, you got to get that climbing so we can give that out shortly. Also, as we've previously, the past two weeks, had some great guests joining our first half of the Vox Machina group on their adventure, this week we have two new guests joining us for this and next week. If I can have a big, warm welcome to our players this week: Wil Wheaton and Will Friedle. Thank you guys so much for joining us. Excited to have you.
Marisha: So awesome.
Will: Slightly nervous.
Wil: You're going to be great, don't worry about it. I want to apologize in advance to Liam for having to share a table with me. I'm sorry for what's going to happen to your dice on account of how close we are to each other. I hope you're not too attached to anything with your character at all. (laughter)
Wil: I know. I'm just telling you, if there's dice you really love, you might want to put them away.
Liam: I'll just kiester this one.
Matt: That's the most comfortable way to do that. Well, awesome guys. Thank you so much for joining us in this. Before we jump in, let's see if we have any announcements that anyone wants to make, anything coming up, anything you want to talk about. I'll start. I'll say that as of flying out this evening, I should say, I have a flight at 12:15 from LAX. I'll be flying out to Columbus, Ohio for Matsuricon this weekend. So, any of you guys out there in the Ohio area want to come and visit me for the weekend, I'll be doing signings, panels, and general hanging out with fans and stuff. So if you're in the vicinity, come say hi. That's my announcement. Anyone else have anything they want to mention?
Orion: Yeah. I recently started my own Twitch stream. So you can follow me and watch. I play a lot of video games, guys. It's horrible addiction that's amazing. But it's @orionacaba on Twitch.
Matt: You keep streaming Thursdays at 7 00, which I think is really counterproductive.
Orion: It's weird.
Wil: When you've mastered being in two places at once, it's silly not to take advantage of it.
Orion: I am actually hosting Geek and Sundry on my channel right now.
Matt: Oh, look at you.
Liam: Are you simultaneously brewing at home right now?
Wil: I am. And I am also running this game in an alternate universe.
Liam: Oh. Wow.
Wil: It's pretty great. Yeah. And Matt rolls so bad in that game. It's really great. I am having dinner with my wife tomorrow so I'm looking forward to that. We're probably going to put a whole chicken in the smoker in the afternoon and then I think we're going to play some games. I'm introducing her to a game that I got at Gen Con called Lanterns.
Marisha: Lanterns?
Wil: Yeah, really fun Dom Lux game. Really like it a lot.
Marisha: We'll have to check that out.
Will: I, after four lovely years, popped the question last week.
Matt: Yes, you did.
Will: And I am engaged to be married. Yes. (cheering)
Will: Thank you very much.
Matt: I would say Susan's a very lucky girl, but really, it's the other way around.
Will: No, I'm the lucky one. I lucked out. I really was the one who lucked out.
Liam: Does she know or is this the proposal?
Will: I was going to propose like this, but we live in the woods and we don't get this show there. We have no internet whatsoever. No, she knows. She knows. She stupidly said yes, so we'll see what happens next.
Wil: If you need an entree into the Society of Men Who Married Way Above Their Stations, I can provide you an introduction.
Will: Thank you. (laughs) That's awesome. Yes, that is absolutely what happened here, so I will need that.
Wil: Yeah, they're members-only jackets.
Marisha: Members-only jackets.
Wil: The sleeves are little too short on all of the jackets, so we remember.
Will: That's perfect. I like that.
Matt: A lot of suede.
Will: Yeah. (laughter)
Wil: Yeah. (laughter)
Wil: And a nylon hood zipped into the neck, for some reason.
Matt: Which no one ever uses, and you forget it's there until you're like, "What's that? Oh, right." Congratulations.
Will: Thank you. You are the first to know that that's happened.
Matt: There you go. Exclusive. Critical Role exclusive. Well, fantastic. Let's go ahead and jump into where we left off.
Wil: I thought I just heard you say you need a pencil.
Orion: Yeah, I do.
Will: That's what happens when you're in multiple places at once. The realities start blending.
Will: I'll share, if you'd like.
Orion: Thank you.
Matt: Anyone else need a pencil? Everyone good?
Will: That was a good throw and catch.
Wil: I have a mechanical pencil that looks like a pencil pencil.
Will: I think I have the same kind of pencil.
Wil: Yeah, it's nice.
Marisha: We do the hand-eye coordination thing.
Matt: All righty, guys. As it currently stands, Vox Machina throughout its ventures found itself in the city of Vasselheim, as of late. They came to seal away the Horn of Orcus they had tore from the head of the beholder K'Varn deep in the Underdark. Once they had completed this journey, they spent some time in the city trying to figure out what can be done there, preparation for possibly Keyleth making a venture out to one of her Ashari tribes. During which, Grog entered a fight ring and lost. And the party decided to go ahead and--
Marisha: Never forget.
Matt: I have a feeling Kern and Grog are going to have a round two in the near future, depending on how Grog's feeling about that. Then the party saw that there was some sort of hydra-like being that had been harrying the walls of the outskirts of the city of Vasselheim. Being the adventurers they are, they took it upon themselves to leap out into the jungles and the forests of the Vesper Timberland. Found and hunted down this hydra, fought it, and upon slaying it, discovered there was another group also hunting this hydra. An actually sanctioned group. And that hunting this hydra is considered illegal in Vasselheim unless you had actually been contracted to do so. So in breaking the laws of Vasselheim, they could have been tried for it, but instead chose to return to the city with this group of hunters and be brought before their guildmaster, the Huntmaster known as Huntmaster Vanessa Cyndrial. Basically, they were given the choice: they could go to trial or they could undergo their own personal trial to join the guild, the Slayer's Take, which is essentially a guild that takes on contracts to hunt various requested creatures down, harvest elements of their physical bodies to then be sold or returned to these individuals and be paid for it. If they manage to complete these trials, they will be absolved of breaking the law because they will now be within the confines of it and will be members of the guild. So choosing that, they were then also notified that they would be splitting up into two different groups, much to the chagrin of Vex and Vax, our twins.
Will: Split apart.
Liam: Separation anxiety is a real thing.
Matt: So this group, the second adventuring group, has gathered itself back to the Bellows' Respite inn. Vax, you were asked to go the bar, to join your sister, Vex, for a shot of the hardest liquor they had available to deal with the coming separation. You shared a brief breakfast, shared your bitter, spiteful, alcoholic imbibement, and then went your separate ways. The first group went initially, and it's been about an hour or so of you guys waiting in the tavern for them to, as far as you know, take care of their business before you were to go to the guild yourselves. So, we have Tiberius, Keyleth, and Vax all sitting around the Bellows' Respite tavern lamenting what's going to come next.
Orion: Oh, cheer up, Vax. She'll be back soon. I've never seen you quite so down.
Marisha: I've been separated from my parents for a really long time. You get used to it. It's not too bad.
Liam: It took you years to do that. I'm two minutes in, so I'll grieve a little bit longer.
Marisha: Don't say the word grieve. That's strong.
Orion: Yes, it's implying that someone has died. And no one has. So, you know.
Marisha: It's only a few days. It'll be good. Separation makes the heart grow fonder and all that stuff.
Liam: It's fine. I just have a low tolerance for bullshit, and I'd like to get past this little piece of shit that we're being made to swallow.
Orion: I agree. Stormwinds should not be meddling around with these peasants. Are we in a tavern?
Matt: You are currently in the Bellows' Respite Tavern.
Orion: Barkeep, bring me your finest ale for my friend here and for the lady. I'll take a water.
Matt: The relatively jovial, ginger-bearded, rotund human gentleman who runs the establishment comes over to you. Looks like himself is a little bleary-eyed and hasn't quite adjusted to the morning light itself. "Oh okay. Certainly, I'll go ahead and retrieve that for you. It's three? Three is what I'm looking at?"
Marisha: What time is it?
Matt: Right now, I'd say it's roughly 9 00 to 10:00 in the morning.
Marisha: Oh sure. Let's start early. Why not?
Orion: And I flip him a couple of gold coins.
Matt: He tries to catch it, fumbles. Goes and pick it up.
Marisha: Don't throw. That's rude.
Matt: Five minutes go by. Your food and drink are brought to your table, and you continue to lament about the coming time. Is there anything else you guys wish to take care of before you make your way to the Slayer's Take Guildhall?
Marisha: Well, since we're getting separated, Grog is taking the Bag of Holding.
Orion: I have one; don't forget that.
Marisha: Right, but we had a lot of stuff in that Bag of Holding. I kept most of the stuff that I needed on me, but how many healing potions do we have?
Liam: Not a lot. That's what I'm concerned about. We lost our meat shield and we don't have Pike. So I think we probably need to go and get some potions.
Marisha: I can go ahead and brush up on healing spells, as well. Make sure I come a little bit more well-equipped, just in case.
Orion: I'm good on potions, but we should restock our supply.
Liam: How many have you got?
Orion: I have, let me see here, three potions of greater healing, and three regular potions of healing.
Liam: Can I have one?
Orion: I suppose. If we're just going to buy more, it doesn't matter. But just in case something happens along the way.
Liam: Thank you.
Marisha: I only have one greater healing potion right now.
Orion: Yes, so we'll go buy more. And then we'll see what else they have. I would like to see if we can procure a couple of items, like a couple of empty vials. I've used a lot of mine. Maybe find some acid or whatnot at these item shops. So let's look around and get the stuff.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and make an investigation check.
Marisha: Apparently we have the flying carpet?
Liam: Do we have the flying carpet?
Matt: The flying carpet is, for the most part, kept wrapped up in Grog's Bag of Holding.
Marisha: Because I think Grog was checking out. He's breaking up a little bit. But I feel like he just told me that we took the flying carpet.
Liam: (imitating Grog) We took the flying carpet. Sorry.
Marisha: He's very far away, but I feel it's reaching its limits.
Liam: (imitating Grog) I would like to bogart the flying carpet and everything in the fucking Bag.
Marisha: He apparently left us with the flying carpet?
Orion: He's saying he left with the flying carpet, Keyleth. He left with it. We don't have it.
Marisha: He said, remember, you took the flying carpet. To break RP for a second.
Liam: (imitating Grog) Am I texting you that right now?
Marisha: Yeah. I can't. You're cutting out. You're cutting out, Grog.
Orion: I held it for a time, but I only have my Wheel of Mending in mine, as far as I know. Hold on, let me check.
Matt: As you reach into your Bag of Holding--
Orion: I'm thinking really hard.
Matt: Through the luck of the draw, it seems to be that the last resting place of the flying carpet was within your Bag of Holding.
Orion: Hold on. Oh here it is.
Marisha: Oh, look at that. We have it.
Orion: Shut my mouth. I guess I was wrong.
Marisha: Found it. We're good.
Liam: All right, let's go to the store. I don't really want to drag this out any longer than we have to. And I walk out the door and start going.
Matt: Okay. What did you roll for your investigation check, Tiberius?
Orion: 16.
Matt: 16? Okay. As you guys take the next 20 minutes wandering the Quad Roads district of Vasselheim, asking around. A lot of the shops here offer general supplies. There are a few that are focused on the mining supplies as there is a large market mining cobalt out of the center of the mountain the city is built around. You find places that provide clockwork for large grandfather clocks that are starting to be distributed in this part of the city. You also find that there is a large bazaar-type market in the center of the Quad Roads that you passed by when you first came to town. Amongst many of these barkers, you do catch one small tent, Tiberius, that catches your eye because it resembles the same purple color as one tent you guys entered in Emon about a year or so ago, in which you encountered a fortune teller.
Marisha: Oh shit! It's the Witch's Fortune. What are you looking for?
Liam: Look at those fingers fly.
Orion: I approach.
Marisha: Do you know her name? Remember her name? I can probably find it. It would take a minute of digging, through. Hang on. I've got to go back to my old notes. I've got to go back to my old D&D notes. Keep doing stuff.
Matt: So as you enter the tent, you pull the curtains apart. There is one other individual who seems to be just perusing the interior. But the smell that hits you immediately is very heavy sage, ceremonial burning of various spices, giving the area a mystical scent. The light itself is very low, just a few flickering candles and a hooded lantern in the far corner directed outward give a bit of ambiance to the interior of the tent. The series of small ropes and cords made of hemp and silk carry trinkets and bones and various enchanted accoutrements. And in the far back corner, amongst the table there is indeed a very beautiful elven woman dressed in a fine silk gown with a metallic headband, her dirty blonde hair behind her ears. And she looks to be in the middle of shuffling a deck of tarot cards. As you enter, she looks up and gives you a look of surprise and then a curious look of remembrance.
Marisha: Am I with him?
Matt: You're behind him and outside of the tent. He entered. Did you guys want to go in with him?
Liam: Yes.
Marisha: Yes.
Matt: All right, you enter and are greeted by this same atmosphere.
Marisha: (gasps) Trista!
Matt: She gives you a cross look.
Marisha: It's been so long! Fancy meeting you here.
Matt: She puts her finger up for a second, turns over to the noblewoman who is currently perusing this small shelf of books and tomes. "I'm terribly sorry. Would you mind just giving us a moment? I've some personal business to attend to." The noble woman is like, "Oh, fine. I didn't want to purchase anything anyway." And stomps out of the tent. The door closes behind her. At which point the elven woman immediately turns. "Trista's my sister."
Marisha: You're Forsythia?
Matt: "It's good to see you again, young half-elf." You can see now with the current atmosphere, the light seems to dim the interior of the tent. And the elven woman's visage shimmers and then fades and there sitting behind the table you see a large, hunched forward, gnarled humanoid. This woman, who is definitively referred to as a hag, is currently lording over the table, long, twisted fingers holding that same deck of cards. Looking up at you with a crooked nose and pointed chin. There's a grin on her face. And looks to you and, "It has been some time, dragonborn. I can still see there is a fraction of you still missing."
Orion: Yes. I still don't know what that means. But I am actually happy to see you, milady.
Matt: Still shuffling her cards. "So was there anything I can help you with?"
Orion: Yes. Yes, there is. You mentioned before, when I asked you last, of the Boros Ring. You revealed that it was in the Fey, the Wild Fen. I am also in search of the item that I did not get to ask you about called the Pale Stone. I wish to know the location of that, as well.
Matt: She gives you a keen look. "I think for the time being, one quest is enough. Return when you've procured this ring you so graciously seek, then perhaps the rest of this will be revealed. Grow greedy with fate and I fear the timeline will swallow you up, young dragonblood." She pulls the cards down and just starts going over her own reading. Each card she slams down with a heavy thud. The room seems to almost cloud, the air growing thicker. And there's a hint of frustration that she's currently being bothered and strung out. After she takes a few moments to herself, she looks back you. "Is there business you seek, aside from asking me these questions? Perhaps a bauble or two. I make fine baubles."
Orion: Since you're not in the business of information, then we are in the business of procuring some specific items. Potions. I'm looking for a few empty glass vials. Perhaps some acid, if you have it.
Matt: She stands up. And as she stands up, you can now see the hag, which hunched forward, sits at a solid five feet tall. At full height, even with the hunch, she's now cresting the top of the tent at seven feet. Long, stringy, gray-black hair framing the shoulders. The same nice goldish silk outfit the elf appearance was wearing is there. It looks much more world-tattered and matches the one currently wearing it. She reaches behind her, still staring you intently in the face, and grabs a small case off the wall. Sets it down before her. Pulls back the wooden lid and inside, you can see there are three small glass vials. "These are what I have to offer. Two of them will right your physical form, perhaps take care of some of those wounds someone as foolish and careless as you eventually deal with. The third one is caustic in its nature. Its application is up to you. They are sold as a set, though. 300 gold pieces. Take it or leave."
Orion: You don't have to be all nasty about it. I have the money. Here you go.
Matt: She reaches over and as you hold the small bag of coin out, her hand completely engulfs yours. The fingers wrap around, and for a second you feel a tug. And you are awkwardly pulled forward a few inches. You get closer to her face. The breath catches your nostrils, the scent of swamp water and old fish. It's a moment of intensity where you forget your surroundings for a brief moment. And it's just you and this entity. And you realize, she's far older than you ever gave her credit for. She pulls the bag of coin from your hand and withdraws. The light seems to return from the peripheral of your vision. Keyleth and Vax are there at your side. She reaches forward and pushes the box forward toward you on the table. "Be safe, and may fortune smile upon most of you."
Orion: Yes, I know something bad is going to happen. I show them the box. I take it and pick it up. This is all she had to offer. She's not taking questions.
Marisha: You're not taking any questions right now?
Matt: "Not today."
Marisha: Not today?
Matt: "As you know, my dealings with fate take a lot out of me. I'm not quite ready for another round of tellings. You see, this city, as most bits of civilization, are very eager to hear what the future has in store for them. So I'm a bit tapped out at the moment." And you can see a bit of dried blood around one of her nostrils. And if you recall last time, the process was very physically taxing on her. "Perhaps return in a week or so. And if I'm not here, I'm around."
Liam: Old one, are you still willing to trade today?
Matt: "Trade?"
Liam: I'm wondering if you have any poisons beyond the run-of-the-mill nightshades this afternoon or morning?
Matt: She stands up and reaches over, and there's a small alchemical glassware set up on the side. And you see it's cracked and old and it's been brutalized. And she pulls a very small vial of some dark, black, almost umbra-type liquid where you can't even see shine in the light. It absorbs all the light. She puts it forward. "This would be very unfortunate to find its way into the bloodstream of an enemy, yes?"
Liam: What do you want for it?
Matt: "A favor. Not now, but perhaps down the road."
Orion: She does that, Vax. A lot.
Liam: Why not?
Matt: She pushes it forward with her long, crooked fingernail, shoves the vial forward. It screeches across the top of the table. She withdraws her hand. "So it is done." At that moment, there's a very a cold shiver down the back of your neck that then fades. She just grins with this nasty, toothy grin. "Now, be on your way. I have cards to shuffle."
Liam: Yoink.
Marisha: It was so nice to see a familiar face in such a strange place. She's lovely.
Orion: Yes. Good day, madam.
Matt: As you step out, she raises her hand in front of her and her form once again shimmers and shifts down to that beautiful elven maiden that greeted you as you entered. The lights tend to blossom a little bit and you close the tent behind you.
Liam: As we're leaving, I say, that's a good look.
Matt: Gives a slight breathy chuckle that starts beautiful. (chuckle turns into a cackle)
Orion: What did we actually get?
Matt: You acquired two potions of greater healing, and a vial of caustic liquid. You are uncertain as to what its properties are.
Marisha: Caustic liquid.
Matt: You also don't quite know the properties of yours, but you gather, the assurance from a creature of this power, that she speaks in riddles, but not in untruths.
Orion: I'm going to give you another one of the greater potions. So mark that down.
Liam: Thank you. We're right in the middle of the bazaar. Do we want to take a quick jog around? I grab someone passing by and say, you, potions? Where? Here?
Matt: The person looks down at your arm, brushes it off, and the middle-aged gentleman goes, "Sir, you do realize that most of the potion trade is controlled by the clergy?"
Marisha: They're all like no magic and stuff here.
Liam: I did not know that. Thank you. Well, shit.
Marisha: Wait. Did he say that it was controlled by the clergy?
Orion: So we should go there.
Marisha: Hang on. Just because it is controlled by the clergy doesn't mean that it's legal. Doesn't mean that if we go knocking on their door requesting potions that they're going to take kindly to that. Kind of like getting your concealed deadly weapons license in certain places.
Liam: I grab another weirdo passing by and say, excuse me. There's probably a temple around here. Can you point us in the right direction?
Matt: The individual looks at you awkwardly and points over. And you can see just past the outskirts of this bazaar, there are a number of buildings that line the outer area of this central portion. You can see where he is pointing, there is a large cathedral made of almost, from this distance, a warbling, warped obsidian, and it is far more ominous and obelisk-like in appearance than the other temples. In a district of the city that you haven't been to yet. But it is the closest temple.
Wil: Warbling Obsidian is my Black Crowes cover band.
Liam: I'm getting itchy. Can we just go to the Take please?
Marisha: I turn and I lean into Tiberius and I say, he's going to be cranky the entire time we're on this field trip, isn't he?
Orion: Yes, and usually I'm the cranky one.
Marisha: I know.
Orion: So let's head to the temple. Right? Yes?
Marisha: I guess.
Orion: Can you turn into a horse?
Marisha: Yes, but that's a little forward, don't you think?
Orion: I'm just asking.
Liam: Are we going to the temple or the Take?
Orion: Oh, the Take? What would make you feel better?
Liam: Let's get on with it, shall we? Jesus, whoever that is.
Orion: That was that one carpenter we met in in Vasselheim.
Liam: Oh, he was sweet. He had some good herb.
Orion: Yes, he did. He sure knew how to-- it was dank.
Matt: "Dank," which is arcane terms for "thaumaturgical." Anyway. You make your way to the southern outskirts of this portion of the bazaar, which leads its way into the central building cluster portion of the Quad Roads district to the outside of the Slayer's Take Guildhall. You walk up to the main doorway which has the inscription in front. And pushing the door open, you enter into the main foyer area, where you see the same cast-iron chandeliers hanging from the ceiling, the dark wood rafters frame the entire internal area. And there sitting at the central desk is Mertin, the scarred-up halfling with the relatively joyful disposition. He looks up from his books. "Okay, it appears to me that we have the other half of this adventuring group to deal with. Let us hope that perhaps you have better luck than your previous friends in what has been chosen for you, eh?"
Liam: They already headed out?
Matt: "Yes, they left not more than an hour ago, I imagine."
Marisha: And what were they contracted with?
Matt: "Oh, nothing. They're going to kill a dragon. Would you like me to go get the mistress for you?"
Liam: Excuse me?
Matt: "I'll take that as a yes. I'll be right back." And he gets up from his table and wanders off.
Orion: They'll be fine. I'm sure of it. Scanlan makes good decisions all the time.
Matt: As you wait a few moments, eventually Mertin returns. But he seems, his head down, a little humbly, and gestures out with his hands. And you hear the familiar footsteps of the Huntmaster, Vanessa Cyndrial. Her tiefling appearance both very striking in her chiseled bone structure in her face, her dark leather armor itself creaking slightly with each footstep. And she has that very commanding yet welcoming appearance, which you know hides a very hard-to-read interior. She steps forward. "Well, are you ready to take on the other half of this mission? Your friends were eager. And they traveled with some of our finer warriors. Are you confident in your capabilities today?"
Orion: Listen, don't be smug with me. None of us what to be here or cooperate with this stupid event just to abide your laws.
Marisha: Tiberius, we could be on trial.
Orion: The answer is yes. Let's get on with it.
Matt: "You see, it is very simple. I like it, direct and to the point. I respect that."
Orion: Oh. Well, thank you.
Matt: "The angry, flowery part in the middle, not so much a fan of. All right. So," she reaches behind and pulls out what looks like a small, rolled-up piece of parchment. Looks at it for a second. "Well, you have one other hopeful for this guild that will be joining you for this, and a leader will be assigned to you on this excursion to keep an eye on you and make sure you stay within the rules and not go absconding to some other country and we have to hunt you down."
Liam: Fantastic.
Orion: Can we use the word liaison?
Matt: "A liaison, if you will. Mertin, would you get the other hopeful for this?" Mertin says, "Of course, my lady." He gets up, and walks over, and knocks on a door. As you hear the door knock on the opposite side of the room, opens it up. And the red, tousled hair, halfling. "Kashaw, your group has arrived."
Will: Well, it's about time. I'm sick of waiting. (sighs) He walks out and meets everybody.
Matt: As you guys look, the door opens, and a human male steps out into the light. If you wish to describe yourself.
Will: I am Kashaw Vesh, an acolyte. Here I am, waiting for you for so long now. Do I have to travel with them the entire time?
Matt: "For the remainder of this contract at least. But once you have joined the Guild, perhaps other groups will be assigned to you."
Marisha: I'm sorry. I'm sorry, were we late? We didn't mean to keep you waiting. Or do you mean like, you've been waiting for us for a long time in the destiny, "we're here and where have you been my whole life" kind of way?
Will: Is she always like this?
Orion: Yes, she is.
Liam: Not good at reading emotions.
Will: This is going to be fun. Yes. No, I meant you're late.
Marisha: Wait. Is that what people say about me?
Liam: I don't.
Marisha: We'll talk later.
Will: Who are you?
Liam: Vax'ildan.
Orion: I am Tiberius Stormwind.
Will: A dragonborn.
Liam: What's your thing? What do you do?
Will: What I do is not really important. What I want to get done, I think, is what matters. What I want to do is start this quest. Is that what you called it? Quest?
Matt: "It is a contract."
Will: A contract, a job. Can we just get out there, please, and do what we have to do?
Matt: "Very well."
Liam: I agree. Let's hurry it up, Merkin. Shall we?
Will: That wasn't your name, was it?
Matt: "It's Mertin. Mertin is the name. But it's okay."
Liam: I'm not from these parts. It's my accent. Sorry.
Matt: "I can hear accent from upbringing. It's Syngornian use. It's fine. Mertin. Never mind." By the way, the human that has walked out, you can see has shoulder-length brown hair, a leather cord that is tied around the center of the forehead. Eyes two different colors. One I believe is a light blue?
Will: It's a light blue. One is a bright yellow. And his right arm, all the way up from where you can see where it disappears below the armor is covered in one-inch cuts, with scars all the way up.
Orion: Ah, a religious man.
Will: Maybe.
Matt: Mertin goes over and knocks on a door, opens it up. This individual is easy to hear from a distance. The heavy footfalls and the grumbling echoes through the hallways before he even appears. Mertin leads you into the light of the main foyer area. "This will be the group of which you will be guiding on this. I appreciate you doing this for us. I know it's not really usually what you do. But here is your team for this contract."
Wil: I'm sorry, where is the team?
Matt: "This is your team." And Vanessa chuckles to herself. "I'm sorry. This is what you'll be dealing with today."
Marisha: Hi.
Orion: Hello, I'm Tiberius Stormwind.
Matt: "Now Thorbir, play nice."
Marisha: What was that?
Matt: "Thorbir. Thorbir, play nice."
Wil: So he's a dwarf. He's a really stout dwarf. He's got really a long, red beard that's singed off in the lower right corner. The bottom of the top part of his beard is braided and clamped off with all these ornate things. He's got these big, thick, ropey, white braids that come down on either side of his face and frame his face. And these have these really big Dwarven runes on them. Do any of you speak Dwarven?
Orion: Yes.
Marisha: No.
Will: Yes.
Wil: All right, so for those of you who speak Dwarven, this is a really offensive curse word in Dwarven. And this one is an even more offensive curse word in Dwarven. You don't say these in friendly company. He's got a scar that runs down across his face. And the eye that it runs through is black. And his other eye is blue. And you can see that he's got Dwarven script written in tattoos all the way down his right arm.
Matt: "So please, if you would not mind making sure that they see their contract to fruition, taking them on this as you will, showing them the ropes of the guild, and try not get them killed."
Wil: And for me?
Matt: "Well, you will be rewarded as per the contract. You will have done the guild a great favor, which you know favors can go a very long way in the guild."
Wil: I certainly do. You don't have to tell me about repaying favors.
Matt: "Fair enough. Well, perhaps now would be a good time for this jovial lot of adventurers to know what it is they are to hunt down."
Wil: Is it an actual group?
Matt: "Well, we'll see how well you can make it into one. Perhaps this is a test for you as well, fair dwarf."
Marisha: I think is going to be an excellent bonding experience.
Will: Seriously, the whole time she is like this?
Orion: Yes, she is. It grows on you, though.
Will: I'm sure it does. So does the plague.
Marisha: Everyone has such a problem with optimism.
Matt: She unravels it. Looks at it. "I think this will do well for what is required. We will bind this contract to you now. Feel free to take over. If you wouldn't mind reading, half-elf."
Marisha: You know, public speaking is not really my strong suit. Okay. Ordered and paid in advance by anonymous.
Orion: Oh, they're a fun group.
Marisha: This contract, binding in honor and the elements, sets upon the agreed members of the Slayer's Take Guildhall, and the task of locating and slaying the below-mentioned entity, and the recovery of the below-listed harvested anatomy items. And any anatomy items not recovered or not in functional condition will be deducted from the final payment and refunded to the client. Oh. This contract is good for three days and should the contract not be fulfilled within that time period, all payments are null and void, this contract is null and void, and membership of the Slayer's Take is revoked-- outside of the Huntmaster's willful forgiveness.
Liam: Skip to the punchline.
Marisha: The quarry has been approved for hunting by the Holy Paramours of the Crown of Erathis. The quarry of one rakshasa. What's a rakshasa?
Liam: Tiger man.
Marisha: Tiger man?
Liam: Essentially.
Will: How do you know that?
Liam: Storybooks in Syngorn.
Marisha: We need two rakshasa eyes, one rakshasa tongue, one rakshasa heart, two rakshasa claws, and two rakshasa canine teeth. So canine.
Orion: Would this be an arcana or this be a history check?
Matt: This would be more of an arcana check.
Orion: I'm going to do an arcana check. 18.
Matt: 18? Rakshasas were entities that originally stemmed from the realm of the Nine Hells. They are devils. They are deceptive, and usually embed themselves in elements of society where they can grasp and take power. They love having servitude beneath them, and they are notoriously difficult and slippery to find, let alone nail down and destroy. Appearance-wise, they look like a normal humanoid man, but have the face of a tiger, and the other curious element is both of their hands are reversed. That's as much as you can glean from your formal training and understanding.
Liam: Does this cat have a name?
Matt: "Why does it matter? All we know is we can confirm that there is one within the vicinity, or huntable at the very least. The rest is up to you to find."
Marisha: The quarry is where it's been last located? Oh, okay. Yeah, you double-check it. I might have missed something.
Will: Why can't we know who the client is?
Matt: "The client has decided they wish to remain anonymous for this contract."
Orion: This seems to be bothering you, Kashaw.
Will: Everything's been bothering me lately. She's not helping. Do you want to read this?
Orion: It's going to say the same thing. Which part?
Will: Give me this. How far to the quarry?
Matt: "Your quarry is the creature."
Will: You said it was in the vicinity. What are we talking "in the vicinity?" Are we talking a day's hike? We talking an hour from here?
Matt: "Meaning, we've been able to confirm that there is one that is within a huntable distance within the three days of the contract. However, part of this trial is to see just how good you are at finding and destroying such creatures, so that information is for you to find, unless you do not feel your skills are up to par for the Slayer's Take, in which case, you are more than welcome to go for the door, human."
Liam: And you have no further information? Are there any grumpkins you want us to find? Do you expect us to go out with no information at all to find a man with a tiger's head?
Matt: "Well, you seem like a well-traveled unit. You seem to have done well enough to find and destroy great things you spoke of as you walked into these halls. Prove to me that you are more than just sell-swords. Show to me that you have the intellect, that you have the skill sets, that you have the cleverness to find the creature that does not wish to be found."
Liam: Is this how things normally go around here?
Wil: Normally, I don't waste my time with the likes of you. Man with a tiger's head is going to stand out. No problem finding him. Let's stand here and talk about this forever, or let's head out and get this over with.
Orion: Well, dwarf, why don't you do your title and lead then? And I should warn you, you are walking with a Stormwind. You may not know my name, but I can assure you, I alone am an army, so we are well protected. So, lead us to find this tiger-man, please.
Wil: Dragonborn is a lot of talk.
Will: If he's an army, why not just send him out?
Marisha: That was probably the ballsiest thing you've ever said.
Wil: All right, Storm?
Orion: Wind. People call me Tibsy.
Wil: Let's see how good you are at following. And he heads out.
Liam: He's not very good. Oh, he's gone.
Matt: As the dwarf exits, and you guys follow. Outside of the Slayer's Take into the center of the main Quad Roads thoroughfare, on the outskirts of the bazaar to seek a rakshasa, wherever one may be found.
Marisha: I thought this was going to be a fun field trip.
Orion: Well, I mean "rakshasa" does sound fun. Rakshasa!
Marisha: It does. It is a tiger person, so maybe we can relate.
Will: I want to switch teams.
Orion: No, it gets better.
Liam: What's your name again? I'm sorry.
Will: I am Kashaw Vesh. Call me Brother Kash. Everyone else does.
Liam: Kash. Brother Kash, are you new to the Guild, as well?
Will: I'm not a member of the Guild yet. I had something happen with someone who did something and now I'm here. Why don't we leave it at that, for now?
Liam: That's how we got here.
Will: Apparently, I only have to be here for another three days, which will be good.
Liam: All right.
Wil: I'm impatient. Perception 20. Is there anything around that indicates where, which of these four directions is the best direction to go?
Matt: Knowing the city for the while that you've been here, you know there are places of open business that have a lot of traffic are also good places to ask for if anyone has seen anything that might match a certain description, or an individual that you are seeking, any strange behavior. And so you know that the center of the Quad Roads where that bazaar is, is a good place to start requesting information as you have currently none at your disposal.
Marisha: Just to get this clear, a rakshasa's not a beast?
Matt: It's like a man.
Will: It's a demon.
Orion: It's a demon.
Matt: It's a demon creature that looks like a man.
Marisha: But it's not a beast, by definition?
Matt: No.
Liam: I'm sorry. I'd like to make an insight check on the dwarf, not to see if he is lying, but he could be. Can I get a gut instinct into what his deal is?
Matt: Go ahead and make an insight check.
Liam: Three, but I'm going to use my Luck to try that again. 18 plus two is 20.
Matt: Would you like to go ahead and roll a 20?
Wil: Yeah, that's a two. All right. (laughter)
Liam: Just reinforce the myth, man.
Wil: That's one better than I usually roll. I'd say it's twice as good as I usually do.
Matt: Gruff exterior. There is definitely a toughened past to him. He seems driven. Not necessarily untrustworthy, per se, but definitely a man of little patience and currently does not seem to be too pleased with the fact that he's essentially babysitting, in his mind.
Liam: Is there a marshmallow center?
Matt: You may find out in due time. Yet that is too hard to read at this moment.
Will: If you're in the bazaar, do I have to be out of the city to cast Locate Creature?
Matt: You can cast that anywhere you want to. Your magic is divine. This is your city.
Liam: And that's not just a descriptor, either.
Will: Thank you. It's normally fabulous, but not in this city. So then how do I go about casting Locate Creature?
Matt: You can just tell me.
Will: I'd like to go ahead and cast Locate Creature.
Matt: All right, so as you guys are having this discussion, you're having this weird stare-off and considering where to go in the bazaar. You stop in the nearby alley two buildings down from where the Slayer's Take Guildhall is. And you begin just taking a small dagger from your side and carving a circle in the ground. Throw some runes down that are specific to your patron. Take a moment and concentrate on the description of this rakshasa. Looking at the specifics of the spell to make sure that I don't give you misinformation... Locate Creature. Beautiful.
Will: You guys have jazz hands.
Orion: Rakshasa.
Will: Rakshasa.
Matt: You focus your mind for a second, and your holy symbol begins to drift up from underneath your armor. You instinctively take and slap it down underneath, and then refocus your vision, your eyes closed. And you can see what looks like a pulsing energy, like a very dark flame. Something that itself, you can already smell the sulfur. You can smell the lineage, the devil lineage that this entity is. And there is indeed one not too terribly far from where you currently are. It's faint, which means that it is on the outskirts. And you know this lasts for a good thousand feet or so. But it does give you a northeastern direction. And the spell fades.
Marisha: Northeastern direction.
Will: We should go northeast. It is also unfortunately, or fortunately, depending on how you look at it, closer than we thought.
Liam: In the walls of the city?
Will: Not in the walls, but very close to them.
Marisha: Do we have any type of plan of attack? Does anyone know how to fight these things? Any earthly clue?
Will: Leader boy?
Marisha: Leader boy?
Wil: I'm sorry, are you talking to me?
Orion: Thorbir is what they meant to say.
Will: Listen to Stormfather over here.
Marisha: I take my social cues from other people. I'm sorry.
Wil: In my experience, there has not been a problem invented that can't be solved with an axe.
Orion: That's true. We've seen that.
Will: Wonderfully helpful. Thank you.
Wil: You're welcome.
Liam: Follow the axe.
Wil: Now what I want you to do is imagine an hourglass. You got that? Good picture of an hourglass in your heads? See all that sand draining out? Let's get a move on.
Orion: Okay. What am I doing with this sand?
Marisha: I agree with that. Are we supposed to do something with the sand?
Wil: Yeah, count it.
Marisha: Oh, that would take so long. Can we tag-team this?
Wil: She always like this?
Orion: Yes.
Will: Stormcloud's counting sand. I don't know what she's doing over here. Northeast. How about let's start walking that way and see what happens? Can we give that a shot?
Orion: I agree. You did the fancy spell.
Will: It's not as fancy as you might think.
Wil: I've pulled my axe out and I'm sort of holding it like a walking stick. And just very deliberately, very demonstratively walking ahead in that direction.
Matt: With each footfall, you know that what was once, probably hundreds of years ago, a nice cobblestone roadway in the center of the city has been slowly hit with mud, dirt, snow, sleet, and so each step is a slight moisture with each footfall.
Orion: I'm assuming there's no stables around.
Matt: Not immediately, those are usually to the very outside of the city.
Liam: Why are you jonesing for a horse?
Orion: So I don't get all dirty.
Matt: Thorbir, leading forward in the northeastern direction that was given by Brother Kash, eventually brings you around the side of the bazaar. And you can now see why it's called the Quad Roads, there are two main roads that meet right where the bazaar occurs and then they spread off into the other sections of the city. To the northeastern section, from your guys' perspective, the district begins to drift into another district that you have not previously visited. This district is, you've heard it mentioned before, known as the Duskmeadow. Now, previous sections you've been in have been worshipers of Bahamut, the Platinum Dragon. There was the Braving Grounds, which worships Kord, the god of strength and warfare and honor. The Quad Roads, which is under Erathis, the deity of civilization and invention. The Duskmeadow falls under the watchful eye of the Raven Queen, the goddess of death. That large obsidian-type structure that you were led to earlier is the temple that resides in the center of this district. And you've heard mention before of a few of the things that exist here. That being probably Raven's Crest, which is the main temple to the Raven Queen. This is also where the Amaranthine Oubliette is located, which is essentially the prison of the entire city of Vasselheim.
Marisha: The what?
Matt: The Amaranthine Oubliette.
Orion: Hammertime oubliette.
Marisha: Oh, there it is.
Matt: This is also where most of the dead of the city are interred into a series of catacombs that are built deep beneath this section of the city. Far enough away from the oubliette to the point where isn't crossover and is enough of an escape, because that apparently has happened in the past history of the city. As you begin pushing towards the edge of where the two districts meet, you can see that there is an area of the town that, for lack of better term, it's a more jovial than expected area. There are a series of stands put up along the side of the road. There's a lot of beggars sitting on the side of the street that are currently panhandling to those who walk by. There are a number of taverns. You can hear music coming from various establishments. And it seems almost the closer you get to the death-oriented district on the border of the Quad Roads, the more and more it pushes into a shadier Mardi Gras-type experience. So you make your way towards that dividing line there. What you would like to do?
Orion: What say you, Thorbir?
Wil: Let's ask around and see if anything has been a little out the ordinary, or maybe, in the ordinary.
Orion: Yes, I like that phrasing.
Will: Have to imagine anywhere this thing goes, there's going to be strange deaths associated with it. We might as well look there.
Orion: That's actually a good idea, as well.
Liam: And where we're walking, are there shops and stands, as well, or is it residential?
Matt: There are many that sell jewelry, many that sell very well-made clothing, some of them party attire, there are some that sell exotic fruits that have been imported in various states of ripeness.
Marisha: Is anyone selling any masks?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Marisha: Passive or active?
Matt: That would be an active perception check as you're seeking it.
Marisha: 21.
Matt: 21. You do glance around and there is one cart that carries costume, party attire supplies. It doesn't seem to have too many customers right now, but they do have a couple of masks that are on display.
Marisha: Are there any masks that look like tiger masks?
Matt: Looking at it, there are none that are tiger-specific, no. They seem to be molded leather and some more impish, goblin-y in appearance.
Marisha: Is there someone working the stand?
Matt: There is, yes. You see a woman in her forties or so, thin, with a big toothy smile. Her hair is pulled back into tight bun. You can see there's little bit of her blondish hair turning to gray on the sides around her ears, Reed Richard-style.
Orion: Did you say this was the Bahamut part of town, too?
Matt: The Bahamut section is far away. That's another section of the city. You are now on the line between the Duskmeadow and the Quad Roads, so it's Erathis and the Raven Queen.
Liam: I'm pulling a mask off the wall. This is a beautiful piece. Do you make them yourself?
Matt: "I do. I do, I make them myself by hand, hence the price."
Liam: They are quite beautiful. We're travelers here. I've never seen a neighborhood like this. Is there a festival going on here, or is this pretty much the basic fare of the day here?
Matt: "This is the localized festival of the city. If you've been around Vasselheim long enough you've seen there is little interest in celebration depending on some places. But, at least on this line, some people can appreciate the fleetness that is life and grasp it by the roots and make it its own before it's snuffed out."
Liam: Here particularly, there seems to be electricity in the air almost. It's very bustling. This is the norm around here?
Matt: "Consistently. That's why I come and bring my business here. I wouldn't do very well up north, I'll tell you that. All them dragon types--" Looks to you. "No offense. All them silver dragon lovers have an issue with things as celebratory."
Liam: And I pull out ten gold, and I spread them on her desk.
Matt: "How many masks?"
Liam: Oh, none.
Marisha: Oh, I would like one.
Matt: "Take your pick."
Liam: I slide one coin away from the other nine, and then dragging my finger across those say, is there anything out of the ordinary these days?
Matt: Go ahead and make a persuasion roll.
Liam: 15.
Matt: 15? She gives you a look like she's trying to read you, looks about left and right. Glances at you and looks a little ugh. Glances at you and looks really taken aback, and then comes back to you with a escape of comfort.
Liam: Watching her, I pull out another five and spread them in front of the first nine.
Matt: "Well, I mean, some businesses here are a bit shady, I won't lie. And there are some long-standing businesses that have quarrels. Usually, they end in small scuffles, or one purchases the other and ousts them from the city. This is one of the few areas in which the more adult pleasures can be found, so there's a lot of money to be had. But recently, there's been, at least from what I've heard, a series of bodies have turned up. There were a few found, fished out by the Bastions in the water trough on the outskirts of the Duskmeadow."
Liam: The Bastions  what are they?
Matt: "Bastions who are the guardians of the city. From what I hear, they had been mauled by some sort of strange beast."
Liam: Mauled?
Matt: "Now, beasts on the outside of the city, that I can see. But on the inside, that is the stuff of nightmares. Is it not?"
Orion: Yes, I would agree.
Marisha: Have you had invaders like this before?
Matt: "I mean, death is not an uncommon occurrence for certain areas of the city." And she gestures off to the distant temple. "Some people invite it, even. But such violent death like this is usually kept to the outside of the city, at least with some sort of cause. This seems to be a murderous rampage that, me personally, I don't want to go out at night without protection."
Marisha: Is there is any indication of the cause of death on these corpses? How do they find them?
Matt: "I don't know. I've not investigated. Perhaps you have to ask the Bastions yourself that. Or anyone who was in the vicinity."
Liam: And can you point us in the right direction?
Matt: She looks around, and points off. And you can see, there isn't a whole lot of Bastion presence in this portion of the city, especially since the Bastions are more of a voluntary guard. People from the different clergies, the different temples, train to become Bastions, and fit themselves with whatever their deity's armor is. You do see there are two Bastions armored in a very dark, dark brown leather that carry a symbol of what looks like a silver raven that is embroidered on one shoulder of a cloak that is tossed to one side.
Liam: These guys are right here, essentially?
Matt: Yeah. Oh. They're across the road about maybe a block up. "I believe they're Bastions from the Duskmeadow. Perhaps you could ask them."
Marisha: Does she have any masks that look like a raven? A raven mask?
Matt: She does actually have one that looks like a raven.
Marisha: I want that one.
Matt: "Very well. A good choice. It doesn't quite match the color of your attire, but perhaps I have an outfit that could match for you?"
Marisha: Oh!
Will: Oh my god, we're going clothes shopping.
Marisha: Do you have a little cloak as well? A little cape?
Matt: "Cloaks I don't, but there but there is a cloakery about four blocks that way on your left. They can probably help you there."
Marisha: Thank you so much.
Matt: "Of course."
Liam: I notice a serpent-shaped mask on the wall. I just pick it up and put it on and say, thank you, madam. Much obliged. And walk off and clap Thorbir on the shoulder and keep walking.
Wil: Thorbir hangs back a little bit and waits for them to get to the door. And he looks at the shop keep and, do you have any masks that might fit a little girl?
Matt: "Yes, of course, friend dwarf." And she goes and rummages through a small bag and pulls out a mask. This little purple mask that seems to have small fake gems forming the outside, with a couple of ribbons that dangle where it would tie around the head. It's simple, but it's pretty. "Unfortunately, not many people bring children to this side of the district. They don't sell very well. But if you would like one, I would be happy to part with for two gold?"
Wil: One gold.
Matt: Make a persuasion roll.
Wil: 18.
Matt: "One gold. Guess it is better to sell it than not at all. Here you are. I must say, I won't tell anyone, but purple is a pretty color on you."
Wil: Yes, it is. He walks out.
Matt: All right. A few moments pass as you wonder where your dwarven leader has vanished to, he steps out through the front of the establishment.
Wil: Let's go.
Orion: Great. Do you have potions? Are you all potioned up? Are you good on items, Thorbir?
Wil: I'm all right. Are you all right?
Orion: I'm just fine.
Liam: Well, we're in a rush, but if it's easy. How do you come by potions in this town?
Wil: Do I know the answer to that?
Matt: You do. They're either provided, from some of your experience, by the Slayer's Take, but those are usually offered at the start of a contract. The fact that they weren't offered on this means either they don't have any currently at their disposal, or they felt that this contract probably wouldn't require it with the construct of this group being set out. Other than that, they are a little hard to come by. A lot of them are controlled by the main temples and are pretty much given straight to the Bastions. There aren't a lot of individuals that are in need of them within the city, and those that travel out are either members of the Slayer's Take or members of the Bastion forces. So they are little hard to come by.
Wil: I think that if we're going to find them anywhere, it might be around here. Might be we can take some through trade. Maybe some might fall off a Bastion or two.
Orion: Well, let's go talk to one then, shall we?
Will: Thought that's what we were doing. Are going to the two Bastions over there or what?
Orion: Yes, Kashaw.
Will: Good. One other thing you need to know about them: they're horribly paid, so money talks with these people.
Orion: Very well.
Marisha: As he goes ahead, I keep up my pace until I trail behind him a little bit.
Will: Wonderful.
Liam: My hood goes up, and I'm gone.
Matt: All right. As you guys step across the way. It's about a block up. One of them is partially inside the alley between two of the buildings. You can see he has one hand up on the wall and the other down. One of them is relieving himself on the side of the building, while the other is keeping watch, arms crossed, looking out across the road. The one that's immediately present, or before you, you can see is human, a scruffy brown beard around the edge of the chin. The hair itself is cut very short. A little heavier in appearance. A little muscle, a little layer of winter padding, but the black leather armor definitely gives you the appearance of somebody who is a Bastion of the Raven Queen. As you approach, the hooded half-elf, the dwarf walking with the giant axe, and the bumbling dragonborn, the human cleric with a very angry disposition, and the awkward half-elf druid stepping in pace with him. Gives you all a cursory look and immediately puts a hand to his side where you can see that there is a rapier currently sheathed. "Aye, you walk with purpose."
Wil: We walk for the Guild.
Matt: "Slayer's Take it is?"
Wil: It is.
Matt: "What business have you on this side of town, then? Aren't you supposed to be out past the walls killing creatures and such?"
Wil: Our business takes us where our business takes us. Our business brings us here today.
Matt: "All right, then what's your business?"
Wil: You might be having some trouble?
Matt: "Aye."
Wil: What's causing you trouble and what's going to get us out of here might be the same thing.
Matt: The gentleman to the left of him finishes shaking off the rest of his alleyway journey.
Will: Any more than twice and you're just playing with it, pal.
Matt: He turns around and throws his tunic over. "Excuse me, it's official Bastion business. Anyway." And he nods over to the bearded gentleman who's standing there. "There are certain bits of business that are official in this town. I don't know how honestly right it is to be talking with common folk, or even the Guild who does what it likes."
Wil: I'm sorry, you're not talking to common folk.
Will: He wants money.
Wil: I know what he wants.
Will: Well, then give to him so we can get out of here.
Liam: I'm circling around.
Matt: Make a stealth check.
Liam: 31.
Matt: I'm not even going to roll. I'm going to ask you to go ahead and you can choose if you want persuasion or intimidation on this. You're riding that line.
Wil: I'm equally bad at both of them. But I think that Thorbir wants to go intimidation. I'll give that a try. There it is!
Orion: 20?
Wil: What's the exact opposite of that? (laughter)
Matt: You know, I've heard about it for so long.
Wil: I know, right? You can't believe that it's a real thing until you're actually there.
Liam: Everybody talks about spontaneous combustion, but I'd never believed it.
Wil: It's silly. It's so silly to do this.
Marisha: Dice shame.
Liam: Naughty.
Matt: I don't know what ancient Aztec deity's temple you defaced when you were a child, but man. All right, so as you lean forward--
Wil: Please, just let me step into a bucket. (laughter)
Matt: We'll get to that. As you lean forward, forcing your presence on this Bastion, his hand's still holding the edge of his rapier. He steps forward into you, to the point where you're almost forehead to forehead. "Sorry, I have to lean down to reach your level. But if you're going to go about asking questions and not offering proper compensation for information, well, then. I think we have no business here."
Wil: If it's compensation you're looking for, let's just speak plain. And I pull out four gold.
Liam: And while he has their attention, I'm going to check out his pockets.
Matt: Go ahead and make a perception check.
Liam: Ew, that's not good. I'm going to use Luck. That's better. That's all right. Perception, you said? 28.
Matt: 28? Taking a moment as you sneak up behind the one he's talking to-- the two guys are shoulder to shoulder, squaring off with the rest of this group. The one that had been relieving himself in the alleyway is a little bit closer to you. You can see as he put his tunic right and everything, he jostled around and revealed a couple of small pouches on his side. One of which, you heard a clinking of glass on the inside. Go ahead and make a sleight-of-hand check.
Marisha: Go rogue, go.
Liam: Because I'm wearing a Cloak of Elvenkind, which I know affects stealth checks but not--
Matt: Not sleight of hand, no.
Liam: That's all right. 20.
Matt: 20. All right. You reach over and find the edge of the leather loop that attaches itself to the side of this Bastion's belt. You tug ever so gently to the side and the loop releases and you pull it off, seemingly without any noticing. As you pull out the four gold from inside, the Bastion looks out and scoffs and goes, "Clearly, pittance fee for this. What's to let me think that you aren't actually part of this murder scheme? You just walk up and try and start asking questions like this. First off, where did you hear about it? Second, you look like the kind that would go ahead and be mauling folks in the street, do you not, sir dwarf? You got the eyes of one who's probably done a few dark deeds."
Wil: Oh, I have. More than you can imagine.
Matt: "Then explain to me why we shouldn't take you in for questioning right now." And he pulls his rapier out.
Orion: Hold on. Everybody calm down. Hi, I'm Tiberius Stormwind. My friend Thorbir here didn't mean to offend, of course.
Matt: The blade up toward your face. And he says, "Look, dragon man, I was talking to the dwarf. You, I have no business with at the moment. So. You've got ten seconds before we take you in."
Wil: I reach into my pocket and rattle my coins around a little bit. Maybe I could buy us some time. And I drop ten gold out into my other hand.
Matt: Make a persuasion roll.
Will: One! No, it isn't.
Matt: Three.
Wil: That's funny. I rolled a three on this die. So that's going to be a six. Guys, I think we're fighting the Bastions. I feel like maybe it's going that way.
Marisha: You rolled a one?
Matt: I rolled one.
Marisha: You all have really low self-confidence.
Matt: As you push forward the coins, in a semi-awkward forceful manner, the Bastion himself also seems to be caught off-guard, and looks down, and looks about. Realizing that now it looks like you are visibly out in the open, paying money to the Bastions. He looks back. "People don't stand out in public and do it!" And he pulls you all off into the alleyway to the side of the complex. Out of the middle of the area into the shade between the buildings. He reaches over and takes the coins from your hand and hurries them into a pocket. "All right, look. I'll tell you what we know. But if you're going to be messing around with this investigation, I ask that you don't let anyone know that you spoke with us. This is all on your own. And if you do say anything, we'll deny it and we'll make sure to put you in the Oubliette yourself for this. All right?"
Orion: Fair enough.
Wil: All right.
Will: All right.
Matt: "Now, we have found a series of bodies over the past few years, scattered about. A few months at a time between. All with a similar pattern of death to them. We found large portions, the meaty portions of the body had been torn away, some of them apparently eaten. There are marks that are indicative of some sort of beast ravaging the corpses, but no signs of a beast coming or going. And we've had many of our finest trackers looking for any sort of sign of a creature that may have found its way into the city. They've been in the rooftops, the gutters, perhaps even the sewers. No sign of any such creature traveling amongst any of these scenes. Now, all of the bodies have been found wrapped up and discarded in the canals. A lot of them surrounding the Abundant Terrace." Looks at the rest of you. "That's where Melora's eye is watchful. What's really got us confused of late is, the most recent murder that we found was a very powerful merchant lord from Ank'harel, one that's been in this city for no more than a month. He's well-known in these parts as bringing in a lot of business. His caravans come through via various skyships. And he brings with himself an influx of much-needed mercantile in the city."
Marisha: What's his name?
Matt: "I'm not allowed to say."
Will: You're not allowed to say?
Matt: "The merchant's name is Tyrell."
Marisha: What?
Matt: "Tyrell. Lord Tyrell. If you say any of this to any of our people, I swear I'll make your life the hardest it's been in months. And from the looks of you, you've had a very hard few months. Lord Tyrell's body was found, but apparently during the murder. We have one beggar that apparently caught sight of this the murderer. As best as we can tell, it was some sort of lycanthrope. The beggar was babbling, but it seemed there was some sort of wolf-like creature. It was seen bipedal walking a man, but tore this man right through the throat, most of his chest. But when spotted, didn't run, just vanished. Disappeared. No longer in his sight. No tracks left behind. Just gone. Didn't know if it was angry poltergeist, ghost. But the last place he was staying is at a recent establishment, only been here a couple of years. Referred to as the Velvet Cabaret. The Velvet Cabaret is a very high-end place."
Will: I know it well.
Matt: "You do?" He gives you a look of--
Will: I've heard about it from somewhere else.
Orion: Scanlan? Have you been talking to Scanlan?
Will: Don't know who that is, Stormshadow.
Orion: He likes whores. Okay. It's weird.
Matt: "The fact that that the lord had been staying at the Velvet Cabaret for some time, and we were feeling pretty close to possibly finding the source of these murders. Our bastion force from the Duskmeadow worked with the Quadroads and we actually raided it. Found nothing. Nothing but the patrons, no sign of any sort of foul play. We were forced to leave empty handed. That's all we've got."
Will: I have a question about the bodies. Have you seen them?
Matt: "I've only seen the most recent. The rest, I've just heard of."
Will: Anything similar with them? Are they all men? Are they all women? Are they children?
Matt: "No children. Most of them seem to be well off to do folk. Dressed well."
Will: Wealthy men and women? And you say you've searched everywhere, including the catacombs?
Matt: "Most. Catacombs themselves are sealed off. We've asked around, and there's been no sign of movement in or out. And gods forbid, anyone stays in those places. That's a nasty place to be staying."
Will: It is, indeed.
Orion: Is there a way that the bastions could organize some kind of gathering of sorts? Perhaps a mandatory town meeting, where all would have to gather for maybe an announcement or something official?
Matt: "All the bastions? That's near impossible. The city's scattered politically enough as it is. People can be rallying whenever there's some sort of force coming against the city. But when it comes to nothing for any particular reason, just the investigators take care of it themselves."
Wil: He serves the Raven Queen, right? He's got the Raven Queen patch on him?
Matt: Yeah.
Wil: This part of town, death isn't the worst thing in the world. Lots of planes other than ours, might be you're a little bit closer than some of the rest of us are; we're underneath the mountain. You wouldn't happen to know about anyone performing any rituals or maybe opening up lines of communication that may have been made and disturbed?
Matt: "I certainly hope not. These sort of communion rituals are sanctified and held within the actual temple to the Raven Queen itself. If anyone is doing any sort of business, there is a very watchful eye over the city. Anything that is unsanctioned, I can guarantee we'll know about it."
Orion: May we seek audience with this Raven Queen?
Marisha: I mean, she's a goddess.
Orion: Oh. She's not here?
Marisha: She's not a queen. She's a goddess.
Matt: You can see the two the two bastions are looking at each other with expression of "Really?"
Orion: We're new around here.
Matt: "Listen, we've talked long enough. We got to get back to our posts."
Marisha: Oh, wait. You mentioned investigators?
Matt: "There are different people assigned to investigate. We were part of the team that was sent as part of the investigation raid on the Velvet Cabaret."
Marisha: It's not a group of people. It's just, "you're an investigator today" kind of thing?
Matt: "That's part of what we do as Bastions, aye."
Marisha: Gotcha. Is there anyone else that is part of the investigation team that you think would be good to talk to?
Matt: "They wouldn't have any more information than we do, no."
Marisha: Can I do an insight check on him?
Matt: Yeah, go for it.
Marisha: 23.
Matt: He seems forthright enough. He seems impatient and a little flustered with the fact that you've been pushing these questions to him. But he doesn't seem to be covering anything necessarily.
Wil: Did he tell us where they found the-- I didn't write this down.
Liam: And Lord Tyrell factored in how?
Wil: Can you tell us where you found the body of the merchant lord?
Matt: "The body was found in the side alley to the Velvet Cabaret."
Will: You said wrapped up? Or just the ones in the river were wrapped up?
Matt: "The ones that were found in the river, they were wrapped up in blankets. Whatever put them aside was not some beast. There was some intelligence to this. And they were placed deliberately, which means, I don't think there's just one thing doing this."
Will: Were the blankets the same, or were they all different?
Matt: "They seemed to be different. Some were just scattered cloths. Some were tattered sheets. Some were bolts of fine material. Really varied. There was no pattern to it."
Will: Was anything missing from Lord Tyrell?
Matt: "Nothing more than his throat, his trachea."
Liam: We've pumped these guys for all they've got.
Wil: You're all right. Sorry about that.
Matt: "It's all right, just offer more coin up front next time. Be well. And if you hear anything, find any information, come straight to us. Don't be getting into official business. You're sanctified as a Slayer, but don't make us look bad." They step around you guys, back out into the main street.
Wil: Velvet Cabaret?
Marisha: Velvet Cabaret.
Will: It's close.
Marisha: So we know that this guy-- while we walk there, I was talking. We know that this guy is a demon from the Nine Hells. So, he seems to be targeting wealthy people. Do you think these are people that tried to get under his control, under his servitude, and it didn't go his way, so he ended up killing them?
Wil: Folk don't go into the Velvet Cabaret unless they got a lot of coin. Someone like Lord Tyrell. Do we know anything about him? Does his name ring any bells for us at all?
Matt: Roll a history check.
Wil: Oh boy. (laughs) It happened again!
Matt: This is unprecedented. You are the nega-Percy right now.
Wil: Just telling you. I'm just telling you.
Matt: This is impressive.
Wil: You think it isn't real. You think it's a thing I make jokes about.
Matt: You take a moment to conjecture where you may have heard the name. What was the name again?
Wil: Oh, the guy from Battlestar Galactica. Oh, what was his name? Adama?
Matt: You want to roll a history check?
Will: d20?
Matt: d20 and add your history modifier.
Will: Add my history. 20. Total of 20.
Matt: Total is 20? All right. You've heard of the city of Ank'Harel. It's a desert city from a long ways away. But you aren't specifically aware of this individual. You however, Kashaw, you know that Lord Tyrell has come through this city a few times in the past year or so. You've only been here a short time yourself, but in the time that you've been here, you've heard tales of this large caravan that comes through. And it is a parade. He usually brings with him a good 13 different carts that contain all sorts of jewels and materials and tapestries and fine silks, and it's almost a small party whenever this is this long walking caravan is brought into the city. So you are aware of this individual. You're surprised that the death has be kept so hush-hush.
Will: And are there rumors of about him bring in anything else? Anything illicit? Or is it kind of "what you see is what you get?"
Matt: As far as you know? No information that has caught your ear per se, but the fact that he's staying in this district, who knows?
Wil: Folks tend to stay-- Let me try that again. Folk tend to stay with their own class. These victims are all wealthy folk. And they seem to have the Velvet Cabaret in common. It's very likely that we're dealing with somebody who is rich and powerful.
Will: What does a demon need money for?
Wil: Who says he's after money?
Marisha: Seems to be after power.
Liam: Tyrell was passing through. I wonder how many people would notice him gone here in Vasselheim.
Orion: I'm sure quite a few.
Marisha: And it seems like it's no secret when he comes to town.
Will: It was a party every time he showed up.
Marisha: And according to the guards, these murders have been going on for the past few years, so it seems like whatever we're dealing with might have time to plan ahead. If he's been aware of the past few times that Tyrell has come through the town and could possibly know the next time he's coming through.
Orion: And if we could pinpoint when it actually started, we know years, but actually when, then we can actually narrow it down to the establishments and other things that were established then.
Wil: Would there be a place where we could inquire as to some sort of ledger like that when this guy comes in and with the intention of trying to correlate it with when different murders have happened? Actually, I take that back. Thorbir doesn't think that deeply. That's not the thing that he wants to do. That sounds like a lot of thinking and not a lot of hitting things.
Liam: This killer could be hiding in plain sight at the Cabaret. Could be an employee there.
Orion: Or the owner himself.
Marisha: How long ago did the bastions say that they raided the Velvet Cabaret?
Will: It was a month ago, wasn't it?
Matt: It was a few weeks back when the murder occurred, yeah.
Marisha: So here's my question  do you think he would stick around after it was raided? Or do you think he'd move on?
Liam: The thing is vanishing upon sight.
Will: And gotten away with it for the last two or three years. I don't think he cares much anymore.
Liam: My question is  we have three days, Cabaret's the only lead we have. How do we draw this person, he or she, out?
Marisha: I believe it is three days.
Liam: We have three days to collar it.
Matt: You have three days to complete the contract, meaning slaying the entity you're contracted to.
Will: I was going to say that you look like a man who knows wealth.
Orion: Yes.
Liam: I've spent time with wealth.
Will: Well, I never have, so I would think maybe if you were a merchant coming into town, very wealthy, looking for some adult entertainment, might be a way to bring him out the forefront.
Orion: Oh, I agree. I cast Alter Self on myself and turn myself into an elf. You're half-elf right?
Liam: Half-elves.
Orion: I'll turn into a half-elf, akin to a high-born half elf.
Matt: All right, fair enough. Even in comparison to Vax, your attire is very nice.
Marisha: Does this mean that I should go change clothes?
Will: You were going to go shopping.
Marisha: I was.
Orion: You look okay.
Marisha: Thank you.
Liam: Let's go. I jingle what gold I have in a pouch in front of Keyleth's face and say, let's go shopping. Come on.
Wil: Shopping montage.
Matt: As you guys go out shopping for better looking, well-to-do attire, we'll go ahead and take a quick five-minute break and we'll return here and as you guys continue to the next step of your hunt for the rakshasa.
Wil: Oh, Tyrell! I just remembered. (laughter)
Wil: What a silly thing to forget.
Liam: As the rakshasa bears down on your head.
Matt: Last thing engraved on your tombstone. Yeah, quick five-minute break. First off, before we get to that, guys: A big thank you to Negihama once again, our patron saint of ridiculous gifts, who purchased these sconces to put on the wall.
Liam: They're legit.
Marisha: Aren't the sconces awesome?
Matt: They are amazing.
Marisha: The LEDs change colors.
Matt: Reminder  every hundred subs we're giving away a signed picture and signed full-scale poster of Kit's art. And for the break, the five-minute break we're going to take real fast, we have an awesome video that was presented to us by some of the Critters that I think you'll also appreciate as well. So we'll go ahead roll that and use the potty and we'll see you guys in a few minutes. [break]
Matt: Welcome back. I assume we'll have a Liam here in just a moment.
Orion: He's just stealthing.
Will: He's stealthing. He rolled a 28 and disappeared.
Wil: I was talking Liam's ear off during the break about how much I love the dynamic among the three of you, and commiserating about how you feel really naked and exposed when your whole party isn't together. How weird that feels to not have everybody together at the same time. I think I kept him from the bathroom.
Matt: Oh, gotcha. That's okay. He'll arrive. When he comes, we'll all awkwardly stare. Yeah. When he does. When he arrives we'll all just-- But in the meantime, you managed to go back and--
Liam: Stealth. Disadvantage on my next five attacks. (laughter)
Will: I love the awkward stare. It was great.
Wil: He's actually a very generous DM if he does that. I actually make my players roll damage when they upset me.
Matt: Oh, that's good to know.
Wil: Yeah, dude, d6 damage if you annoy the GM.
Matt: Wrath of the gods comes down upon you. All right, so you guys taken a few minutes to acquire outfits that seem a little more fitting as to the establishment you're planning to go and enter.
Marisha: Guys, we should have aliases. Can we have aliases?
Wil: Yeah, I'll be Thorbir.
Will: I like it. It's easy to remember.
Marisha: Very easy. Oh, you know what, maybe I could-- would it be weird if I'm Vex? That's weird, isn't it?
Liam: That's really weird.
Marisha: Okay. What's a good elven name? What's something common in Elven? You were around this stuff. All of my people have weird tribal names. What's good?
Liam: Elivr is nice. Coralin.
Marisha: Oh, Coralin. Do I look like a Coralin?
Will: What does a Coralin look like?
Orion: She does that. Just agree.
Liam: I will be Scanlan Shorthalt.
Marisha: (stutters) What, you can be Scanlan, but I couldn't be Vex?
Liam: No, you can't do that. I'm just saying it's weird.
Marisha: That's double standard, Vax. I'm just saying.
Orion: I think it's maybe because you're not his sister and it would be weird because that's his sister's name.
Will: You have a sister?
Liam: I have a twin, yes.
Will: What does she look like? Oh.
Orion: But she's a female.
Will: She sounds lovely.
Wil: Humans, am I right?
Marisha: She's very nice.
Will: That's what they say about all the ugly girls. "She's very nice."
Marisha: I feel like I'm learning so much from you. Is that what they say?
Orion: Life lessons, yes.
Will: Velvet Cabaret?
Liam: To the Cabaret.
Wil: I presume that I'll play the role of your guard.
Liam: Bodyguard, yes.
Will: What does that make me? How about your valet? You'll need one if you're wealthy. Would you have a human, though?
Liam: Of course. Of course I'll have a human, being elven.
Orion: Are we on our way there now?
Liam: Yeah, we're walking and talking. And you're changed into a gnome.
Orion: Now I change. I change, because it only lasts a certain amount of time.
Liam: Boy or girl?
Orion: I'm a boy.
Will: So are you Lord Vax?
Liam: Lord Scanlan of the Shorthalts.
Will: Lord Scanlan, okay. Lord Scanlan of the-- I'm sorry, of the what?
Liam: Of the Shorthalts.
Will: Of the Shorthalts. Okay.
Liam: We have a cobbling empire. Shoes.
Will: The Shorthalts. Okay. Lord Scanlan of the Shorthalts.
Liam: We cater mostly to halflings and gnomes. Everyone, but specifically because they're so underserved.
Will: You have a gnome shoe empire?
Liam: Rolling in it, baby.
Wil: Where's your empire, human?
Will: I have no empire. I'm his valet.
Liam: We're wonderful partners, dear.
Marisha: Am I your wife?
Liam: Do you want to be? Is that weird?
Marisha: No.
Orion: I say it's equally-- no, it's fine.
Marisha: No, it's fine. Yeah, I can be your wife. I can RP this. I mean I can pretend to be. Yeah. So Coralin Shorthalt.
Wil: Thorbir is pulling on his beard and breathing deeply.
Orion: Now I cast Alter Self.
Matt: All right. Cast and a flash of light. You guys all pick up the very, very heavy smell of breakfast ale emanating from the deeply breathing, angry dwarf.
Orion: Wait, Vax. What was my role in this?
Liam: You're an advisor. A financial advisor.
Orion: Financial advisor. Excellent.
Matt: All right. You guys make your way to a little bit further north this of this route, five or six blocks until you get the outskirts of the Velvet Cabaret, which based on the description you've gotten from a few individuals you asked around, very easy to find. The fancy house of entertainment. It is a two-story building of dark cherry wood with strips of what looks to be black suede bolted in a pattern along the outside of it. It stands out like a sore thumb against the rest of the architecture, but it looks a night club. It looks very, very gaudy, but in a way that the garishness looks expensive, and so you can't really fault it for looking the way it does.
Wil: It looks like cruise ship goth club.
Matt: I like that. I'll take that.
Will: Cruise ship goth club.
Wil: That's a thing that exists.
Will: Really?!
Matt: When are we going to this?
Wil: Every year on the Jonathan Coulton Cruise, we gather in the cruise ship goth club.
Will: Wow.
Matt: JoCo Cruise.
Will: Too many jokes.
Matt: I know. As you approach the front, you can see that there are two bouncers established at the very front. To the left, you see a meaty male dragonborn, bronze scale with painted face scars. He has a very, very intense look about him. He's thicker. He's built like a barrel. He sits with his arms crossed, looking angrily out amongst the rest of the folks outside. To the other side, you recognize a burly-looking female with short hair and some facial tattoos. The Siren, who you saw battle in the Cauldron, apparently works as one of the bouncers of the Velvet Cabaret.
Orion: I approach right next to Vax, as we move up. Scanlan. In Draconic I go, greetings and salutations, friend.
Matt: He gives you a look of confusion for a second and leans forward and the dragonborn looks very intently at you and says back in Draconic, "Are you a member?"
Orion: Not yet. We are new to this place. My master here is seeking audience with his kind. We were guided to this place. This establishment has a high reputation. We wish to inquire how to get inside.
Matt: Looks over to the Siren. Siren glances back and, "What's he saying?" And the dragonborn glances over. And he says out loud in Common now, at this point, "He's saying that they're looking to come in here and talk to other elvish guys, I guess."
Orion: Oh, not elvish, but more people of high society. High society here.
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Orion: 21.
Matt: 21. He gives a glance over. "Well, if you're not a member, you can acquire membership, but it has to approved first by the owner."
Orion: May we seek audience with him to ask or apply, or however that goes about.
Matt: "Let me get his assistant. Hold on just a second. Siren." She gives a look. "I'll be right back." She rolls up her sleeves and steps inside as the door opens.
Marisha: As I see her, I turn and face outward.
Will: You know her?
Marisha: No.
Will: Okay.
Matt: As the door opens, you can already hear what sounds like soft harp music coming from the interior. And it's hard to actually look inside because as you can see there are silks draped crossed over and in front of the entryway, as soon as you step in. A few moments pass, eventually the Siren returns and you are greeted at the doorway by a dwarf with very well-groomed facial hair. A beard that comes to a fine point, has a little gold ring at the very bottom that kinks it at the bottom, this little poof. With makeup on. Very rosy cheeks, and you can see there is eyeliner around his eyes. Smile to his face. Wearing these long white robes, lots of jewelry. And the rest of his dark brown hair is pulled into a dual ponytail that runs down to the middle of the back. Comes to door and immediately says, "Gracious welcome to all of you. I've been told that you're seeking possible membership to our establishment."
Orion: In Dwarvish I say, that's correct.
Matt: "Well, fantastic, then. Don't leave possible patrons outside." And looks off to the two bouncers and they grumble and step off to the side. "Come in. Come in. Follow me." And he steps inside. As you guys walk in behind him, immediately you're hit with the strong smell of exotic incense and the cooking of meat mingling with that. It has this smell of everything good you've ever smelled mixed into one location.
Will: Love the smell of these places.
Matt: The interior is fairly low-lit with what looks like a series of faerie-fire lamps dangling in small lattice cages. So it has this light purplish-pink glow to the general interior. There are no stools or chairs. There are tables that low set and the floor is nearly covered with very, very expensive looking pillows. All the patrons are currently sitting cross-legged or laying around the tables. And you can see the clientele is very well dressed and very wealthy. There is laughter and conversation. There's definitely has a very, very different air. It's like stepping into a whole different world from what you're used to seeing in Vasselheim. And you get the feeling that whoever created this establishment definitely created it to provide a very different experience for most people who work here, which means one, it probably makes a really good killing to the small number of clientele, number two, it probably isn't very well liked by the people who have been living here most their life. As you look around, too, there are dice games being played, there are many gold pieces being stacked up on tables. It appears that there's definitely a lively-- what's the word I'm looking for? My brain isn't working-- gambling arrangement in this place. You notice that all the guards in the inside, the bouncers, are common sell-swords. There's no unification to their adornments or any of their armor and stuff. There are a few folks that are looking around, keeping the peace, arms crossed. They all definitely have weapons visible. And they're just sitting there, guarding just like the bouncers were at front of the place.
Will: How many dwarves?
Matt: Just the one that let you inside.
Marisha: I reach over and I grab Vax's hand.
Liam: I fold her arm in and walk forward.
Matt: All right.
Will: I think, as they move forward, I would like to pull Thorbir aside and say, maybe since we're trying to get membership here, you should cover your runes.
Wil: Noted.
Will: Thank you.
Wil: I'd like to make a perception check to size up the guards around. Ten.
Matt: Well, that's a step in the right direction.
Wil: I rolled four times as good as I usually roll.
Matt: Looking about, they look armored. It's hard to tell their skill level, based on the low light in here. They seem definitely keeping an eye out, but you can tell they've been working here a while and they've grown comfortable. What you do notice, though, is a lot of the servers that are walking around are young men and women dressed in very fine silk robes or gowns. All have these iron bands around their neck, collars, that aren't chained to anything. But it immediately gives you this mental image of slavery or some sort of servitude. It does not appear that they are actually in some sort of servitude, but the adornment they wear is almost trying to get across that atmosphere, as if that's part of what you're paying for. It sickens you a little.
Wil: I'm going to carry myself and I'm going to do what I can to give off that I'm keeping an eye on this guy, that I'm the guy. That's how I'm trying to carry myself.
Matt: Okay. As you guys you have walked to the center of this room now, the dwarf individual who let you in turns around and with a bit of a bow. "I would to introduce myself. My name is Hosin. I am the manager of this fine establishment, the Velvet Cabaret. I'd like to welcome you..."
Liam: Scanlan of the Shorthalts.
Matt: "Scanlan of the Shorthalts? Where do you hail from? I've not heard of them."
Liam: We come from Emon. I sell shoes. We sell shoes.
Marisha: Yes, Coralin Shorthalt.
Matt: "Coralin Shorthalt."
Marisha: Yes, pleasure.
Matt: "Very well. Well, you have interest in membership you say?"
Liam: We do. We're hoping to sample the atmosphere here. Is there entertainment? We heard there was great entertainment.
Matt: "Oh yes, quite entertainment here at certain hours, if you like. For now, we have more an atmospheric presentation." And he looks over, and you can you see that there is small stage off to the corner. There sits a very beautiful elven woman, dressed in a gold gown that is sleeveless and hugs to her form very well. You can see that it shimmers and little bit of purple fairy light that is hanging above her. And she just this gorgeous-looking silver harp in front of her. She's just plucking away. Her eyes are closed, like she's just caught in the moment. And there's group of people that are sitting around her chatting softly, not to be overbearing to the music, but to just be around that atmosphere.
Orion: Your wonderful employees mentioned membership. We'd like to acquire that as well, I assume, as well.
Matt: You're saying this to Hosin?
Liam: This is Thorlaxalux, my financial advisor.
Orion: Thorlaxalux, at your service. I bow gracefully.
Matt: Make a persuasion roll. No, deception roll. Deception roll.
Orion: What is that? 16?
Matt: 16? All right. "The pleasure is mine. And it's not often that come across elves that have taken the time to learn the tongue of my folk."
Orion: I know many languages.
Marisha: He's very well traveled. Very well cultured. That's part why we hired him.
Orion: I was a bit of a shut-in as a child. All I had were books on languages to read and whatnot, and adventures and what have you.
Matt: "Well, if you are seeking membership, you should probably speak with our patron, the owner of this establishment. He's currently in a meeting, I believe, but step with me for a moment." And he leads you to go to the other side of the room. And you know, all these draped orange and gold silks that are constantly getting in your way as you push through. Leads you into a doorway that is covered in these silks. You push into the hallway to the right and left. There's a door across the way, and two doors down the left. And the door at the very end is a really ornate-looking door with a series of locks that currently unlocked. Hosin walks up to it and knocks gently onto it, takes a listen. "Ah, it appears that he will be available in just a moment, if you'd like to sit tight, and you're more than welcome to speak."
Marisha: Question, Hosin. While we wait, do you happen to have any wine or ale? Just while we wait. It's been such a long travel.
Matt: "But of course."
Marisha: Thank you. You're so kind.
Matt: He claps his hands, and you can see one of the servants that you saw walking with a small tray enters from the side of the hallway. "Yes?" Hosin turns. "The finest wine we have available for the elven lass right here." The servant immediately darts off, averting the eyes. A moment passes. Returns with three glasses of wine, looking over you two. Hands one to each of you. And the servant, still averting his gaze from the guests, smiles, gives a little curtsy, and then darts back into the main room.
Marisha: Cheers. Cling.
Liam: I cling and hand my glass to Thorbir.
Marisha: I take a sip of mine. It's very good.
Wil: All right. I'm sipping to keep up the charade, but I'm not happy about it.
Matt: It's definitely an elvish blend, which is generally too sweet for your tastes, but for what you were expecting, it's not too bad. Its serviceable. Nowhere near strong enough to really do anything, but it's not water.
Wil: So as I hand it back to you, I sort of mutter, wine. (laughter)
Wil: Giant dwarven air quotes.
Matt: The doorway at the end of the hallway opens up suddenly, and as it does, a servant walks out holding a tray that contains a bunch of partially-eaten fruits and what looks the outer gristle of some sort of cooked meat, and looks at you all awkwardly and steps past and disappears into the other room. You hear a voice come down the hallway. "Enter! I ask you all to enter. You are to meet me. Please, come, sit, be comfortable. Welcome to the Velvet Cabaret."
Liam: Look to Thorbir and then look in the room.
Wil: I step into the room.
Matt: As you enter, Hosin lowers his head and offers his arms at the rest of you to acquiesce. Stepping into the room, you see-- once again, a room that has a square or rectangular table in the center that has a series of small platters on it with bits of previously devoured meal, and there are three small cushions on the ground that you see would act as some sort of sitting arrangement. The opposite side of the room has three large purple cushions on which there are two women, also servants, that are just lying back comfortably, just resting, and in the center, you see a man, very dark complexion, ratty looking, crimped dark hair, very well-trimmed beard and mustache ensemble, and long black and gold robes. Very, very long sleeves and jewelry adorning every ounce of his hands, his fingers, you can barely see the actual skin beneath, there is just so much jewelry adorning him. He looks up smiling with his elbows near the edge of the table. "Have a seat. We are to talk, yes? Introduce yourselves. Guests are always welcome, but I wish to know who it is that I am guesting for."
Liam: I seat Coralin and have a seat myself. And pretending to check out the women in the room, I make a perception check. And that is a 16.
Matt: All right, what are trying to see?
Liam: Oh, if anything sets off my alarm bells.
Matt: They seem to be lounging. And there isn't like fear in their eyes or that they are being mistreated per se. Almost like they're here for atmosphere.
Liam: And the room itself?
Matt: The room itself-- Most of the walls have like a velvety texture to them. All the wood has been covered with some sort of material that has a comfortable almost-- Everything feels like it's a lounging bedroom. And that's the aesthetic of a lot of the interior of this location. You cannot quite see the source of the light in the room. It almost feels like there's an indirect lighting accoutrement across the ceiling. Whatever the source of lighting is, it's being spread across the top. It gives this sort of dark intimate feel to this current room at least. As he gestures out to the rest of you to sit. "I fear there are only three seats, but I assume that your accompaniment are accustomed to standing, anyway. So do not worry. Very good. Now you say you come for membership. Membership does not come cheap. Membership does not come to anyone. We have a certain level of clientele we wish to keep, because in keeping this it is easy enough for us to consider it very-- how do I say?-- exquisite."
Marisha: I'm sorry, before we go on, what was your name? I don't believe I caught it.
Matt: "I did not catch your name either."
Marisha: Oh, I'm sorry, I am Coralin. Coralin Shorthalt.
Matt: "Coralin Shorthalt."
Marisha: Of the Emon Shorthalts.
Matt: Takes your hand and leans forward, and gives you this ginger kiss to edge of your fingers. Yeah, there is a slimy-ish presence, but not too aggressive. Just a very well-trained type of dealing with guests.
Marisha: I subversively wipe it on my robes.
Matt: "My name is Vince Cyinnor. And I am the owner of this house of joy and pleasure."
Liam: I'm the lucky man who married her. My name is Scanlan of the Shorthalts. We're in from Emon, and reputation of this establishment is well known within all parts of the walls. We're looking to possibly become members here. We hear the entertainment is top-notch, and we hear that business happens within these walls. But I'm not convinced. I'm hoping to stay for an hour to see what you have to offer. When I find I like a place, I stay for a long time and leave a lot of money. I'd just like a little taste.
Matt: Make a deception check.
Liam: Using my last Luck of the day. That's better. 15.
Matt: 15. "Hosin, if you don't mind." And the door closes behind you guys. "Well, Scanlan Shorthalt. What, may I ask, business do you run that gives you the liquid assets to think that you can walk and rub shoulders among such astute clientele? You are well-dressed, I see, and well-versed in conversation. But have not heard of you before and I have very acute ears for people of such heritage in this city."
Liam: We hail from Emon. We're not very flashy. We certainly don't do much in public in Emon. I prefer to make my money and enjoy my money and I don't believe in ostentation.
Matt: "Why have you come to this establishment? I am made of ostentation, for I do not fear what people judge or think here. Do what you like."
Liam: Don't get me wrong. I enjoy the form of a beautiful woman as much as the next man.
Matt: "Why limit yourself?"
Liam: Who said I do?
Matt: "Even this one here, while his appearance may be rough, I'm certain that under certain circumstances he could be persuaded to prove his weight in more than gold and weaponry."
Marisha: Mr. Cyinnor, I think it is best that you do not make presumptions on our relationship and dealings.
Liam: My wife and I are businessmen. And what we hear is that this is where business happens.
Matt: "Business does happen here, yes. Quite a bit of interesting business."
Marisha: And we are very interested in all of those interesting businesses.
Matt: "From what I hear, as my assistant has told me, your business is shoes. Tell me, why would the business of shoes require such an ostentatious location for business?"
Liam: The shoes are the public face, but the well runs deep.
Matt: "We get to the meat of the matter, eh? So, shoes is but an appearance. What is your business aside from cobbling, Mr. Shorthalt?"
Liam: I know my way around poison, and I hear you have the rarest of breeds here. I have come to spend some money to satisfy my clients.
Matt: Make a deception check.
Liam: 15 again.
Matt: What was it?
Liam: 15 again.
Matt: "Poisons? So you supply to what? King-killers? Supply to sell-swords? You apply them to your own weapons? You realize this city is very, very tight-knit when it comes to these sorts of industries. Although I know you would think possibly to find it here, I guarantee you what we deal with here has nothing to do with slitting of throats."
Liam: I'm not looking to sell. I'm looking to buy.
Matt: "I will tell you one thing that I am interested in buying. I'm interested in buying information. I'm interested in buying loyalty. I'm interested in buying trust. Since you've walked into this room, there has been an air of something not right about you. And through this conversation, I have come to believe that perhaps you're not telling me the truth. Now, I will ask of you this moment, whoever you may be, Shorthalt or not, but this entire facility is very well paid to make sure that should you try anything funny, you won't get but two steps before the heads leave your shoulders. So let's be frank here. Who are you? Why are you here?"
Marisha: Mr. Vince, let's not play coy. I am sure you have dealt with many a powerful client in your day. And I am sure that it is not unfamiliar to you that many powerful clients have many deep secrets.
Orion: As she finishes that, I dispel Alter Self.
Matt: Okay. As your actual dragonborn appearance restores itself, he sits back.
Orion: My apologies. I am Tiberius Stormwind-- yes, wind.
Will: I can never get it right.
Orion: I merely dispelled this to show you that earning your trust is in our best interests. I do not wish to deceive.
Matt: "Then perhaps you should have walked in this form when you first arrived."
Orion: Many people don't take kindly to a red dragonborn by the way. I just thought it was best. We're in a new town and it was standard protocol whenever we visit a new town. My apologies.
Matt: "Well, one person has come clean. What about this one? What is your business here?"
Will: My business here is the same as theirs. We're here, in the long run, to help you.
Matt: "What is to help me? You have not told me what your business is."
Liam: We're here to stop a murderer.
Matt: "Explain."
Liam: Bodies have been showing up outside this building. Multiple bodies. We're not going to get into the details, but we've been sent here to stop that from happening any further.
Orion: We're fairly sure you know of this.
Liam: Look at this guy. Does he look like he's fucking around?
Wil: He winks at him.
Matt: The force of the wink itself is intense enough to the point where he physically shudders and leans back a few inches.
Liam: Now, you must be aware of this problem. Can't be a surprise to you. People are starting to take notice in this city. This was inevitable.
Will: Do you still have Lord Tyrell's possessions?
Matt: "This is about Lord Tyrell? We do have his possessions. They have been investigated. Our establishment has already been investigated. The Bastions were very thorough, and we have been found absolved of any sort of involvement."
Marisha: We are not Bastions. And we are not here to accuse. And we are not here to investigate your establishment.
Matt: "Interesting. You come in here and lie. It seems to me exactly what you're doing. Now, are you coming to ask questions? To see what involvement we have? Answers? We've already told everything to anyone else. We have no involvement. I don't know what you're talking about. This is ridiculous. And I may have to ask you to leave."
Marisha: He's shutting down. Someone do something quick.
Liam: Insight check, insight check. Balls.
Wil: I will also make an insight check.
Marisha: Can I do that, as well? (laughter)
Matt: What did you get?
Marisha: We're all going to die.
Liam: That makes my ten look titanic.
Wil: I'm trying to make you look good. It's what Thorbir does.
Marisha: 19.
Wil: I rolled a two.
Will: You're going up.
Matt: It's not impressive. That's mythic.
Wil: Statistically unlikely.
Will: That's the thing. You're beating math.
Wil: I've been beating math for 20 years. I'm very good.
Matt: Yeah. You're the singularity that ruins the universe.
Wil: Somewhere in the world there's a person who never rolls under 17. And I was placed on this planet to balance the math to save you all. To prevent the center of the planet from collapsing and taking us all with it. You're welcome.
Liam: She's in New Zealand. The other side of the Earth.
Matt: All right. So, as you're all taking this moment to yourself. It's hard to read. It seems like he's very thorough and offended by this circumstance. You glean that there is a nervousness, and there are droplets of sweat across his brow. And his brusqeness does show a bit of fear in his eyes.
Marisha: About this time, I go (fwoosh) and I cast my wind spell. And I slam the doors behind us. And I slam the shutters. And turn out all the lights. Did you say there was candlelight? Or did you say there was weird indirect lighting.
Matt: Yeah, indirect lighting. You don't quite know where the source is coming from. The door was already closed behind you. Hosin closed it. But as the wind comes out, all the silks blow against the wall. Pillows are lobbed to the sides. Both of the women in there (yelps) and pull back against walls, trying to keep out of the circumstance. And you can see Vince has begun to stand up and his hair blown back. "What is the meaning of this?"
Marisha: Now. I'm sorry. I didn't mean to do that. I sometimes get a little out of control. But remain calm! All right?! Jesus! Remain calm!
Orion: You calm down.
Marisha: I'm sorry! I'm trying to remain calm, too!
Will: Doing a great job.
Marisha: Thank you! Okay.
Matt: Persuasion check.
Marisha: Damn it.
Liam: Who's in this room? It's the women--
Matt: It's the women and Vince. Hosin closed the door and left in the hallway.
Liam: Vince is the--
Matt: Owner.
Liam: But is he human?
Matt: He's human.
Orion: I'm going to approach him and I'm going to cast Mage Hand. I'm going to have it float right up in front of me. I'm like, now, you better start cooperating, because it seems to me that you're getting very nervous. And we don't want to do anything. Nor do we want to leave. All we want is information. I guess we want to know what you want to know, too. We want a lot of information. So start talking and stop acting like a fool.
Matt: Make an intimidation check.
Liam: He's sometimes hard to follow, but you don't want to fuck with him.
Orion: 15.
Matt: 15? As you do this, between you standing, he's in the process of standing up, and he was reaching for something under one of the cushions. As you do that, he glances about the room, looks over to you specifically, and back to the dragonborn, the dwarf.
Marisha: And I say, and whatever weapon you were about to brandish, you'd best wise to leave it be.
Matt: "You realize, you may have just alerted pretty much the entirety of my guard to this establishment. They'll be descending on this room soon."
Marisha: And you realize that this is only because of your doing?
Matt: He sits down on the cushion again.
Wil: And Thorbir looks at him and goes, okay. And pulls his greataxe out and leans on his greataxe.
Orion: I disperse the magic hand.
Marisha: I say, now. Our quarrel is not with you. We are not with the guard. We are not with the Bastions.
Orion: More calm.
Will: Yes, still doing a great job with the calm, there.
Marisha: I'm trying. I'm sorry. I get emotional. I'm trying to remain calm, here. Okay?
Matt: "What do you wish to know?"
Will: Once again, do you still have Lord Tyrell's possessions?
Matt: "His possessions are not under my keeping, no."
Orion: There we go. Thank you. Where are they?
Matt: "I have no idea."
Will: I want to do a perception check.
Matt: This would be insight, yeah.
Will: Insight check. Nice, where are we? Ooh, wow. 26.
Matt: 26.
Wil: What's that like?
Will: That's 29 of your rolls, strangely enough. (laughter)
Matt: Looking at you tense. He's fumbling lie after lie right now.
Will: It's just, you could easily tell.
Matt: Yeah. For you especially, all the signs are there, the quivering to his voice, his eyes darting from person to person. He's still covering.
Will: Okay, you're sitting in a room now with a whole bunch of people that want to hurt you. So it's obvious that you're lying. What do you know, or this guy and this guy are going to dragon and axe you.
Matt: "Look, what happened was unfortunate. There are things beyond your understanding or control involved here."
Wil: Oh, I don't know, we can understand a lot.
Orion: We fought a beholder before.
Marisha: Do not take us for fools who just walked in here without a clue.
Liam: I walk forward, I pull out Dagger of Venom and I drop a little bead of black down the blade and I hold it just about a centimeter under his neck. I've all run out of patience, friend. We're here to help this city and you're going to help us. Talk.
Matt: Make an intimidation check with advantage because of this whole setup here.
Marisha: Dear god, so many. Come on.
Liam: 20.
Matt: "They'll kill me if I say anything."
Will: We're going to kill you now.
Liam: Now or later, friend.
Orion: And we could protect you from them. Or it.
Matt: "This establishment. I am not the owner. I am a figurehead. Something else currently pulls the strings from behind."
Marisha: Something else?
Orion: As we said, it.
Matt: And he looks off, past you, just over your shoulder.
Liam: Perception check.
Marisha: Oh, son of a bitch.
Liam: 23.
Matt: You glance over your shoulder briefly and at this point you can see the door is partially ajar, and you can see in what little light there is a dwarven face staring through the passage that then slams the door shut quickly and you hear footsteps.
Marisha: Was that Hosin?
Will: Was that Hosin?
Matt: That was Hosin, yeah.
Marisha: Fucking Hosin.
Will: Thanks a lot, hoser!
Matt: He's shaking his head now, the blade there, as you hear the feet running off now.
Marisha: I'm going-- something tiny and fast. What's tiny and fast?
Liam: Mouse, rat.
Marisha: I'm going rat, and I'm going after Hosin.
Matt: All right. You guys watch as Keyleth all of a sudden grasps the side of her armor and then her form shrinks down to a tiny rat, then darts underneath.
Liam: I'm going to bap this guy in the head. I'm going to just flip the blade and strike him across the forehead.
Orion: As I see her do this, I open the scroll of Polymorph. I do Polymorph on myself, and I turn myself into a gadfly. And follow.
Matt: Okay. The scroll is consumed and gone. You turn into a fly and follow, as well. Two of your party members just shrunk and vanished and went off as creatures. You, go ahead and roll for an attack.
Liam: Okay, so on a surprise, it's advantage. So 19's pretty good. I'll take the 19 over the two. So that's 19 plus-- 30.
Matt: That hits, go ahead and roll sneak attack damage on that.
Liam: Okay, sneak attack damage. Is this a surprise because he didn't know it was coming?
Matt: Yes, it is.
Liam: It is? So because of my assassinate feat, then this is a critical hit. So just the sneak attack damage? Okay, four, eight, ten, 12, 15, 21, 42.
Matt: With 42? Yeah, you (whack). He's out like a light. Lights off, face on a pillow. The two women squeal in reaction. You guys, as you rush under the door, what are you guys doing?
Wil: I've been leaning over to see what he was reaching for.
Matt: As you glance over you can see what appears to be a small jeweled blade that is hidden underneath one of the cushions there. It's a curved dagger that comes to a gradual point.
Wil: I'm going to take that.
Matt: Okay. So mark down jeweled dagger in your equipment.
Will: I want to search him. I want to see if he has anything on him, in his pockets, anything.
Matt: Okay. As you are beginning to go through his body, you guys have rushed beneath, and as you can see, the dwarf, Hosin, is walking down the hallway really quickly with his robes open.
Orion: As a gadfly, can I really quickly buzz in front of him?
Matt: You pull underneath, because you had to go underneath the door to make it into the hallway. You see him, he's about 15 feet away, and as he's walking, he's looking about very nervously. He's seen one of the guards is approaching, and he looks back over and sees the rat scurrying down the hallway.
Orion: How far away is he from me?
Matt: He's about 20 feet.
Orion: How far away is the guard in front of him?
Matt: You know what, let me go ahead and pull this up. It'll give a good indicator of the circumstance here.
Marisha: He does what?
Orion: Oh god, we have a map.
Liam: Gentlemen, we need to move.
Orion: Okay, so he's right there.
Liam: Mama Cass, what have you found?
Matt: All right, you guys are currently inspecting him at the moment, as you guys are rushing through.
Orion: Oh! So I'm within 20 feet of him, whatever?
Matt: Actually no, he'd be back here. He's just rushing past. So he's 20 to 25 feet from you.
Orion: Okay. Ah. I'm going to dispel Polymorph, and I'm going to cast Silence in front of him. I'm going to silence him.
Matt: Okay. All right, so you're using him as the source?
Orion: Yes.
Matt: Okay. So as you un-Polymorph, he looks over his shoulder and sees you take this form, you go ahead and cast Silence, which has an opposition. What level spell is that? 2nd-level?
Orion: Yes. I believe so.
Matt: Okay, cool. So that creates a sphere of a 20-foot radius of silence here. So he goes and he does like a hand motion. Nothing happens. Frustrated, he continues to run. I'm going to have you guys roll initiative.
Marisha: Fucking shit. 17.
Matt: 17?
Orion: Sorry. What is that? 17.
Matt: 17 and 17. All right. So you guys will both be going first, but before we finish that, as you guys are searching the body you hear all of a sudden the sound of some sort of scuffle, a flash of some sort of energy in the hallway that's muffled between the doorway, and footsteps also happening. As you're just starting to get through his pockets you start hearing some sort of a scuffle outside of the room.
Wil: I'm gone.
Will: Me, too.
Matt: So I'll have you guys roll initiative, as well.
Wil: Four.
Matt: All right.
Liam: Not great. Nine.
Will: 11.
Wil: There's 20 faces on this. So. I mean, look right? It can happen. I know that it's possible. I've done it in my life.
Matt: All right, so as you guys are turning, we'll get to your turn in a moment. Tiberius and Keyleth, you're up first.
Marisha: Are we at the same time? I guess I'll go ahead and cast out of my beast shape as well and cast Hold Person on him as he's running away.
Matt: Okay. Cool. Just staying where you are? Are you going to stay there or are you going to move?
Marisha: Well, he's right there, right?
Matt: Right there, yeah.
Marisha: So I'm just going to try and hold him.
Matt: Okay, so you go ahead and cast Hold Person. As the spell releases, you can see the mystical shimmering cage that seems to encapsulate, seems to shrug it off.
Marisha: Because he's not a person! He's not a person. I should've fucking done Grasping Vine. Goddamn it. All right.
Matt: Do you want to move or are you staying where you are?
Marisha: Yeah, I'll follow after his ass.
Matt: All right, you can get up to pretty much right adjacent to him if you want. All right. Tiberius?
Orion: I'm going to cast Telekinesis and grab him that way.
Matt: Okay. So from where you are you go ahead and you create your telekinetic force, you rush out, and the telekinetic force seems to have no effect on the dwarf's form.
Orion: It's the rakshasa! That's him!
Matt: Do you move?
Orion: No. I yell at you, don't chase him!
Marisha: And I go, what?
Matt: Which you don't hear, because she goes [no audio].
Marisha: Yeah, I'm in the silent bubble.
Matt: Yeah, there is currently no sound coming from the center of that area.
Orion: But she can hear me.
Matt: She can hear you.
Orion: And I'm not that far. You heard me, the other way! The other way! And I move in the room with these guys.
Matt: Okay. As you guys turn, you see Tiberius come rushing into the room.
Orion: The rakshasa! Nothing works on him! And I think that's not normal!
Liam: You're speaking Draconian!
Orion: Yes, sorry! Rakshasa. I believe the dwarf is the rakshasa. I cast many things, and Keyleth is in there, nothing hit him.
Liam: You left her with him? I shove past him and go straight through the door.
Wil: You ran away from the target? Ugh. I stomp past him in my dwarfy stomps.
Matt: Hosin gets just out of the sphere of silence and then angrily does a motion with a hand and then-- (shouting)
Marisha: I knew it was going to happen!
Matt: That'll bring us next to Brother Kash. Kashaw. What do you want to do?
Will: I want to go back eight moves and catch the thing. I think what we're going to have to do now is find out where he is. Let's Locate Creature again, if we can.
Matt: Okay, this is during your turn. Is there anything you want to do?
Will: Can we locate creature, see how close he is?
Matt: How long does it take to cast Locate Creature?
Will: I believe it is one action.
Matt: Okay, so you can do that, so you mark that off as another casting of that spell.
Will: Okay.
Matt: As you rush out into the hallway and see that it's vanishing, you cast the spell for a second, you can see the direction of the creature is roughly ahead of you and you also see a door on the opposite side, this right-hand door open and close.
Marisha: He goes invisible? He's not teleporting, he's just invisible. That's a big thing.
Will: Yeah, he's here. He's still here. We can't see him.
Matt: You still have 15 feet of movement, if you want to move forward.
Will: Yeah, I would like to move forward.
Matt: Okay. So you'll get up to that point with your turn. And you gather that that's the direction of him, and that you know that's where it's going.
Will: I know where it's going, okay. So we saw the door shut. That's where he is, let's go.
Liam: Don't run blindly in there, hold on.
Matt: Vax, you're up.
Liam: I'm going to run just up past Keyleth, I'm going to look at her as I pass. Not bad. Keep going, stop there, and now I'm going to try to sense traps.
Matt: At this point, there? Okay, so you can get up to here if you're going to use an action as well to dash.
Liam: If I use, that's fine, yeah.
Matt: Okay, as you go to talk to her no words come out.
Orion: Can I see what's going on?
Matt: No, you're in the other room, still. Everyone darted out and you're making your way out. So go ahead and make a perception check.
Liam: Okay. 21.
Matt: 21. Glancing about the room, there doesn't appear to be anything that catches you as a trap. This hallway is fairly often-traversed by the clientele of this establishment, and nothing seems dangerous. That would be difficult to put in the middle of a place and still run a business.
Liam: Okay. I look at Kash and Keyleth and say-- Are we out of initiative? We're still in initiative.
Matt: We're still in initiative. Currently, for the moment, just for the sake of the pacing on this.
Wil: I'm going as far as I can down the hall toward the direction of the bad guy.
Matt: Okay. That gets you to about there. Cool, that ends that turn, at which point three of the bouncers then start pushing through the silks. One of them pushes his way here, this one pushes aside, and they come out, weapons drawn, seeing all of you there, and one of them goes [no audio]. That's their turn, but it looks like they're ready to jump into some sort of combat circumstance. That brings us to the top of the round, Tiberius, you're up.
Orion: Where'd you say the guards came from?
Matt: They came from the main room, where the silks are that separate the hallway from the main area. And you start hearing people shouting and some slight yelps and screams from the other room.People who seem freaked out by the sudden rise in energy.
Orion: What was that guy's name? Lohan?
Wil: Hosin?
Orion: Hosin?
Wil: The dwarf is Hosin. The other guy is Vince.
Orion: I just disperse Silence, and before I go out, I turn into Hosin. Alter Self.
Matt: Okay, so you use your action to cast Alter Self. You take Hosin's form, step out, closing the door behind you.
Orion: How did he sound, again?
Matt: How did he sound?
Orion: I don't remember.
Marisha: He's a dwarf.
Will: He was Scottish, but fancy Scottish.
Liam: He's glam rock. Glam rock.
Orion: Oh, right, right. What's all this noise out here? What are you bothering my friends for? Guards!
Matt: The guards look over confused and, "We heard there was a--"
Orion: Everything's fine. These are friends. Get on with your business. Get back on patrol. Make sure nothing happens or I'll have your heads.
Matt: Make a deception check.
Marisha: Oh, come on, Tiberius.
Orion: 28.
Matt: The guards look at each other. "All right, but if anything happens again, there's a problem, let us know. We'll be at the ready." They sheathe their weapons and look untrustingly to the rest of your group with your weapons currently drawn and step back--
Orion: Go on, get out.
Matt: They disappear back into the main room and they start calming down some of the other patrons who are starting to peek around them, trying to see what's going on, the action. Some look smiling and curious to see what's happening, and they're, "Go back to your tables. It's fine; there's no problem." And they disperse the energy.
Liam: Not bad, Tiberius.
Marisha: With that, I continue with the charade and loop my arm around Vax and say, shall we go into that room?
Liam: Just a moment, dear. Pull out the same poisoned blade and start walking down that hall a little further, and I want to see if I sense any traps further ahead.
Matt: Okay, to about there? Make a perception check.
Liam: Natural 20.
Wil: And balance was restored to the universe. Oh god, don't do that! Come on!
Matt: Put it away. Watch as the dice just like turns to dust.
Wil: It's the end of Raiders.
Matt: Exactly. You glance about the room as you're walking forward carefully, looking at the floorboards, looking at the tapestries on the walls, looking for anything that would be out of sorts, and your eyes very keen to find anything out of the ordinary. The room thankfully does not appear to have anything specifically trapped. It seems fairly safe.
Liam: Oh. Okay. And those are doors up there?
Matt: Yeah. Door to the right, door to the left.
Liam: Would that check include the doors themselves?
Matt: I would say with a natural 20, yes. The doors both also seem to be functional doors, not designed with any sort of trap attached.
Liam: All right. Pressing my ear to the door on my left.
Matt: Okay. Listen to it. Perception roll.
Liam: So many. Six.
Matt: Seems fairly quiet.
Orion: If we've stopped pursuing, does that take us out of initiative?
Matt: You guys are not, you guys are not currently in initiative because you're not in the thick of battle. You managed to disperse the conflict.
Liam: I want to do it at the other door as well.
Matt: All right, you step to the other door. You guys want to do anything else while you're waiting on him?
Wil: I'm just going to come, I want to get as close to him as I can and I'm ready for a fight.
Marisha: Yeah, I follow.
Orion: Thorbir. Do you have an extra sword or arm on you? Perhaps a shortsword?
Wil: I give him the jeweled dagger.
Liam: That one's a 19.
Matt: 19? Listening, you hear what sounds like a slight (creak) sound, some sort of a scooting of wood on wood, and then silence.
Liam: Kick in the door. Hard as I can.
Matt: Okay. Make a strength roll. This would be straight strength.
Liam: Wait, that's the wrong guy. 12. 14.
Orion: As he's doing that, I'm going to drink a potion of frost giant strength.
Matt: Okay. You slam your foot into the door. Oh, that was the foot that you just got healed. Oh, that's going to bruise. That's really going to bruise.
Liam: Keyleth-- Coralin, darling, could you come up here please?
Marisha: Yes? Did you stub your toe, darling?
Liam: Yeah. I think I want to get this door open quickly, please.
Wil: I'm going to hit the door with my axe.
Matt: Okay. Go for it and roll. What did you roll?
Liam: A one!
Marisha: No way! It's a lie. If it wasn't live, no one would believe it.
Wil: I rolled a one. Because it is what I do.
Matt: I'm going to test this theory. I'm going to trade you, for now, and I'm going to leave you with that dice and see if it has any impact whatsoever.
Liam: You have to throw it into the fire, Mr. Frodo!
Wil: The curse doesn't care about which die is rolled.
Matt: Which is very possible, but there needs to be--
Liam: This is like science class.
Marisha: Maybe it's because that dice was in the vicinity of Matt's hair, you'll be good.
Matt: All right.
Wil: So how much damage do I take for some reason?
Matt: So as you pull back the axe, you actually swing wildly backward, nearly hitting Vax in the process. You have to dodge out of the way as the axe embeds itself into the wood behind you.
Wil: Ugh. Again.
Matt: Axe is stuck.
Liam: I slap myself on the forehead and go ugh. Pull out thieves' pick and start on the lock.
Matt: Okay, you unclasp. As you do, you feel your throat seize suddenly as the cold liquid tends to freeze up what is normally a very warm and very fire-breeding interior to your throat. And it thaws slowly, and as you exhale you can see the mist, and suddenly your muscles pulse with energy and you feel like your physical form is embodied strength far more than you've ever felt in your body before.
Orion: With his jeweled dagger, I take out my dagger. I feel great.
Liam: The freshmaker.
Matt: There's now the angriest dwarf right now clutching two daggers as you get down with your thieves' tools.
Liam: Yeah, let's try to leave the room. That's better. That's a 24.
Matt: All right. The door swings open without issue. It's one of the easier jobs you've had.
Liam: I should've done that in the first place.
Marisha: Yeah! Should've beat it down and then.
Matt: You push open the door and find your way into what looks like a very well-adorned bedroom. There is a small table on the side where there are some books stacked up. There's a dresser on the far end that's closed. There is a canopy bed set up. There is a small end-table on the side. And the rest of the room has a nice circular rug that's thrown across the center, and there are no windows currently to this room.
Liam: I turn my head to everyone and just mouth the words-- and perception check the room.
Marisha: Can I perception check, as well?
Liam: 24.
Marisha: Can I just look to see, I want to just meditate and-- what did you just roll? 24?
Liam: 24.
Marisha: I want to see if I see any movements or brushes of cloth or anything like that.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: 19. Not as good as Vax.
Matt: All right.
Wil: How long does it take me to pull the axe out of the wall, and how far into Yakety Sax does the soundtrack get while I'm up there and with the foot and then I'm jumping on it and trying to pull it down.
Matt: We're currently hitting the one minute 15 second mark. Haven't quite pulled it out of the wood yet.
Wil: Okay, good. And my little legs are kicking underneath me while I pull it down, cursing in Dwarven.
Liam: They call me Benny. Benny Hill.
Matt: Do you wish to enter the room?
Will: I don't, actually. Because of all the sound, I wish to turn my back to the room and guard the hallway while everybody else is inside checking out the room.
Matt: Okay, you're keeping an eye out, and you do see that there's one of the guards just to the side who's just keeping an eye looking over carefully. You guys make a perception check, looking around the room, you see there is no movement, there are no curtains on the walls. There is the rug, and most everything else in here seems to be perfectly still. You catch what looks like a little bit of movement of the canopy bed, the material that's on top. There's a slight sway to it that comes to stillness you just barely catch with your keen half-elven eye.
Liam: I would like to run up the bed and stab up. Both hands. Clicking the Boots of Haste.
Matt: Okay. (bam) Click the Boots of Haste, you run and charge up into the bed and stab upward into the canopy. The material is torn asunder, this very fine, probably imported silk is carved into three separate ribbons and falls gently onto the cushion of the bed proper, revealing the hardwood ceiling above you.
Liam: I'm going to check the ceiling. There's a lot of perception. I'm all out of Luck. That's no good. That's a 14.
Matt: 14, looking about, it's solid wood, you can move your fingers along and you're standing on the bed, you can just get it within reach, and feeling along the board, it's all pretty solid.
Marisha: I want to make myself soccer field goalie this stuff with the door, in the door frame, just really trying to see if I can see any brush of dust or movement.
Matt: Okay. Keeping an eye out. You pull your axe free. Into the hallway door in front of you. Not a lot of strength. You pull it out and try the best you can to save some grace.
Will: Well done. Yeah, that was graceful.
Liam: I motion Tiberius over.
Orion: Should I do a perception on that? Nope.
Matt: That ceiling looks pretty solid.
Will: Can I turn, saving my back to the door, I turn over. I do a perception check.
Matt: Go for it. You step over, you glance past Keyleth.
Will: Oh my god, one.
Wil: Stop trying to steal my thing, you guys.
Matt: You glance over and you're more distracted by the fact that Keyleth is doing this awkward field goal thing in the door to you for no reason, and you forget what you were in the middle of doing.
Marisha: I'm trying to make myself big.
Matt: There appears to be no exit from the ceiling.
Wil: Can I enter the room?
Matt: You may. You push past the confused cleric.
Wil: Okay, so I look around. I look at the rug. I sigh heavily. And I pull the rug.
Matt: You pull the rug, revealing a wooden floor. Plain slats.
Marisha: You thought that was going to be good!
Will: With a point, too!
Matt: You were never a fan of elves or half-elves before, but this one's really starting to dig into you a little.
Wil: I'll make a perception check because we could total up all my rolls and I'd have five.
Liam: Come on. Hey!
Wil: Look at that. That's actually better. 20.
Matt: 20. You pull the rug back. There's nothing there, and you look about at the rest of the folks with a heavy sigh. But the rug was on the right track. Everyone was keeping high. Looking beneath the bed, you can see what looks to be, in the shadow, some little bit of elevated wood that catches your attention.
Wil: I just, under the bed!
Orion: Oh! I'll motion over there.
Liam: We're not silenced, right? So I'm yanking off any fancy clothes I have on and I'm pulling my Cloak of Elvenkind out. I'm putting it over. And I spider under the bed and check it for traps.
Marisha: I pick up his clothes and I put them in the Bag of Holding.
Will: Oh my god, she's folding the clothes. We're in the middle of this, and she's folding the clothes.
Marisha: They might come in handy later.
Liam: 25 for looking for traps.
Matt: Okay. Well, it's a good thing you rolled high enough perception, because as you spider underneath, your first hand goes underneath and you nearly tumble and you catch yourself. There is a five-foot-wide hole in the ground right beneath this bed. And as you catch yourself, you can feel a little bit of wind slowly drifting up from underneath. There's some sort of airflow coming up from underneath this bed where this hole is, and you feel over and you can see that little bit of wood that you saw looking forward is the top of a makeshift ladder that is currently fastened to the side of this tunnel that disappears beneath the room.
Liam: Is there dim light down there?
Matt: It is pitch black. You can see with the dim light from your low-light vision a little ways into it, about 20 or so feet from the angle you're at, because you're not looking directly in. And even just glancing over the side it continues down for quite a while.
Will: And it's big enough to fit all of us if we wanted to go.
Matt: Independently, yes. One person would go down. It would be single file, of course, because it's a tight tunnel.
Will: Only one way to go, right?
Liam: You can see in pitch black, right?
Wil: I have darkvision, 60 feet.
Liam: Is that dim or dark?
Wil: Dark.
Matt: Darkvision, you can see within a short distance of pitch black and then a larger distance at low light, so yeah.
Wil: I'll go.
Matt: All right. So we'll put in order here, who's going down next? All right. And after Vax?
Marisha: I'll follow my husband.
Matt: Keyleth. That's weird. Tiberius?
Orion: Before we go down, I'm going to take off my outer-- no, I can't take off anything because that's all my gear. Never mind. I don't do that, but before we go down I cast Stoneskin on myself. I cast that right now.
Matt: Okay. As your form shimmers for a second and you see-- you notice this too, Kashaw-- his scales almost seem to protrude into earthy spikes and then form and solidify, almost like his body becomes its own suit of armor.
Will: Okay, that's cool.
Orion: Even though I'm still a dwarf, though.
Will: I'm going to go, but I'm going to cast Freedom of Movement on myself before I go down there.
Matt: Okay. As you do, even with the encumbrance of the armor you're wearing, you feel like your form is a little more agile and you're ready for anything that might try and stop your passage. You guys begin making your way down, with Thorbir leading the way. You descend for a good three to four minutes, you gather probably a hundred feet or more down, rung by rung, and there are a few that you reach that are a little rickety. About a hundred feet down, one hits your foot and snaps, but you manage to catch yourself on it, but you get the feeling this ladder is probably not meant to hold someone of your heavy physical form.
Wil: Largesse?
Matt: Largesse, you could use, yes. One by one, you make your way down until eventually you're, you begin to see towards the edge of your darkvision, floor finally begins to appear and rise towards you. You step off the ladder into what appears to be a small circular area that leads into another ten-foot-by-ten-foot tunnel, ten by 15 foot up, and continues forward. This is very natural carved earth, it's not smoothed stone, it just looks like a tunnel that was mined out of the floor.
Will: Is it still dark?
Matt: It is still dark, there is no light source currently. And you all eventually make your way down.
Will: Is there anything loose down there that I can grab a hold of?
Matt: You can't see anything. Mr. Human, you are in pitch-black darkness.
Will: Well, that's why I'm wondering if I feel around underneath me to try to find some kind-- do I find a loose stone? Do I find a pebble? Can I find anything to grab?
Matt: Reach down, yeah, you manage to find a couple of small stones.
Orion: As he's milling about, Light.
Will: That's what I was going to do, but he beat me to it. Thank you.
Matt: So you reach down and you find a stone, you pick it up, you begrudgingly grab your holy symbol, and as you begin to recite your cantrip incantation, a flash of white light comes gleaming off the top of the dragonborn sorcerer's staff.
Orion: Dagger. Because I have two daggers in my hands.
Matt: That's true. One of the daggers is now glowing. The jeweled one, twice as pretty when it's emanating torchlight.
Will: Nice. Thanks for the warning, by the way.
Orion: Sorry, I usually just do it when it's dark.
Wil: This tunnel goes in just one direction?
Matt: One direction.
Wil: I'm walking down the tunnel.
Matt: Okay. So we'll say for the sake of marching order, who all is going in after Thorbir? In what order?
Will: I'll go next.
Matt: All right. Following Thorbir.
Liam: I'll go behind Kash.
Will: I don't need this at all, but I just wanted to play with it. That's me right there.
Orion: I'll follow. I'll keep on Thorbir's six.
Matt: Okay.
Orion: I'll stay 15 feet behind him.
Matt: 15 feet behind? All right. And Keyleth, you continue up that way. All right, so that'll be the marching order.
Wil: So I've got my axe out. And may I make a perception check to see what I see? To just see if I can pick up footprints or motion or whatever?
Matt: This would be more tracking, if you're looking for footprints, so that'd be wisdom.
Wil: Okay. Just a straight wisdom?
Matt: Survival.
Wil: Survival, hang on. Not my system. Eight.
Matt: Eight? Okay. It's hard to tell. It looks like this area is not heavily traversed, and what little sign of footprints there are scattered enough that it's hard to make out a specific print. But I mean, they have been traveled before.
Liam: I'm looking over Thorbir's head and looking for traps as he walks from behind. 22.
Matt: 22? All right. As you guys are walking forward and going through this, you get about 40 feet forward before you catch that there is a slight divot, a small drop in the dirt, and one looks like a section of intentionally placed plate of some kind.
Liam: Wait a tick. I'm going to go up to the edge of it and try to inspect it and see if I can find a trigger or see how it works. Six. And that is, what is that, perception?
Matt: Are you checking to see how it works?
Liam: I want to see if I can disarm.
Matt: To disarm it. Okay, that would be with your thieves' tools. So this would be a dexterity plus your thieves' tools, so plus seven.
Liam: That's a 19.
Matt: 19? Okay. As you go to the plate, you stop and look up at the walls to the side, and to each side of the wall you can see these tiny little holes, these little quarter-sized, gold-piece-sized tunnels bored multiple places on both sides of this wall. And you take the plate, you realize this is a pressure plate-based trap, and taking one dagger, you slightly lift it. The second one, you eventually find beneath where the trigger apparatus is, and you gingerly cut each part of these spring-loaded triggers until eventually the plate rises more and more and more and you remove the last bit, the plate tips over, and the trap itself is disarmed.
Will: Nice work.
Orion: I mean, well done, rogue.
Wil: So I keep going down. I want to hit a thing.
Matt: All righty.
Wil: That's not a wall.
Matt: There is that. All right. Pushing forward, continuing for another 30-40 feet, do you want to check traps again?
Liam: Again. 12.
Matt: 12? Okay. Pushing forward for a period of time, there doesn't appear to be any change. There are no more divots. You're keeping a very close eye for the traps. And as you're walking forward with your axe. As you're stepping forward you get this weird tickle across your nose, like a spider web of some kind that catches you, and you instinctively reach up and brush it away from your nose. As your finger presses against it, it's much sturdier than a spider web. It's a metallic wire, and as you push away (tink). You hear that slight noise. Tiberius, behind you, you hear a grinding of stone, and a loud slam sounds, like something extremely heavy just dropped behind you.
Marisha: Run!
Matt: You guys glance over your shoulder and you see what looks to be a fairly rounded boulder--
Orion: I dispel Alter Self immediately so I have longer-ass legs.
Matt: Well, Alter Self is gone if you're casting Stoneskin, because that's a concentration spell. Oh, that. But that only carries it for a few rounds. It's been a longer time than that.
Orion: It's been 15 minutes. Time has passed. Never mind. I don't do shit.
Matt: But yeah, don't worry about that. But the stone boulder just--
Marisha: Indiana Jones, motherfuckers!
Matt: Picking up speed with the slow decline of this room. All of you guys, what are you doing?
All: Run!
Matt: You're bolting forward.
Orion: I cast Fly on myself and fly.
Matt: You cast Fly, pushing forward, and you guys get a little speed, but you've noticed the boulder's started to gather steam as it continues down, and the pathway you guys are running is going at a heavier and heavier decline as you push forward.
Orion: Oh! As I'm flying, I turn around with my ring and I cast Slow on the boulder.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and make a-- actually, no. This is interesting. Let me see if Slow would have a direct effect on this boulder. That's something that happens right now that I didn't consider. I love when that happens. Unfortunately, it is not a creature and actually it affects the physical metabolism and muscle use of an individual. This is just a solid structured object. As you release the spell, you see the air around it poof, and drift a little slower, and the boulder seems to stutter for a moment, but continues to push forward. That was your action.
Orion: Damn it.
Liam: I would like to cast all of my spells in succession for the next ten minutes.
Matt: I assume you're going full sprint? Okay, so pushing forward, you all push forward, Tiberius who has stopped to turn around and cast the spell is not at a full dash, so he trails behind. The boulder is currently gaining on Tiberius.
Orion: I Gandalf it.
Matt: So you turn around. You're continuing to fly forward. So you guys just turn to push forward. Tiberius, the boulder is nearly upon you now. What are you going to do?
Orion: Oh! Awesome. Is it at least ten to 15 feet away from me?
Matt: It is about ten to five feet away from you, you can see it cresting--
Orion: Sweet. As I'm now frustrated, I cast a 5th-level spell, and I will cast my Obelisk of Iron, three in a row behind me.
Matt: Okay. All right. You burned that spell. All of a sudden, the room behind you, out of the stone, pockets of iron ore or whatever material is beneath the earth behind you is brought together into a liquid mass and then shoots up in the center of the hallway behind you. With each one of these pillars slamming into the wall, you guys hear these three multiple explosions behind you, and for a brief second you fear the worst for Tiberius' current status. Immediately following that, you hear the impact of stone against iron, and you see the obelisks bend with this horrible creaking sound.
Marisha: Keep running!
Orion: That should stop it right there.
Marisha: I don't know.
Matt: The sound of the rolling has stopped.
Marisha: I still don't trust it. Let's just all get out of this hole.
Orion: I keep Gandalfing.
Marisha: It could give way at any moment.
Liam: Let's walk. Shall we walk? I think we should walk.
Wil: I like to walk.
Matt: Okay. You guys continue moving forward, the decline getting a little more difficult to traverse as your feel yourselves now having to feel your arms across the wall or use it for balance to make sure you don't just fall. Also, the moisture in the air begins to grow more and more thick. Some source of liquid some point down in the future has permeated what was originally dusty, dry air with liquid of some kind, and the air itself grows more and more rancid in scent. It smells like refuse or rot. It's hard to describe, and it's old. It's musky, it's terrible, and it grows stronger the farther you go. As you continue pushing forward, you also feel that the dusty ground is becoming more and more mud-like.
Wil: Is it making my hair poof out and look stupid?
Matt: A little bit, yeah. You spent all morning treating it and it's undoing everything you did.
Wil: This is why I lived in the mountains.
Will: Is there any light? Any light source? There's no natural light? We're not walking towards any type of light?
Matt: It's just a tunnel into darkness right now.
Marisha: Does there appear to be any type of plant life?
Matt: From what you can tell, there is no plant life at all whatsoever. The moisture gathered on the walls you can now see are dripping. The condensation has given this tunnel more of a mineral-pocketed look, and the ground is getting more sludgy with each step.
Wil: I want to make a-- I'm sorry, you're not done.
Marisha: I was just going to ask  are the walls stone or chiseled-out rock?
Matt: It feels like it's chiseled-out, hard earth that has been packed and supported with either small wooden things that are inset to make sure it doesn't collapse at some point, a lot of that has either fallen through.
Will: So it could collapse at any time.
Matt: Well, if you do any severe damage to its structure. It would probably be a bad idea.
Marisha: Right, like drop a boulder down it.
Matt: It's not a mine shaft.
Marisha: What were you going to say?
Wil: I would like to make a-- you tell me what check it is. What I want to do is to look down into this thick mud stuff. What I'm looking for are tracks, and if I do well enough, I want to see if I can get a sense of how fast the thing was going. Has it slowed down because it's comfortable, or is it still running?
Matt: Okay, make another survival check.
Wil: So I'm underground.
Matt: Actually, as a dwarf I'll give you advantage on that, so roll again. That makes sense, this is your place.
Liam: Well, the higher one was four. The lower one was a one.
Will: The higher one was a four?
Wil: Remember what I told you about the Wheaton dice curse? I'm sorry. Because no one will believe me. No one ever believes me.
Marisha: He's been taking pictures of all his fails so everyone believes it.
Will: At this point, I'd be amazed that he hasn't helped us in any way, shape, or form, and cast a perception check of my own.
Matt: Sure.
Will: There we go. So let's see, we are at 21.
Matt: 21, okay.
Will: You are useless. For the love of god.
Matt: As a pre-existing member of the Slayer's Take and the man who was currently set to be the leader of your group, you're beginning to wonder if this guild is the kind of thing you really want to be joining, at this point.
Wil: I haven't been in a fight yet.
Matt: True. But looking down you can see there are no tracks, actually. This line has not been traversed in quite some time, and the smoothness of it says that whatever came through here did not leave any footprints.
Will: At all?
Matt: No. Also, as you guys continue, you reach a point where, especially with your heavy armor-- go ahead and make a dexterity saving throw.
Marisha: Oh no.
Liam: You got this.
Will: Ten. So wait. 13.
Matt: 13? Okay. You're stepping forward, keeping an eye out, and you look back at the group and take a step and your foot slips out from under you. (smack) You hit the slime and begin to slide down the tunnel as part of the decline. You guys watch as your cleric Goonies-style slide vanishes into the darkness.
Will: It's our time. It's our time down here.
Wil: Hey, you guys!
Matt: Kashaw has vanished into the darkness and you hear, (screams).
Will: (screams)
Orion: As I see this happening, I run over and go like, this looks like a lot of fun!
Matt: As you lunge through the air, because you're flying, still.
Orion: Oh. Has ten minutes passed? I thought ten minutes? It only lasts for like ten minutes.
Matt: Oh, then yeah, it's faded. So you just slide after?
Orion: Yeah, I go, this looks like a lot of fun. And I go and I slide.
Matt: Tiberius slides after, body first across the slime.
Marisha: And then I see Tiberius go and I go, (whoops). And I go, too.
Matt: All right. Three of your party have just vanished into the darkness, hoping that fate will take them to some place of pillows and feathers.
Liam: I think I'd rather walk as long as I can.
Wil: I think I'm with you.
Matt: All right. You guys both make dexterity saving throws.
Wil: 16.
Liam: 16.
Matt: Wow. You manage to slowly make your way down this tunnel, almost-- what's that?
Orion: My dex was 18, by the way.
Matt: It doesn't matter; you jumped into this. You intentionally fell.
Liam: We can't even hear you anymore. You're miles away.
Matt: Yeah. You guys slowly begin to make your way down the tunnel, as you can't even hear them anymore. You guys, one after another, sliding down the slide and grime going past you. You smell in the air what smells like vegetable matter that's been long, long falling in compost, along with what smells like rancid feces mixed with mold. It's this terrible continuously growing scent.
Orion: I put up my nose scales.
Matt: Until eventually, out of the darkness, because you're ahead of everyone, you're outside of the range of his Light spell, the slime stops and there's just air.
Liam: Hey, you guys!
Matt: And a few moments of this air rushing past you as you're immediately stopped with a wet sound as you impact hard into some sort of heavy spongy matter. Thankfully, because it's spongy, you only suffer four points of damage, so you can mark that somewhere on the sheet. Mainly just from the way you landed and your armor sticks into where the plates are and just the impact was bad for your body. But you're now in darkness, looking up, sitting on what feels like you're on some sort of strange compost heap. Looking up, you see in the darkness this small light begin to appear, and you see this dragonborn--
Orion: I'm laughing, by the way.
Will: Can I try to move, since I hear him laughing, can I try to move out of the way?
Matt: You roll out of the way as the two of you scream down. With the light that now shines you can see this is a cylindrical cistern of some kind. It is a tunnel that is very tall, and you both impact into the same heap.
Liam: Shitter's full!
Orion: As we land, I look around. Oh, that was a lot of fun. I cast Prestidigitation three times in a row and clean us all up.
Matt: You try and clean what you can, but you guys are like knee to nearly waist deep as you get up and move around--
Orion: Or at least our faces.
Matt: Your faces are clean.
Will: What a wonderful smell you've discovered.
Matt: And it's a terrible smell. This room is quite honestly a mixture of long-rotting food, of dried vegetation that has been discarded here for whatever reason, a lot of it's hay and thatch that has been just rotting and molding for god knows how many years, and quite honestly, feces from some indeterminate entity.
Marisha: I use my Druidcraft to take out some of my sage and light it and spread some of my sage around.
Orion: You're making it worse. Now it's smoky and smells. Prestidigitate it out of my face.
Matt: As you guys are doing this, you guys are making your way down the tunnel. And you have a ways to catch up to them, you do hear (squeaking). You hear this, and as you look around with the light you can see little bits of movement leaping through this heap.
Liam: Rat horde.
Will: Rats are going to be wonderful.
Matt: Then suddenly, thrusting out of some of this heap, you see a large arm or tendril, brownish-tan in color just slams onto the side of it.
Orion: Oh shit. I go invisible.
Will: You've got to help-- where the hell did he go?
Matt: At which point you now see emerging from it two of these giant tendrils, which at the end are covered in these long, teeth-like spines, grasping the sides of this stone cylinder, pulling itself out of the refuse, shaking as it pulls itself forward. You now see the body that contains it with one third central tendril that rises up, what looks like creepy eyes or nose-holes that are looking around and glancing at both of you, and you see emerging beneath that the body, this large, eight- to ten-foot-thick, wide, covered-in-slime body that is this gargantuan toothy maw that opens up with a tongue that lolls out. And that's where we're going to go ahead and end today's session. We'll pick it up next week right where we left off. You guys slowly making your way down the tunnel. We'll pick up with that next time.
Will: Toothy maw is where we end it!
Matt: Yep. Toothy maw.
Marisha: Tentacley, brown, twitchy eyeball, toothy maw. That's all we know?
Matt: That's all you know. And some sort of strange sound and other small things moving.
Wil: Do you give out prizes for the most ones rolled in a night, because I'm pretty sure I won that.
Matt: I do, and for that prize I give you a fancy yellow d20.
Wil: Oh! Thank you. That's great. Does it have all ones on it?
Matt: Shit. Yeah. How did that happen?
Marisha: Oh, that's been your problem the whole time.
Liam: Congratulations, you've won imploding self-esteem.
Wil: That stacks, right? I already have that. I mean, it would be silly if I couldn't-- is that an ongoing? Because that's a feat I took when I started.
Matt: Yeah, yeah, I tried to tell you not to take that but, you know, character flavor is important.
Wil: Listen, it's a class feature. It's an actor's class feature.
Liam: After enough time, you can suck people into it.
Matt: Well, guys, thank you so much!
Wil: Thanks, Matt. That was amazing.
Matt: That was a fun first round. Got one more session with you guys.
Marisha: Yes, and what did you think of your first game?
Will: It was incredible, nothing should be this fun. Seriously, it was so much fun. Yeah. Awesome.
Matt: Well guys, thank you, I'm so glad you could join us and I'm excited for next week. And thank you guys for tuning in, hope you're enjoying it as much as we are. We can't stay too long, unfortunately, I have a flight to catch very soon to fly out to a convention in Columbus, Ohio. Zac, I think, is around here with whatever we got in business we've got to get down to with all you awesome people. Thank-yous.
Zac: We'll save gifts for next week.
Matt: We'll have to save gifts for next week when we're not quite in such a huge rush, so for those of you who sent stuff, we'll get into those next week. Thank you so much. So for people who donated, by the way, once again donated to 826LA, which is our charity, which is a fantastic charity that takes young children and young adults and teaches them creative writing and writing skills and they do wonderful work. And you guys have been fantastic and donations go to help that charity. Let's see, we got here--
Zac: Start 813.
Matt: 813, all right. Lonsolo, donated $25, thank you so much, Lon. Descendfromgrace donated $25, thank you so much Descend. Gelatinousdude, oh. Makes me happy. Donated $20. Thank you so much, that's amazing. Undim1 donated $31, thank you so much Undim. Wheelyfactoids donated $50. That's amazing, Wheelie. Once again, good to see you. That's amazing that you keep donating, I really appreciate that. Dafeedthedargenzeen--
Zac: There might be more there.
Matt: Dot-dot-dot-dot-dot, take the ellipses, it makes it sound cool. Donated $100, thank you so much, that's an incredible donation. Escherbacon donated $25, thank you so much Escherbacon. Bacon. Moonsol37 donated $20. Thank you, Moonsol. That's incredible. Norkelad donated $75. Thank you, Norkelad. Markinthepark donated $50. Thank you, Mark. That's amazing. Freelander20 donated $15. That's incredible. JDI35 donated $25. You're amazing! Missbeezus donated $25. Missbeezus, that's amazing. Heart goes out to you. Shepardson donated $20. Shepardson, thank you so much, Shepardson. Turdle, 1337turdle, donated $50. It's got leet-speech, threes. Thank you so much. T-threefrulthree. Williantw, t-w, donated $25. Thank you Willian. Salazarjack donated $82.60, keeping with the 826 theme. That's awesome. Clever. Nightraver01 donated $100. Thank you, Nightraver. Keep raving. NZV5005 donated $20. Thank you so much, NZV5005. That's incredible. Okay. Got a flight to catch. Wakedonorpg donated $43.21. Descending numbers, I like it. Thank you so much. Nausicaa451 donated $10. Thank you so much for that. Killerpenguin donated $25. Thank you, Killerpenguin. Damienopyro donated $30. Thank you, Pyro. Bryancantlogintotwitch-- I'm sorry, Bryan, that's pretty rough-- donated $30. That's fantastic. Gatorcane donated $100. Thank you, Gatorcane. It's got a nice texture to that cane. Magnusrogar donated $40. Kill things, Tiberius. Get it done. Foxyforce has donated $60.39. Thank you, Foxy. Atherrex donated $50. Thank you so much, Atherrex. Monos20 donated $20. Thank you so much. UncleAni donated $15. It's appreciated. Gargantran1-- eyes aren't working, but that's your new name-- donated $50. Thank you so much. PFWscott donated $12. Thank you. Jarmund donated $100. That's incredible. Joker396 donated $55.55. Thank you so much for all your donations.
Orion: Yeah, all this and again, thank you for doing this because portions of this goes to an amazing charity and we love all the people at 826.
Marisha: We're going to be doing a video very soon going to 826 and telling you guys all about it. But yes, they're a great charity, so yes.
Matt: Give to them the hefty amount that you guys have contributed over this time towards their charity. It's fascinating.
Will: You guys have incredible fans. This whole week leading up to this on Twitter and everything, you guys have amazing fans.
Marisha: Now you guys get the fanart!
Will: Sorry about what?
Matt: Sorry about the DDOS attack. That's how we say hi.
Will: No, seriously, it's amazing.
Zac: Don't even mention things like that. Don't mention those things.
Wil: It's more of a hug.
Zac: Thank you everybody for helping us get to 6k. They've already started a stupid e-mail chain talking about what musical songs they're going to sing.
Marisha: That's amazing. Oh, and guys, Mary Elizabeth came back to visit and watch. So she did return.
Mary: Hi!
Marisha: She's back!
Mary: And a special guest.
Steve: I'm just going to troll. Hi.
Marisha: Steven Blum, everybody.
Will: Starscream himself is here.
Marisha: Yes, he is.
Matt: Thank you so much for coming to watch, I hope you enjoyed yourselves. Yeah, it's an incredible time, looking forward to the session next week. Are there any other closing comments you guys want to bust out tonight?
Marisha: I don't want to wait a week.
Wil: Really fun and really weird to be on this side of that screen. So odd for me, and just to play a character who's so different from the characters I used to play before I DMed all the time. It's weird to be a guy who just doesn't think about stuff and like is not particularly charismatic and anyway, people who have thought about playing or want to play RPGs, when we were rolling up this guy, I was so excited when I got-- what did I roll for him? Anyway he's got a minus one. I rolled an eight for his charisma, and I was so excited because I was like, well now I know exactly who this guy is. I know exactly who he is and it's going to be really fun to be him. It was really great, it was really fun to come and I found out about your game because Liam directed me in a voice session. I want to be on your show so much.
Matt: Well, now it is done. Dreams do come true. Then we smash them.
Will: Now roll a one and get us out of here.
Wil: I'll try, but since it's not going to count, I don't know.
Liam: It'll be a 20. 19. (laughter)
Matt: Thanks so much. We'll see you next week, 7PM on the Twitch stream. Have a wonderful week.
Marisha: Bye!

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors get together and play Dungeons & Dragons. Tonight, apologies for the slight technical issues, but we're back and we're going to be playing through tonight's adventure. Before that gets started, let's go ahead and get through a couple of quick announcements. First and foremost, it's our third week of our Loot Crate sponsorship. Thank you very much. (cheering)
Matt: Thank you for your interest in our show and our audience, so for those of you who are interested, Loot Crate is a really cool service where once a month they bring you themed boxes that have mystery contents within that are part of that theme. All generally pop culture and geek-centric.
Laura: Taliesin, you're so loud!
Matt: Taliesin, quiet!
Sam: Shut up, Taliesin. Jesus. (laughter)
Travis: Stop masturbating during the announcements.
Laura: It's so loud. What are you doing?
Taliesin: I think I hit my microphone.
Sam: Don't worry. You're not an audio professional.
Matt: That's okay. At least it wasn't during a very climactic and important emotional moment in the game.
Travis: (laughing) Yeah, that's right.
Ashley: You're welcome!
Matt: (laughs) Anyway, yeah. Loot Crate's awesome. We've gone with it for years. They send mystery items that are all geek and pop culture-related. They're a lot of fun, and if you go to their website at www.LootCrate.com/criticalrole and check it out. If you like it and you get a subscription, you can use criticalrole-- one word-- as a promo code to get $3 off a subscription.
Sam: I'm wearing some of the stuff from the crate right now.
Travis: And they've got a power crate coming out.
Laura: David Bowie! Labyrinth!
Travis: They have an Infinity Gauntlet oven mitt.
Marisha: That's pretty dope.
Laura: Is that giving something away? I feel like we gave spoilers.
Liam: It was already Periscoped.
Laura: Oh, that's true. Never mind.
Matt: That would be nice in the box. We're good? We didn't waste it?
Liam: What's in the box?
Ashley: (singing) A dick in a box.
Matt: I hope there is no dick in a box as part of this service. Or perhaps I guess you do, depending on-- that's a whole different box service.
Marisha: If there is, you should call your local post office. (laughter)
Matt: That's a love box membership. Anyway, so! Also, once again, I want to remind everyone, we are happily carrying along the torch of 826LA, a fantastic charity that's been with us from the very beginning. 826 is a wonderful charity that promotes creative writing skills and literacy in mostly underprivileged kids at a young age, at which they normally don't have access to tutoring and people to help them on that direction, so if you can and have the opportunity and you're feeling like giving to some awesome people out there, 826LA, and 826 in general in your area, is a great charity to take a look at, so please. You guys have been a tremendous help in the past and you may continue to be so, if you wish.
Travis: Absolutely.
Matt: Good times. Let's see. Taliesin is joining us from Hawaii. Where are you at, Taliesin?
Taliesin: Where am I right now? I'm in my hotel room. Somewhere-- which island are we on? Oahu. We're on Oahu. For Amazing Comic-Con.
Matt: If you're on Oahu and you're watching this, you should go say hi to him. Not right now, but tomorrow and Sunday. And the rest of the great folks that are out there with you. All good people. Big old Street Fighter troupe. Also, we have Travis and his nose goblin and Laura, you guys are attending Puerto Rico Comic-Con?
Laura: Yeah! We leave early tomorrow morning.
Liam: Ah, you can sleep on the plane.
Laura: Good times.
Travis: Yeah! If you're in Puerto Rico, come see us. We'll be there, totally sleep-deprived and bushy-tailed.
Liam: It's a good one, though.
Travis: It's a good one?
Liam: Yeah, I went to that one.
Travis: We're excited to go. San Juan, baby. San Juan!
Matt: That's pretty slick, actually.
Marisha: That's awesome.
Matt: Does anybody else-- you said you wanted to mention something?
Liam: Yeah, Sam Riegel and I are both in Fallout Far Harbor, which is the first big DLC story dump. "Fah Hahbah." Fallout is my favorite way to escape reality second to this, so I hope you come join me. I play a human guy, but there's also a synth. Look for the synth.
Sam: I think I play a synth. And there you go.
Liam: There you go. That's it.
Sam: Good plug.
Marisha: You can also build a Taliesin robot, which I did, and named it the Taliesin 2000.
Laura: Aw, that's awesome!
Matt: So you could take either a custom-build Taliesin or me as your companion to Far Harbor and talk to these shmucks. And have a full Critical Role after-the-apocalypse experience. That's awesome. Okay, we're actually going to be downloading that soon. Anyone else have anything they want to mention before we jump into the game tonight?
Travis: Let's do this.
Marisha: I don't want to die.
Matt: Let's go ahead and get this started, as we dive into tonight's episode of Critical Role!
Sam: Nothing's happening.
Matt: No intro.
Sam: Nothing's happening. (laughter)
Sam: Wait! Let's act it out.
Matt: Act out the intro?
Marisha: Okay! (imitating music)
Travis: (growls)
Marisha: (swishing sound effects)
Sam: Taliesin, do something!
Liam: Shoot from your screen!
Laura: Shoot, you're shooting your gun! Be Percy!
Liam: Then you got hit by a wang!
Laura: Oh, you fall over!
Matt: Well done Taliesin, that was great. Ashley picks him up.
Laura: She's healing him.
Ashley: I'll hold your hand! Eyes closed, holding my holy symbol!
Matt: And it got weird.
Ashley: Had to add it.
Matt: And now it swings--
Liam: Oh, Laura Bailey standing in for an orc! (stabbing sound) Ugh, gah! Now be yourself oh!
Laura: Pew pew!
Liam: And I'll go oh!
Laura: And then I'll go oh! Then I wink at you.
Travis: This was not the plan, for the love of god help us!
Laura: And then I shoot another one at you! [actual intro plays]
Matt: Welcome back to this majestic clusterfuck that is tonight. (laughter)
Matt: As open beta leaves its red and raw path, we rebuild! We stand up against the swaggering might of the new programming, and we stand tall for tonight's episode of Critical Role. Previously, Vox Machina, the band of adventurers walking through Tal'Dorei post-attack of the Chroma Conclave, an evil troupe of chromatic dragons that are currently holding power in this region and beyond, after tearing through many of the bastions of society in this countryside. They have gone on a quest to search for artifacts known as the Vestiges of Divergence, from ancient wars and heroes of old and yore, to use against the leader of the Chroma Conclave, Thordak the Cinder King. Now as part of this confrontation, they made their way to the city of Westruun, which was partially destroyed by the black dragon, Umbrasyl. While it was off and away with the rest of the Conclave, was then conquered by the wandering Herd of Storms that Grog once belonged to. After finding it occupied by these rather brutal barbaric individuals, Vox Machina set into the city, destroyed and tore down their leader Kevdak, to much fanfare from Grog's past. And through Kevdak's son and Grog's majestic might they decided to take the remainder of the Herd of Storms and take out Umbrasyl, the great black dragon. Half the Herd didn't like that and has decided to leave to their own devices, where the rest of the party possibly prepares to plot and plan a way to kill an ancient black dragon.
Travis: I don't like the way he said that. Why'd you have to say it like that? It's just a black dragon!
Matt: What else am I going to say?
Liam: Why the dramatic pauses?
Matt: Because it's fun.
Travis: You used the word 'somehow'.
Matt: I like it. You guys, having just finished this stroke of a conversation with Zanror in the Margrave's homestead, the dawn light is now beginning to pour over the mountain range in the distance. The day has officially begun. Zanror has stepped out and has begun to speak with a few of his trusted Herd members to stand down for the day, letting people know that the battle has been postponed for the time being while a plan is to be enacted, prepared for, and then sprung the following day. The rest of you guys have this day to prepare however you see fit. So I ask you: what would you like to do?
Sam: We have so many things that we need to do!
Matt: Where do we begin?
Sam: We need supplies. We need to parlay with our allies. We need lots of chains.
Laura: We need to trap the dragon obviously on the ground.
Sam: For that we'll need some bindings of some sort: chains, hooks, spikes.
Taliesin: I have a thought, I have a thought in that direction. When we're ready, I was thinking of basically building what is essentially a giant pressurized mousetrap.
Laura: Is there, how would you do that?
Liam: How much time do you need, Perce?
Taliesin: Do I have access to some people to help build it, and some perhaps broken homes and chunks of wood and chain?
Matt: You do have access to broken homes, chain, and scraps at your disposal. As far as individuals that can aid you, you have individuals that can help hold things for you. The Herd of Storms is not known for its ingenious use of tinkering tools, but--
Laura: What about blacksmiths in town? Are there any blacksmiths left?
Matt: You can check around.
Taliesin: This would be a blacksmith just to make a couple springs. This is not a complicated-- This is literally something you could make in the woods. It's a slightly more complex version of something you could make in the woods to catch birds. I'm just building a really big version. It's a whole bunch of systems like this that will have chains and weights on them that when you disrupt the weight at the center the whole thing goes clunk, throws a whole bunch of-- it's basically a netting system. It's an entanglement and will be an entanglement.
Matt: Okay. I'll tell you what. Go ahead and roll an investigation check, Percy, if you don't mind.
Laura: Can we help him at all?
Matt: Yeah, I'll say if you want to go ahead and aid to that, take advantage on that, Percy.
Taliesin: Thank god. Yeah, no, not very good.
Matt: What'd you roll?
Taliesin: I rolled a six.
Laura: With advantage?
Matt: With advantage?
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: So! After taking the better part of about three hours scouring the town, most of the remaining villagers--
Laura: He took three hours doing that?!
Matt: Three hours, so, from what he's doing with the aid of people that aided him, which would be Vex asking about, the few folks that have any experience with any sort of blacksmithy are the folks that make horseshoes, and that's the extent of the complication they can create. So they can attempt to, with your aid, craft some springs. They have the materials to do very basic metalwork and ironwork, but the people you encounter, two folks in particular, they're both a little confused by your overall design and are waiting for you to lead them in a specific direction.
Taliesin: Okay, I'm just going to take them and I'm going to start building one and see if they can follow suit then. Three springs will be more than enough for this design.
Matt: How big a spring?
Taliesin: I would say, how tall is this dragon?
Matt: Roughly 30 to 40 feet, depending.
Taliesin: About a two-to-three-foot spring, then. Three two-to-three-foot springs made of solid iron. Just enough to lift the system and toss. And it's just, you make them like chainmail. It's a process that exists. I'm not going nuts.
Matt: I'm not saying you're going nuts. You are a little stretched for supplies and manpower based on the circumstances in Westruun for a complicated task, but it's fairly possible, but it will pretty much take the entirety of your day and most of your night to prepare this. You'll be able to squeeze by with this, with the construction of the device, and have maybe just enough room for-- I'll let you squeeze in a long rest.
Taliesin: That'll be perfect.
Matt: But that's success or fail.
Taliesin: That'll do.
Matt: Okay. What are the rest of you guys planning?
Liam: Three hours ago, back when we were still together, I pulled Scanlan aside. Listen, I want to talk to you. I have an idea.
Sam: Is this about Kaylie? Because I'm still worried about her. But I don't think that we should discuss her right now. We have other things! Why are you harping on this? She's my daughter. (laughter)
Sam: Just give it a rest.
Liam: You're right, I should have never dragged you down into the sewers, and I apologize. It won't happen again. But listen to me. I have an idea. It's a dangerous idea, and I don't want to lead with it. I don't want to fight this dragon, to be honest, but I think the group is going that direction. If we do-- Percival's run off to try something, maybe we're just going to run out. I have an idea that only you can do.
Sam: Okay.
Liam: We have a rod.
Sam: Yes.
Liam: Not the cube. A rod that cannot be moved.
Sam: We could use it in some way.
Liam: You can teleport, and I'm almost too afraid to even suggest it, but if shit goes south, how would you feel about teleporting inside of Umbrasyl's stomach? With that rod.
Sam: Well, what has he eaten? Because it could be nasty in there!
Liam: I assume it will. I don't know anatomy. I haven't talked to my sister about this. She might be able to give us input, and I don't want to lead with this. I don't want you to do it because I feel like you could melt in there.
Sam: Of course I could melt in there! I'm a little man and he's got acid on him!
Liam: I know. I'm looking for a way through this fucking clusterfuck and if there's nothing else to do, you could go in there and click that rod and give him the worst suppository ever invented!
Sam: Listen. If there's a man invented who can go to where shit is made and make some really good shit, that's me. So let's pursue this. As a plan B.
Liam: As a plan B. And I take him by the shoulders. You remember that little talk we had about a week ago, when you told--
Sam: Is this about Kaylie again?
Liam: No, we can talk about Kaylie in a couple of days, all right?
Sam: Okay.
Liam: When you told me how things were better now? Okay, you remember that?
Sam: Yes.
Liam: That was fucking insane. They are not better. Everything is terrible! Our lives are terrible. They are way worse than they were six months ago, way worse. I was with all of you assholes a year ago, and two years ago, they're way worse.
Sam: You're saying that, a sullen loner who is confiding in one of his closest friends while holding him on the shoulders. This you never had before.
Liam: I slap him on the cheek a little bit and say: you are a fucking madman, but I am glad you're here.
Sam: I'm glad to be with you.
Liam: And I love you. And I give him a playful slap across the face.
Sam: Six points of damage. (laughter)
Matt: Unexpected, sneak attack. 7d6 points of damage.
Sam: All right, so I'm going to go talk to Vex. An expert in dragons I hope?
Laura: I'm an expert on dragons.
Sam: And ask her how dragons work, how their bodies work.
Laura: What do you mean?
Sam: Where they're vulnerable, where they make the acid, where they have lungs, where they have stomachs, how many stomachs? Are they like a cow with eight stomachs or something?
Matt: Go ahead and make an intelligence check with advantage.
Travis: Cows have eight stomachs?
Marisha: They've got like two or three.
Laura: Shut up! 17.
Matt: 17. Yeah, dragons have the pieces you imagine they would have in the right vicinity. Their stomach is quite acidic, as it has been known to dissolve some of the hardiest of creatures, let alone break down some basic minerals and materials. So it's not a happy place to be, but it's not like instantaneous dissolution. It will hurt. Also know that the breath weapon, the acid that a black dragon, which uses acid as a breath weapon in a stream in front of it, much like your lightning bolt, does not come from its stomach. That acid is much more toxic, concentrated, and comes from a separate part of its body, a gland, a breathing mechanism that projects it outward.
Laura: Where's the gland located? Would I know that, like, in his throat?
Matt: It's somewhere in this vicinity, you're not entirely certain.
Sam: So if I miss, end up in that gland, that would be not good.
Matt: That would be really bad.
Liam: Don't roll a one!
Ashley: But that would probably be really hard to just get right into that spot.
Liam: But you know, you wouldn't suffer.
Laura: It would be instantaneous, at least.
Sam: Also. Vex. Vex'ahlia.
Laura: Oh. Getting fancy now, Scanlan Shorthalt.
Sam: Thank you. Your brother tells me that you have some sort of acid-resistant something.
Laura: The armor? That I took from him?
Liam: Yes, my armor. She has it.
Laura: Well-- are you here? Are you next-- are you next to me now?
Liam: No, I'm about five feet behind you rolling my eyes and doing this the whole time you're talking about dragons.
Laura: It's the armor that I won fair and square from him! Yes, I am wearing it right now.
Sam: Is that your primary armor?
Laura: It is.
Sam: How would you feel about me asking you to take it off? Doing a little unbuckling and giving it to me instead?
Laura: Scanlan, that's going to cost you a lot of money.
Sam: We could swap armor.
Laura: You think your little armor will fit me.
Sam: I have a pretty broad chest. These are pecs.
Laura: What kind of armor do you have?
Sam: I have cold snap leather armor.
Laura: Which is cold resistant?
Sam: Cold resistant. Maybe the dragon will throw snowballs at you.
Laura: I doubt that. What is it, is it plus two?
Liam: Yeah.
Sam: Plus two on top of the armor, so it's four.
Matt: So it's armor plus two.
Liam: It's better overall.
Laura: Okay. Well sweet, then yeah, sure, give it to me.
Sam: Can we do that?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: Strip on down there, Scanlan.
Sam: Well, ladies first!
Laura: No, you first, I want to see the cube and then I'll give you my armor.
Sam: Shall we make it interesting and play a little poker?
Laura: There's no time for that.
Sam: All right. I very slowly and sultrily unbuckle my armor, let one strap fall, let the other strap fall, just do a little shimmy and let it fall to the ground, sort of like The Crying Game. Just sort of, camera pans up a little bit and it's just, there's nothing underneath, it's just me and the cube. And I cry a little. (laughter)
Liam: During which I pick up Scanlan's shawm and start playing it terribly. No idea what I'm doing. Do you blow into this, are there strings? I don't know.
Laura: I try really hard not to start laughing.
Sam: Go with what your body tells you to do. How are you going to take off your armor?
Laura: That's a good question. Do you want to walk away for this?
Liam: Yeah, I leave the room.
Laura: I completely ungracefully take it off and throw it at you. Give me that armor. How is this going to fit me? I'm just naked trying to squirm into these extra-skinny jeans.
Matt: Actually, as you pull the armor pieces up, they shift and formfit to your size as part of their enchantment.
Laura: What color is it? Is it beautiful?
Matt: The cold snap armor is I believe dark browns with traces of white and silver along the edges as a cold winter motif as part of the enchantment.
Laura: Does it match my storm bow?
Matt: Yeah, I guess you could say that.
Laura: You might not be getting this back, Scanlan.
Sam: Oh, really? Well. What does mine look like?
Matt: For a moment, it looks pretty haphazard and hanging off of you.
Sam: Oh, these are like C-cups up here. (laughter)
Matt: As the armor slowly retracts and finds itself to your form.
Sam: Oh! They went down.
Matt: In that moment, Scanlan learned a lot about himself.
Sam: All right. I feel good about this. Now we'll continue our dragon lesson I suppose.
Laura: Wait, why did you need to change-- are you going to be up close and personal with him?
Sam: Well, I think we all are, you know. He breathes acid.
Laura: Well yes, but.
Sam: Yeah, so we could get hit! Now I'm more protected than you are!
Laura: This was a really stupid-- why did I give that up?
Sam: I'm very charming.
Laura: Now you're not here?
Liam: You told me to leave! You took off your clothes. I'm Liam, I'm not Vax, what're you talking about?
Laura: Are you planning on doing something?
Sam: We're all planning on doing something, and I don't think that my part of the plan is any stupider than yours will be. So. Good luck to you. I'll keep your armor safe. Hopefully we can trade back. And if not, you can peel it off my dead body.
Laura: As long as you're not melted from all the acid.
Ashley: I'd like to attune to my frostbrand sword.
Matt: Okay, so you'll be putting aside the mace of disruption and taking on the frostband instead. Okay. Cool.
Liam: Oh, shit, I go running after Percival. I'm going to go find Percival.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Liam: Yeah. Well. Does that take an hour, or do I catch up with him pretty quick?
Matt: You would know the direction he went, and thankfully in the awkward still-quiet that is the center of the town now that it's missing most of its populace, and those that are there are acknowledging the tension of what might be coming, and many of them are now packing up and leaving and getting out of the town, evacuating when they've been notified of the possible coming battle. The sound of metal clangs in the distance, and the gathering of materials from some of the rubble is not too difficult to discern over time. Takes you about half an hour or so to locate him.
Liam: Oh, there's that white hair. Percival!
Taliesin: Yes? Hello. Bit busy. What?
Liam: Yeah, I'm sorry, I don't want to take up a lot of your time. I reckon you're going to be busy with this all day, yeah?
Taliesin: Oh yes. This is quite a project.
Liam: Ah, and also tomorrow. You're probably going to be taking potshots at that thing, yeah?
Taliesin: Ah, that's my hope is to be, honestly, as far away from this as humanly possible.
Liam: That's probably not my plan. Can I have use of your blade?
Taliesin: Oh! The dragonslayer longsword, yes, of course, of course. I pull it off my belt and hand it off. Could help. I'm a little terrified that you're getting that close to it, but here it is.
Liam: It's just in case.
Taliesin: It's quite a piece.
Liam: Good luck today.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Liam: Good luck tomorrow.
Taliesin: I am down to my normal sword now.
Laura: Can I be talking to Zanror?
Marisha: I'll join you in that. That was my next plan.
Matt: The two of you eventually find Zanror. Zanror and Warra are in the process of piling weapons and armor with the rest of the Herd into the center of the town where the battle outside of the Margrave's house happened. Most of the warriors there are in the process of steeling themselves, some of them are gathering their materials, some are in the process of doing some minor ritualistic scarring in preparation for the battle. There is very little conversation happening. It seems like there is this quiet understanding that this, for many, might be their last day. They're making peace with the coming glory of battle. You'd expect this sense of tense fear, this very Battle of Helm's Deep-type acceptance of doom, but this is a different personality amongst the Herd here. There is almost a brimming excitement with the idea of possible glory or at least a glorious end. And it very much befits the story that you've heard of Grog's past history, and very easy to see where he once came from.
Laura: I bring Zanror a big tankard of ale and sit down in front of him. MATT "Oh, good to see you."
Marisha: I stand behind Vex'ahlia.
Matt: "This for me?"
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Looks to Worra.
Marisha: Don't worry, we wouldn't try to poison you the night before a dragon-fight.
Matt: (laughs) "That would be rather stupid, wouldn't it?"
Marisha: It would.
Matt: And he just downs it all in one big chug. "Thanks."
Laura: Zanror? Did I hear you correctly before, that you have been the one speaking with the beast in the past?
Matt: "I have, aye."
Laura: So when it comes and gathers its treasure, it stops and talks, or does it just come and take it and leave?
Matt: "It has at times. More at the beginning. If it had questions and seemed curious. That wore off after the first few times. Now it just seems to come and take and find its way out."
Laura: So if the treasure looked different this time, it might stop and talk about it?
Matt: He stops for a second. "Maybe."
Laura: I'm curious because I know you said you are lacking in gold and treasure. What will entice the beast?
Matt: "Hm. Beyond that, I don't really know. That's what is forcing our hand right now."
Laura: What if we had a way of providing some gold? And maybe you provide an offering of a different kind? What if you say that your father Kevdak had been plotting against the dragon and you found out about it. Would you be able to offer his body and the body of his allies as tribute to the dragon?
Matt: "Huh."
Laura: Dragons are vain.
Matt: And you do know specifically white dragons, or sorry, black dragons, they're very cruel by nature. They actually enjoy messing with creatures they see below them, especially intended prey, torturing for extended periods of time before killing. They aren't comparatively as vain as other dragons per se, but all chromatics fall in some way shape or form on that same scale of self-love to the point of being a near-disease to many of them. Zanror thinks to himself for a second and goes, "We can certainly try. I mean, I've got no more use for it, though it's going to be hard to convince it without a head. I'm pretty sure Grog took that with him."
Laura: Well, we may be able to get that back. How are you planning on hiding your fellow warriors from the dragon so as not to attract its attention? Because we may have some ideas.
Matt: "We'll have to share ideas. Ours was to go ahead and plod up Gatshadow. Usually it's about noon when it comes down for the offering. We leave it what little we have left, possibly lose two men in the process of delivering it, and then when it returned to its place we'd be there waiting to ambush it once it returned, use that time when it was gone to go ahead and hole up inside its home."
Laura: Okay.
Matt: "That was our intent."
Marisha: We might be able to do one better.
Laura: A dragon's lair is not--
Marisha: Especially a black dragon's lair.
Laura: We wouldn't do much damage to it there, in fact, it's probably laid several traps against us already.
Matt: "Well, there's not much we can really do when we're all fighting with our fucking axes and swords, can we? In the lair at least it's stuck on the ground."
Laura: What if we could trap it onto the ground here?
Matt: "How do you intend to do that?"
Laura: We have a wonderful tinkerer. Quite talented. And he's creating something to trap the dragon.
Matt: "Really."
Laura: Plus we can provide several chains. Once it's on the ground, maybe your very strong goliaths could try to snare it, grappling-hook it, throw some chains up and over?
Marisha: This pile of weapons you have here, I see a decent amount of javelins. A rudimentary harpoon, in the hands of some of your strongest, could help wrangle him down.
Matt: He stops for a second and goes, "I just want to be clear we don't underestimate the sheer size, strength, and ferocity of this beast. With all 20 men, we might be able to hold it down, I don't know how long. I hope that contraption your friend is making is strong enough to aid us that last little bit, because I get the feeling that if our might is put to just keeping it on the ground-- well, that's a lot less of our strengths that we could be tending to. A lot less blades we could put into its hide."
Laura: Well, hopefully it would only be needed for a small amount of time before our magic users have their way with it.
Marisha: About that time I light up my hands.
Matt: "That's impressive. You know what else is impressive? Watching four of my friends melt in a matter of seconds."
Marisha: That is very impressive. You're not wrong.
Matt: "I just want to instill with you an understanding not to be brash, not to go ahead and run into this unless you're absolutely certain. Now. I've got chains, you've got chains. We've got strong men. If we put ourselves intent on just holding this beast down, I have the feeling, even with our weight behind it, it's going to be a difficult attempt. Do we have any other way of anchoring it down, something else we can put the chains to?"
Marisha: About that time I walk over to the-- is there a stone wall in here?
Matt: I mean, there are pieces of stone building in the vicinity.
Marisha: I put my hand against the stone and I cast Transmute Rock and I push my hand into the stone as it turns to mud.
Laura: And now turn it back, Keyleth.
Marisha: I take a spear that's on the floor, stick it in, and then turn it back.
Matt: All right. Let me look this up real fast.
Marisha: See? Magic. (laughter)
Marisha: Put my hand underneath the spear. Put my hand over the spear.
Laura: Ah? Ah? No strings!
Marisha: Where is it, where is it?
Matt: Yeah, mud to rock, yeah. Lasts for-- it's instantaneous. So when he looks at that, he goes, "So. What you're saying is if we can find a few places in which the rock is close to the surface, you could lock these chains in?"
Marisha: I think I could lock the whole dragon in.
Laura: Once it's on the ground, if we can pull it down enough, she may be able to lock its legs into the stone.
Marisha: Beyond that, if that fails-- And then I cast, for right now I'll just do Wall of Stone, I'm just burning through all my spells as a demonstration. And I bring up two pillows. Two pillows?
Ashley: And then we all lay down and go to sleep!
Sam: Pillow fight! (laughter)
Liam: Billy Mays here for the Ashari Tribe!
Matt: "Goose down. Unexpected tactic."
Laura: I like how we're walking through all of these ideas and none of it's going to work when we get there.
Marisha: I blast up two pillars, right next to Kevdak.
Matt: Not next to Kevdak. You mean Zanror?
Marisha: Sorry, sorry. Sorry, the other big goliath leader.
Sam: Whatever your name is.
Matt: That one, ohmygod.
Marisha: And trap him in.
Matt: Okay, you (rumbles). Warra's pushed to the side as the stone shoots up.
Marisha: (whispers) Sorry, Warra, sorry. So-- I know! Did not mean to lay a hand.
Matt: "All right, your point is made. We've got two others who can do similar magic as you, maybe not the same level, but--"
Marisha: Fantastic.
Matt: "Want us to put them at your aid?"
Marisha: That would be wonderful. Beyond that, in prep, I can dig a trench, hidden underground around our trap, so that whenever we're ready, your army can bust out of the ground.
Laura: Surprise.
Marisha: Without being seen.
Matt: "Without being seen, what, are we going to bury my men?"
Laura: Very lightly.
Marisha: Pretty much. To be fair, I actually did it on a trap to kill like eight of your men on the way in and it worked phenomenally. So you should trust me.
Laura: It was pretty great.
Marisha: It worked well.
Matt: "I think we'll take our chances above ground, please."
Laura: The only thing I'm worried about, Zanror, is that if this ugly beast flies in and sees, oh, how many of your men do you have?
Matt: "Currently we're sitting at 25 total, including myself."
Laura: 25 men standing around. Don't you think it's going to be a little curious as to why all of the sudden-- all of a sudden? There's a large number of people around, that's never been there before?
Matt: "You're asking me this, our plan was to go inside while it was out. But if you want us there, let's figure out a way to hide, then. I don't think my men are going to like to be underground."
Marisha: It'll be very spacious. It'll be a nice big tunnel, it's not going to feel like you're buried alive.
Matt: "And what, they just leap out one by one through an opening?"
Laura: It'll be super shallow. Just enough that they can come on up and out.
Marisha: It'll be awesome, it will look like they're coming out of the grave. They'll look like badasses!
Matt: "I don't think that's going to really get a dragon shaking in its claws, y'know?" (sighs)
Laura: Not a lot is going to get a dragon shaking in its claws.
Matt: "Let me talk to my men. We'll see what we can do, we can muster as far as these chains go."
Laura: A surprise attack is going to be one of our best shots at grounding this thing.
Matt: "So, am I to tell my men we're going to bury them in the ground?"
Marisha: Not bury them, that sounds so dramatic when you say it like that, I mean I'm going to make a tunnel, there'll be stairs, they'll be able to walk freely, they'll have air holes, it'll be just like when you moved through the sewers to not be seen.
Matt: "I'll talk to them. I certainly hope your magic stone-shaping is as strong as it is. At the very first moment that dragon looks like it's going to go ahead and break free, we're weapons out. You do understand that."
Marisha: We would appreciate that, actually.
Matt: "Okay."
Laura: We want it to land, then we strike. We just want it to hit the fucking ground.
Matt: "Okay. And what's our bait? You say you have some gold to give?"
Laura: Some gold to give.
Matt: "Try for Kevdak's corpse-- I hope that's enough. I'll see what else we've got left in our coffers." He turns around and him and Warra walk away, a couple of the men join them and they--
Marisha: Oh, I actually-- I go over to Warra real quick before she walks away? Just to her side, and say, you look well. Have the Seers told you if it's going to be a boy or a girl yet?
Matt: "Not yet. But if we survive this, I have a feeling I'll know. The strength and glory of this fight will confirm."
Marisha: If you survive this fight, I'm pretty sure you'll bear the strongest child anyone has ever known.
Laura: The stallion that mounts the world, for sure.
Liam: There it is, there it is. It's in all our heads.
Matt: Nothing ever goes wrong when that title comes up. (laughter)
Matt: What could possibly go wrong? She looks over her shoulder at Zanror as he's walking away and goes, "Could be." And she just turns and starts walking with him.
Laura: So we really need to dig a trench.
Marisha: Yeah. I'm going to start digging a trench.
Laura: Around the area that the treasure is going to be.
Marisha: How far is it?
Matt: You guys scope it out, it's northwest of the town, you saw it on the way in, and it's very easy to make out at this point because there have been large claw-marks in the ground, there are broken pieces of wood, there's a shattered cart, there's some barrels that are partially destroyed to the side, there's a little bit of leftover ends and pieces that fell out of whatever it picked up as it took off as well as a smattering of copper, silver, and gold pieces that you rummaged through before when you first came to the town. But there's a definitive place that you recognize where this drop point is, it's out in the open in the field, there's going to be a couple of nearby rocks, a handful of trees, but they're all very sparse and spread apart. Other than that, it's just open field, so.
Marisha: How far away is the nearest tree cluster?
Matt: To that, it's about-- tree cluster? I mean, most of the trees that are here are singular, there's two trees that are within ten feet of each other and that's maybe 80 feet away from it.
Marisha: Okay.
Laura: When you dig the trench, can I use my perception and my ranger ability to camouflage things and make sure that from above the ground, from the height that the dragon will be looking at it, that it's not seeable at all? I don't want this trap to be seen-- I guess I should wait until we find out if Percy finishes his trap and gets it in place to do all of this.
Matt: You can do that if you'd like to. Yeah, as far as the camouflage ability--
Laura: I know Hide in Plain Sight is for myself, but I feel like as a ranger I'd be able to hide tracks and stuff.
Matt: I'll say we can certainly give you--
Laura: We can use a little Dust of Tracelessness or something?
Matt: We can make something function a little bit there, you know, illusion magic is also helpful. If you have anything illusion-based that could even just help tidy up before. You do know that dragons are very perceptive creatures and are very-- are not very trusting either. They're paranoid. That is part of their narcissism, so anything you can use, whether it be illusion, camouflage, anything to hide any sort of possible chance of it not trusting this scenario you're going to want to do, otherwise this thing might fly overhead and notice one thing and be like ah, peace! So. Be warned. Miss Dragon Specialist.
Liam: That was all knowledge in your head.
Laura: I know all of these things! All of a sudden!
Marisha: Did he just say dragons have really high perception so don't fuck with anything and make it look weird?
Laura: No, he said if we're going to do it, make sure it is hidden.
Marisha: Right. Make it look real good. Right.
Travis: Can I go up to some of the guards outside and say, oi. Where do you keep your prisoners, hostages, meat shields?
Matt: I mean, there are no real guards of Westruun anymore, most of the guards that--
Travis: I meant like the goliath, the Herd guards.
Matt: Yeah, the Herd guards. They're a little sparse right now, there aren't any towards the outside of town, most of them are gathering towards the center as the rest of the folks are leaving the town, finding their way out south of Westruun to be away from the battle. But you do find in the Margrave center, similar area to where they were talking to Zanror, there are gathering warriors that are getting their weapons ready, some of them armoring up to just see how easily they can get it on, some of them might even sleep in their armaments, it's not a huge thing. But as you approach and ask this question, one of them turns to you and goes, "Well, there's-- the Iron Stocks is where we generally keep our prisoners. The ones who were before and the few we did keep, well, those we chained up or executed, but there were a few that were thrown in there."
Travis: Are there any still in there? Or are they all clear?
Matt: "Oh, there's plenty of prisoners still in there, we didn't touch the prison, mostly."
Travis: Hm. All right, thank you. (whispers) What was Reginald's daughter's name?
Laura: I don't know if I wrote it down.
Sam: I wrote it down.
Travis: I'd like to make my way over to the Iron Stocks.
Matt: Okay. And you've been here before, you know the Iron Stocks, although you weren't sure if it was being used as still a prison. And seemed loosely, just throwing a handful of people in for use later on that never quite came to fruition.
Marisha: I don't know her name either. We might not have known a name.
Travis: I thought we knew her name. Reginald's daughter's name?
Matt: Do you remember her name?
Travis: Are you asking me?
Marisha: What Sam wrote, he just wrote down 'Reginald's daughter'.
Sam: Maybe he never told us her name.
Matt: (laughs) All right, you make your way to the Iron Stocks. And it is currently unguarded, there is nobody there, the Herd has lost interest in it, the door's partially ajar, and as you walk inside you can already smell the place just reeks of refuse and decay. It looks like everything left in the middle of a workday. There are still ledgers open on the front desk, you can see what looks to be a small group of-- a barracks-type scenario to the left of the entrance that is just completely abandoned and looks like some cases are left open, scattering various keepsakes and bottles that are shattered on the ground, a lot of people left either to go into battle to defend against the dragon, to lose their life in it, or just to get the hell out of Dodge.
Travis: Can I walk up to the ledger and pretend to read it?
Matt: Yeah. You pick it up and leaf through for a few pages, lotta great squiggles.
Travis: Yep.
Matt: Some pretty handwriting, you can tell--
Travis: Any squiggles that look familiar?
Matt: Um, no. No, none that-- I mean, some look familiar, some are more rounded--
Travis: Oh, this poor bastard right here, yep, I remember him, good chap. Hello? Is anyone in here?
Matt: There's a slight pause. Then you hear a voice echo from the right side of the room, down a hall just through the stone, you can barely make it out because the distance it's at, because you're hearing the echo protrude from quite a distance, but a voice just says, "Hey! Hey! In here! Need food please!"
Travis: Oh, shit. So I go in that direction. Open the door and try and make my way that way.
Matt: You charge down the hallway and there are a number of cells that are immediately here. Some of them are open and abandoned entirely, there are a few that you look off to the side, looks like a few individuals just passed away inside the cell. You come to a set of stairs that leads down into the next subterranean region and you hear the voice again, much closer, be like, "Hey! Hey! I hear your footsteps!" And you see a hand reaching out from behind some of the bars.
Travis: Put your hand back inside.
Matt: The hand retracts as you look over.
Travis: That's a good lad. What's your name? Before I approach. Still far enough away.
Matt: "Ah. Orn. Orn Finch at your service. Been in here far too long and very thirsty. I will be happily at your service, fair muscled man, should you see fit to relinquish me from these binds." And you look at him, he looks like a lowly beggar, longish tattered hair, wearing just general tattered and soiled clothing, no shoes, feet look blistered and black.
Travis: Ugh. I'm going to call you Orn Blackfoot.
Matt: "Blackfoot it is, Orn Blackfoot at your service, if you could just--"
Travis: My name is Lord Grog.
Matt: "Lord. It is my pleasure." And he reaches through and grasps your hand, his fingers are bony and thin, and he takes it and shakes it with what little strength he has.
Travis: Man, you are looking a little rispy-- Pour out a little ale into a goblet, and I give him a goblet of ale.
Matt: He snatches it from you and slurps into it, extremely thirsty.
Travis: Ah-ah, not too fast, not too fast, don't want to get the bubbles. And I reach into the Bag of Holding and I have a dry food ration. I have three left. Now I have two. And I give him some dried food ration.
Matt: He takes it and eagerly starts jamming it into his mouth. As he's eating, he's not even talking at you, this is just sheer hunger, the need to survive has taken over and he's just cramming it in there, choking a couple of times, keeping himself okay.
Travis: Pace yourself, lad. Tell me, why are you in here, Orn Blackfoot?
Matt: "Ah, well, this is-- everyone just started yelling and they abandoned us all here. It's been terrible hearing the moans and screams going silent. I thought they abandoned us all."
Travis: No, they did, to be clear. They totally abandoned you. You are really the only person I know of that's in here. All the other mates around you, they're either sleeping or, you know.
Matt: "I appreciate the food and drink, you've certainly done--" At which point a voice comes from about two cells over behind you that goes-- "Did I hear food and drink?"
Travis: Fuck.
Matt: "Food-- food and drink, please. Please."
Travis: Orn, did you kill all those dried food rations just now, did you just--
Matt: You see him very discreetly pocket some in his robe. "Oh, everything you gave me is gone, I'm sorry, friend."
Travis: Man, what an appetite. Do you mind regurgitating a little like a momma bird into my hand?
Matt: "What?"
Travis: Never mind. Orn, don't, heh, don't move. And I walk over to see where the other voice is coming from.
Matt: Okay. As you turn around the way, there is the next set of bars, you see behind there a man in his forties, also extremely thin and gaunt, reddish long thin beard, long unkempt brownish red hair that is just crimped up around the base of it, like it's just gone almost into dreadlock territory from how long he's been in there and mistreated. You can see dried blood at the corner of his mouth. He looks up at you. "Sir, if you would be s-- Grog?" And the moment of recognition hits you, this is Abjurist Noja, whom you previously-- (yelling)
Travis: Abjurist is a very powerful-- he has knowledge of the arcane and stuff, right, he was--
Laura: He was the guy who saved us! He saved us when the white dragon came to Westruun.
Liam: I was frozen in ice. That guy!
Travis: I found us Boba Fett, sweet!
Matt: He looks pretty wrecked right now.
Laura: Oh shit, give him food, Grog!
Travis: Abjurist Nosebleed, hold on real quick, look. And I take the other, the second to last dry food ration, I give him that, and I give him a thing of ale, I'm like, I'm sorry, it's really dry.
Matt: "Thank you, friend, thank you very much."
Travis: Oh, yeah, you're very welcome! Hold on. Is there anybody else in this hallway before I give away my last bit of food?
Matt: You hear two voices simultaneously down the end of the hallway come in, one of which is a very weak female voice, the other is a very loud kind of-- "Hey, bring me food this way, please!" The other one is like, "Please, I ask of you, I'm starving." And you see these two hands come out of the two cells in the distance.
Travis: Right, I'm going to pick a number between one and ten. Ready? Go.
Matt: There's an awkward pause. "Three?" "Seven! Definitely seven!"
Travis: I lean over to Abjurist Noja, I say, I actually don't know any numbers, so. Y'know what, we're going to deliberate and we'll be with you in just a moment. (whispers) Abjurist, how old y--, why are you in here, who put you in here?
Matt: "I've only been in here for about a week. Got in an altercation in my store when these brutes started walking in. Threw me in here, didn't even let me take my spellbook."
Travis: Oh, that is a crime. I love b-- I can't even say it. Hold on, stay right there, I'll get you out-- And I walk back to Orn Blackfoot, I go, look, hey, so I gave you food, can you do anything, like, special?
Matt: "What?"
Travis: Like, can you make your hands turn to flame, can you disappear, are you really good with a bow and arrow?
Matt: "No! No." And he reaches out and grabbing at your clothes though and starts pulling you--
Travis: Hey! Orn, chill!
Matt: "But I have friends in many places, though. I can, I can get you things. I can make connections--"
Travis: Yeah, but most of the people in here are dead, right, like they're probably not--
Matt: "Not even here, Emon! I can get you anything you need from Emon. I can get you from Stillben. And Lansway, just name it and get me out of here and I can--"
Travis: How long has it been since you've been to Emon?
Matt: "Few months?"
Travis: You got any loved ones there?
Matt: "Why?"
Travis: I don't know, just asking, like, do you want me to take a note from you to them or something, you know.
Matt: "No, if you can release me, I'd be more than happy to take it myself if you don't mind."
Travis: Yeah, no, I'm still deliberating, sorry. Enjoy the food that you snuck in your jacket pocket. And I go back towards the front desk area. And I try and find any-- is there a lever on the wall to release the cells or can I look for keys?
Matt: You-- make an investigation check.
Travis: Fuck me.
Matt: Yes.
Travis: Your fate is in excellent hands. Oh shit, you're not dead! (laughter)
Travis: Minus two for a 17!
Matt: Ah! All righty. So. After spending the good part of an hour or so clamoring through, just throwing bookshelves over and (crashing) taking the desk and actually throwing it onto its back and pulling drawers out, this is Grog's method of investigation here, you're just--
Travis: Yeah, just trying some splinters of wood in the locks just in case.
Matt: Yeah, yeah. You break off a few forks in some locks.
Travis: (laughs) Forks, yeah.
Matt: In practice, yeah, whatever looks small enough and should fit, though it doesn't, but you make it fit. And it doesn't help. You do eventually find in one of the cells, closed and locked as you look by, there is one person in guard armor, in Westruun guard armor, that is in the cell. Not moving.
Travis: Hey. Hey, you. I kick him in the back a bit.
Matt: No movement.
Travis: I kick him harder.
Matt: No movement.
Travis: I look down the hallway. I back up a few steps. And I really run up and kick him really hard.
Matt: He just lurches over onto the side. Not moving.
Travis: Yeah, you're dead. Can I pat him down?
Matt: Yeah, you reach in and you can smell the decay starting to set in. And as you get close you can reach through the bars and see him, the actual area is closed and the door appears to be locked, and inspecting the body very quickly you can see that he was stabbed multiple times from behind and probably left in here to bleed out.
Travis: Low perception.
Matt: But you do find on him what appears to be a ring of keys. Not directly on his body, but underneath the corpse, like he was-- you gather best you can, someone probably grabbed it, got their way out, used that moment to stab him and escape.
Travis: Nice! I take the keys and I jauntily run by Orn Blackfoot and I go to Abjurist-- Hey, do you know who those other two voices are at the end of the hallway? Like, did you have anyone with you when you got put in here?
Matt: "No, no one with me. Although-- been plenty of angry discussion from that dwarven fellow down the way."
Travis: Yeah, he's got a really rough accent.
Matt: "I can hear you!"
Travis: Shit. My voice carries. Are you all right here for one minute? I have to go perform an interview real fast.
Matt: "I'm all right." And he just finishes eating the little bit of the ration that you gave him, like dried meats and bread.
Travis: All right, sit tight. All right, you two, put both your hands outside the cell where I can see them.
Matt: They both put their hands out. The dwarven man you can see puts his hand out, the skin is very wrinkled and you can see the varicose veins on it, the arm hair that you see on the dwarven arm is white, like bright white. The female hand comes out is thin, but the skin looks a little softer and younger.
Travis: Female elven, or is this female--
Liam: The daughter.
Travis: Who said three?
Matt: At this point, the dwarf voice goes, (incoherent semi-cursing).
Travis: I know, look, it's always lucky number three, right? That's what they say. Who says that?
Matt: "Racist little-- peh!" And the arms just withdraw, and the woman, "That's me, that's me."
Travis: Oh good. Hi. You look nice.
Matt: Look down, you see a young woman, maybe in her late teens, early twenties, long brown hair, tangled, covering one half of her face. You can see the edges of her lips are cracked from just dryness and lack of moisture. She's wearing, both of them actually are wearing just these long, simple cloth drape-over robes that are just, y'know, for any prisoners in here that need to not be wearing their normal clothing.
Travis: I've got three other goblets left, can I both give them a goblet and some ale, just to wet their lips and get a drink in?
Matt: They eagerly take it and begin scarfing it down, the dwarf's like, "Oh! That's nothing!" You can look at the dwarf now, he's elderly, crotchety, half-blind, one clouded eye, but for being a man who's been stuck in prison and slowly dying, he's got this wry grin on him at all times.
Travis: You're turning away good ale. Looks like you've seen many a moon.
Matt: "You're telling me that. But no, seriously, that's like half full. Come on, don't be stingy!"
Travis: I like your gall. And I pour more ale in.
Matt: "That's the ticket!" It's like spilling on the sides and getting stuck in his bright, bushy white beard, and each bit that dribbles down, he goes-- catches it and then pushes it back in, not wasting a single drop.
Travis: Beautiful. If you don't mind, ladies first, love, what is your name? Why are you in here?
Matt: "It's Amelia. I was taken because they were-- the beasts were dealing with an uprising from some of us farm folk and, well, they took me as leverage in the argument. Stopped their-- stopped their arguing."
Travis: You're-- you're farm folk?
Matt: "Yeah."
Travis: Do you have any family?
Matt: "I do."
Travis: What are their names?
Matt: "There's my father Reginald."
Laura: Oh no!
Travis: Sorry, I had a bit of split pea soup that's just disagreeing with me, it's all right. Yep.
Matt: "Are they okay, have you seen them? Have you seen any of the people out there?"
Travis: No, I-- we should get you out of here, there's really bad stuff going on outside, we're trying to get everyone out of the town.
Matt: And you hear a voice down the way say, "Everyone out of the town? That sounds like a great plan." And the dwarf behind you is like, "Well then, get us out! I'm sick of this cell!"
Travis: Yeah, just a minute, hold on. And so like. Hold on. Can I try the keys on Amelia's cell?
Matt: Mm-hmm. You go through the keyring, which probably has a good 40 or so different keys on it.
Travis: Shit.
Matt: And so you go through one, two, three, four, yeah.
Liam: Six, six, six.
Matt: (laughs) And what would be the late teens, and for what to you seems like forever, one key does (squeaking) in the lock and it opens. She, who's been like sitting down the whole time, stands up weakly and grabs the bars and pulls herself up and waits for you to let her through if she does, just being patient.
Travis: Amelia, if you would, please stay with me. Funny, I believe I heard of a man named Reginald. Very brave. Not sure where he is, but we're going to get you out of the city, just stay put for a moment.
Matt: "Okay."
Travis: All right, you, you salty bastard, what's your name?
Matt: "Old Davin. What's your name?"
Travis: Lord Grog. Emphasis on the Lord.
Matt: "Lord Grog."
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: "Lord of?"
Travis: The Vales of Strongjaw.
Matt: "I'll take it, that's fine. Get me out, please?"
Travis: Right. Oh, keys. Can I take the keyring and can I pry the metal keyring-- is it like one solid piece or is it the kind that I could maybe bend it open?
Matt: I mean, it is one solid piece that has been looped twice, but it has been-- the iron itself has been bent around itself to make it nice and tight, form-fit on one end. Go ahead and make a strength check.
Travis: 26.
Matt: Ping. (laughs) Like, you were preparing yourself for a full pull, and with but a minor twitch of your muscles it just bends open.
Travis: Can I take half the keys and give them to Amelia and say, love, would you go and let out the kind gentleman with the reddish beard and the little blood on his mouth named Abjurist, would you try these keys and see if his cell will open? Not yet for Mr. Blackfoot across the way.
Matt: "Right. I will, I will." She rushes off and starts fumbling through the keys, and you hear in the distance her making her way through the keys as--
Travis: I take the other half and start trying to get Da-- what was his name?
Matt: Old Davin.
Travis: Old, I like old.
Laura: Have we met Old Davin?
Matt: You have not met Old Davin, no.
Travis: Okay. Davin, what did you get put in here for?
Matt: "Right if I know! Got real drunk and woke up in here, everyone started screaming and running away, and I'm like ahh, run away you pansies, and they did, ran away, they never came back. Some packed fire, but not a problem now." And yes, the one snowblind eye doesn't move at all, the other one glances around, that one's completely stuck in a forward position.
Travis: Is that magic?
Matt: "I mean, certainly gets the ladies."
Travis: Yeah, it does.
Matt: "But no, it's a reminder to not, well, to not mess with your people."
Travis: Oh. Well, I'm sorry to hear that. But they do make you look very young.
Matt: "Much worse, say I."
Travis: Now if we let you out of here, right, which we're actually in the process of doing, what is your weapon of choice?
Matt: "Oh, oh." And he thinks to himself for a moment. "I would have to say my weapon of choice would be Bloodvine ale. Aye."
Travis: Bloodvine ale?
Matt: "Aye, if we're picking poison, that's my favorite."
Travis: Yeah, no, my-- He's a dwarf, right?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: Yeah. Obviously we are brothers of the beard. Like, to fight with, right?
Matt: "Oh, that kills, eh?"
Travis: Yeah, stab, poke, enchant, whatever.
Matt: "Once upon a time I was quite a duelist, so if you got something pointy and prickling I can spear 'em with the best of them."
Travis: I do have a Greatsword of Frenzy, but it's a two-handed weapon.
Matt: "Ah, that's not my preference."
Travis: I do also have one regular, just a regular longsword. About the best I have.
Matt: "Yeah, that'll do, certainly, I'll take a longsword."
Travis: All right, so. Have I got the door open yet?
Matt: Not yet. But at this time there's an awkward pause and now you're like, don't have any more conversation. But you still have to finish the-- about a minute later, he's sitting there going, "Come on, come on, come on." Eventually-- tink!-- it opens up. "Yes!" And he pushes it open as you pull it open.
Travis: Before I give you this sword--
Matt: "Aye?"
Travis: --are you up for the fight of your life?
Matt: "Yes?"
Travis: Can I insight check him?
Matt: Yes, you may.
Travis: This is going to go really well. Eight! Nine!
Liam: Go Tarv, go Tarv.
Matt: He seems a little--
Sam: Scottish. (laughter)
Matt: He seems a little malnourished, and a little confused.
Travis: Right.
Matt: But nothing sets you off as untrustworthy.
Travis: Look, your expression says a lot. What if I put an excellent meal in your belly, sharpened that sword some more, would you like to fight for some glory come the morrow?
Matt: "Sure. Why not?"
Travis: That's what I thought. If you would go join Amelia, I have to get my good friend Abjurist Noja out of his cell and then we're going to go have a meeting, because there's going to be a big feast tonight, it's going to be delicious.
Matt: "Oh, great, I'll be there for that, aye. Where's it happening?"
Travis: You know, it's very secret, yep. Secret location, TBD.
Matt: "Right, right. I'll wait for you." And he walks out, taking the keys from you as he runs off toward Amelia.
Travis: Now, has she gotten Abjurist out?
Matt: At this point, yeah, Noja has stepped out of the cell and is putting an arm on her, you see he's actually having a hard time standing and she's helping support him, even though she's having a hard time standing. (Skype noise)
Matt: There goes Taliesin.
Travis: Man, I know a lot of people that are going to be really, really happy to see you.
Matt: "Ah. Really? Well, I'm very happy to see these people, anybody really, that're not the inside of this blasted prison." (coughs) (Skype rings)
Liam: Oh, get him, get him!
Laura: Quick, answer it!
Liam: Stupid tinkerer.
Sam: I'm trying, I'm trying!
Liam: Percival and his technology.
Matt: There we go. Welcome back.
Laura: Hi Percy.
Taliesin: Hi.
Travis: Could I ask you a question? So I have this new axe, right, it's really nice. I got it off the leader of goliaths, real prick. It's really strong and I've known about it for years, there's nothing, like, funny about-- Actually, if I give this to you, would you just tell me if you, like, hear anything?
Matt: "Ah, they took my spellbook when they threw me in here."
Travis: Oh.
Matt: "If we could find that, maybe I can help you."
Travis: That makes sense.
Matt: "Otherwise, I'm out of tricks, friend, sorry."
Travis: All right. I turn around to Orn Blackfoot and I'm like, "All right, mate. Last chance. Why should I let you out?"
Matt: "Because I can be a good friend and help you out. I can get you money and women and travel anywhere you wish."
Travis: I've done all three of those things more than most men do in three lifetimes.
Matt: "And you can have a fourth! Please, just let me out of here."
Travis: I'm thinking of a number between one and three.
Sam: He's not.
Matt: "Two."
Travis: Shit. (laughter)
Travis: That's like only one of a couple that I know. All right. You get to come out.
Matt: "Ah, wonderful. Thank you, thank you, thank you. And I'm a man of my word, don't you worry."
Travis: Can I insight check if he's a man of his word?
Matt: Go for it.
Travis: Roll better. Shit fuck balls ass. Three.
Matt: Three. Seems legit. (laughter)
Travis: You have a face that is truly trustworthy. And I start looking for the key to his cell.
Matt: Okay. At this point, you've run through the ring enough, you can go ahead and take it from Old Davin. Over time you eventually get him free, and as soon as you do, he stretches, cracks his back a bit. "All right. Thank you kindly. So. Let's be off." And he charges up next to Noja and then breezes past them and you guys all exit the outside of the Iron Stocks.
Laura: Look for Noja's book, look for Noja's book.
Travis: Oh, yeah, well. Noja, Noja, is there a location where your spellbook was last? (belches)
Matt: "They took it from me when they arrested me. I don't know where they would have put it."
Travis: Yeah, well, goliaths are awfully fond of books. Let's go find out, shall we? And we go back towards where I guess everybody last was.
Matt: Okay. On the way there, Noja's like, "I do have one of my older spellbooks, wouldn't have all of my materials, but that would be back at my shop if we ever have a chance to stop by."
Travis: Well, we could go there now if you'd like.
Matt: "Certainly."
Travis: How far is it from here? I forget, it's been a few years.
Matt: "Oh, it's about-- just due east of where the temples are, about 25, 30 minutes up that way."
Travis: Hold that thought. I grab my earring and I say, can anybody hear me?
Sam: Can we?
Matt: At this point, yeah, the Stocks aren't too far. Whoever's--
Taliesin: Yes.
Laura: What's up, Grog?
Travis: Right, so. What if I told you I found somebody's name that rhymes with Daburish Koja?
Liam: You found Dabney Coleman?
Laura: Dabdrist Cojo?
Travis: It's Abjurist Noja.
All: Oh!
Marisha: Man, I didn't realize 'til now how many people we actually know whose name rhymes with that.
Travis: Yeah, we're like really important.
Marisha: Yeah, we know a lot of people.
Travis: So I'm going to take him to find his spellbook, because I feel like he could be a great--
Taliesin: I don't recall this person.
Travis: You don't?
Marisha: Weren't you with us, Percy?
Matt: Yeah, Percy met him.
Taliesin: Was I?
Marisha: Yeah, remember the guy who saved us at the first Winter's Crest festival?
Taliesin: Oh yes, no, he was quite lovely.
Marisha: Yeah, he's very nice.
Travis: Yeah, I found him. I'm going to get him a spellbook. Does anybody want to come with, or are you all good?
Marisha: I'm about to dig a trench, so I'll pass.
Liam: Keyleth, where are you right now?
Marisha: Heading northeast towards, northwest, northwest. Sorry. It's noon, it's hard to tell in the sky right now. Northwest.
Laura: Are you with us, Pike?
Ashley: Yeah, yeah.
Laura: Pike's with us.
Ashley: I'm done attuning?
Matt: Yeah, the attunement takes about an hour or so, half an hour to an hour.
Ashley: Yeah, I just found you guys, just hanging out.
Laura: Hey, what's up. You want to help us clear some stuff?
Ashley: You need some help? Yeah, let me help you, I'm so strong.
Sam: Um, Grog, I can come with you, Grog, if you need some help.
Travis: Yes. The cube is always welcome.
Liam: My. Goodness. Gracious.
Travis: Please. It's more like a Coke can. Okay. Um.
Liam: A what?
Travis: What? So, Scanlan, if you want to come meet us, we're over by the Iron thing. How would I tell him where we are?
Matt: Iron Stocks, you can describe it to him and eventually he'll find his way there.
Travis: I'm over by this thing balalalala.
Sam: Excellent description, I'm on my way.
Matt: (laughs) And you've been to the town before, you guys have spent some time in Westruun, so you know the basics around. So you manage to meet up with these fellas and you make your way northward into the outskirts of Noja's shop. Noja's shop is untouched by the battle, it seems, still stands.
Marisha: Oh, shit. Really?
Matt: He walks up and the door's open and looks inside and just sighs heavily, as the interior of this place has been picked clean.
Marisha: Ah, son of a fucking-- looters!
Sam: Noja, were there any hidden compartments or secret safes where you kept the good stuff?
Matt: "Well. Follow me." And he heads towards the back of the shop, heads into a room in the side which contains his bed and his personal setup. That door's kicked in, there was a lock on it, the lock's still hanging as part of the door contraption as the actual door was just kicked inward and the wood splintered and left open. He steps inside, feels above the doorway. There's a panel of wood that he pulls aside and brings out. There is a singular book, where he pulls it out and sighs, blows dust off it. "Ah, this is a bit rudimentary for what I require, but it's something, it's better than nothing." Puts it aside, manages to find some pieces of his clothing that have been tossed onto the floor as a heap or, you know, raiding the room and gets out of his prison robes and puts them over that to just go ahead and not be as tattered as he looked. He does pull what looks like a small jug from it and sets that aside, and he looks around his room, (sighs) "I guess let's see if there's anything in the shop that still remains." Steps around the way. Oof. All right. Yeah, most everything of worth appears to have been taken or broken.
Laura: Search around, help him search!
Travis: Yeah, is there anything we can help you find that you're looking for?
Matt: "Anything intact, really."
Travis: Yeah, can we help him look for any vials, or--
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Travis: Better. 17.
Sam: 16.
Matt: 16, okay. Looking around, most everything is ruined, destroyed, or missing, however you do find what looks to be two unspoiled, undestroyed vials that were part of a display set that has been tossed over the side. Most of the fluid contained in these vials, like corks have been left open, glass and crystal have been shattered, and the contents had just stained the floor and dried over time into little sticky pools of different colors. You do find two, one of which is a yellowish fluid that's streaked with black swirls, and there is one that it's like a clear liquid that has a-- the liquid itself fills the vial and then shrinks down to a tiny bead and then expands again to fill the vial, like a very, very slow heartbeat. Those are the two that you find.
Travis: What?
Marisha: Yellow with black swirls, and then a clear potion that--
Sam: Oh, he'll just tell us, I assume. Sir, we're about to embark on a deadly adventure to try to clear this town so that you can once again live here safely. Might we trouble you to borrow these potions if they can be in some way helpful to us?
Matt: "You've done me great service by getting me out of that hellhole. You are welcome to take these with you for now. I guess I have to start from scratch..."
Sam: Do you know what they are?
Matt: "Oh, yes, I'm sorry, I'm sorry." And he takes the vials and looks at them. "Ah, this is a Potion of Diminution. It shrinks you to a smaller size."
Sam: Oh, I could be small! Oh, wait.
Matt: "It only lasts for a few hours, depending, the magic isn't perfect, but it does make you smaller. This other one, this vial contains a liquid that will make you quite speedier. It will increase your metabolism for a short time, the world around you seems to slow, it's quite effective."
Sam: Thank you so, so much.
Travis: Yeah actually, have you ever seen this shrinking potion work, like, how small does something get?
Matt: "Pretty small. Like, if on your size--" And he makes a shape of about that big.
Sam: So teeny-tiny.
Matt: "For you, yes. For you, you'd be about his size."
Travis: That would be the best thing ever. Now that you've found-- I'm sorry, go ahead.
Sam: No no no. This is most helpful. Do you know anywhere also around here where we might pick up some chains, hooks, spears, javelins?
Matt: "Ah, those are not my forte, my apologies."
Sam: All right.
Marisha: Should've took those from the prison.
Matt: "I mean, check a general goods store, perhaps?"
Sam: Oh no, this is so helpful, thank you, let me go get those.
Matt: So here are your potions.
Travis: That book that you got, it's not your favorite, right, the one that was hidden above the door?
Matt: "No, no, but it'll do, at least. Do you wish me to inspect that weapon for you?"
Travis: Yeah, would you mind? I've never done that before, but the last one I had talked to me.
Matt: "That's... unsettling. That's very unsettling."
Travis: Yeah, among other things.
Matt: The dwarf and the woman are still waiting at the door, they've picked through things and they're finding bits of broken glass and over time they can't find anything else. He takes the hour to rest and regains, after some quick preparation, the use of at least his Identify spell. Takes the axe, holds it for a moment, chants some incantation that you don't understand. There's a brief glow on the weapon, and around the outskirts of his fingers, a brief glow around his temples. As it fades, he goes, "Hm. Well, if what you worry about is the presence of some sort of sentience, I can assure you, you need not worry. This is merely a tool, and a powerful one at that." And he begins to tell you what it does, which is exactly what you already know after attunement.
Travis: No long card coming? (laughs)
Matt: No.
Travis: Son of a bitch. Thank you, Abjurist, you are as wise as you are. Old.
Marisha: Old? (laughs)
Matt: "I'm only 48, but thank you."
Travis: That's lost on me. Do you need anything else?
Sam: Oh, oi, oi, I was just-- I'm enthralled by these potions, they're fantastic, and I'm enthralled and so happy that we met you again and all that. I totally remembered who you were. (laughter)
Matt: "It's good to see that you're all doing fine, considering the circumstances. Stay safe. I'll pick up what pieces I can."
Sam: Should you get-- should we tell him to get out of the city or fight with us?
Travis: Well, I was going to ask, you do know what is beset upon this city, right? The horrible calamity that's coming?
Matt: "I saw the dragon tear through, yes."
Sam: We aim to finish the dragon, maybe even tomorrow, and make Westruun free once again. Would you have any interest in aiding us in this fight, or are you past the point of putting up a brave battle?
Matt: And you see him standing there, even just standing here this time, his knees are wobbling a bit, and he goes, "I'm afraid I wouldn't be of much aid at this moment without my proper spellbook. I have a few child's treats at my disposal." And he sifts through a few pages and he seems to-- the book looks like it's pretty old, like probably his training manual when he first began to study as a practitioner of the magical arts. "I don't know how much use I'd be, unfortunately."
Travis: The day's still young. What say we give, like, a solid effort to finding your bigger books, and then if you can't find it and you can lend no aid to us, we'll make sure you find yourself safely on your way?
Matt: "All right. All right, fair enough. Well come, let us look. Perhaps we should give another once-over of the rather seemingly destroyed interior of that prison."
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: Looks like Amelia and Old Davin have nothing else better to do, they begin to aid you for a bit, although Amelia is eager, and mentions the possibility of going and checking in on the farmsteads on the outside of town.
Marisha: Yeah. About that.
Matt: Orn? Orn Blackfoot? Gone.
Marisha: Yeah, figured that much.
Matt: He has peaced.
Travis: He left.
Matt: Yeah. You guys take a moment, and when you start deciding what to do, and you look around and he's just gone.
Sam: I thought you had him.
Travis: I thought you had him. I clearly said when you came up, watch the guy with the black feet. What'd you do?
Sam: I was watching you, you have disgusting black feet. You walk around barefoot, you're disgusting.
Travis: I really can't argue with that. (laughter)
Travis: Well. Whatever. I saved a life, go me. I'll take it later. Yeah, so can we go back to the prison, not to take away from everything else, and maybe look for chains, like some hooks, maybe some broken bars?
Matt: Yeah. The two of you guys, make one more investigation check, this'll signify the next few hours of looking for the things you want.
Laura: Oh god, roll really good.
Sam: 22.
Travis: 19.
Matt: Between the two of you, working into and past dusk, you manage to acquire quite a number of chains. It's funny, a prison seems to have a lot at their disposal. They have a queue of chains that are used of various lengths, some of them may have to be put together to make the length of which you're looking for, but between ramshackle manacles to just lengths of chain that are used to opening gates and used to seal elements of the subterranean portion of this prison, you manage to acquire quite a bit. You do, towards the end of the evening, manage to find partially destroyed remnants of Noja's spellbook. He seems a little disappointed as soon as he sees the state it's in, a lot of the pages have been burnt and torn out of these--
Travis: I am sorry.
Matt: "Ah, it's all right, there are some here that are of use to me. And if I can be of any assistance tomorrow in this fray, hopefully at a distance-- How big is this dragon, you said?"
Travis: Oh, it's like seven feet.
Matt: "Oh, well then I can definitely be of help there, not a worry, all right. I'll prepare myself best I can."
Travis: Yeah. We'll make sure, we'll keep you on the outsides with those that are not, you know, can't take a good walloping.
Sam: Do you have any healing potions or anything, or I mean, I'm sorry, healing spells?
Matt: "That's not my specialty, I fear, and the potions I had are now soaking in the floorboards of my humble shop."
Travis: Not that I would understand, but could you tell us what your specialty is?
Matt: "Abjuration, of course. That's the school of magic of which my--" (laughs)
Sam: I'm familiar with that.
Travis: Abjur--yeah. Mm-hmm. No idea what that means.
Liam: Like Claymation.
Travis: Oh, like puppets. I'm a big fan of puppets.
Sam: All right, well, we'll get some rest, try to put the pieces of your place back together.
Matt: "I will. Come to me when the time is ready to face this fiend, this foul creature, and I'm happy to help."
Sam: Good night.
Travis: Oh yeah, we should probably make him a part of the feast.
Sam: Oh. All right.
Travis: We'll come get you later tonight.
Matt: "All right."
Liam: I'm going to track down the women after talking to them over the earring.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Straight from Percival, once I catch sight of them, can I talk to you for a minute?
Marisha: Sure.
Liam: Just a minute, I know you're busy. Um.
Laura: She's super busy, brother!
Liam: Yeah, two minutes. Two minutes. Um.
Laura: So busy.
Liam: Thanks, Stubbs. You're way more powerful than I am, and I don't know what I'm going to-- (Skype noise)
Sam: God dammit.
Liam: What's that sound?
Marisha: So many noises happening.
Liam: You're going to be doing a lot more damage than I am tomorrow, it's not like I'm going to run up and stab the thing in the back. I feel like you're probably going to be too busy to be using Fassbender--
Marisha: Yeah, do you want Fassbender? I was actually going to offer him to you, 'cause I feel like you might--
Liam: I think I want to be of use, so yeah.
Marisha: I'm pretty sure you don't have to worry about that.
Laura: (gagging)
Liam: So it just goes on the head, then how does it work, what do you, what do I talk to it or do I think it or what do I do?
Marisha: So you give it a command, it takes your full concentration to give it a command, and then once you do that it will enact that plan until it's complete or until you tell it otherwise.
Liam: All right.
Marisha: And if you wanted to cast a Slow spell, just, you have to focus and tell it to do that.
Liam: Okay. Do I say like, slow?
Marisha: You know, I don't know. Just wing it. I kept talking to him like it was a person and I don't think that's necessarily the way to go.
Liam: Maybe I'll prac-- where did you park him?
Marisha: It's still in Scanlan's mansion.
Liam: Oh.
Laura: Is that still there?
Sam: Yes?
Matt: Well, based on the time that spell was cast, the 24-hour duration has expired. All things in the mansion have been jettisoned from the doorway.
Laura: Including your grandad!
Marisha: So he's in Wilhand's house, with Wilhand.
Liam: Great, well, I'll take that.
Marisha: Yeah. Hopefully Wilhand's watching over him right now, actually.
Sam: It might have destroyed the house.
Marisha: It might've destroyed Wilhand's house. Yeah.
Liam: Kiki.
Marisha: Yes? (Skype noises)
Liam: What is that?
Marisha: This is the weirdest field. (Taliesin makes noises on Skype) (laughter)
Liam: Percy. Tinker quietly, please. (Taliesin makes louder noises on Skype) (laughter)
Liam: I think he's eating popcorn, or maybe opening a butterscotch candy in the theater.
Taliesin: I can't even see you guys, are you like?
Laura: Oh, he went away! Aw, this is just not--
Liam: Okay, really quickly.
Laura: Okay. Well, at least he started.
Marisha: Yes? This seems to happen all the time, every time we try to talk to each other. I don't think I've really, continue, continue. It's hard to have a conversa--
Taliesin: Hi.
Matt: Continue, please.
Liam: Hello, yeah, Percival, I'll talk to you in a minute, all right?
Marisha: Shut up, Percy. Thank you.
Liam: Ah. I've been confused. I am confused. But. And I take her by the hand.
Liam: It wasn't fair, last week. It wasn't fair to you. And I'm sorry.
Marisha: What are you talking about?
Liam: In your room, in your room. Me leaving wasn't--
Marisha: When you left me, right--
Liam: --wasn't fair.
Marisha: Yeah, no, that I remember. Yeah, that. Yeah. Yeah yeah yeah.
Liam: That's it. I'm sorry.
Marisha: I'm sorry if I dropped that on you, and put any more undue stress, that's not what I want--
Liam: This is awful, all of it is awful.
Marisha: This is awful. Yeah, no, this is pretty bad. You know, I've actually been wanting to talk to you. I wasn't entirely planning on now. I know you've been struggling. I know you feel like you're drowning, and I'm sorry that the Raven Queen chose you, but she did choose you. You know, as druids, I was raised to have an interesting perspective on the gods. We are taught that nature is the one true powerful force. I have yet to see a god control the sunrise and the sunset, so therefore it's hard for me to sometimes have the same faith in these gods. Personally, I believe that just because you're immortal doesn't make you infallible. These gods can be great ambassadors of their virtues and what they represent, or they can be horrible disgraces to their domains. And just because some self-proclaimed person or deity decides that they want control? Doesn't mean that they have to have control over me. Now, this does not mean that I do not respect the gods and the power that they wield, but, I mean, for the love of Sarenrae, we have seen Pike do many a powerful thing. So, therefore, I do not respect the gods any more than I respect the living people who are standing beside me at this moment. So I've also been coming to terms with the fact that it seems that, whether we like it or not, we are going to have to employ their services. Looks like we're going to have to be working with them in some way or another, myself included, if we are going to overcome this. So maybe you should start rethinking the way you look at your relationship to the Raven Queen. Maybe this can be a fine partnership. A fine endeavor to do with her, and then once we save the world and we retire and some other young prodigies come forward to save the world again, then we can thank her for her services and move on. I don't think we'll always need her. I don't think you will always need her. And, keep in mind, the one true thing that gives these gods their power are their worshipers. So I guess I'll let you choose what you want to be. And I walk off to catch up with the ladies.
Matt: All right.
Laura: Did you guys make out? Was it really fun? Lots of making out there?
Marisha: Vax. Vex. Vex.
Laura: I understand you have him on your mind. You can't get our names straight.
Marisha: You know, I was talking to him, so-- Hey. I love you a whole lot.
Laura: Do you still think you're talking to my brother?
Marisha: I know who I'm talking to.
Liam: Really similar.
Sam: She's the ranger.
Ashley: Did you ask him if he's going to help us?
Marisha: Who? Vax? Oh.
Ashley: Vax. Is he going to help dig the trench?
Laura: I turn around and see him. Is he just standing there?
Matt: Just standing there lost in thought, yeah.
Laura: Um, hey.
Liam: What?
Laura: Hey, what are you doing? Are you coming to help us, or are you just standing in the middle--
Liam: Yeah, we gotta kill a dragon tomorrow. We gotta kill a dragon. What do you need?
Laura: Do you want to help build, I don't know, a trench? Set a trap?
Liam: I mean, I'm really weak, but I think I can use a shovel.
Laura: What time is it? We haven't even started digging the trench yet? What fucking time is it?
Marisha: It'll take me like an hour. It's fine. What time is it?
Matt: For you guys, at this point, it'd probably be mid-afternoon, late afternoon. Percy. I need you to go ahead and make three tinkering checks for me, if you don't mind.
Sam: Oh, shit.
Matt: The first one is using your intelligence modifier.
Taliesin: That's intelligence modifier plus proficiency bonus plus tinkering?
Matt: Well, proficiency bonus is what you get with tinkering.
Taliesin: Yeah. 24. (cheering)
Matt: All right, so, initial designs and describing with your lackeys, for lack of a better term, that are helping you develop these springs, you manage to explain, lay out, and develop the proper materials, the process, and they seem to acknowledge and understand what you're trying to do, and you guys begin the work. Second check is going to be with your dexterity modifier.
Taliesin: Oh yeah, baby.
Sam: No one can help him on these things?
Laura: We're not there.
Taliesin: 22.
Matt: You spend the better part of the day helping them take the metal, strengthen it, bind it, pulling it into the springs that are required. You complete one, you get partway through the second one. Make a final check if you don't mind.
Travis: With dex?
Matt: This is also with dex, yeah.
Laura: Come on.
Taliesin: That's 23.
Matt: 23?
Taliesin: Yeah, it's the dexterity, right?
Matt: Yeah.
Taliesin: So yeah, that's right, 23.
Matt: 23. As the evening comes into about ten or 11 o'clock at night, after hours of aching work, sweat beads dripping down the foreheads of the three of you, forcing the furnace to work overtime. The room's heat and darkness eventually almost puts you to a point of exhaustion and passing out. However, you do manage to complete the springs. They seem to be functional, the structure of your trap is set. We shall see on the morrow if it is as functional as you hope it is. You do take a point of exhaustion through the work that will consist throughout the next day.
Taliesin: Okay. What does a point of exhaustion do?
Matt: Disadvantage on ability checks. So, essentially, any skill checks or ability checks you make-- not attacks or saves, but ability checks you make for the next 24 hours will be at disadvantage.
Laura: Did he work all the way through the night?
Matt: No, this is just the physical activity involved in getting it done in that short period of time.
Taliesin: Just double-checking, because I have no brain currently, dice roll, dex modifier, proficiency bonus?
Matt: What?
Taliesin: Just because I have no brain, dex modifier, proficiency bonus, dice roll?
Matt: Correct.
Taliesin: Okay, good.
Matt: You're good, you got it. As you guys find yourselves resting for tomorrow's trap incursion and hopeful defeat of Umbrasyl, we will take a break for the rest of you and come back here.
Laura: Oh, god! There's more we have to do!
Sam: It's okay, we'll do it during the break.
Matt: We'll come back in. We need a pee break. Quick one, guys. [break]
Matt: And welcome back. So, as you're preparing for this, what else do you guys need to do before the morrow?
Marisha: I dig a trench.
Matt: All right, so you dig the trench.
Marisha: I want it to be far away to where there's a tunnel and then make a circle around it.
Laura: We need to get Fassbender into the middle where the treasure's going to be.
Liam: I walk Fassbender out and I lay him down on his back, face-up.
Marisha: We have to do some stage-setting here. We have to set the scene.
Matt: Okay, as a note, when you return to Willhand's house, Fassbender and Willhand were both ejected from the doorway. Fassbender doesn't fit in that large room and wrecked part of the staircase from underneath but is fine. As soon as you acknowledge Fassbender to start moving, Fassbender, who has been inert this entire time, since left there for the evening before, takes a step and the area where the crack that you sealed earlier reopens. It looks like there is a minimal magical effect that was more of a cosmetic effect in the healing, but being a construct, it does not actually heal damage from it.
Marisha: Okay. Can I go ahead and take this time to do--
Sam: You're not there.
Marisha: Oh, I'm not there yet? Oh no, I'm building a tunnel. You're getting Fassbender. Never mind.
Liam: Yeah, I'm walking Fassbender out to where Keyleth is.
Matt: Okay. (stomping) Fassbender follows you out to that area of the town. As night has come now, the sun has gone, you guys are working in darkness. What are you guys doing?
Ashley: Vex, can I have one of your arrows? I want to make it real special.
Laura: You're speaking my language.
Ashley: Okay, so I grab one of her arrows and I cast Glyph of Warding on one of her arrows.
Laura: How many arrows can you do that do?
Ashley: I think just one.
Sam: Matt's checking his e-mail.
Matt: Within an object that can be closed, such as a book, scroll, or treasure chest. So yeah, it would have to be on something that, like a doorway or--
Marisha: Like a treasure chest? If-- can you cast it in like a barrel that he's going to break open?
Ashley: Okay.
Laura: Thanks. I really enjoyed the idea of that.
Ashley: I thought it was going to work. It was going to be real cool.
Matt: So, you decide what triggers the glyph when you cast the spell. For glyphs inscribed in a surface, the most typical triggers include touching or standing on the glyph, removing another object covering the glyph, approaching within a certain distance of the glyph, so you could place this in theory on the ground near where the treasure's being left and give it the specific trigger for it to go off.
Laura: It can be maybe in a chest above Fassbender, 'cause he's going to be buried, and then it can be triggered maybe when the dragon lifts it up.
Marisha: What exactly does it do, the Glyph of Warding?
Matt: You can choose explosive runes--
Ashley: An explosive rune.
Marisha: Oh, so it, (explosion). That's cool.
Matt: 5d8 acid damage, cold damage, fire, or lightning or thunder damage. Your choice. Everything within a 20-foot-sphere radius around it.
Laura: 20 feet is really big. Oh my god! You know what you could do? You could make a trigger if he gets a certain height off the ground, and that way if he's over 20 feet above the ground, then it triggers and he's the only thing that would get affected.
Matt: Well, it triggers as a glyph, so whatever's near the glyph would be affected.
Ashley: So can we hide it in the loot?
Matt: You can, you can definitely choose some sort of a small chest or the ground underneath the loot if you want to.
Ashley: Okay. I'll find something in the loot, some little chest or something that I can put it in.
Matt: Okay, and what's your trigger?
Ashley: When he gets-- if he starts to fly away.
Matt: Okay. So if a creature-- the trigger would be, if a creature--
Liam: Pulls the glyph up?
Matt: That's up to you. What would you like the trigger to be?
Sam: Specific.
Ashley: If he removes something on top of it. But also if he grabbed it.
Laura: What if it gets above a certain feet in the air? Can it trigger then?
Matt: You can say if a creature flies above it at a certain height it can trigger. I'll give you that, yeah.
Ashley: Okay. So if it flies--
Matt: If it flies 20 feet above it?
Laura: I thought it meant if the glyph lifted in the air.
Matt: We'll make that one of the triggers if you want it to be lifted. So, if the glyph is lifted by a creature--
Ashley: So it can't be if he just touches it?
Matt: You could do that, yeah.
Laura: But it might be better if he lands and then we spring the trap. It could be a thing, if he tries to leave it explodes.
Ashley: If he tries to leave.
Matt: Okay. So, if the object is lifted off the ground, it triggers.
Ashley: Yeah. Even like this much? If it's just moved.
Matt: Okay, and you're doing explosive rune. What type of damage?
Ashley: I want to do cold damage.
Laura: Would I know, is a black dragon-- does it have any weaknesses?
Matt: You would know, with your knowledge and specialization, it does not have any weaknesses.
Laura: It has no weaknesses.
Matt: It is immune to acid damage, of course. But that is the only real information you have.
Travis: Make it acid damage. (laughter)
Ashley: I'm going to go cold damage.
Matt: Cold damage. All righty.
Laura: What about Fassbender? Is he immune to any damage?
Marisha: I'm pretty sure he's immune to most kinds of damage.
Liam: No, it's hitting and slicing. I'll check.
Ashley: I'm going to cast it at fifth level.
Matt: Fifth level? All right. That brings it to 7d8 cold damage. And what's your spell DC?
Ashley: 17.
Marisha: If we lose Fassbender--
Liam: He's expendable. Hopefully he survives. If not, good cause.
Laura: Can we fuse some chains into Fassbender so that he can be attached to the ground?
Marisha: I can. Can I do that? Right now?
Matt: Using what?
Marisha: I want to take and cast a Stone Shape spell, and then I want to open and almost make him a chain harness that's embedded into his waist? And then while I'm at it, can I patch him up?
Matt: Stone Shape is instantaneous. So whatever you want to do, it happens immediately. So, essentially, you could, with one casting of Stone Shape, seal the wound. With another casting of it you could then go ahead and have the chains--
Laura: Ready to go (squishing).
Matt: Yeah, just embed them in and have it seal. How many chains are you embedding in it?
Laura: Two big ones?
Matt: Two big chains? Okay. So you get two of the heaviest chains that you can find, which you probably got from the prison.
Marisha: All right, well, how about this? Vax, Vex, grab a chain.
Laura: All right. These are heavy.
Marisha: Okay, ready? On my go.
Laura: Wait, where are we putting it?
Marisha: I'm going to shove them in his abdomen. Okay? I'm going to make a spot and just--
Laura: You take left. I'll take right.
Liam: Okay.
Marisha: Ready?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. As she does that, suddenly the chest wound opens up into these two big cavities. You take the chain edges and put them inside as they seal around them. There's now these two giant, heavy, door-holding chains that are now dangling for about 70 feet on each end from his abdomen.
Laura: Where do we attach these chains to? The ground?
Liam: One to the ground. Put the other one in a goliath's hands with a harpoon or a hook on the other end. Snag our prey, and then we have a Fassbender hanging from the bottom of a dragon.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: You can find some metallic hooks just through general construction materials in the town if you want to.
Liam: I think we should do ten or 15 feet to the ground of chain and ten or 15 feet to the dragon, so that it's, thunk, and he's caught on the ground.
Laura: Just ten.
Liam: Yeah?
Marisha: Okay.
Liam: Yeah, we'll sever the chains with Grog's muscles. We need to get 'em the right distance.
Matt: About how long?
Liam: Ten feet into the ground, which we can--
Marisha: Do it right now. Ready? I'm going to do another Stone Shape spell into the ground.
Matt: You have to go around and find an area, because a lot of it's dirt. You have to find an area that has actual stonework in the ground. Otherwise, it's just earth that's pulling it. Go ahead and roll a survival check.
Marisha: Not bad. What's my survival? 24.
Matt: 24, okay. You take some time. It's about 60 feet out from where the drop point is, is the nearest piece of near-surface stone. It's about 15 feet beneath the surface, but it is viable.
Marisha: Negative. I will cast--
Laura: Why can't it be 15 feet below the surface?
Liam: But he's going to go up like a kite now because it's going 60 feet all the way over there, where stone is.
Marisha: I'm going to burn-- I did that earlier, but I'm going to burn my last 5th-level spell to do Transmute Rock again?
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: So you said there was dirt? All right, let's dig a little bit of a hole real quick. So we dig a hole ten feet down.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Put the chain in there. Cover it back up. Transmute. Turn it into rock.
Matt: Okay, and with that, the earth-- Okay, what is the radius of that one there? Let me see.
Sam: We have to cover this up.
Liam: With dirt?
Marisha: And treasure.
Matt: Transmute Rock-- 40-foot cube. You turn that into a solid fucking subterranean block of stone. All righty. Now you have Fassbender just there, stuck to the ground with the chain at its side.
Liam: Fassbender, lie down. Lie down?
Marisha: Can I take my last little bit of Stone Shape residual energy and take that mustache Vax drew on--
Matt: Stone Shape does not--
Marisha: And make the mustache permanent that he drew on with charcoal?
Matt: Sure, I'll let that slide. With the remnants of the spell magic fading, the now-lying-down Fassbender staring up with his vacant sunken blue-glowing eyes towards the night sky and the stars above, your hand reaches across the face, and with that suddenly the--
Marisha: I like this, I want to keep it, there we go.
Matt: --the once-charcoaled curly mustache recedes into the face, carved permanently to his face.
Marisha: You look much better now, Fassbender. High-five.
Liam: Give Keyleth a very soft high-five, please.
Marisha: Yeah! Isn't that cool?
Matt: That'll probably bruise tomorrow.
Marisha: It's okay. It's cool.
Liam: I quickly take that same charcoal out and I write in Common on his chest: Conclave or bust. (laughter)
Sam: I'm going to go to Keyleth and ask if I can borrow the rod of immovable rodness. How big is it?
Matt: It's like that long. It's like the rung of a ladder.
Sam: Got it.
Matt: It's got a little button on the side.
Sam: Button on the side? Cool.
Taliesin: Like a Tron lightbike.
Sam: I love it.
Laura: When are we going to set the trap that Percy made?
Liam: As soon as he finishes it.
Marisha: Yeah, we should set the stage.
Taliesin: In theory, it has to be laid down underneath all the treasure so that it just is nothing, and then we put everything on top, and then basically it's set, and then pins get pulled so that it's set. And you don't disturb shit again.
Marisha: Hey Percy, we're ready to fly in the trap whenever you are.
Taliesin: Yes, let's do that, gentlemen. Let's move it. Good work, ladies and gentlemen.
Marisha: While you guys set the trap, I'm going to turn into a raven. My job is done here. I'm going to just go and circle while they're setting the trap and setting the stage and do patrol and make sure we're not being watched.
Matt: Okay, make a perception check.
Laura: Why this creepy music?
Sam: It's random, guys.
Ashley: Why is he doing his eyebrows up and down?
Laura: Because the fucking dragon's going to see us right now.
Marisha: 16.
Matt: 16?
Marisha: No, sorry. 15.
Matt: 15. You circle for a while and keep watch. So far, nothing seems to have caught your attention that's out of the ordinary. About half an hour passes before you see a group of civilians, along with Percy, wheeling on carts this large ramshackle construction made of support beams from houses, metal joints that were used as basic construction elements, as well as these large metallic springs on multiple sides with hooks and elements of a chain-based net that has been piecemealed together. Eventually you guys bring it over. You clear out the area.
Laura: Fassbender will lay on top of the trap.
Matt: Fassbender will lay on top of the trap?
Laura: Right? He can't lay under the trap.
Sam: Well if it's like a mousetrap, can't he lie in between it? Taliesin, how does it work?
Marisha: Let's just keep him right off to the side because if that trap triggers--
Taliesin: In theory, he should be able to fit right at the sides of it, because it's got an armature spring system. As long as you're not in the way of the armatures, you should be fine.
Matt: So you set it up and away, laying the sides down, precariously putting the pins in, holding it in an open position. You begin to take dirt, dust, and gathering up the area, trying to hide it to the best of your ability. Who is in charge of camouflaging this piece?
Marisha: Go ranger, go ranger, go!
Matt: Make a survival check.
Travis: "Which dice will I use? There's no way to choose."
Sam: Can I aid her in this bit of camouflage?
Laura: You want to sing me some inspiration?
Sam: Can I inspire her?
Matt: Sure, what do you want to sing?
Sam: (singing) R-r-ranger, turn and face the strange! R-r-ranger, looks like you're going to have to hide this shit! Time may save me, but I hope you-- also do-- (laughter)
Laura: 31.
Matt: 31. You guys take a good portion of the next hour or so, under her guidance and tutelage, hiding this entire trap, getting dirt, the top layer of sand to cover it so it looks like it hasn't been recently disturbed--
Laura: Little Dust of Tracelessness.
Matt: Little Dust of Tracelessness to fill in and smooth out any of the ripples of any possible passage that has come through. Fassbender has been-- (crash)
Matt: Killed. Buried beneath the surface, just to the point where he's pretty much flush with the ground of where it is. Contraption set, the objects placed back inside with some of the barrels and some of the leftover pieces of wood, the one overturned cart. You go ahead and take the chest and you place the glyph onto it. It takes a while to cast that spell, about an hour, but you complete it without an issue.
Laura: Make it look like there's treasure on it. I take some of the gold that we have and--
Matt: Place it onto it?
Laura: A thin layer, where it looks like a lot of gold but it's really just a thin layer of gold over top of rocks.
Ashley: If it's a chest, can we put some coins sticking out of it? So it looks like it's full?
Matt: You can do that. It does cost you about 200 gold worth of components to do this glyph, so mark off that from your personal gold supply.
Laura: Grog.
Travis: Yeah?
Laura: Question. We sort of thought maybe we could use Kevdak as a tribute, like we sacrificed him to the great shitty Umbrasyl. Is that his name?
Matt: Umbrasyl, yes.
Laura: But it doesn't quite have the same effect without his head. Do you still have that head? In fact, I think I might have the head. Did I put it in my bag of cold?
Matt: You did, I believe. You gave it to her to put in there?
Laura: Would that be all right with you, Grog?
Travis: No.
Laura: Don't you want to kill this dragon, Grog?
Travis: I want that head.
Laura: I don't have the head. I only have the gross bear tattoo off Kevdak.
Travis: That's right, I put the flayed skin. I don't have the head.
Laura: Grog, I can tell when you're lying.
Travis: I don't have the head.
Laura: You're lying. Grog, can we maybe-- you'll be able to get it back, because we're going to kill this dragon and then you can just go and pick up the head and keep it again in your Bag of Holding.
Travis: What's the head for?
Laura: So we can make it seem like we sacrificed Kevdak to the dragon.
Travis: What if you sacrifice me?
Laura: Well, what?
Travis: Yeah, use me as bait!
Sam: We'd have to chop off your head.
Marisha: No, we could just tie him to a chair or something.
Travis: Or I could just put my hands behind my back.
Marisha: Make it look-- wrap some rope to make it look like it's loosely tied.
Sam: What if he bites and kills you?
Travis: Well, I don't know, but it's better live bait than dead, right? At least when you fish.
Sam: Nope.
Travis: Pretty sure that's true.
Sam: Nope.
Laura: Do you want to be bait, Grog?
Travis: Yeah.
Marisha: Does that sound fun to you, or--
Laura: There's exploding things around here. Are you sure you want to be in this area?
Travis: Yeah.
Ashley: No, you don't.
Travis: (laughs) No, I don't. I will give you the head of Kevdak.
Marisha: Oh my gosh, it took a look from Pike!
Sam: Wow, that's a powerful look.
Travis: I want it back.
Ashley: You'll get it back.
Travis: You better promise.
Laura: I promise.
Travis: All right. You can have it.
Ashley: With a bow on it. You'll get it back.
Travis: I don't want a bow on it! He didn't ever wear a bow!
Ashley: No, I'm just saying you'll get it back.
Travis: I take the skull and roll it to her feet. It's still got flesh on it, right?
Matt: Yeah, it's a little soft, but it works. So you have the head of Kevdak at your disposal. Trap is set. Percy, who's pulling the pins, what's the trigger mechanism?
Taliesin: The trigger mechanism is any weight shift. It's the same as a mousetrap. It's like you put pressure on it, you take pressure off of it, doesn't matter. As long as there's immediate weight shift in the platform, where the booty is, it just goes snap.
Matt: Okay. So very carefully and very precariously, you all have set this trap as the final element, aside from the camouflage. Is there anything else you would like to add with this very sensitive large situation being finished?
Sam: Where are we hiding?
Laura: We're going to hide in the trenches, yes?
Marisha: It depends on where you want to hide, I guess. (caws)
Taliesin: As long as I'm within range for my guns, I'm going to hide way off in the treeline.
Marisha: Yeah, there were two trees that were 80 feet? Or 60?
Matt: Which, Ryan, can I get the box of tree materials? Thank you.
Sam: You know, that box of trees that you have.
Ashley: Are we near any structures or any houses?
Matt: No, this is outside of town. It's an open field other than a handful of trees. Just to give you guys perspective right here, this is the setup right now. This is the central area where most things have been dropped. There are pieces here. If you want to put it into perspective here, the glyph lies over in this area. Most of the treasure's been placed in that area. The trap we'll say is set about in that area, with the central piece being the triggering mechanism.
Laura: And the trench is all around that?
Matt: The trenches are down in this area. Oh, now you say the trenches, are you saying they're covered or not?
Laura: They are covered.
Matt: So they're tunnels. They're not trenches. Where is the opening for the tunnel? Where would you like it to be?
Marisha: Far away.
Laura: There, on the other side?
Matt: This side over here?
Travis: Make it 50 feet at the most.
Marisha: I want it to be more than that, I'd like it to be 100 feet away.
Travis: You want them to get there in one turn, right?
Laura: You want to be able to get there right away on surprise attack, spring right out of the ground as soon as that trap triggers.
Marisha: No.
Taliesin: In theory, if the trap is sprung it'll make enough ruckus that anyone in those trenches should hear it.
Matt: Right, but it's more about the proximity of the exit to the trenches.
Marisha: Yeah, what I'm thinking is I've got a circle that I've carved around it. And then there's like a tunnel that shoots off this way and there's an entrance that they can walk in and get into their places.
Matt: You want them to just burst out, then?
Marisha: I've made it really thin like I did before, carved it nice and thin--
Matt: Okay. So the entrance is back here, then.
Marisha: I don't know what that means.
Travis: I thought we were all filing out of one hole.
Matt: That's what I was getting at beforehand. The intent is for them to push up and out?
Marisha: Unless you guys think it would be better?
Laura: No, I feel like they've gotta burst out, yeah.
Travis: I was confused.
Marisha: It's going to be cool, like night of the living dead-style! Orcs coming out of the ground! In my mind, it's really awesome.
Sam: In your mind, so many things--
Marisha: So many things.
Matt: There we go. All right. We have entrenched areas in this vicinity with you around it. What's the last things you need to prepare before the evening is done?
Laura: We need to have a feast.
Sam: Heroes' Feast.
Liam: I have a couple of questions. One, so I asked this outside but I just want to make sure. It says in the rogue section that longsword is something that I'm proficient in, but there's a rule somewhere that I can't find that says I can't use that for sneak attack? On page 95, it says I'm proficient in longswords.
Matt: Correct.
Liam: But somewhere else that I'm unaware of-- no surprise, motherfucker?
Matt: The attack must use a finesse or ranged weapon.
Liam: So it's not a finesse weapon.
Matt: A longsword, I believe, is strength.
Taliesin: No, wait! This longsword was being used as a finesse weapon.
Marisha: It has been used?
Taliesin: We had this discussion at one point. We decided that this longsword was a finesse weapon. Or it could be used as a finesse weapon.
Sam: Aloha.
Taliesin: Aloha!
Liam: In Hawaii, the longsword is a finesse weapon.
Taliesin: There's a beautiful view out this window.
Liam: Just want to know in advance.
Matt: I would say-- stretching it thin. We had agreed it was a finesse weapon for use, meaning as a dex-based modifier for you to use in combat specifically. When did this discussion happen, I'm trying to recall?
Taliesin: This happened when we were doing sword tricks. We were discussing whether or not I could actually use a sword. And what that would be like. Because we were having the conversation about whether you should take strength with the sword. I've obviously been using it as a dex-based sword, but-- I don't remember if that was specifically for me, or--
Sam: This is a tough decision. But you know, it's not a tough decision to subscribe to Loot Crate.
Matt: I would say because it is part of the intent of the weapon that the longsword, while it may be circumstantially used as a dex-based weapon for that purpose, it is out of your realm of expertise when it comes to using the sneak attack ability. It would not be able to sneak attack.
Liam: Lovely. I'm going to take off my Boots of Haste and my cloak. See if anyone else wants it, and I'm going to start attuning-- Can you use this?
Laura: What is it?
Liam: Circlet. Would you be able to control Fassbender?
Laura: Instead of shooting arrows?
Liam: No, Keyleth said you just say "zap," and he just does it until you tell him to stop.
Marisha: Yeah, it takes your concentration, so it takes--
Matt: Well, it takes an action to--
Marisha: I'm trying to speak in character, all right?
Taliesin: What do your Boots of Haste do and what does your cloak do, out of curiosity?
Liam: I want to see how much I'm giving up here. Haste will let you double your speed, you'll be able to do one more thing when you're doing things. Scanlan showed me some sort of potion.
Marisha: Yeah, I'm assuming that was a Potion of Haste.
Sam: I gave the Potion of Haste to Grog. We both found these two potions. Grog has the Potion of Haste if anyone else desperately needs it, and I certainly don't need to be any smaller, so I've given the potion of reduction? Reducement?
Matt: Diminution.
Sam: Diminution? To good old Vax here.
Liam: It's funny, because part of my idea was to go in with you. But I know that you have to do it to folk of your own size, but if I were little Vax, I could go with you.
Laura: Why can't you keep your boots on for that?
Marisha: Honestly, spellcasters, it's not as beneficial for us to have Haste.
Liam: That's true, but I'm wondering if anyone wants Fassbender. If I'm going in, I'm not going to be able to concentrate on that.
Marisha: Well, depends on when you're going in.
Sam: You don't know. Give it to Vex.
Marisha: If you focus on Fassbender and tell him to just attack or to cast Slow, he will do that until that dragon is dead. He will just continue without you having to focus on him.
Liam: I know. I just don't want to miss a shot to go into the belly of the beast with my little buddy here.
Marisha: That's so trite.
Sam: We were born to do this!
Laura: Does it have to be attuned?
Matt: Yes. So if you already have three objects attuned, you'd have to take one off.
Laura: No, I can't wear the circlet, dude.
Liam: All right, I'll wear it.
Taliesin: I could, definitely. If you could take the Haste Potion then I might take the boots, because speed would not be a terrible thing for me to have because then I get to shoot more.
Liam: I'm going to take this sword and I'm going to leave the Deathwalker's Ward on, that can't come off anymore, and the circlet, so the boots are up for borrowing and the Displacer Cloak is up for borrowing. Displacer Cloak makes you very hard to hit.
Laura: That's good.
Liam: And the haste will Haste you.
Taliesin: What does the cloak do, again?
Matt: Disadvantage on physical attacks against you. Until you get hit, and then once you get hit, it fails to work for a turn.
Travis: I might take that.
Marisha: The cloak?
Travis: Yeah. Oh my god, I'm going to take the belt off.
Sam: You're going to lose your beard!
Travis: You don't know that! This shit's in there tight. I take the Belt of Dwarvenkind, and I put it in the Bag of Holding. I put the Displacer Cloak on.
Matt: You will be losing 26 hit points to your maximum hit points.
Travis: What? Wait! Really?
Matt: Your constitution-- or no, it's plus two, so you'd be losing 13 hit points on your max hit points.
Travis: Never mind, no. Nope.
Matt: Because your constitution will go down without it.
Laura: I can take off my Bracers of Archery, too, and put something on--
Marisha: What do those do?
Laura: They just give me a plus two to damage rolls.
Liam: You're wearing a cloak, so if you wear the boots, you can click them and you've got more movement.
Laura: All right. Give me the boots. I'm putting the boots on.
Matt: Boots of Haste?
Marisha: Then I'll take the cloak, I guess. I'm going to take off my spell slot ring. And I put my goodie but my oldie circlet on.
Sam: Let's have a feast! Let's have a feast!
Matt: You guys prepare for the evening. You make your way back to town. Where are you having your feast?
Sam: Isn't there a central place that we killed Kevdak at?
Marisha: The mayor's? The big mansion.
Sam: Whatever that place is called.
Marisha: The Margrave's house.
Matt: All right. So you find your way to the Margrave's town square there, you can see a number of the remaining Herd of Storms are sitting around small fires in the center of the cobblestone. They're all war-painted up, you can see there's smears of various dark charcoal and/or crimson liquid smeared across them in patterns. There is a brimming tension of coming battle. You may do your Heroes' Feast if you wish. You can feast up to 12 creatures as part of it.
Marisha: I can also do a feast if I cast it at seventh level. But, fuck it, I'm going to sleep, so it doesn't matter.
Sam: You're going to do two feasts?
Marisha: Pike and I are both going to cast Heroes' Feast, so that way we can feast 24 people total.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: So tell Kevdak. Sorry, fuck! Tell Zanror his finest warriors, his druids--
Laura: And Abjurist Noja.
Travis: And Old Davin.
Liam: And his wife.
Marisha: So make sure we have Zanror, his wife, his druids that he mentioned; there were like two to three druids?
Ashley: Are there any magic-users in the room?
Travis: Magic-users or clerics.
Marisha: Magic-users or clerics.
Travis: Abjurist and Old Davin included.
Matt: So. That being the case. You guys have your meals in the center of town, summoned forth a grand Heroes' Feast, two side by side. The chosen soldiers step up and you all begin to feast upon your meal. The taste is great but you're all distracted as the energies of the divine enchantment of these food items fill your body and steel you against the coming fear, there is still the concentration in your eye as you all look off listlessly in the distance as you finish your food. It's now just pushing past midnight.
Laura: We need to sleep.
Matt: Everyone seems to go and find themselves to rest, a tense sleep before them. Anything else you wish to do before you go to bed?
Marisha: Rise at sunrise? Rise at dawn?
Travis: Wait, before we do that, didn't you do something that gave us an extra amount of hit points before Kevdak?
Ashley: I have Shield of Faith that I can put on somebody.
Laura: Will that last for 24 hours?
Ashley: It's up to ten minutes. I can do it tomorrow.
Matt: What you're thinking of is Aid, and that lasts for eight hours. That's the one that gives the additional hit points he just mentioned.
Sam: Does the Heroes' Feast give us additional hit points?
Marisha: 2d10, and you're immune to poison, fear--
Matt: As temporary hit points, should mention that too. It's a separate pool. So 2d10 additional hit points. You want to roll, Keyleth?
Marisha: Oh jeez. Don't let me fuck this up. Oh, that's not bad. 14.
Travis: 14? That's not bad.
Marisha: 14 from me.
Ashley: 12.
Matt: Okay, we'll say the 14 goes to your group, the 12 goes to the rest of them for the purposes of this. So that's a separate pool, the 14 hit points come off first before anything else.
Travis: If it's midnight, I would take Aid, just in case he comes in the morning, and if he doesn't, no harm done, you rest up anyway, right?
Ashley: Say it one more time.
Travis: I wouldn't mind taking Aid in case he comes in the morning. If eight hours pass I lose it anyway, but you rest up again.
Ashley: Do you want to have it for the night?
Travis: Yeah, just in case he comes in the morning.
Ashley: Sure.
Marisha: Well, when do we want to be at the trap? Dawn?
Sam: At dawn!
Liam: Just before.
Travis: Yeah, before first light.
Laura: He comes normally around noon, he said.
Marisha: So we need to be in our places by 5AM.
Ashley: So each target's hit point maximum and current hit points increase by five for the duration.
Matt: For each level of the spell, so if you cast it at higher levels, it's more.
Travis: How high do you want to cast it?
Ashley: Cast it at-- fifth is the highest that I have now.
Travis: Rock out. Go for it.
Ashley: Yeah, let's do it.
Travis: Five times five?
Ashley: That's, yeah.
Sam: You'll lose it when we wake up.
Ashley: Yeah, do you want it for tonight?
Travis: It'll hold for eight hours, right, or, but I lose it--
Matt: Eight hours, yes, but a long rest is eight hours, so.
Ashley: Yeah, it'll go away. Let's wait.
Marisha: What time of year is it?
Matt: It's winter cresting into spring--
Marisha: Okay, so we have long nights right now.
Laura: We need to go the fuck to sleep.
Marisha: So let's sleep for a good six hours?
Matt: Six to eight hours.
Laura: Set our alarm clocks.
Matt: You run on a pretty consistent schedule, being a ranger.
Liam: I wait until everyone falls still, and then I scrabble over to you. Are you awake? Yeah, you're awake.
Marisha: Yeah, I'm staring at you.
Liam: I don't know if it's the food you made or the fact that we're going to die tomorrow, but I want to kiss you. And I kiss her. For a while. Good night.
Laura: Did you use your tongues?
Travis: You're asleep.
Marisha: How does she see everything?
Liam: She's a witch.
Marisha: She's a witch?
Liam: She's a witch! Did you see the broom?
Matt: The evening's rest comes to fruition. You guys wake up as the very distant, dull blues of first morning light begins to crawl across the distant mountain ranges. Dead silent is the morning as the rest of the Herd begins to rouse and armor up. You hear the gentle clank of metal against metal as armor and weapons are gathered. Food is being prepared, cooked, and eaten without a word being spoken between them.
Sam: I just want to make sure that we're going around, passing out all the chains, attaching little hooks and jabby things and grappling hooks.
Laura: They know the plan. As soon as he lands on the ground, everybody springs up and--
Matt: Everyone springs up and hooks him.
Sam: If the trigger for that, they're going to be underground--
Laura: The trap should go (snapping).
Sam: If they hear a big clank, that's go.
Laura: Get up and out. Yeah, regardless.
Sam: Will they know that that's a big clank?
Laura: I'm sure it'll be pretty loud. There might also be an explosion.
Matt: All right. With that, Zanror, after having this discussion at the Margrave's makeshift war room in the front foyer, agrees. "Not to worry. I'll make sure the men have known. We'll sharpen the hooks sharp enough to dig into dragonhide, hopefully. We'll hold taut, and the moment that creature breaks free, weapons are to fall on it. Very well." He puts on the rest of his armor. Everyone's feasted for the morning. We've lost Taliesin.
Sam: Don't worry. His work is done. He made his trap good.
Matt: It's like he's on the internet in Hawaii or somewhere.
Sam: Let's do this.
Ashley: Right when I wake up, I am going to try Divine Intervention.
Matt: Right now?
Ashley: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. Hold on just a second.
Travis: Yeah man, it's as good a time as any.
Sam: Does it last for a while?
Ashley: I don't know.
Laura: You used it before.
Ashley: No, it's never worked.
Laura: Yeah, the guy showed up.
Ashley: That's something else.
Laura: Oh really?
Ashley: That wasn't intervention.
Laura: I thought that was Divine Intervention that made the guy show up.
Ashley: It's never worked.
Matt: So Divine Intervention, there are elements of it that could be preparatory. By the nature of it, it's more of a sudden prayer of desperation. It's one of those things where the effects can range. It can be something that's immediate; it can be something that's more long. Understanding that, acknowledge when would be the good time to use it, whether it be now or later. Depends on what you're requesting, what you're praying for.
Ashley: To come help us kill a dragon. So that.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and roll a percentile dice, then.
Ashley: What do I have--
Matt: Roll 2d10. You may have a die that has multiple numbers on it.
Ashley: I do. Is this the percentile?
Matt: Yes. Roll that first. What'd you roll?
Ashley: What do I need to roll?
Matt: I believe you need to roll under your level. What did you roll?
Ashley: I rolled an 80.
Matt: Yeah.
Ashley: It never works!
Matt: So, as you call to Sarenrae, the boundaries and barriers that keep the gods from directly interfering with this realm are particularly strong this morning. While you feel her glow upon you, her warmth and protection guiding you to victory, there is not more within her strength or sphere of influence she can grant you at this time.
Ashley: Dammit. I don't feel her warmth, though.
Matt: What else would you like to do?
Ashley: Just go eat.
Matt: All right, so the sun has come up, the hour hits to eight, nine in the morning, you're looking at about three hours until the dragon's--
Marisha: Wait, what time is it?
Sam: It's nine.
Marisha: Son of a bitch, we overslept.
Sam: No, we've been up since dawn.
Marisha: I thought we were trying to get in places before dawn.
Sam: Well, we're moving now. It'll be fine.
Marisha: I hate it when I oversleep.
Matt: All right. The rest of you and the rest of the Herd make your way north. The few people that have stayed behind in the town, the few stalwart, stand outside as you all march by, and they all acknowledge, bow their heads, some get down on their knees and pray for you as you pass. As you quietly make your way outside of Westruun into the plains between the dotted treed landscape towards the drop point. The Herd makes its way under the tunnel beneath the ground.
Laura: I cast Pass Without a Trace on all of us.
Matt: All right. So they are now beneath the area. They are situated. There is the entrance tunnel off to the side that is currently visible and open from that portion. Do you wish to close or hide that tunnel?
Marisha: Sure.
Travis: I'm going in that tunnel, too.
Liam: Scanlan. Where do you want to go?
Matt: Grog, you have hidden--
Sam: I don't want to go underground.
Liam: Are we going in a tree?
Sam: We're going to go up in a tree. Let's go 200 feet away.
Ashley: I'm going to run up to Scanlan and I'm going to cast Death Ward on him.
Sam: What's that do?
Travis: If you drop below zero, you come back to one.
Matt: Once.
Sam: I don't need it. I'm okay. I know that you're very worried about me because of our love, but--
Matt: So Scanlan, you have Death Ward on you. You are now up in this tree here.
Sam: I don't need it. It jinxes me.
Ashley: I'm going to cast Protection from Energy, acid, onto Vax.
Matt: Vax actually already has resistance to acid because of his armor.
Ashley: I'm going to cast it onto Vex.
Laura: Thanks.
Matt: Okay. So Vex. Currently you have resistance to acid as long as concentration remains.
Marisha: I also cast Protection from Energy, resistance to acid, on Grog.
Matt: Grog, you also have resistance to acid.
Marisha: I'm going to stay in this cluster of trees with Scanlan.
Matt: Scanlan over here, okay.
Laura: I'm going to be up in a tree.
Matt: You're going to be up in the tree.
Sam: Different tree?
Laura: Yeah.
Sam: I don't think we should all be in the same tree, guys.
Laura: No, I'm going to be in a different tree. Can I use my perception to see how hidden everything is?
Matt: We'll say up in this tree. You want to be up in this one over here instead?
Laura: Yeah, something far.
Matt: There we go. You'll be in this one.
Laura: I think Percy wanted to be in a tree, too, at a distance.
Matt: All right. We'll say Percy is over at this one here, watching his trap hopefully spring.
Liam: Vax is with Scanlan. Stuck like glue.
Matt: Is Trinket in your necklace?
Laura: Yes.
Matt: All right. Where do you want to be? Did you want to cast your Aid spell on anybody before this happens?
Ashley: Oh, yeah. Yes.
Sam: Matt, we're more than 150 feet away, yes?
Laura: Some people.
Matt: Some people.
Laura: Like the trees are 80 feet away from the stuff.
Matt: This here?
Sam: I would like to be more than 150--
Matt: About 70-ish feet away is right here where these trees are.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: You're about 50-ish feet.
Ashley: I'm going to cast Aid on Keyleth.
Matt: At what level?
Ashley: Fourth.
Matt: That's 15 additional hit points to Keyleth.
Marisha: Additional or temporary?
Matt: Not temporary, additional. Keyleth, who else?
Ashley: Scanlan, again.
Matt: Scanlan, and--?
Sam: Why don't you do it on yourself?
Ashley: Okay, I have low hit points. I'll do it on myself. 15?
Matt: Yep, 15.
Sam: Keyleth, can you help me?
Matt: Do you cast it again, or are you just happy with those people? You can cast it multiple times if you have the spell levels for it.
Ashley: I'm going to save my spells.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: I'm going to need help. I know a little bit about dragons. I don't know a ton. Can you help my knowledge of animals in any way, shape, or form? For some sort of a check, I don't know. I just want to make sure that I know everything I can know in the moment when checked.
Liam: Can bards inspire themselves?
Matt: No. At higher levels, he can.
Marisha: Theoretically, I could enhance your ability, but it's a concentration spell and I've already protected from acid against Grog.
Sam: Never mind. I'm fine.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: What does your cloak do? That I put on?
Liam: Disadvantage on attacking you.
Marisha: Like, melee?
Liam: Until you get hit, and then it's gone for the round but resets for the next round.
Marisha: Only melee, not spells, yeah?
Liam: That's right.
Matt: So, at this point in time, Kevdak approaches.
Sam: Zanror.
Matt: I did it again. Zanror and two of his goliaths stay there waiting, with the offering placed at its designated spot.
Marisha: Shit. I can't believe we're doing this.
Matt: Any last-minute preparations?
Ashley: I'm going to-- wait, Grog, where are you?
Travis: I'm down in the tunnel.
Ashley: Is that where I am?
Matt: Well, wherever you want to be.
Ashley: I want to be in the trenches.
Matt: In the trenches? All right, so you make your way into the trenches, pushing past all the rest of the Herd members.
Laura: I hide the hole.
Matt: All right. We'll say for the purposes of this spread so everyone knows where they're all hidden currently--
Laura: Everyone knows they need to not move at all and be completely--
Marisha: Quiet.
Travis: I'm down over here.
Sam: Pike, you're in the middle of it? Oh, shit.
Ashley: I'm just going to hide. I'm not going to be a hero.
Travis: I'll throw her out of there if something goes wrong.
Liam: She doesn't clank if she doesn't move.
Ashley: They'll see me shining with my shiny armor.
Laura: You're right. We need to be stealthy up in the trees.
Marisha: I come over the earpiece in the calm of battle and I say: if things go terribly wrong, rush to this cluster of trees. I have ways that can get us out. I feel like I should say something inspiring, but I don't have anything, so--
Travis: How about fuck shit up?
Marisha: Fuck shit up, as Grog once said. About two days ago.
Matt: Hiding off in this tree beneath you is Noja, invisibility spell and vanishes behind. Beneath the ground here, off to the side is your good golem friend hidden in the dirt. Quiet sets in, gentle distant wind as the midday sun begins to stroll through. It's quiet and quieter still. You can hear the gentle bristling of high grasses against themselves. The tension causes the muscles in the back of your shoulders and neck to knot up. Watching the sun slowly crawl to its zenith. (wingbeat noises) You look up, those of you who are able, and you see a dark shape, a shadow dart off from the top of Gatshadow. Circles around, past you towards the city. Comes back. Growing larger and larger as it does. As it comes within the vicinity, it drifts up with one large beat of its wings. And (impact sound) lands into the center of this vicinity. As it hits the ground, there is a tink! (creaking sound, impact) As giant claws made of wood, metal, and rotten, angry hooks slam up out of the dirt, sending a giant cluster of dust just filling the vicinity. It woosh-- wraps around, you hear the smashing of metal and wood and low, guttural roaring. Dust has filled the area, and, for a brief moment, you have no visual on what's happened. As soon as that hits, everyone around you in the tunnels bursts through the floor, smashing through as the tunnels begin to collapse inward. Also, I need everybody to go ahead and roll intiative.
Ashley: Did he move the treasure?
Laura: Not yet.
Liam: Come on meteorite die, don't dick me.
Marisha: Green, lucky jade. That's okay.
Liam: Matt Colville, this is on you.
Sam: It's not you, Liam, it's me.
Marisha: Fucking shit.
Sam: Not good. Liam, yours doesn't matter. Mine does.
Marisha: Is yours not good?
Sam: No.
Laura: What did you roll?
Sam: It's okay, we got this. Pike's going to win the fight for us.
Liam: Hey, can I use Luck for initiative?
Matt: What does it say for the ability?
Sam: It doesn't matter, Liam.
Matt: I'll find out here. It counts as an ability check. I don't see why it wouldn't.
Liam: It's up to you. You're the boss. I love you. You're the all-seeing eye.
Sam: The feast gives us advantage on all initiative checks, right?
Matt: Ability check or saving throw-- technically, you get plus two to ability checks, correct? I'd say, sure, you can reroll initiative if you want.
Liam: (laughs) It was the exact same number!
Matt: You use the Luck point, and your initiative is what it is. Starting at this point in time, everybody--
Sam: It's a fight.
Matt: We have 25 to 20.
Laura: 22.
Travis: 20.
Matt: All right, 22. Vex. The Herd actually rolled really well.
Sam: Good, we need that.
Matt: Grog. All right, 20 to 15.
Taliesin: 19.
Matt: 19 for Percy. Is that it? So we have-- Noja. 15 to ten?
Liam: Big ten, which if you think about it rounded is like 100.
Marisha: Also big ten, which if you round it twice is like a thousand.
Ashley: 13.
Matt: All right. Ten to five.
Sam: Big five.
Matt: Big five, right there. Scanlan holding up the rear, there we go.
Liam: Gosh, plan B indeed.
Matt: At the top of this surprise round, I need Vex to go first.
Laura: Am I first?
Marisha: You've got, no, he has Fassbender.
Laura: He has Fassbender. I guess I'm just going to shoot it. I mean, what else can I do right now?
Liam: You do you!
Laura: All right. My Boots of Haste have been clicked.
Matt: All right, so you are now hasted. You may now have an additional attack action per turn.
Laura: Badass. I'm going to Hunter's Mark him.
Matt: All right.
Laura: Wait. Yeah, because I'm still hidden in the tree, right?
Matt: Correct, currently. As far as you know. Hunter's Mark on Umbrasyl.
Laura: Okay. I'm going to Hunter's Mark him. I'm going to shoot him with my Longbow of the Sky Sentinel. So I'm going to roll.
Matt: Go for it. Now, he is surprised, so you actually have--
Laura: Advantage.
Matt: Well, you have advantage because he doesn't see you, so yeah.
Laura: Okay, so the first one is 12 plus 15 is 23.
Matt: 23?
Laura: 27.
Matt: 27 hits.
Laura: 25.
Matt: 25 hits.
Laura: And 23.
Matt: 23 hits.
Laura: So. Okay, those are regular attack plus lightning arrow attack, right? I all of a sudden forget how it works. Plus 1d6 per arrow. 1d6 for the Hunter's Mark. And then 1d6 on the first one for the sneak attack. Okay. Plus the regular.
Matt: Herd's up next, and then Grog.
Laura: 31 on the first arrow.
Matt: 31 damage?
Laura: Yes.
Matt: Nice!
Liam: Seven plus five is 12.
Laura: 12. Plus nine.
Matt: 21. You're not getting additional sneak attack for the other two hits, by the way.
Laura: Right, I know. I lost my-- 18, I think. 18 was the last one.
Matt: All right. So that was your Sky Sentinel attack.
Laura: That was my first attack.
Matt: Correct.
Laura: For my second attack, I'm going to shoot him with one of my dragon arrows. Should I waste it on him?
Sam: Of course, he's a dragon! This is it!
Laura: I have two of them. I've been saving one, but I'm going to use one on him.
Matt: All right.
Laura: This is still advantage because it's still surprise round, right?
Matt: Sure.
Laura: Okay. 24.
Matt: 24 hits.
Laura: Okay. That's still my Hunter's Mark, and then-- I have a Jelly Belly in my thing-- And then that's 10d6 additional damage for the dragon arrow.
Matt: Okay, surprise round doesn't give you advantage, but you were hidden from the top of the round, so you have advantage.
Laura: Oh, okay. So an additional 10d6 damage for the dragon arrow.
Matt: Go ahead and roll damage on that.
Laura: No. 6d10. Sorry, my mistake.
Matt: There you go.
Sam: She's going to one-shot the dragon.
Laura: 6d10. (counting)
Sam: Matt, can I turn around and see Keyleth and Vax making out in the tree behind me?
Matt: They are not.
Liam: We're not making out! There's a slow trickle of wizz going down my leg right now, man.
Marisha: Yeah, I'm hyperventilating.
Laura: Sorry. 24 plus ten is 34 plus Hunter's Mark is another four. 38 on that attack.
Matt: 38 points of damage on the dragon-slaying arrow.
Laura: And then my third attack, I'm going to use the Blazing Bowstring.
Matt: Just so you guys are aware, this is over 100 points of damage in one round.
Liam: Enjoy those boots.
Laura: Do I still get advantage, because I'm still hidden?
Matt: No. At this point in time, I'll say you've definitely made yourself known.
Laura: 20?
Matt: Technically you shouldn't have had advantage on the other ones, but--
Laura: 20?
Matt: Pssh, arrow splinters across the hide, no effect.
Laura: Okay. Wow.
Matt: All right. Staying there?
Laura: I'm going to sink down into the leaves, yes, and try to hide better.
Matt: You have no actions to hide, but you're in a tree.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: All right. Finishing your turn, the Herd now is going to go. Shot from here, he's going to stay back. All move in, he's going to stay back here and aim. They can't even get in; there's so many of them.
Laura: I'm trying to duck behind some branches so he doesn't have direct line of sights on me, okay?
Matt: That's fine.
Sam: Man, what if this was all a trick and they actually work for him? Oh god, we're all going to die. It was all a trick! They work for him. They're going to kill us all!
Travis: If I were near you, I would slap you. Get a hold of yourself, man!
Matt: Throwing chains up, some of them leap up and jab the actual hook into the side and try to pull back. Having a hard time piercing hide. It's real strong.
Laura: Some of them can try to like swing the grapplings around the ankles--
Sam: Shh, don't distract him, he's adding.
Matt: I got this, don't worry.
Liam: Don't piss him off.
Matt: All right. We'll say about eight of them manage to actually get it into the hide. The rest either bounce off or can't find purchase into its hide and it just scrapes down, but the rest of them are trying to hold it down. "We got him! We got him!" And they're holding back. The archers all take aim. Misses, misses, misses, misses, hits.
Liam: Question. Did we give the chain attached to Fassbender to one of the goliaths?
Sam: No, it's buried in the stone.
Liam: To the stone, but one has to go on the dragon.
Sam: If that's what we planned, sure.
Liam: I don't know.
Matt: You didn't tell Fassbender to use it.
Liam: Oh, no. Okay. Cool.
Matt: That's two hits for all the arrows. All the rest of them are just smashing against the hide of Umbrasyl. No effect. That is seven points of damage and eight points of damage. They actually make it through. That's their round. Grog, you're up.
Travis: I go into a rage, and I would like to run up behind him with my Bloodaxe and make two reckless attacks against him.
Liam: He's got it. He's got a whole strategy. He's street-smart, this guy.
Sam: Intelligence of three.
Travis: 26.
Matt: 26 hits.
Travis: That's really good. 28.
Matt: 28 hits.
Travis: So, that's 23 with three points of necrotic damage.
Matt: 23, three points of necrotic damage added in or on top of that?
Travis: Oh, that's part of it, yeah.
Matt: 23. All right.
Travis: And then the second one-- 22 with one point of necrotic damage.
Matt: Gotcha. Whack! Whack! It's a tough hide to cut into, but you're making small hacks into it. You can start seeing that damage is possible, though it's a lot to cut through. This is a very hefty, very old beast. All right.
Travis: With my bonus action, could I drink the potion of fast nuts? Potion of speed.
Matt: Well, isn't it a bonus action to go into a rage?
Travis: I believe you're right. Never mind.
Matt: Pretty sure it is. Let me double-check real fast.
Travis: I think you're right.
Matt: It's fine, yeah. Bonus action. So that's your turn? Percy, you're up. You're way behind the dragon, hiding by the treeside.
Taliesin: Okay, I'm going to cast Hex on the dragon.
Matt: All right, Hex on the dragon.
Taliesin: With a disadvantage to all strength checks.
Matt: Strength ability checks, okay.
Taliesin: I'm going to hold my turn until the dragon's turn.
Matt: Okay. You're just going to hold until it does something?
Taliesin: I'm going to hold until it does something, and if it does nothing, I'm taking my attacks, and if it gets away I'm taking my attacks. I'm just taking my attacks after him.
Matt: Okay. It is now Noja's turn. Noja is going to step out from here and is going to attempt to Lightning Bolt. From the side, he just reaches out, hand forward. Arcs upward in its direction. It fails its saving throw because it is held in there. It is currently considered grappled. It doesn't have disadvantage or anything, but I'll say from this standpoint it can't really move around a lot. It's going to take the damage.
Sam: (laughs) What was that face?
Matt: Terrible roll. 21 points of lightning damage.
Sam: That's 8d6.
Matt: At the end of his turn, it's going to use one of its legendary actions to make a tail attack against you. We'll say that'll be 27 to hit.
Travis: That'll hit.
Sam: Can I use Cutting Words on the attack or to reduce the attack?
Matt: If you want to.
Sam: I would like to.
Matt: Okay, so 27 to hit. You take, from the slam of its tail behind you--
Sam: No, I mean to, I'm sorry, I can't reduce the--
Matt: Oh, I thought, to reduce the attack not the damage.
Sam: The attack.
Matt: Okay. Go for it. Roll your d10.
Sam: Okay. (slide-whistle) A d10 is this one. Ten.
Matt: Ten. 17. What's your AC?
Travis: It's a 20.
Matt: 20. With that, the tail-- whack!-- slams into the ground. You manage to push out of the way just in time as Scanlan shouts up to the dragon.
Sam: Oi! You're so ugly you entered an ugly contest and they said no professionals! (laughter)
Matt: Just enough of a distraction in the settling dirt for the dragon to turn its head over and its tail swings just a little wide of you, Grog, as you sidestep, no effect. We'll say for this, it's less of a surprise round. I use surprise round liberally. Surprise was it grappling and everyone getting out of it and preparing for the actual assault.
Liam: It's more of a surprising round.
Matt: Correct. Umbrasyl does get a turn. Umbrasyl, very frustrated and angry at the circumstance, is going to attempt to break free. With disadvantage on the athletics check to try and break out of the grapple because of the Hex. All right. That is--
Sam: Is that a save?
Matt: No, it's not a save. It's an ability check. However, the strength-- (struggling sounds) cannot seem to break free from the grapple of the communal might of all the goliaths there. So that is unhappy.
Sam: Meaning Matt is unhappy.
Matt: All righty.
Sam: And three more dragons.
Marisha: Why the book?
Laura: Oh no, what are we looking up?
Travis: What's in the book?
Matt: Nothing's in the book, guys.
Laura: We're literally going to finish off this bag of Jelly Bellies.
Liam: If an ancient black dragon takes one hit point of damage, it cowers and dies.
Ashley: I'm looking for the popcorn ones.
Marisha: Thanks to whomever sent these Jelly Bellies, by the way.
Matt: That'll end Umbrasyl's turn. That brings us to Pike, you're up.
Taliesin: Oh no, that's my turn now.
Matt: Percy's up, then.
Taliesin: I'm going to take just a standard shot with Bad News.
Matt: Go for it.
Taliesin: Ooh. 28 to hit.
Matt: 28 hits.
Taliesin: 18 points of damage, with four necrotic. 18 points of damage.
Matt: All righty.
Taliesin: And I'll take another shot with Bad News.
Matt: Go for it.
Taliesin: 20 to hit.
Matt: 20 does not hit.
Taliesin: All right.
Matt: Second shot just goes wide, firing off into the distance over the city of Westruun.
Taliesin: All right. Turn's up.
Matt: All right. Pike, you're up.
Ashley: Okay. I'm going to Guiding Bolt.
Sam: Be beautiful! Be good!
Laura: At what level?
Ashley: I'm going to-- at third. Let me see this.
Liam: Is this an attack range thing, or does it automatically--?
Matt: Spell attack roll, so you roll--
Ashley: And then I add that? That would be a 29.
Matt: 29. Damn, what did you roll?
Ashley: I rolled a 19.
Matt: That's nice. That'll hit.
Ashley: Okay, so now I do--
Laura: 4d6 plus two more d6.
Ashley: 26.
Matt: 26 points of damage.
Ashley: Yeah.
Matt: All right. And the next attack against it has advantage. So Pike, you're staying. You popped out of the trench and you're up on the ground. You hit it with the Guiding Bolt. You can see the blast of divine energy streaks up and slams into Umbrasyl's side. The darkened black scales now have this shining beacon across the torso. Anything else you want to do with your turn, or is that it? You want to move?
Ashley: Yeah. I'm going to stay.
Matt: All right.
Ashley: But I'm also going to put a Spiritual Weapon, just a sword again. Can't think of anything right now because I'm nervous.
Matt: We'll say right here in this area around Umbrasyl. The magical light sword of Sarenrae once again forges itself underneath Umbrasyl, swings up towards-- Let's see, you did Guiding Bolt at what level?
Ashley: Three.
Matt: Third level. And Spiritual Weapon is second level. So that works. Lasts for a minute. Make a spell attack. Roll again.
Ashley: 19.
Matt: 19 total? The blade swings up and as it strikes against the dragon's armor, sparks of divine energy versus the scales streak, but no damage is done. The blade is unable to strike through the hide. Does that end your turn, Pike? Are you staying where you are?
Sam: Did you add your spell attack bonus?
Laura: Yeah, she did.
Matt: All right. You going to move, stay where you are?
Ashley: I'll stay where I am.
Matt: Ending Pike's turn, Vax, you're up.
Liam: I'm going to hold my turn until Scanlan, no. Yeah, I'm going to-- Fassbender, slow the fucking dragon down now!
Matt: Okay, at which point suddenly dust streaks upward as Fassbender steps up out of the hiding place there. Fassbender focuses his arms out as the slow magic effect seems to take on towards it. What's the DC on it?
Liam: Oh, dear god. That's a good question.
Sam: Who has the Fassbender stats?
Liam: I've got it. Slow-- 17.
Matt: 17. And that's a wisdom?
Liam: It is wisdom. And Fassbender, just slow until the end of tomorrow, just keep going.
Matt: It rolled a ten plus nine, succeeds in the save.
Sam: Wisdom disadvantage save. I have Cutting Words-ed him.
Matt: That's true. Rolled even higher.
Liam: Question  he'll just keep doing that until I tell him to stop, right?
Matt: Yeah, but it has to recharge. If it doesn't, he might just start hitting it.
Marisha: He's got to roll to see if it recharges. It'll recharge on a five or a six.
Liam: Okay. With my bonus action, I drink that potion and I'm a tiny Vax.
Matt: Okay! With that, you have shrunk down to a small-sized creature.
Liam: (high-pitched) Do it, Scanlan, do it!
Sam: I think this is the first time I've ever been taller than you.
Liam: (high-pitched) Hey, buddy! I love ya. Let's go in that dragon's gut.
Sam: I don't particularly like small people.
Liam: (high-pitched) Do you think Keyleth will think less of me?
Sam: Yes, I do.
Matt: Is that the end of your turn?
Liam: Yeah, action, bonus action. Done
Matt: So Vax is actually like a few inches shorter than you. You're now towering over him.
Sam: I tousle his hair.
Liam: I'm like eight inches tall, if that's true! He's so small!
Matt: (laughs) You're like two feet. He's about two and a half.
Liam: (high-pitched) These are still sharp.
Sam: You're so cute!
Liam: (high-pitched) Heeheehee.
Sam: My turn?
Matt: So, it's your turn, Scanlan. Oh no, Pike, Vax, Keyleth, then it's you. Keyleth, what are you doing?
Marisha: Oh dear god. Okay. I'm going to transmute the earth underneath him. Right? That's what I'm doing? That's part of the plan? So if I can do right underneath Umbrasyl, that would be fabulous.
Matt: Transmute Rock--
Marisha: It's a 120-foot range.
Matt: Yes, and a 40-foot cube in the range. So what are you doing?
Marisha: I want to do the area just directly under Umbrasyl, if I can, so that I'm not sinking the Herd around him.
Matt: Turning what into what?
Marisha: I want to turn the ground directly underneath Umbrasyl into mud.
Matt: Okay. The only piece of rock is the piece of rock that you put beneath where the chains were there. The area right beneath Umbrasyl is dirt, it's earth.
Marisha: Okay, I thought it had spread, because it's 40-foot, so I thought it was under Umbrasyl, but I could do something else--
Matt: A 40-foot cube, part of it would be under Umbrasyl, possibly, but for the placement of where you put that, it's going to be hard for you to do it without it pulling everybody else into it.
Marisha: Okay. Plan B.
Matt: You can do it still, but it'll probably take some of the Herd with it.
Marisha: Should I go with pillars? Yeah. I'll go with--
Sam: No.
Marisha: No?
Liam: Just do what you're going to do. Ignore the gnome. Go.
Marisha: Okay. I'm going to cast Bones of the Earth, which I think I can pop up six pillars around Umbrasyl.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: So, Grog, you want a boost? You want to stand on a rock?
Travis: Yeah.
Marisha: Pike, you want a boost? Do you want a boost?
Ashley: Yes.
Marisha: Okay. Here's what I'm going to do. I want a pillar here, Grog. When you're ready.
Matt: All right, so you're putting Grog on a pillar.
Marisha: Grog on a big stone pillar, bam! And then, where's the button? Pike on a pillar over here, bam. Let's go ahead, I'm trying to trap him in here. I want to pin him as these go up, so let's do one here. Can I get whoever that is up on a--
Matt: Which one?
Marisha: Right up here.
Matt: All right. If I'd known you were going to use this spell, I would've brought the pillars.
Marisha: Oh. Surprise! We were trying not to tell anyone our plan.
Matt: I know, it's good. Now I know.
Liam: We wanted to keep you off-balance, Matt.
Matt: That's good. All right.
Marisha: Let's do another one over here. Bam. Pinning him in. One, two, what is that, three, four. One on the opposite side, over here. Umbrasyl's a big fatty so I can't get my laser pointer over there.
Matt: Where do you want it? Right there?
Marisha: Over here-ish. On the other side of this one. Can I raise a pillar through his wing?
Matt: Not through his wing, no.
Marisha: So flanking this pillar on the other side over there, if that makes-- flanking this pillar. So wait, move that one that you just placed over a bit.
Matt: This is like a summoning spell.
Marisha: You know, it's fine. You get the idea.
Matt: That one there.
Marisha: Let's do one up here.
Matt: You have one more.
Marisha: Knock him in the chin.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Hopefully that contains him a bit.
Matt: All righty. That finish your turn?
Marisha: Yeah, guess so.
Matt: All right. That brings us to Scanlan.
Sam: Okay. Here we go.
Liam: Here we go.
Sam: I turn to my little buddy and I say  are you ready for a ride, little man?
Liam: (high-pitched) Come on, big guy!
Sam: Before we go, I yell as loud as I can to Pike to inspire her with my bonus action first.
Matt: The range? Pike is quite far away.
Sam: Can't hear me, or it won't work?
Matt: What's the range, I think it's 60 feet, so yeah. She's too far away.
Marisha: I'm behind you.
Sam: Well then, am I within 60 feet of her?
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: Oh. Then I will sing her some inspiration and I'll sing. (singing) Westruun town a dead-end world, east-end boys and Westruun girls, Westruun girls. (laughter)
Matt: Take your d10.
Marisha: Fuck yeah, d10.
Sam: And then I sort of link arms with good old Vax. Actually, I hug him tight because we've gotta be tight together to do this, and I hold up my hand cone and I cast Dimension Door and I'm going to aim right for the belly of the beast.
Liam: And I say  This is so fuuuu--
Matt: Scanlan. You are not fully familiar with the physiology of a dragon.
Sam: No, I am not.
Laura: I gave him as much information as I could.
Matt: And you did. I would like for you to make an intelligence check.
Sam: Just an intelligence check.
Matt: This is your ability to ascertain based on what you've seen, your knowledge of the dragon, where possibly in its body its stomach may be.
Sam: Okay. Why not?
Laura: Is it advantage because I told him where it would be?
Sam: Nope. 12?
Liam: Can I give him my Luck?
Matt: (laughs) No.
Sam: It's just intelligence, right, there's no other--
Matt: Right, you add your intelligence modifier to it.
Sam: Yeah, it's two.
Matt: You would add two to that because of your bardic ability. Plus two to any skill check.
Sam: Okay, 14, then.
Ashley: Is there anything extra from heroes' feast? No?
Matt: No. So. Both of you grab hands and vanish. The darkness that hits your eyes upon vanishing doesn't go away as darkness still hits you. All of a sudden, you are plunged into a thick, wet, crushing interior. You have finished your Dimension Door spell. You are in darkness. You are being crushed between what feels like two layers of musculature. Both of you.
Sam: Hi, dude.
Matt: You don't know where each other are. You don't see the other person. There's no sight. You can't hear anything.
Sam: Are we touching at all?
Matt: Nope. The trajectory of the spell and the unfortunate circumstance put you guys on two different sides of a membrane, and you don't know where you are.
Sam: It's going great.
Matt: All right. Does that end your turn?
Sam: Yeah, that's all-- I'll use my movement to go--
Matt: You are both considered restrained, so your speed becomes zero, attack rolls against you have advantage, you have disadvantage on dexterity saving throws. Also, you suffer eight points of acid damage, reduced to four.
Sam: Awesome.
Liam: Who's got the other gatestone? I have one.
Ashley: Oh, I have one.
Liam: 60 seconds.
Matt: You also both currently have no air. At the top of this round, Umbrasyl goes (disgruntled noises).
Liam: Suck it, bitch!
Matt: "I will eat all of you!"
Liam: I'm a two-foot-tall rogue, you motherfucker.
Laura: I'm up?
Matt: You're up first, top of the round.
Laura: Oh my god. Okay, I'm going to cast Conjure Animals and I'm going to conjure two giant eagles right in front of his face.
Matt: I'm really hoping we can put more things on the battlefield, guys. I think that would be a cool idea.
Laura: (laughs) Sorry, Matt.
Matt: It's not like I don't have enough to concentrate on up there.
Laura: I'm sorry.
Matt: It's fine. I don't have two giant eagle miniatures, so we'll say, for the time being, this air elemental is a giant eagle.
Laura: Okay.
Liam: I'll say, with no facetiousness, this is all I ever wanted in my life.
Sam: To be trapped in the spleen of a dragon with me?
Matt: We'll say these are up in the air.
Laura: Okay, right in front of--
Matt: Because I've used all the height things for--
Laura: And Conjure Animals is an action, or a--
Matt: It's an action.
Laura: Okay. I'm going to tell them to attack his eyes.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: They get their own--
Matt: Own initiative, which I just rolled. What's their dexterity bonus?
Laura: You sent me a thing-- let's go with that. Hold up. Giant eagle, dexterity is 17, plus three.
Matt: So it would be plus three, that puts them at 11, so they are just above Keyleth and Vax. All right.
Laura: And then for my bonus action, I'm going to-- I can't cast two spells, even if one's a bonus action?
Matt: As long as it's a level two or lower.
Laura: Oh, okay. For my bonus action, I'm going to hide a lot? I'm going to hide.
Matt: You didn't start the round hidden, so you can't do that.
Laura: I wasn't still hidden?
Matt: No, you have to spend a bonus action to attempt to hide at the end of your turn.
Laura: Can I attempt to hide?
Matt: You'd have to be a level two rogue to do that as a bonus action on your turn.
Laura: But on my boots of haste I can use it to dash, disengage, or hide.
Matt: Oh, you're using your bonus action-- so your extra action, not your bonus action.
Laura: Okay, my extra action.
Matt: You can do that, yes. Go ahead and roll a stealth check.
Laura: Natural 20.
Matt: You vanish into the foliage.
Ashley: Yeah.
Matt: All right. Great. Finishing your turn, the Herd now goes. They're going to attempt to put the rest of the chains up to increase the DC of the grapple. There we go. So four more chains get latched on so they're holding. Each chain increases the DC of the grapple. All right. So as they're all holding it down, the five in the back that are going to take attacks on it are going to do so. That's a hit, miss, miss, hit, miss, miss, miss, miss, miss, hit. Three hits. So four damage, five damage, and eight damage.
Laura: Wow, these guys hit real hard. How come they were hitting us so hard?
Matt: They're rolling really terrible. They get two attacks each. All right. And with that, the tribal druid is going to cast Blight on the creature. However, it does make its saving throw, so for the purposes of speed on this I'm going to use my dice-rolling app. That's a lot of dice to roll. That comes to 18 points of necrotic damage. That brings us to the end of that round. Grog, you're up.
Travis: Could I go into a frenzied rage?
Matt: You may.
Travis: Excellent. I'm on top of a pillar, and I'm not within striking distance, right?
Matt: You can hit it.
Travis: From up there?
Matt: Yeah, it's pretty tall.
Travis: (laughs) I would like to use all three of my attacks against his backside, reckless.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Natural 20.
Matt: All righty.
Travis: 26.
Matt: Hits.
Travis: These are just regular. They're not great weapon master. 23.
Matt: Hits.
Travis: Sweet. So the first one was the crit.
Matt: The crit. So go ahead and roll damage on that plus two additional d12s.
Travis: Right. That's a d12. 21 and two additional d12s?
Matt: Yep, 21 plus?
Travis: Ten, 31.
Matt: 31.
Travis: Seven, so 38.
Matt: 38 points of damage on the first strike. Next two strikes, roll for it.
Travis: That was awful. 13.
Matt: 13, all right. Last one.
Travis: That was also pretty crap. That's 16.
Matt: 16, okay. At the end of its turn it's going to use a legendary action to attempt to wing attack you. It's going to cost its last--
Travis: Oh, I did not add the necrotic.
Matt: Go for it.
Travis: On all three of them. Three, six, eight.
Matt: Total of eight?
Travis: Total of eight.
Matt: All right. Expending two of its actions to use a wing attack, it's going to go ahead and start beating its wings as hard as it can, even with the chains amongst it. Each creature within 50 feet of the dragon must succeed on a DC 23 dexterity saving throw. Make a dex save.
Travis: (singing) I believe I can fly--
Matt: The only one of the party within-- what did you roll?
Travis: A nine.
Matt: Nine. All right. You take 15 points of bludgeoning damage.
Travis: Reduced to...
Matt: Reduced to eight. Go ahead and make one more dexterity saving throw, just for my own sake.
Travis: 16.
Matt: 16. You are thrust off the pillar, pushed, falling, and hitting the ground, prone on the ground, the pillar remains there. You take an additional eight points of bludgeoning damage, reduced to four, from the impact. But you are knocked prone. The rest of the Herd here, we'll say for the sake of that, they do not save. Oh, man. They are all knocked prone, knocking much of the chains free from their hands as they're thrown onto their backs. Then it is still technically grappled, so it cannot fly half its speed, unfortunately. It does seem to have knocked a majority of the chains off its back. Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: Holding my action until its action.
Matt: Okay. That brings us to Noja. Noja's going to attempt another Lightning Bolt. It's the best thing he has at the moment. Oh, a natural 20 on the saving throw. Nope. Not bad. 15 points of lightning damage to Umbrasyl. Noja's then going to dart back behind the tree. Ending Noja's turn, it is now Umbrasyl's turn. Umbrasyl is going to go ahead and attempt to break free of the final chains that are there.
Taliesin: With disadvantage.
Matt: Correct, with disadvantage. But even so comes out to a 22. (crash) The rest of the chains that were holding Umbrasyl down break free.
Laura: What about the trap? Is he out of the trap then, too?
Matt: Well, the trap that's currently holding it in place is part of the whole setup. The trap is what's keeping it there, starting the grapple, and the chains are just there to increase the DC. So with that, the actual metal structure of the trap that held it in place is shattered. You can see pieces of iron go flying, wood splintering in this cloud of dust that is kicked up from the movement of the wings. Currently right now there are still hooks and chains dangling from Umbrasyl, but some of them have broken and most of them are unmanned at the moment. The dragon is going to (wings flapping) go ahead and--
Taliesin: Can I take my action?
Matt: You can, yes.
Taliesin: I'm taking a shot at him at the joint at his wing and I'm going to attempt to ground him.
Matt: Attempt to ground him? Okay, go for it. Roll for the attack.
Taliesin: Natural fucking 20. (cheering)
Taliesin: Oh no, oh my god, right now.
Marisha: He's taking a photo?
Travis: He's taking a photo.
Taliesin: Photo taken. Ha! Natural 20. It still doesn't necessarily mean he's grounded. It means he has to make a strength saving throw or he's prone.
Matt: Correct. So roll the damage first.
Taliesin: Roll damage. Oh yeah. That's double dice, so that's-- 23 points doubled is 46 plus--
Matt: Plus the modifier. So 46 is--
Taliesin: 46, yeah, plus the modifier now is 52 points of damage total.
Liam: That bullet came from the center of the Pacific Ocean!
Matt: Strength saving throw.
Taliesin: I rolled really well.
Matt: That's amazing. All right, so. Strength saving throw to try and resist the effect. That is a failure. It's going to use one of its legendary actions to automatically succeed, one of its legendary resistances. So succeeds. Rising up from the ground, because of all the guys that are knocked prone--
Taliesin: Wait!
Matt: What was that?
Taliesin: I was going to pop off a couple more shots.
Matt: You held your action, okay. So you fired, loaded, fired last round.
Taliesin: I was going to blow an action surge.
Matt: Oh. It's weird to do-- Out of turn action, it is a little strange to do that.
Taliesin: Okay.
Matt: He held his action. That's something you do on your turn as a burst. I'll say, probably have to wait on your actual turn to do that full bit.
Taliesin: No, it's okay. Go ahead.
Matt: Umbrasyl does rise up about 40 feet.
Liam: Here we go, Scanlan.
Matt: It's actually going to move back this way.
Ashley: Did he never land on the glyph?
Matt: He landed in the trap immediately and the trap set off, but he never grabbed the stuff.
Ashley: It was if he landed on it.
Matt: You said it was to--
Liam: Pull it off.
Travis: Yeah, we said to lift it off.
Matt: All right. Flying back at that point (flapping wings) just growling, absolute anger. Squeezed in its insides, you guys both feel this heavy contraction within its body as you guys watch this flow of greenish bile spittle begins to fill up and spray out in a line from its mouth.
Liam: Look at all those people.
Laura: Are they all going to die?
Matt: Everything there-- Okay.
Laura: The birds were up in the air, though.
Matt: Right, but the stream sprays down, it's not just a single bolt. It vomits it out and it lands over everything. That's how it works.
Sam: Pike, are you in there?
Travis: No.
Matt: All right, that comes to 15d8 acid damage.
Laura: 15d8?
Sam: I think a lot of those people will be fine.
Matt: So that's 81 points of damage to all those guys. They all just dissolve in horrible agony.
Laura: Oh my god, you guys, we're going to die.
Sam: No, just me and Liam. Both of the eagles just screech in pain as they're entirely ruined.
Laura: Good job, you fucking wastes of space. They didn't even get to fucking go.
Matt: Sorry. That's going to end Umbrasyl the Hope-Devourer's turn.
Marisha: The Hope-Devourer?
Matt: That is the full name.
Sam: So his middle name is The Hope? And his last name is Devourer?
Matt: Devourer. Married into it.
Sam: It's hyphenated?
Matt: Hyphenated, yeah.
Travis: Marriage fucked everything up.
Marisha: Yep, Umbrasyl the Hope and then marriage fucked everything up.
Matt: You guys have both entirely vanished, you both are inside the entity. All right, so. Keyleth, the line just stops right before you. It smacks into the ground five feet from your feet and you watch as the earth and grass beneath you just immediately turns black and seems to almost coalesce into this death-sludge in this long line. It just barely misses you. All right, that's going to end Umbrasyl's turn. Pike, you're up.
Ashley: All right. So. I'm going to Guiding Bolt him again.
Matt: All right. You're now up on a pillar facing this giant flying dragon. Standing above the rest of the battlefield, your shield up and your Frostbrand to the side, you reach up and grab your holy symbol and go ahead and roll for your Guiding Bolt attack.
Travis: How high is he?
Matt: 30 feet. He went back.
Ashley: 28?
Matt: 28 hits.
Travis: Fuck him up, Pike.
Marisha: Come on, Pike. Can you bring him down any?
Ashley: I'm rolling what again? Sorry.
Laura: What level are you casting it at?
Ashley: Four again.
Matt: How many 4th-level spells do you have left now? Because you cast--
Ashley: I have two more.
Matt: Two more? Because you cast Death Ward, which is 4th-level, I believe, right? On Scanlan?
Liam: Well, what did you do? You did Death Ward. And is that it?
Ashley: The last Guiding Bolt.
Laura: Yeah, so that's only two you used.
Matt: Right. So you have how many more left at 4th-level?
Ashley: Two. Because the ring gives me one extra.
Matt: All right, so go ahead and roll that. That is going to be 4d-- how much do you get Guiding Bolt damage on that then?
Laura: 4d6 plus an additional two or three?
Ashley: At fourth level, that would be seven, then.
Matt: That would be 7d6 radiant damage.
Ashley: 22.
Matt: 22 points of damage.
Ashley: But I'll also-- never mind. We're good, 22.
Matt: You're good. Okay.
Ashley: And then I'm going to move my Spiritual Weapon.
Matt: Okay, Spiritual Weapon, which is technically on the ground over here.
Ashley: And I'm going to move it to the back of his neck.
Matt: Let's see. Spiritual Weapon, can move it 20 feet and repeat the attack. It is more than 20 feet away.
Ashley: Okay.
Matt: It's down there, so it can begin to shift upward in that direction. So we'll say that it's partway floating in midair.
Ashley: Can it get his feet?
Matt: No, it can't. It's too far away, unfortunately.
Ashley: All right, well, it'll start working its way up there.
Matt: Okay. That ends your turn, Pike. All right. It would be the eagles' turn, but they got dissolved.
Laura: Thanks, Matt. Thank you for pointing that back out.
Matt: Oh, I like to. I also want to point out that you guys held my dragon to the ground for two rounds and hit it like a goddamn pincushion.
Liam: You'll feel better once Scanlan and I have dissolved.
Matt: I will. All right. End of Pike's turn. Vax, you're up first. At the top of your round--
Liam: I'm just going to take the dragon blade and I'm going to as best as I can drag it in front of me.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: I'm going to cut the insides of this--
Matt: First, you take eight points of bludgeoning damage as it is crushing you, muscles tensing on the inside are just-- You're in between musculature right now and just being crushed.
Liam: Yes. Probably its sphincter. Now what?
Matt: You are restrained, so go ahead and make your attack at disadvantage.
Liam: At disadvantage.
Laura: But it can't very well avoid it.
Matt: It's about him being able to actually move and get it.
Liam: Well, I'm using the dragon longsword, which I've never used before. It's a plus one sword, so I get what?
Matt: Plus one to hit.
Liam: With strength?
Matt: It would be strength, but we've agreed that it can work as finesse for the purposes of a dex bonus, you just can't sneak attack.
Liam: I just can't sneak attack. All right. So.
Matt: Be grateful I'm being--
Liam: Whatever you want to do, you are the deity here. So this is a 17 to hit.
Matt: 17, you pull the blade and it's just unable to cut through this tense muscle and tendon.
Liam: Use Luck.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Nothing.
Ashley: Wait, what is this? Is this an attack?
Matt: He's trying from the inside.
Ashley: Can I cast War God's Blessing?
Matt: Does War God's Blessing require you to see the creature?
Ashley: Probably not.
Matt: We'll find out.
Sam: Yeah, probably.
Travis: Probably not.
Matt: When a creature within 30 feet makes an attack roll-- So, using the Guiding Bolt, you can see shifting somewhere in the body of Umbrasyl-- (laughs) You see this form moving in there. You know, based on what you guys have discussed before-- I hope you discussed this plan before.
Liam: We discussed it so much.
Matt: That's a plus ten bonus, is that what it is?
Ashley: Plus ten.
Matt: That hits, go ahead and roll damage with the longsword.
Marisha: Is this sneak attack?
Matt: No, he doesn't get sneak attack with a long blade.
Travis: But against dragons it does specific damage.
Liam: Yeah, it does plus 3d6, if I remember.
Matt: Let me look it up here just to be safe.
Liam: 15 from the inside.
Matt: 15 damage from the inside.
Liam: Hopefully that cuts me a little breathing room. And a question that only you know, Matthew--
Matt: The extra is 3d6, you are correct.
Liam: Am I within five feet of Scanlan?
Taliesin: An extra 3d6, not just 3d6.
Liam: I got 15 damage. Am I within, I'd like to use my bonus action to sneak attack if I can, if I'm within five feet. If Scanlan is within five feet of the creature, that's up to you. I don't know. It's crazy circumstance.
Matt: The reason that you would get sneak attack for having another creature within five feet is because it is harrying and the opponent is distracted--
Liam: The heartburn is not distracting it?
Matt: Not enough.
Liam: Not enough. Okay.
Matt: There's not a lot of threat to Umbrasyl.
Laura: You get a d8 plus your d6.
Liam: Yes, I know. I did it.
Laura: Then you did the additional 3d6?
Liam: I did, darling.
Laura: And you only got 15?
Liam: I only got 15. I would like to use the dagger to cut into him as well.
Matt: All right, go for it. Disadvantage on that attack.
Liam: Disadvantage?
Matt: Yes.
Liam: Oh, that's no good. That's, nah, it's 12.
Matt: You can't even get your dagger out of the sheath. It's too tight in there. You are cutting through muscle, and you feel the body and the muscle just tense based on the reaction of the interior pain. You watch the dragon, but it's still keeping up in the air.
Liam: I'm okay. Okay.
Matt: You are beginning to suffocate.
Liam: All right.
Sam: Oh, jesus.
Matt: I mean, you can hold your breath for a little while here, but just letting you know, there is no airflow. You're not suffocating yet, but you know there is no air to breathe currently.
Liam: I understand, Matthew. I'm fucked. It's fine.
Matt: All right. That's your turn. That brings us to Keyleth.
Marisha: I'm so scared. Okay, hang on. What the hell is the range on that? I'm going to just take a few steps forward, here-ish. Matt.
Matt: Right there?
Marisha: There-ish, move up a little bit. Just so I can-- Yeah, just ahead of the tree. And I'm going to attempt to cast Earthbind on him. He has to make a strength saving throw.
Matt: Strength saving throw. That is a failure. It's going to use its second legendary resistance, succeeds.
Marisha: Fuck, I knew it. Well, we've burned off two of his legendary resistances.
Liam: Also, I have no idea what the initiative order is, but Fassbender keeps doing Slow until I tell him to do something else, right?
Matt: If it recharges. Go ahead and roll a d6.
Liam: A d6.
Matt: Yes.
Liam: Two.
Matt: Two. It does not recharge Slow. Fassbender is too low. Fassbender is just standing there now.
Marisha: Okay. I'm going to take the remaining of my turn. Oh shit, I actually didn't want to move. It's okay. I'm going to turn into an earth elemental.
Matt: Okay. All right.
Marisha: And I'm going to take the remaining of my movement to move up--
Matt: Up?
Marisha: Well, he has 60 feet of movement, but I moved, what, like ten feet earlier, so.
Matt: 60 feet of movement? His speed is 60?
Marisha: No, I'm sorry. His Earthglide is-- Yes, 30, so he moves up 20 feet.
Matt: 20 feet, all right. That finishes your turn, Keyleth. Scanlan, you're up. Actually, at the end of Keyleth's turn, it's going to use a legendary action to use a tail attack against you, Pike, because you are within 20 feet of it. As it's in the air, its tail whips out toward you. That is a 32 to hit. (laughter)
Ashley: Yeah. Nope. No. Doesn't hit.
Matt: You take 22 points of bludgeoning damage.
Ashley: And I'm staying up there?
Matt: You're barely holding on up there, but yes. You take the brunt of it with your shield, and it almost knocks you off the side. You manage to take your sword and dig in to the opposite side and catch yourself on the edge of the pillar. It does not knock you off. Scanlan, it is now your turn. At the top of your turn, you take six points of acid damage, reduced to three, as you've found your way into the stomach. He did not.
Sam: Is it big in there?
Matt: It's fairly spacious, but it's all squeezed together right now. It's not a giant, empty void, it's not a giant pocket of air in your stomach, it is a--
Liam: Click, motherfucker, click.
Matt: You're also holding your breath. You are also submerged in liquid that is dissolving you.
Sam: I can move my arms, though.
Matt: You can. You're still pressed in but you can move your hands, yeah.
Sam: Okay, that's good. I'm going to get that rod out and click it.
Matt: (laughs) Okay. Pulling out-- This is going to be weird. All right. So you take out the immovable rod and click it and as you release it, it stays there aloft in the center. You have darkvision as a gnome, correct?
Sam: Yes.
Matt: Right, so there in this space amongst the murky liquid you can just barely see its shape there and it is held aloft, yes.
Sam: Okay. That's good, that's positive, guys. We're getting somewhere. Is that my movement? Is that my bonus? What is that?
Matt: No, that's your action to pull it out and click it. Because it's not easy to do in your current circumstance.
Sam: Sure. Okay. Well, I guess that's my action and I guess as a bonus action I can't really do anything. (laughs) I can't inspire anyone because I don't think I can hear-- oh! I'm going to use the earring. Shit. Fuck. I'm going to just start screaming and say: can you hear me, Vax?
Matt: You guys hear through the earring, (incoherent high-pitched babbling). The air has now escaped your lungs.
Sam: Fuck!
Matt: You're not drowning yet. That ends your turn. Vex, you're up.
Laura: Do I get advantage on attacking it because of Guiding Bolt?
Matt: You do. The next attack, yes.
Sam: Did Vax reply?
Matt: Yeah, the Guiding Bolt, because the Guiding Bolt's technically the next attack, it did not give you advantage on the attack, because you're on the inside and you don't actually see the Guiding Bolt. It would go over to the next one.
Liam: I don't know what the fuck's going on, Matt, it's fine.
Laura: I've got to see, because I just want to know. How far does Grasping Vine go? Do you know, Keyleth?
Marisha: 60 feet? I can tell you super fast. No, 30 feet.
Laura: How high in the air is--
Matt: He is 30 feet up right now.
Marisha: You technically have a pillar that's 30 feet high adjacent to him that you can anchor it into a pillar.
Laura: I'm going to-- can it go from the bottom of the pillar up towards him?
Matt: If you want to. Down here, you mean?
Laura: Yeah, I want to try to grasp onto one of his legs and yank him back down towards the ground. Ooh, which would really hurt with the immovable rod inside of him.
Matt: Okay. All right. So using your bonus action, you conjure the vine as your one 4th-level spell.
Laura: I have two because I have a pearl of power.
Matt: Oh. So you would've had to have prepared that in advance. But yes, we'll say you do.
Laura: Okay. Oh, I didn't tell you. I should have.
Matt: You should have told me. But we'll say as part of the preparation you did that, okay. So Grasping Vine appears, lashes out from this pillar up at Umbrasyl.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: All right. The creature has to succeed on a dexterity saving throw or be pulled-- what's the DC on your spell?
Laura: Um, 16.
Matt: 16. That is a nine plus nine, that is 18. So the vine whips out and Umbrasyl backs up and pulls the leg up and it just hits the air beneath. Kicks away the vine.
Laura: That was my bonus.
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: Okay, then I'm going to attack him three times with my hasting.
Matt: Go for it. Yeah, three attacks.
Laura: All right.
Matt: First one has advantage.
Laura: Okay. 24?
Matt: 24 hits.
Laura: Okay. And that's sneak attack, because he's got somebody close to him. Inside of him.
Matt: It's technically not sneak attack. It's not so much about-- there's somebody close, but a person that is not threatening him from his current physical space, it is a bit of heartburn for him right now. You don't sneak attack somebody from eating bad pasta.
Laura: Cool. Then just seven--
Sam: Did he move?
Matt: Not yet, no. So how much damage is that?
Laura: Ten.
Matt: Ten points of damage for the first attack.
Laura: For the first attack.
Matt: Second attack? This does not have advantage, only the first one did. What was your first roll?
Laura: Then it doesn't hit. Then 26 for the last one.
Matt: 26 hits, so the first one hits, sticks part in the front of its armor, doesn't seem to phase it, the second one it actually hits the wing and the wing just shatters it and knocks it out of the air as it's keeping itself up. The third one, however, does strike and hit and it'll actually go between the scales of the neck. Roll for damage.
Laura: Nine.
Matt: Nine points of damage. Both arrows sticking out of the hardened exterior of the ancient black dragon.
Laura: The Grasping Vine just still hangs out there?
Matt: Yeah, it's just chilling on the side there. As long as you maintain concentration, it'll stay.
Travis: Is it grabbing him or not?
Matt: It failed with the grab. All right. End of your turn? Is that what you're doing?
Laura: Am I hiding still?
Matt: You have to use a bonus action to try and hide if you began the turn hiding. Or you can use your extra action from the haste to do it, but you already used it to attack, so you're not hidden.
Laura: Ugh! Fine.
Matt: (laughs) End of your turn, it's going to use another legendary action to do another tail attack against you, Pike.
Travis: Is that the third one?
Matt: That is a natural one. Umbrasyl goes to swing and suddenly there's a pulse in the stomach as you see Vax moving once again on the inside and doing so distracts it and the tail just swings overhead and you duck below it as it just barely misses your head by inches. One of your braids actually comes loose from the amount of wind that blows by. That brings us to--
Travis: What's left of the Herd.
Matt: Herd's turn.
Travis: Come on, goliaths and Herd, please roll better.
Matt: He is going to rush up around here. Grab the chains that they can. The chains have broken, so they're going to go ahead as part of their plan to begin to just unleash weaponry, so they just run through--
Marisha: Have they all broken? Maybe some just came loose.
Matt: This was their plan. The plan they agreed to. They're all taking out javelins now. They had them at their side. They're all leaping up towards it.
Laura: Are they just the stupidest goliaths, that they're all clumping together again?
Liam: That's redundant.
Laura: These guys are dumb.
Matt: You've met...
Travis: Scholars, the lot. You're going to pay for that later, by the way.
Matt: All right, so they're all going to take javelin shots at-- miss. Miss. Two-- miss. Hit. Hit. Three hits. And so they're all just (effort sounds) chucking these javelins upward. Four, eight, that's 12, plus seven-- 19 points of damage from the javelins as some stick in then fall out, the wounds are now becoming visible. Umbrasyl's-- there's visible wounding but doesn't appear to be in dire straits or anything. Grog, you're up.
Travis: Yes, I have two questions. One of the things I picked up from Kevdak were four enchanted javelins. What do those do?
Matt: They're thrown, ranged attacks.
Travis: And they're just enchanted?
Matt: They're plus one to hit and damage.
Travis: Just that.
Matt: That's it, yeah. It's a relatively simple enchantment.
Travis: What is my climbing speed? If my natural speed is 50 and I wanted to climb that column, what's the climbing speed?
Matt: Climbing speed? I mean, if you roll a decent climb check-- here. That would be-- I'd say that would be an athletics check to see if you can climb it, and I'd put it at about half speed. But you're also prone, so getting up from that's half your speed.
Travis: On my back, can I use my bonus action to drink the potion of speed, which makes me hasted?
Matt: Yes you can. You now have technically four attacks per round.
Travis: I do. And it doubles my speed, right?
Matt: Yes.
Travis: Okay, so I have 100 feet, so can I stand up?
Matt: Yep. 50 feet.
Travis: Can I try and climb that column towards Umbrasyl's feet?
Matt: Athletics check.
Travis: That's not awesome. 18.
Matt: 18. You just manage to get to the top with the last bit of your movement. So you are up about ten feet from Umbrasyl right now, pushing on 15 at an angle.
Travis: So I have four attacks?
Matt: Yes. You're not in melee, though.
Travis: Yeah, so I'll use three of the enchanted javelins and the javelin of lightning.
Matt: Okay. All right, so you (effort sounds) finally with the javelin of lightning. So go ahead and make the first three strikes.
Travis: Reckless, all of them.
Matt: Okay, so with advantage on each of these. The range on the javelin strikes, I'm just going to pull it up real fast, since this is the first time you've used this.
Travis: Yeah, it's 120 feet for the javelin of lightning.
Matt: Yeah, within 30-foot range, so it's fine. Go ahead and roll. First one is?
Travis: It's an 11 plus-- just my natural like--
Matt: It's 11 plus one for being enchanted.
Travis: Right.
Matt: Plus your strength modifier and your proficiency modifier.
Travis: Oh no, my proficiency--
Matt: Which is plus seven, I believe. Plus-- so yeah, that hits.
Travis: Okay. Where's my proficiency-- oh five, I got it.
Matt: Yeah, you're looking at plus 13 with these attacks. The first one hits.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: Second one.
Travis: Is 28.
Matt: Hits. Third one.
Travis: Is 19.
Matt: Misses. The lightning javelin you just throw and I think it hits.
Travis: And the second one, the last one is a 30.
Matt: The last one, I don't think you actually roll to hit with the javelin, it just becomes a bolt of lightning.
Travis: That's right.
Matt: So roll 1d6 plus eight for damage on two of those javelins.
Travis: So that's 12.
Matt: All right.
Travis: 14.
Matt: All righty. And now with the javelin of lightning. Makes its save. That is a 21 with the save. What's the DC?
Travis: 17.
Matt: 17, so it takes the half damage.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: What's the damage on it total?
Travis: 4d6.
Matt: Go ahead and roll that and he takes half damage.
Travis: 13.
Matt: 13, all righty. So 13, and then halved.
Travis: Six--
Matt: Six points of lightning damage. Okay. The last hit, the javelin turns into a bolt of lightning, and streaks through, hits and impacts and then just falls to the ground, the energy expended. Jamming itself into the dirt not far from the ground. End of your turn, Grog. Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: Okay, my first shot, taking a wing shot.
Matt: All right, go for it.
Taliesin: That's 20, that does not hit.
Matt: 20. It just ricochets off the armor.
Taliesin: All right, that's one grit. Taking another shot.
Matt: Okay, reload, and then shot again.
Taliesin: That hits. 30.
Matt: 30 hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
Taliesin: 15 points of damage. And he has to make a strength saving throw.
Matt: Strength saving throw. That is a 19.
Taliesin: DC is 19.
Matt: Okay, so it succeeds.
Taliesin: It succeeds on the 19?
Matt: Yeah, you have to meet or exceed.
Taliesin: Okay, I'm going to burn an action surge to take a third shot.
Matt: All right. So reload, shot, reload. Go for it.
Taliesin: 21 does not hit?
Matt: 21 does not hit. It just steers wide, shooting past the beating wings.
Taliesin: Yeah, and then I'm going to just hide behind that tree and wait for my next round.
Matt: Okay. All right. Ending your turn, Percy. Noja is going to use the third and final Lightning Bolt, now arcing up to the entity. Makes its save with a 27. All right, bringing us to-- 8d6. 13 points of lightning damage against Umbrasyl from Noja, and Noja steps back behind, looking exasperated and spent on some of the upper-echelon spells at his disposal. Now it comes to-- actually, at the end of Noja's turn, Umbrasyl's going to use its last legendary action to make one more tail swipe at you, Grog.
Travis: Yup.
Matt: That is going to be a 29 to hit.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: All righty. You take-- that's really bad. That's 11 points of bludgeoning damage reduced to five.
Travis: I stay up?
Matt: Yeah, you stay up. (loud clanging sound from Skype)
Matt: What's happening over there?
Liam: Taliesin!
Matt: All right. Top of Umbrasyl's turn. See if this recharges. Umbrasyl is going to attempt to move to the left.
Liam: Yeah, try it, buddy. Internal damage.
Sam: The rod supports 8,000 pounds of pressure.
Matt: Correct. If the creature pushes against it, it must make a DC 30 strength check to move the rod up to ten feet in a single round. So. Nope.
Liam: That thing's fixed in space.
Matt: It goes to move and (grunts) and is feeling something tear through on the inside of its area so it stops with this sharp pain. Takes one point of damage, but the warning is there. It does not move. However, (laughs) the acid breath did recharge on a five. It's going to go ahead and go right there. Angrily lay down right there.
Laura: No!
Ashley: No!
Liam: But you're resistant.
Taliesin: Isn't he having plummeting issues if he's not moving?
Matt: No, if your speed is zero you plummet is how it works.
Taliesin: Okay.
Matt: No, they all fail. All right. They are all right over here. Wrecked. Wrecked. Wrecked. Wrecked.
Laura: Where's Zanror?
Matt: Zanror's right there at the bottom.
Laura: Where's his wife?
Matt: His wife is over here. And when I say wrecked, they're on the ground, their flesh dissolving and screaming in pain. The Herd has been heavily culled in but a few rounds. There's a little bit of horror to it. I need both Grog and Keyleth as an earth elemental to make a dexterity saving throw.
Travis: 16.
Marisha: I rolled a two with a minus one, so one. Not a natural one. Rolled a two.
Matt: You both suffer 82 points of acid damage.
Marisha: Okay.
Travis: Resistance, so I halve that?
Matt: Yeah, you take 41 points of acid damage.
Marisha: I'm in tank mode, so I'm good. I'm an earth elemental.
Matt: Unable to move, that is the end of Umbrasyl's turn. That's messed up. (laughter)
Matt: Pike, you're up.
Ashley: I am going to cast Blindness on him.
Matt: What's the DC on the check? What is it, is it wisdom?
Ashley: I think it's constitution. Constitution saving throw.
Matt: All right, constitution saving throw. That is 18 plus 14. 32. I think that succeeds.
Liam: You don't know. She might've rolled a 78.
Ashley: You don't know! That's fine. I'm going to move my Spiritual Weapon.
Matt: All right. So it now shifts up into space as a bonus action, and you can make a ranged spell attack against it as the sword arcs upward towards Umbrasyl. Go ahead and roll, add your spell attack modifier.
Ashley: 29.
Matt: That hits. Go ahead and roll damage. 1d8 plus five, correct? Pretty sure.
Ashley: 1d8 for every two slot levels--
Matt: You did second level for that one, because it was a bonus action. 1d8 plus five.
Ashley: Nine.
Matt: Nine points of damage against Umbrasyl. Blade just streaks across and more sparks fly, but this time you can see it left a carve of glowing red mark across the scales where the blade managed to do some damage to it. That ends your turn, Pike. Vax, you're up. You immediately take eight points of bludgeoning damage as it begins to crush you from the inside.
Liam: Okay. I'm going to use my bonus action to-- can I sneak attack this thing from inside? I'm inside him! That's very surprising!
Matt: It's different! It's not like a soft gooey center. All of its body is still very dense, sinewy muscle in the vicinity. You don't know where you are in its body, so you don't know where the actual weak points are. So, given those circumstances, your ability to barely move-- Probably not.
Liam: Probably not? All right. Well. I'm going to use my bonus action first to hit it. It's at disadvantage?
Matt: Yes. All attacks because you're still restrained.
Liam: Okay, so that is 19, which fucks up.
Matt: That unfortunately is not cutting through.
Liam: And now I'm going to use the dragon sword. Okay. That's a 21?
Matt: 21, just barely not able to cut through the dense hide, the blade is caught on what feels like a ligament or something, it can't quite carve through with your body all crushed up inside.
Liam: Well. I will, for my turn, suffocate and also Fassbender should still be trying to recharge.
Matt: Correct. So go ahead and roll a d6.
Liam: d6. Four.
Matt: Four. Fassbender's still standing there. On a five or six, it recharges. That ends Vax's turn. Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: Okay. As an earth elemental I want to drop into the earth and Earthglide.
Matt: All right. How many feet are you going?
Marisha: With my 60 feet-- question, can I get across and to the top of this pillar here? Maybe?
Matt: Oh, right there?
Marisha: That one.
Matt: You can get up to there. You're wider than the pillar, though. You like--
Marisha: Earthglide to the top, so it's 30 feet tall. (nervous laughter) And I'm going to use my momentum to see if I can rocket myself out and see if I can jump and grab onto his leg.
Matt: Okay, so you're making this a jump action, then?
Marisha: Yeah, I want to shoot out of the pillar.
Matt: Using the momentum of the Earthglide?
Marisha: And shoot out with a waterslide trajectory, woo! Yeah? Maybe?
Matt: Okay. I'll say that-- It's pretty fast-- Also pretty heavy as an earth elemental.
Marisha: I'm thinking about it real hard.
Matt: Go ahead and make an athletics check.
Marisha: So is that strength as a--
Matt: That would be strength as an earth elemental if you do not have a specific skill for it.
Marisha: I'm going to use Scanlan's inspiration. Ooh, that's good. 18 plus five, so, 23.
Matt: 23. You manage to leap and catch the bottom of its foot. (cheering)
Matt: You're not halting or doing anything to Umbrasyl other than the fact that you're holding on to--
Marisha: But I've got his foot. And I'm heavy as fuck. Well, if Fassbender weighs, what was it, like 1,200 pounds? 2,800 pounds?
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: So I'm at least as heavy if not heavier than Fassbender.
Marisha: A ton is 1,000 pounds. Right?
Matt: 2,000.
Marisha: 2,000 pounds.
Laura: I thought a ton was 3,000 pounds.
Marisha: None of us fucking know. Why didn't we go metric?
Matt: The European watchers are like--
Marisha: Yeah, what are they talking about? Okay. I'm holding on for dear life.
Matt: All right. That ends your turn. Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: I know from my experience going to the pubs with Grog--
Matt: Take eight points of acid damage, by the way, as you're slowly dissolving. Reduced to four.
Sam: I'm fine. How's my lungs?
Matt: Oh Keyleth, by the way, I need you to make a concentration check before I forget.
Marisha: Okay. Yeah. No, that's. Wait, do I add anything?
Matt: Well the DC is half the damage you took from the breath weapon, so 40. So who did you cast the resist acid on? You're no longer resistant to acid, Grog.
Travis: Copy that.
Marisha: Sorry.
Travis: No, it came in handy for the one.
Marisha: It did.
Sam: How's my lungs? Am I dying here?
Matt: Your air is out, you're still holding your breath, per se, but you have one more round before you actually probably start--
Liam: I would like to say that Liam O'Brien, who's a total wuss-puss, can hold his breath for like 50 seconds.
Sam: While you're screaming?
Liam: So Vax and Scanlan should be--
Matt: You're doing okay. He screamed and released all the air out of his lungs. So he's now completely collapsed lungs, no air to subsist on.
Sam: I'm almost out. I'm going to see if I can last one more round in here.
Matt: Okay, what are you doing? (laughs)
Sam: Well, as I was saying, I know from my time drinking with Grog that any sort of blow to the stomach will really make you barf pretty easily, so I'm going to set off a Thunderwave at level six and hope that he spits me up.
Ashley: Spits you both up, maybe.
Liam: I'm still in its anus.
Travis: We don't even know where you are, really.
Sam: You're done, friend, sorry.
Matt: All right, so at a sixth level we're looking at 7d8 thunder damage.
Sam: Yes. Thunder damage.
Matt: Go ahead and roll that.
Marisha: Do you need more d8s?
Liam: All part of the plan.
Sam: Yeah, this is totally thought-out.
Liam: The hastily smushed-together plan.
Sam: 7d8?
Matt: That is a DC, it rolled a nine plus 14, so it succeeds.
Sam: So it'll be halved.
Matt: Half damage.
Sam: Okay.
Liam: Eat some shit, Umbrasyl.
Sam: 25.
Matt: 25.
Sam: Only 12 points.
Matt: 12 points. I need you to make a constitution saving throw, because you are on the other side of the membrane from Scanlan and suddenly there's a giant impactful forceful blow as the outside of the stomach crushes--
Liam: Natural 20! (cheering)
Matt: You take 12 points of damage as well.
Liam: (laughs) Okay, I'll take it.
Matt: Constitution saving throw on Umbrasyl's part for-- Rolled a natural 20, so Umbrasyl's not vomiting.
Sam: Not vomiting.
Matt: Nope, rolled a natural 20 to see if it could hold it down. There's a boof from the inside of the dragon--
Sam: Does a little come up and he swallows it back down?
Matt: Basically. A little, almost.
Ashley: Maybe you got a little air though. For you.
Sam: I don't know, did that make a little air?
Ashley: Probably give you enough time to (inhales).
Matt: From the source of the force that probably pushed it away for a second, air is pulled through the esophagus instinctually as when the space opens it has to suck through, there's this (gasp) sound, so yes, there is a moment of air that is pushed back out. You can see upwards a brief little glimpse of light at the top of the esophagus as the mouth is forced open as the air is pulled in and the blast streaks out angrily. Scanlan, is that your turn?
Sam: I can't do much else. Do I have any movement?
Matt: You are restrained so your movement is zero.
Sam: Even in the water? I'm in a womb-like state.
Matt: You're not like floating in a giant pool of water. You're crushed against membranes with acid. Remember the scene in Akira when Tetsuo gets too big and the girl gets crushed briefly? You're in that middle period right there, you're between two folds of stomach lining and there is just acid all around. It's awesome.
Sam: All right. Then I can't really do much. Oh! Shit. No, I would've had to call it earlier. Never mind.
Ashley: What?
Liam: I just want to remind everyone, I am really small. I fit between muscles, bones, ligaments, anything.
Sam: I could have done Cutting Words after I cast my spell, but I didn't, so forget it. Shit.
Matt: At the end of your turn, it's going to use a legendary action to do a wing attack, actually two actions cost. Begins beating its wings rapidly in this vicinity. I need both Grog and Pike to make dexterity saving throws.
Liam: Scanlan, we're safe from all this shit.
Sam: I know! This is the best place to be. We're only going to suffocate and be crushed.
Travis: 18.
Ashley: 18.
Matt: Both of you take 15 points of bludgeoning damage and are thrust towards the edge of the stone, I need you both to make strength checks to resist the force to the blow.
Marisha: Hold on! Nice.
Travis: 21.
Ashley: Ten.
Travis: Is 15 halved for me for the bludgeoning, or is that already halved?
Matt: No, it's halved for you after that. However, you both are, from the sheer force of the wind, blown off the top--
Travis: A 21?
Marisha: What did you have to beat?
Matt: 23. Ancient dragon. You both fall and take an additional eight points of bludgeoning damage.
Ashley: I'm going to use my celestial shield and cast Featherfall.
Matt: Okay. So you take no damage from the additional seven. You catch yourself on the ground.
Travis: My eight is halved.
Matt: Yeah, you're both prone at the bottom of the pillars. All right. That was the end of Scanlan's turn. Back to the top, Vex, you're up.
Laura: Okay, I'm going to try Conjure fucking Animals again. By the way, I was wrong. My pearl of power only works up to level three, so I don't have two level fours, I already used the one. So. Conjure Animals, again, two more giant eagles out of the ether. This time I want to conjure them like ten feet above his head.
Matt: Okay. Actually, because I didn't see you I need you to go ahead and make a save as well, because you were on it as it's beating its wings, too.
Marisha: Even though I'm holding on to his leg?
Matt: Yep. Go ahead and make a dexterity saving throw.
Marisha: That's not good. Four.
Matt: Four. You also take 15 points of bludgeoning damage.
Marisha: Halved because I'm an elemental.
Matt: And I need you to go ahead and make a strength saving throw.
Marisha: Strength? 19.
Matt: 19. You are blown off of the dragon's body.
Marisha: That sucks.
Matt: Like a rock slamming into the ground.
Laura: Oh, she knocked out a pillar on the way down.
Matt: You take 12 points of bludgeoning damage from the impact with the ground, leaving a small crater. However, there are two giant eagles that are now floating in the vicinity around the dragon. The eagles are summoned. Their initiative is not bad. They're going to be after Grog.
Laura: Okay. So they're above his head now, so if he shoots acid down, they'll be here. And their command is, attack his eyeballs. Okay. I'm going to use my boots of haste. For my perception, would I be able to see any weird little bumps on the dragon? Because my brother's been in there a while. Can I see anything going on?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Liam: I'm behind his left nipple. It's pretty good already. It's pretty good.
Sam: Our earrings should work.
Laura: I'm sorry.
Sam: We don't need to talk.
Laura: 28. No, 29 perception.
Matt: 29? All right. You notice, on the outskirts of like the central row of scales, there is a small lump that is constantly struggling not far from the surface and is just darting around like a cartoon flea.
Laura: I'm going to aim right by there. But not quite at it. I want to make an opening around it.
Matt: All right. Roll for it.
Liam: Man, remember when we used to do hopscotch? That was the best. And then also we used to take baths together when we were really little, but that was when we were really little--
Laura: 20. Doesn't hit.
Matt: 20, it hits and shatters--
Ashley: Can I use War God's Blessing again? I use it every turn. Every round.
Matt: I think it's a Channel Divinity, in which case I don't think you can. War God's Blessing, Channel Divinity-- Which currently-- You can use it a second time between rests. Yeah. So you can.
Ashley: Let's do it.
Matt: So that does hit.
Laura: Oh, it hits?
Matt: Plus ten to the attack, so it hits.
Laura: Oh my goodness!
Travis: Pike!
Liam: Vex'ahlia--
Laura: Ten damage.
Matt: Let's see here, what's the range on that one?
Marisha: He's consulting the book again.
Matt: Just checking to see the range on that last because it does have a range--
Laura: He's getting my hopes up and then he's going to dash them down to the ground.
Matt: It's what I do. Creature within 30 feet of you makes an attack roll, so you could not, unfortunately.
Ashley: What was that, say again?
Matt: Has to be within 30 feet of you. She's too far away. So that one does miss, shatters across the armor of the dragon. You have one more attack and then your extra if you want to.
Laura: That one doesn't work either. (mock-crying) Okay, that's good. 23!
Matt: 23 hits.
Laura: Okay. 11.
Matt: 11 points of damage.
Sam: Yeah, he's dead!
Laura: How do I want to do this? (laughter)
Matt: You can't summon it yourself.
Laura: Dammit!
Matt: Sticks into and pierces through. You feel a (impact sound) nearby. And what little bit of vision you have in the squeezed area, dark as it is using your elven darkvision, you can see what looks to be a part of an arrow point that has stuck through the armor.
Liam: I wrap my fingers around it.
Matt: Okay. Ends Vex's turn.
Sam: You don't know if it's Vex's. It could be anybody's!
Liam: Shut the fuck up, gnome!
Matt: At this point, Zanror looks over to Worra and says, "We have to go. Save our child." And Worra looks and sees all the dead around her. "Only if you come with me." Looks back and says, "No. I don't run from this. I'm going to kill this with my cousin." She turns and goes into a full dash this way, escaping. This guy's going to go ahead and begin to climb up. And gets partway up. Not all the way. Take a step back and make four arrow shots at it. That's a hit, a miss, a miss, and a miss. Takes an additional ten points of damage from the arrow. That guy over there is going to move around and he's going to grab one of the dropped chains on the ground and throw it up to see if it can wrap around Umbrasyl. Seven does not hit. It just arcs below and falls to the ground. That's going to end the Herd's turn. Grog, you're up.
Travis: Still hasted. Can I stand up?
Matt: Okay, so 50 feet.
Travis: And with the Titanstone Knuckles, can I smash them together and cast Enlarge on myself? (cheering)
Travis: How tall am I?
Matt: You are twice your size, so you're pushing about 12 feet.
Laura: He's only six feet tall?
Marisha: He's gotta be taller than six feet.
Matt: It's roughly half your height, not perfect--
Liam: You're 15 feet tall now, Grog.
Laura: Yeah, 20 feet, you're probably 20 feet.
Marisha: 15 sounds nicer. Rounds up.
Matt: Don't argue with the DM.
Marisha: I'm not arguing, we're rounding up.
Liam: You're like two feet tall now and it's really impressive.
Travis: Being that I'm hasted, can I move directly behind Umbrasyl, like underneath him and behind? And can I attach the chain of returning to the Bloodaxe--
Matt: I assume it was attached before the battle.
Travis: Yes. And can I throw it at Umbrasyl?
Matt: Go for it.
Travis: Do I have four? No, I just have one throw.
Matt: You have one throw. It hits and then you can pull it back.
Travis: If I want to.
Matt: Yes.
Travis: Reckless.
Matt: Yes.
Travis: That's even better. 29.
Matt: 29 hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
Travis: 21. With one point of necrotic damage.
Matt: 21 points of damage onto Umbrasyl. All righty. It is embedded in there. Do you want to pull back?
Travis: I don't want to pull it loose. I just want to weigh on it.
Matt: Okay, you weigh. All right. At the end of your turn, it's going to go ahead and make a tail attack against one of the eagles. That is going to be a 21 to hit.
Laura: I bet that hits.
Matt: The giant eagle takes 20 points of bludgeoning damage.
Laura: I'm sure that probably kills him.
Marisha: He has 26 hit points.
Laura: He's got six points left.
Matt: Okay, so the eagle right there has six hit points left.
Travis: Does enlarging do anything to my damage? Sorry.
Matt: You do an additional 1d4 damage with any melee attacks.
Travis: I didn't do that. Can I do that?
Matt: Melee attacks. Although the weapon does grow large. I'll say go ahead and do another 1d4.
Travis: Hey, four!
Matt: There you go. So that's an additional four damage. Great. So that's the eagles' turn. What do you got, Laura?
Laura: They're going to fly and attack his eyeballs! Fuck him up.
Ashley: Get him!
Matt: Roll attack, they have two attacks each, so roll four attacks.
Laura: Roll four attacks?
Matt: Yes. Plus five to each.
Liam: That one hits.
Laura: That's good. That hits. That one doesn't.
Matt: 23 hits.
Laura: Ooh! Then one other attack hits.
Matt: So two hits. All right. So that is--
Laura: So those would be, like, one beak and one talon maybe?
Matt: It would be one beak and one talon, yeah. Go for it. So 1d6 plus three and then 2d6 plus three.
Laura: Nine for one on the eyeballs.
Matt: Nice.
Laura: And eight on the talons.
Matt: Not bad. Both streaking out and clawing heavily at the dragon. It's bothered by it very remotely. It's more distracted with the sharp pain in its stomach.
Laura: Eyeballs.
Matt: Well yeah, I mean, they're striking at it, they don't go straight for the eyeballs, the dragon goes here, hit. They're getting near it and scraping it, the scales around it, it's moving its horns around and batting them away. If you wanted to make called shots for its eyes specifically, none of those would've hit. Outside of a natural 20, none of them would've hit. And even a dragon's eyes have pretty decent armor.
Laura: That's cool, okay, good to know.
Matt: So Percy, you're up. Oh, we've lost audio on Percy.
Laura: Oh no!
Sam: Text us your move.
Taliesin: No, I'm good.
Matt: What are you doing?
Taliesin: All right. I'm taking two shots. That's all I got left.
Matt: All right. Go for it.
Taliesin: Here we go. 23?
Matt: 23 hits.
Taliesin: Ah! Hm. Ah. Okay. That's, eee, (broken audio).
Travis: Say that again, Perce.
Taliesin: 20, 24 points of damage.
Matt: Nice.
Taliesin: Six of which are necrotic. I'm taking my second shot.
Matt: All right. Reload, second shot.
Taliesin: Reload, fire. Fuck my life. That's m--(audio glitches)
Matt: Misfire? Oh no. Bad News just (muffled explosion).
Taliesin: Putting it away, pulling out the other gun.
Matt: All right, so that's the end of your turn?
Taliesin: That's the end of my turn.
Matt: All right. Noja actually is getting scared, yeah. Noja is actually hiding behind the tree and is shaking now, his body, malnourishment that whole time and this dragon taking all of these blows and is still standing has gotten to his head. Umbrasyl is going to look around in the vicinity, you know, starting to show some wear and tear and some serious damage to it now. And it's going to go into a dive. As it does so, you watch as the rod hits the edge of the body and tears through the stomach.
Liam: Damage.
Matt: And tears through the abdomen and out the side of it. The immovable rod now shoots out the side of its body.
Marisha: That's going to be a lot of damage, right?
Liam: That's a fuckin' missile.
Matt: That is 37 points of piercing damage as it ejects from the side. He is going to--
Travis: I'm still attached to him, too.
Matt: Correct. As you are pulled up, let's see here.
Travis: I'm going for a ride.
Marisha: We burned through all of his legendary saves.
Sam: One more.
Liam: You're attached to him? By a chain?
Travis: Yup.
Matt: You, Grog, are now being lifted up. Make a strength check.
Travis: Advantage on this. 24.
Matt: 24, yeah. Umbrasyl lifts up and goes full flying speed of 80 feet this way, carrying you dangling beneath and is going to go into a dash and continue to fly up towards Gatshadow.
Sam: (terrified laughter)
Liam: He's scared.
Matt: With Scanlan and Vax inside him still.
Liam: Work that broom, girl!
Matt: Grog dangling from beneath. And that's where we're going to pick up the next one. (yelling)
Matt: It's midnight!
Travis: Three of us are not here next week.
Matt: Three of you are not here-- That's right. Do you guys want to keep going then?
Liam: Yes!
Travis: It's either that or--
Matt: Or you're going to have to wait two weeks.
Travis: We're not here.
Laura: What do you guys think? Would you rather wait two weeks?
Liam: I want to go.
Laura: I mean, this is you guys, too. You guys have to stay.
Sam: You want to go, keep going?
Liam: Keep going.
Sam: It could be a long night.
Ashley: Who's not here next week?
Travis: Laura, Travis, and Sam.
Matt: Yeah, we're probably going to take off next week because we're missing half the party.
Sam: Oh, so we'll just skip next week and come back in two weeks.
Liam: No, it's on us, because we have jobs and getting up in the morning.
Matt: Yeah, we have work tomorrow.
Sam: Why don't we skip next week and come back in two weeks to finish?
Laura: I feel like that's smarter.
Matt: All right, let's do that.
Liam: You're leaving me in this thing's anus for two weeks?
Travis: That 30 minutes fucked us.
Matt: Picking up in two weeks from now. (yelling)
Marisha: This is awful.
Sam: The worst cliffhanger ever.
Matt: We have the remnants of the Herd and most of Vox Machina left behind as Umbrasyl flies off to the peaks of Gatshadow, dragging a large chain-held Grog beneath and a miniaturized Vax and Scanlan inside of its body.
Liam: Yeah, but I'm holding an arrow that's half in and out of the dragon. So I've got a little tunnel out.
Marisha: Make a little breathing hole?
Sam: I see a hole that goes to the outside now.
Travis: It's the shaft of an arrow.
Taliesin: This is chaos. I will see you guys later. I can't hear anything.
Marisha: Bye, Taliesin! We love you!
Matt: Oh man, this is going to get real interesting.
Sam: How are we going to survive two weeks thinking about this? I know what we'll do! We'll subscribe to Loot Crate and we'll find all sorts of things to keep us-- We'll be able to play with new toys and drink from-- (laughing)
Travis: Made me drop my fucking jelly bean.
Laura: That went south. That went seriously south.
Sam: We're not doing well.
Travis: We're doing great.
Matt: You guys did pretty good. Dragon's taken some damage.
Liam: Is it two Thursdays from now yet?
Matt: No, but it will be soon. All right, guys. We'll figure out what we're doing next Thursday. It might be another Q&A hangout session for those of us who are still in town.
Liam: Son of a b.
Ashley: Why are you guys going?
Marisha: Are you still going to be in Puerto Rico that long? No?
Travis: No.
Matt: They got birthday events and travel to do. It's all good. We'll be back here in two weeks, back here next week for probably a Q&A hangout session, two weeks from now with the dramatic conclusion of the showdown with Umbrasyl the Hope Devourer, member of the Chroma Conclave.
Liam: Matt, if you were wondering what to get me for my birthday, it's to kill my character in two weeks.
Laura: No! That is so terrible. Don't say that.
Matt: (laughs) That's awful.
Marisha: Such a death wish.
Liam: Kill me.
Laura: No.
Marisha: Hope Devourer. Maiden name Hope. Maiden name Hope.
Liam: The dragon's name is Hope.
Matt: We'll see you in a few weeks? Well, some of us will see you next week. Rest well, dream of flying dragons digesting smaller people. (laughs) See you guys soon. Is it Thursday yet? Good night.

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello, everyone, and welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play Dungeons and Dragons at the same table. Thank you so much for your patience. As mentioned last week, we're adjusting and changing and updating things and taking your feedback and our feedback, and everyone's been working really hard to make this set progressively better and better to make it a better experience. This is our first time all at the same table since the home game. (cheering)
Matt: But no, seriously, don't do that. That's okay.
Marisha: Still in front of a green screen.
Matt: Still in front of a green screen. Totally. Thank you guys so much for being patient. We are up now, and let's dive into the announcements for the evening. We don't have a whole lot this week, but we have, let's see. Any updates as far as the merch is concerned?
Laura: The merchandises? Well, you know, we do have that amazing David Mack poster.
Sam: But I thought that was only a limited-release item, Laura.
Laura: It is, actually, but it's available for three more weeks. The signed version is available for two more weeks. And since it is a limited-time release thing, if you know anybody that watches the show but is maybe way behind and they're not watching live, it would probably be nice to let them know about it, because I still get some messages about the Joe Mad poster that people can't get anymore. So it will be gone after this, so it's nice if they can get it, too. And we have the Scanlan tee, and we have our amazing Slayer's Take aprons. Slayer's Cake aprons.
Sam: Let's talk about the Scanlan t-shirt a little more.
Laura: We have the amazing Scanlan concert tee.
Travis: That asshole? No, we're good.
Laura: And, you know, a bunch of other t-shirts as well, and a whole bunch of other things. Go check out the shop on geekandsundry.com and you'll see all of the merchandise that's available.
Matt: All right, cool. Also, a reminder, guys, the Tal'Dorei campaign guide's coming out at GenCon in August. Pre-orders go up, I believe, mid-July, and I think if you pre-order it, I think it's like five extra bucks or something like that, you get the PDF download immediately. All the information is on Green Ronin's website, so go check it out if you have any questions there, because they can answer them better than I can. I'm steeped in art approvals and everything right now.
Marisha: The art is looking so good!
Matt: It's looking awesome. We've pulled in some-- we've got a lot of community artists that we pushed over towards Green Ronin, so they've been pulling people from the community, which makes me happy, because I want to get as many of you guys involved as possible in this.
Laura: As many of us as possible?
Liam: I can't draw for shit.
Sam: I can do some art.
Matt: I was referring to the community, not you guys.
Travis: Sam's art is really rare.
Matt: Yeah, I've seen it, and it's pretty... yeah. They all wind up looking like genitals. It's crazy. We have the podcast, which is now up. (cheering)
Matt: Audio podcast, for people who want to save their data and listen on long drives.
Laura: Who don't want to look at our faces.
Matt: I don't blame you.
Travis: For no other reason than for those Sam Riegel advertisements at the beginning.
Matt: So we got that. And we have Wednesday Club.
Taliesin: Yeah, Wednesday Club next week. I don't actually know what we're doing, because I haven't looked at the 30-plus messages in that text thread, because I've been working on a thing that I can't talk about yet that's going to be really, really great.
Sam: Taliesin, I feel like most of the time you don't know what you're going to be talking about.
Taliesin: That's true.
Sam: So maybe you should just have a go-to. Like, it's going to be Daredevil again. Or something. Just something.
Taliesin: What are we going to-- yeah, we need a go-to. What was going to be our blanket go-to? I'm not sure.
Travis: Punisher.
Marisha: Great Lakes Avengers
Taliesin: Great Lakes Avengers is actually pretty spectacular. It's hard to say it. Great Lakes Avengers.
Matt: Make a big effort to bring back the What the--?! comics.
Liam: What about the scientology graphic novels?
Taliesin: I haven't read those. Do they have those?
Liam: Well, I'm up to level six. (laughter)
Taliesin: Do you want to be a guest on the show?
Matt: You've almost learned invisibility! Anyway. Apologies to all our scientology fans.
Sam: Yeah, we just lost half the audience.
Matt: All right, so.
Liam: Sea Org uniforms, watching a giant-screen TV of Critical Role. (laughter)
Matt: Exactly. And Signal Boost?
Marisha: Jeff Lewis. We announced it on Tuesday on Talks. Yeah, Jeff Lewis, still Jeff.
Matt: All right, cool. Then, unless we have anything else to announce, let's get into tonight's episode of Critical Role. [dramatic music]
Matt: Welcome back. So, getting us up to speed as to what happened last time. Vox Machina had recently been visited by an old ally, Scanlan Shorthalt, who had spent the past year or so--
Laura: An old ally.
Matt: Yeah. Hey. Building a reputation and a criminal ring in Ank'harel as a forging master in various types of furniture and accoutrements. And upon realizing through the aid of one his hired help, Lionel, or Chud. Chad? Chod. Whatever the various pronunciations were that came through. Discovered that there was a second sphere, apparently on some sort of pyramid-like ziggurat structure not far from Ank'harel. Upon you returning as Scanlan to notify the party, you all made your way to Ank'harel, briefly met with Kaylie, and saw a little bit of the setup that they've been building for the past year or so, and then made your way towards the Smouldercrown Mountains to the southeast of Ank'harel, where apparently this structure resides and this cult, that is apparently sacrificing objects of magical power towards this black sphere. So you made your way to the outskirts of this mountain, discovered that the entrance that was previously there had been collapsed, and discovered a new, carved entrance into the mountain, were beset by a few traps, made your way into a far corner, set up a mansion, and after dealing rather briskly with a cluster of undead that had built up on the outside of your entryway to your magnificent mansion, you made your way to the final chamber where the structure was residing. A number of cultists there were in the process of quickly, hastily throwing these objects to the top and then noticed that you had come as interlopers into this space. At which point you realized the head of cult, at least this group here at the top of the pyramid, was none other, seemingly, than Lady Delilah Briarwood.
All: No, no, no!
Matt: Who then protected herself and two of her cult members beneath the veil of a Prismatic Wall in the shape of a sphere, and you did battle with a number of undead and other cultists and followers of the Whispered One that involved largely just throwing a bunch of them into the ceiling, including yourselves, thanks to a well-placed Reverse Gravity. Scanlan had darted past the Prismatic Wall with a clever use of Dimension Door.
Sam: Should've died.
Matt: Actually, no. Looking at the rules, too. It was a good call to bring it back, in my opinion. But nevertheless, they escaped seemingly into the sphere, Delilah and two of these cultists, after turning it from this glowing white back into its black magic-absorbing self, leaving you all there. Managed to cleanse Pike of her Feeblemind spell, and after acquiring a few of these magical artifacts that were left unbroken, and some cult robes, and apparently symbols of this cult of the Whispered One, you now stand in the middle of this cavern on the outside of where this second Ziggurat exists, deciding what to do next, and what the next step of this journey means for you. So, Vox Machina, what would you like to do?
Laura: What should we do next? What does the next step on this journey mean for us?
Liam: I'm getting wicked deja-vu, brah.
Marisha: That was so existential of you, Vex. Wow.
Laura: No, but really. What should we fucking do? Should we go through it?
Marisha: That was a really meaty spell she had. I've never seen that before.
Ashley: Thank you, Keyleth, for bringing me back.
Sam: I don't know how much time has passed since the fight, but can Taryon cast Revivify on Doty still?
Matt: No, that much time has passed, unfortunately.
Laura: Doty's gone again?
Travis: Did you lose a second one?
Sam: I came back to get him!
Travis: He's like iPhones, they just come out every so often.
Taliesin: The Doty 6 is going to have a much better camera. It's going to have better voice recognition. You're really going to be happy with it.
Matt: You could use the same funds to bring that Doty back, it would just take you the week in reconstruction anyway. But you're not losing that Doty. The other one, you unfortunately lost in the City of Dis, but this can be brought back at the same cost of a new one. So you're not having to reconstruct an entirely new Doty.
Marisha: Recycling.
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: But I have to get his body somewhere.
Matt: Yes, you do.
Sam: Great.
Taliesin: I kind of want to collapse this cave.
Travis: With us in it?
Taliesin: No, not with us in it. I don't think we can destroy the ziggurat, but I think we can at least make it extremely difficult to find and get to, and make it very uncomfortable for anything that tries to come through.
Laura: That's true. That would be smart.
Sam: But then we can't come through.
Laura: We have another entrance. We have the one in Whitestone.
Liam: Also, though, this is an exit. Do you want the only exit to be in your basement? The only one? Or are there more of these places?
Sam: Also, does each portal go to the same place, or do they go to different parts?
Taliesin: We saw the spire in both images, correct?
Matt: With the brief glance through the-- Well, the arrow was in the one beneath Whitestone. Through your connecting with Sarenrae, the vision that you received through that portal seemed to be very similar to what Vex described seeing through her arrow.
Laura: It could be the same portal or they could both be within view of the tower.
Taliesin: I'm imagining a circle of spheres.
Marisha: And both seem to suck magic in, correct?
Laura: Yeah, they do the same thing.
Taliesin: I think we'll have an easier time keeping track of what is coming in and out if we just have one to deal with as opposed to two.
Laura: That's assuming there's only two.
Travis: Is it a stupid idea to shoot another Oracle Arrow through this one and see if it looks the same?
Taliesin: I don't know if we have the option.
Laura: I can try, but in Whitestone, there was at least a visual path toward the ball, but I don't think there is one here, is there?
Matt: Not within the radius.
Laura: Not within the magic orb.
Marisha: It's too tight a room?
Liam: I think I like your idea, but I worry that we're upping the odds of-- Listen, we just found out that she's alive, or something. She's going to unleash some sort of fresh hell somewhere. We're upping the odds of it happening under your living room.
Taliesin: I know. It's just, what if it happens in both places at once?
Laura: What if we collapse the one in Whitestone?
Taliesin: It's directly under the castle. We would have to maybe fill it with, I don't know. Submerge it or some such.
Laura: At least try to block off the entrance to where they can't get out.
Marisha: Is there an underground water source near Whitestone?
Taliesin: There's acid pits.
Marisha: We could try and flood it with acid.
Ashley: What if we blocked off that entrance when we go inside?
Taliesin: Let's at least make sure this cave is collapsed. We'll leave the chamber standing, but every entrance to this cave should be collapsed. We know there's three of them.
Laura: What if we block this one, and then we block the one in Whitestone, and then we just--
Sam: Game over!
Laura: I think we win, then, right?
Taliesin: We'll be able to get back in if we need to, we just want to make sure that no one can wander in and out of here without making a bit of a ruckus.
Laura: So there are three entrances that we know of, and we need to block all of them.
Taliesin: One's already blocked.
Sam: And one, do we know where it is?
Laura: There's one up top that we heard about.
Liam: How much time do I have left on my wings? A lot, probably, like a half hour or 40 minutes? It wasn't that long.
Matt: Well, no, actually, because when you used your wings outside, you guys came inside. Did you use your wings during the battle?
Liam: Yeah, I did.
Matt: Did you guys take a long rest?
Taliesin: We did, because we had the mansion.
Matt: You did. So by this conversation happening, the rummaging through the bodies, inspecting the vicinity, I'd say you maybe have 20 more minutes on your wings.
Laura: Oh yeah, did we rummage through the bodies? Let's rummage through those bodies.
Matt: You did, that's how you found the objects.
Marisha: While they rummage, Keyleth wants to test the radius.
Sam: No, we found the objects on that cart.
Matt: That's right, you found them on the cart. You did not actually rummage through the bodies.
Laura: Is there anything on the bodies?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Laura: Whoa, that was high. 23.
Matt: 23, okay. Over the next 15 or so minutes, as you go through and begin to gather the corpses, most of the skeletons out here that have armor on, it's old, rusted, destroyed, broken armor, and the weapons either fell apart in the battle against you or are just barely usable or functional at this point in time. Of the various cultists' bodies, the armor on the black guard that you were battling is a pretty nice-looking set of full plate. You also find similar symbols, these dark iron necklaces that you found on the previous cultists.
Laura: We'll take those. We can take the plate armor if there's room for it in the bag, and then see if it's actually magical outside of the field.
Taliesin: How many of those necklaces have we found?
Matt: Six.
Taliesin: Six necklaces.
Laura: All right, and we already had two, so now all of us have one.
Travis: I can make room in the Bag of Holding for the armor, but I have to get rid of one of these two bodies. Does anybody object if I throw one of the bodies at the little black marble?
Liam: I would kind of like to see that.
Taliesin: Actually, I think that's a pretty good idea, but you have to remove it from the bag before you walk over to the marble.
Travis: I have to what?
Taliesin: You have to remove the body from the bag before you walk over.
Travis: Oh right, okay. So can I walk back to the fork?
Taliesin: Remove them both.
Travis: Back to the fork. I pull out-- both? We only need one.
Taliesin: All right.
Travis: I pull one body out.
Laura: He likes to save his bodies for later.
Travis: Listen, I'll run my store the way I run my store. I pull one body out.
Matt: Which, just as a note, the visual of Grog pulling this body out of the Bag of Holding is much like trying to pull a Slim Jim out of the wrapper. It pulls weird and you have to yank.
Travis: What an analogy. The sausage without the casing.
Matt: Yeah, it's like by sections, and you watch him strain as you pull some out and it folds over. It's just really awkward and awful. But yeah, you manage to get the body out.
Travis: Close the Bag of Holding and I just drag him back over.
Matt: (impacts) Up each step.
Travis: Everybody ready? And a one, and a two, and a (whoosh).
Matt: As you throw it, it impacts, and you watch as the body stops in mid-air from the gravity, stopping where it stands. Its legs fold over, and like a broken physics engine, you watch as the body (crackling) twists, cracks, and gets sucked in.
Laura: Let's not do that. Let's not go through that hole.
Travis: It really doesn't seem that bad.
Taliesin: I kind of want to experiment. Would you mind losing one of the necklaces, or no?
Laura: We can try.
Taliesin: Let's put a necklace on the other cadaver and then throw it through.
Travis: I literally just walked all the way over there and now you want me to go back?
Taliesin: You need the cardio, let's not pretend you don't. We're going to put one of the necklaces on the body and throw it through. It'll still be fun to watch.
Travis: I walk back out of the realm of the thing, pinching my belly fat because apparently Percy thinks I'm a couple pounds heavy.
Laura: It's all that ale, Grog.
Taliesin: I can only mock you on graph paper. I take what I can fucking get, man.
Travis: I'll pull the other Slim Jim out of the bag.
Matt: (suction sound) You place one of the various symbols around its neck and then Babe Ruth-style lob it, and you watch as it gets within a certain proximity, the orb seems to shimmer and shift open ever so slightly. It's similar to what you saw, it opened to a mouthed gateway when Delilah and the other cultists walked through. The body still rattles, and you watch it twist a bit, but it's a far less impactful transition.
Laura: All right, so now we have seven of those things, and we have to get eight of us through.
Taliesin: One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, yes. Somebody will have to stay behind, but we'll figure that out if we go that direction. There's other options.
Sam: Who's the eighth?
Taliesin: You.
Laura: You and you, bitch.
Sam: I live in Ank'harel and I'm a crime boss.
Laura: Yeah, and you're here with us now.
Ashley: You're not planning on going with us?
Sam: I hadn't been invited.
Laura: Scanlan.
Travis: That was pretty-- I mean, from a third party, non-influenced or partial perspective, flipping gravity was pretty cool.
Liam: Plus, he's got a lot of big words now. You want to be around to see them in action.
Marisha: Technically, I can flip gravity. I don't know. I felt like I should put it on the table.
Sam: Oh, okay, see, you don't really need me after all.
Marisha: No, that's not what I meant. I just wanted to be honest.
Laura: I haven't seen you do it.
Marisha: Well, it hasn't been relevant yet.
Liam: You're also really clever. Forget your spells. And funny, and it's good to have you around, so yeah, do you want to go someplace really horrible with your family, or what?
Sam: All right. Are you all offering?
Travis: I don't know, Pike. Can he earn his way back in in this manner?
Ashley: Well, I do think we could use the help.
Sam: The help. Okay, that's good enough for me. I'm in. Will fancy boy be joining us?
Ashley: Are you jealous of him?
Sam: No. He's part of the team.
Ashley: He is part of the team.
Laura: Tary, what do you think?
Sam: Shit! This again!
Liam: Tary, it's up to you, but you were talking about going back.
Sam: I'm sorry, I was busy caring for my deceased robot.
Laura: Is Doty...
Sam: No, he's fine. He'll be fine. I just have to rebuild him. It'll take some time and money, which I don't have.
Ashley: I wish I could help, Tary, but I think that's out of my...
Taliesin: We can get him back to Whitestone, he'll be perfectly fine. We have everything we need there.
Sam: All right. I need him for the brigade!
Taliesin: Of course.
Laura: The brigade, right.
Sam: Yes. But I can't carry him. Grog, would you be able to...
Matt: "I can carry him!" And you look over and Chod goes over and grabs Doty. (grunt) "Should I put him somewhere?"
Sam: Not yet, Chod. Wait until we get somewhere where I can work on it.
Matt: "Okay."
Taliesin: I say we head back to Whitestone. We gather resources, we figure out how we're getting where we're going to get.
Marisha: We could theoretically forge more of these, right? Or do you think they're blessed?
Taliesin: Let's find out. We now know they work.
Liam: I wonder if we could take them to Allura or to Shaun.
Laura: Well, have Tary Identify them. Maybe it's something specific.
Marisha: Yeah, are they magical, Tary? Are these magical?
Sam: Let me look.
Laura: Outside of the field.
Marisha: Outside of the field.
Matt: They are magical. It's a mild enchantment. It's not extremely strong, but it is very specific, and it is more of an attunement to a specific plane. It has something to do with whoever's bearing it, or whatever's wearing it, is already partially crossed to a certain extent, so it limits the impact of the transition.
Sam: Okay. I don't understand any of that. But there you have it.
Laura: Do you have any more Identify left?
Sam: Sure.
Laura: Can we have you Identify the plate armor that the big guy was wearing, so we can see if it's magical?
Sam: I do that.
Matt: Very well. So this is Plate Armor of Resistance to radiant.
Laura: So it's immune to Pike.
Taliesin: It's anti-Pike armor.
Marisha: Well, that kind of clues us in on a lot, actually.
Sam: Chod can't use that, can he?
Matt: Do you ask this question of him?
Sam: Chod, can you use this?
Matt: "Can I have it?"
Sam: I mean, do we need it?
Ashley: Well...
Sam: Do we need it?
Taliesin: Yes, let's not...
Sam: Do we need it?
Taliesin: Yes.
Travis: Radiant means all gods or just good gods?
Laura: Just good gods I think.
Taliesin: I would like to put somebody in this armor in Whitestone so that whoever comes through the portal, the first thing they see is something that they feel comfortable and familiar with.
Matt: "Those boots are better than my boots. Can I have the boots?"
Taliesin: Yes. Well, what kind of boots are they?
Matt: It's full armor plate. They're still part of the armor set.
Taliesin: We can get you something else nice. I have a plan for this armor!
Laura: I have so many things. Wait, hold on, Chod. There's-- Oh, Chod! Do you want a jewelry box that makes music?
Ashley: No, you can't give him that jewelry box!
Matt: He leans over to Scanlan. "Hey, boss. Do I want a jewelry box?"
Sam: Yes. Just say yes.
Matt: "Yes, I would love a jewelry box. Thank you."
Laura: Do you? It makes music. You like music.
Matt: "It makes music, do I want it?"
Sam: When a girl offers you something, you just say yes.
Matt: "Yes, please. Take all of it." Now he's carrying the music box and Doty. (laughter)
Laura: I'll mark that off.
Liam: Lionel, I have the perfect thing for you. And I pull out the metal skullcap.
Matt: "That's loud."
Laura: Wait. Wait. Is that the Clarota one?
Liam: No, that's the Lionel Gayheart one. People will have a harder time fucking with you, in general.
Laura: That is the Clarota one, wasn't it? You're giving the Clarota thing, the resistance-to-mind stuff?
Liam: Yes, I am.
Laura: Because we could maybe use that.
Travis: Yeah, there's still an idiot in this group.
Laura: Yeah, there's maybe a Grog in the group that could totally use it!
Liam: I've had this hat for years.
Laura: I know! So maybe you should remember that you have it and give it to fucking Grog!
Liam: I've known that I've had it, and I've talked to him about it. No one's ever asked about it, you've never asked about it.
Laura: I didn't know you had it!
Liam: You are a hoarder. You are many good things--
Laura: No! I'm just saying, if Grog has resistance to mind control, then that would be really good for us in a fight with somebody that's really powerfully--
Liam: Grog. This skullcap that Lionel is wearing requires attunement. Would you like to give up one of your really lethal weapons--
Travis: No. Didn't we talk about this?
Laura: I didn't know it required attunement.
Taliesin: Sense of dignity, perhaps?
Travis: Ooh, hey! Is he heavy? Don't you have your own Bag of Holding?
Matt: "No."
Travis: Oh.
Laura: Not everybody has a Bag of Holding, Grog.
Travis: I'll just give him mine. (laughter)
Laura: We just give him everything.
Taliesin: We would turn on you so fast. Let's get back to Whitestone.
Laura: Okay, okay, okay. How do we collapse these tunnels--
Matt: "You guys can keep putting things on me. That's fine."
Taliesin: Well, we have, thankfully, a professional tunnel collapser.
Laura: Well, that's true!
Travis: Yep. Oh, me?
Taliesin: So let's find the upstairs entrance and get rid of that--
Laura: I'll do that from outside.
Marisha: I was trying to test the radius of this sphere, too. Am I still doing that? Is that still relevant?
Taliesin: Well, it's worth noting just in case we cannot find the opening.
Matt: It comes to about 180 feet from the actual sphere.
Marisha: Wow! That's a long way. It's the same as the other one?
Matt: It's similar from when you originally tested it. It was about the width of the whole chamber underneath Whitestone. And that chamber was more cleared out, more of the actual structure was visible. This one is still partially buried and you're only seeing the upper half of it.
Marisha: Okay.
Liam: Do I even have the ability to fly in here? Is there an outer edge where the magic is not--
Matt: In that chamber, you cannot fly.
Liam: Cannot. Okay.
Laura: And I feel like we're going to run into traps if we try to find it from this way. Maybe find it from the outside and just collapse it.
Taliesin: All right.
Laura: That way we don't have to go through a series of shit.
Taliesin: Let's double-reinforce, just pile-drive the one that's already a little collapsed and make it really collapsed. And then we'll collapse the others while we're leaving.
Laura: Yeah.
Travis: (happy grunts) Is that permission?
Taliesin: That is more than permission. That is permission and an audience. We're very excited.
Travis: That's amazing. I'll go for it, and I'll whack on a wall. Do I just hit a wall anywhere?
Laura: Just in the tunnels, maybe?
Sam: Wait. You're an engineer, aren't you?
Taliesin: Yes. No, we're going to be pointing at the things that need to collapse.
Travis: Okay, I'm ready any time.
Laura: Do you want to go up and see if we can find the thing up top?
Marisha: Yeah! Sure! You guys have fun collapsing.
Laura: It's daytime now, right? Outside?
Matt: At this time, it would be. Yes.
Laura: So can me and Keyleth go try to find the entrance up top so we can do something to that one? Matt: Sure, okay.
Travis: Or should we wait 'til we collapse the tunnels?
Taliesin: Well, they can find theirs while we get our tunnels collapsed.
Travis: Yeah, I'm sure it won't fall on me. No big deal.
Ashley: I'm going to help! I'm going to help you.
Travis: Yeah!
Ashley: Yeah.
Marisha: If it falls on you, we can fish you out. Just survive a little bit.
Ashley: Keyleth's got our back. She'll burrow in and pull us out.
Laura: Just earring us if something happens.
Marisha: Badger. Badgers burrow, right? Do badgers burrow?
Liam: They do burrow.
Travis: That's why I said stay, but that's all right!
Matt: (laughs) All righty. So you guys all make your way back to the second entrance, the hidden, illusory one. You all back out of it, leaving just Pike and Grog on the inside.
Taliesin: And we're helping them figure out where to punch to make everything--
Matt: Okay, cool. So I need you to go ahead and make an investigation check.
Taliesin: All right.
Matt: And you can assist him, which gives him advantage.
Sam: Ah. I will assist you.
Taliesin: Thank you. Oh, yes. That's excellent. It's a 19. (laughter)
Matt: Total of 19? Okay. Halfway through the hallway, you find the place where the initial collapse was started. Or you start looking to see what they used to destroy the first entrance that you were supposed to come through. You can see the way it's carved, designed, especially the smooth entrance. Which, now that you get a better look at it, that soft, spongy ground, that dust you were finding: you begin to recognize the pattern of what carved its way in. You saw it used at the top of the Emberhold when you were fighting the queen there. It was a series of Disintegration rays used to carve away into this mountain. That's what that dust is that's on the ground. And why it's such a smooth entrance on this side.
Marisha: But I rolled so shitty on that nature check before, right?
Matt: Mm-hm. However, because it was just a series of magic Disintegrations pushed through to create this second opening, it's a little harder to find points in the structure where the weakness is. So you begin to cut away at some areas, you get like a small axe or one of the various objects that you've-- pointed objects that you've acquired over the--
Travis: I do have just a regular pickaxe.
Matt: Yeah. And you just hit at some areas, and you do find one section where you would think it would be a relatively weak point of impact between the various rocks and stones that hold this up.
Taliesin: Hit this and stand on this side of it, and that should do some intense damage.
Matt: You would recommend hitting it and then running.
Taliesin: And run in this direction. (laughter)
Travis: Okay, Pike.
Ashley: Yeah.
Travis: I want you to warm up this spot for me, and then you're going to jump on my back and then I'm going to hit it.
Ashley: Okay. I jump on your back now?
Travis: No, no, you hit it.
Ashley: Like a backpack?
Travis: Yeah, and then you can come up on my back.
Ashley: Oh, I hit it.
Liam: Do we jump on three, or is it one, two, three, go?
Matt: Pike. Go ahead and make a strength check, as Grog throws you up to the ceiling to where the one place in the rock structure is.
Ashley: Yeah boi.
Travis: Ready to run, just in case she just goes beast mode.
Marisha: We should make little Pike backpacks.
Laura: Oh my gosh, how cute would that be?
Sam: With, like, Ashley's face right here. (laughter)
Ashley: No, guys, that doesn't need to be anywhere.
Liam: We'll just repurpose those Yoda bags.
Ashley: 13.
Matt: 13? Okay, so you take her and you alley-oop and you (impact) hit it and you watch it (cracking) and some dust falls and settles. A couple of small pebbles (falling pebbles). And you grab her like, oh! Okay, seems okay for now.
Travis: All right. Get on, Yoda.
Ashley: I try to wrap my legs around, but they don't go.
Travis: I rage first.
Marisha: Just her but with, like, a jockey on a horse. (straining)
Matt: Okay, so it just happens naturally. So go ahead and roll a strength check with advantage.
Marisha: Those gnomish thighs.
Travis: 23.
Matt: 23. So for the height of the cavern here, you get yourself a nice-- you crouch low and full shoryuken-style, like (impact) punch into the roof and as you hit it, impact and go clean through and bring it to the ground. Land, and you hear the (crumbling).
Taliesin: All right, run.
Matt: You guys start bolting through, and as you're rushing, Pike, you're looking over and you can see the walls (impacts). You guys are bolting out as well. Both of you guys go ahead and make dexterity saving throws, please.
Travis: I forgot we had to roll for this part.
Ashley: Me too.
Travis: I got advantage.
Laura: Oh god, don't drop Pikeys.
Travis: Oh, that's good.
Ashley: Okay okay, 16.
Travis: 20. No-- 18.
Matt: Okay, so as you guys are bolting, you're holding onto Grog, and you manage to look behind just fast enough to see one of the walls is about to full-on collapse at the side, and you go ahead and grab the side of Grog's ear and yank his vision that way.
Travis: (groan)
Ashley: Just going to start kicking him in the side.
Matt: He starts turning off to that side, and you manage to just avoid that side of the wall as it (impact).
Sam: Gif it! Gif it! (laughter)
Matt: So you start steering him from behind like a prized racehorse, and making your way through this cavern until eventually the back half of the cavern collapses and comes to a rest. The front half is not collapsing, but you do-- you have a large portion of the path leading to the ziggurat is now just rubble and rocks.
Ashley: Okay, okay, okay! Good job!
Travis: Nice job!
Taliesin: Well done, well done.
Ashley: We're getting somewhere. But we still need-- there's still more to do?
Laura: Yeah, there's that whole other path. There's that whole-- there's that whole other path and then the one up top.
Ashley: Okay.
Laura: But I could hear a rumble so I know you guys did good on one of those paths already.
Ashley: Thanks! We did pretty good.
Matt: Okay. The rest of it is fairly easy to do because you find the closer you get to the entrance, based on the previous collapsing, elements of it have started to show cracks, like the actual weight, because it was just a smooth transition there. There was no load-bearing platforms or any sort of general structure to the interior of this cavern. So you guys manage to pummel your way out, a large spinning punch on this side and this side as you're rushing out, and as you do (impacts) you hear it slamming and hitting the ground behind you until you guys emerge through. It looks like you're running straight at a wall because the illusory wall is still there, but you both just out the other side. Immediate hot daylight hits you, the blaring sun of the Marquet sky. Clear blue sky, no clouds. You're now surrounded by a series of browned and leafless trees with these large canopies that have the same pear-like fruit hanging from the branches.
Travis: Fruit? Fruit?
Matt: Looks like fruit.
Travis: Are you hungry?
Ashley: I'm hungry!
Travis: Hold on. I hold up Pike to go grab some fruit.
Ashley: We'll check it!
Travis: Don't worry, it's just fruit.
Matt: Make a nature check.
Liam: She can cure us of poison.
Taliesin: Not if she's busy dying from both ends.
Laura: (retching) The spins.
Ashley: Six.
Matt: It's hard to tell, but it looks really tasty.
Travis: Yeah, I got great nature skills! Five.
Matt: So. Looks tasty.
Ashley: You know what, Grog?
Travis: What?
Ashley: As hungry as I am, I think we should wait to have Keyleth look at this fruit.
Travis: Why? It's just fruit!
Ashley: Because it's outside of this cave, and what if it's a distraction like, "Oh, lookit!" and you eat it and you just die?
Travis: You know, I've found if fruit, when it goes bad, falls from the tree, and it's still on it! Therefore!
Ashley: And when fruit goes bad, it turns into wine!
Travis: You get crunk drunk!
Ashley: I think I'm going to wait for Keyleth.
Travis: I'm going to have a bite.
Matt: Okay. You take a bite and it's got a fairly moist center. You can see now, like a cactus, the fruits here, most of the moisture is retained within these fruit elements. The flavor, it's not sweet, it's quite pungent, actually. It has a bitterness to it. It's like putting your tongue in a bunch of lye.
Ashley: Does it taste good?
Travis: (disgusted noises)
Ashley: Maybe make some mayonnaise or something? Want some mayonnaise to cleanse your palate?
Travis: I take out the jug and I go  honey! Hey!
Ashley: Oh, all right!
Laura: Just a couple of sticky warriors.
Ashley: No, Grog!
Matt: Just as a breeze blows a bit of a dust cloud through, which coats your sticky hands with heavy desert sand. You chew for a minute and feel the crunch of granules inside your mouth where you inhaled. (crunching)
Travis: Jug goes away.
Matt: Back to you guys. You were looking for the other entrance?
Laura: Yeah, up top.
Matt: Investigation check.
Laura: Both of us are looking for it. We're flying up. Can you fly? So, we can fly up. I was going to help you look for it because I figure you have a better ability to collapse it than I do.
Liam: What form are you going to take?
Laura: A goldfish!
Marisha: You could hold me in your hands. I've got about 30 seconds. Just to fly up? Can I ride side-saddle with you?
Laura: Of course you can, yes! Put your arms around me, Keyleth.
Marisha: Okay! Your abs are nice, Vex!
Laura: I know, I work out a lot.
Marisha: Have you been working out over the past year? Wow.
Matt: So, who's helming the investigation of this? And you're aiding her, so go ahead and take it with advantage.
Laura: Same thing. 21.
Matt: All righty. I left on my collapsing music.
Travis: They die.
Matt: So, as you glance around and do a pass over the next 20 minutes or so. It's as fast as you can, but it takes you a while to scan and get a feel for it. You do see what looks to be, because you felt the wind was coming through from the interior, you see a small well-like crevasse where the rocks have collapsed inward. You can see, glancing over the top, the dark, five, six-foot-wide hole that leads deeper into the mountain.
Laura: I hover down near it, but don't get off the broom.
Marisha: I lean over, I Druidcraft a pebble, toss it in the hole.
Matt: Don't hear it.
Laura: Oracle arrow down the hole.
Matt: Okay! Your vision watches as it--
Laura: Oh, wait! Can she set the end of it on fire?
Marisha: Yeah!
Matt: Okay, the arrow now, burning, it leads you into this dark space. It lights up the interior. The arrow gets about maybe 60 feet before it hits a rock and shatters.
Laura: Aww.
Matt: It's not straight down. It has a series of platforms, and it looks like it was designed to be climbed down, so it's a bit zig-zaggy. It maybe went 50, 60 feet and it hits a platform and shatters. You lose your vision. But it does appear to be a sizable tunnel used for entry.
Laura: Let's just fucking collapse it.
Marisha: All right!
Laura: Well, just you fucking collapse because I can't do shit to this thing.
Marisha: Can I be like, all right! I want to see if I can do this, like, cool maneuver. I'm going to try to balance on the broom, and then jump off the broom and go Keyteor and go into the--
Laura: Into it, into it?! Or just around it so you collapse the--
Marisha: Nah!
Laura: Oh, god, Keyleth!
Matt: You watch as she leaps and-- cloud of dust. There is no sign she impacted, she's just gone. You just see the side of the mountain.
Laura: Fuck! Fuck! I get out the rope of entanglement and hover close to the surface and start hanging the rope down.
Matt: You glance in the inside with what little bit of daylight is ricocheting off of the stone interior. You can see the edges of Keyleth's elemental form swimming through the rock. Because she can do that.
Laura: That's fucking crazy.
Marisha: It's like Whac-A-Mole!
Laura: Careful of traps, though, Keyleth, because I'm sure there's something in there.
Marisha: All right.
Taliesin: How's it going down there? Have you found it yet?
Laura: Up here?
Taliesin: Yes.
Laura: Fabulous. Our friend, Keyleth, is amazing.
Taliesin: She jumped in, didn't she?
Laura: Yes, she did.
Marisha: I'm going to Earth Glide to the bottom and then peek my earthy face out of the top, see if I can see down.
Matt: Are you following the actual path?
Marisha: Yeah. I'll try to be conscious to make sure I don't hit anything that looks precarious.
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Laura: Don't hit any traps!
Marisha: All right! Looking for traps! That's okay, 15.
Matt: 15. Okay. You get about a third of the way down, and you realize that one of the platforms that you can land on has, uncharacteristically, a softer cushion to it. Everything else is just stone slabs. This one has almost--
Sam: Waterbed.
Matt: Yeah! (laughs) Like a spring air mattress, it's crazy. No, it's like a woven, dried palm frond-like cloth that's rested over it.
Sam: I'm sure it's nothing. Probably nothing. Just leave it.
Marisha: Just a drop-through? Can I, like-- fuck.
Laura: Don't fuck with anything, Keyleth. Just collapse it!
Marisha: I found, like a, it might be a roof or--
Travis: Yeah, I bet Clarota's in there.
Marisha: What? Piranhas? I don't know if piranhas are in rocks, but there might be something else in there. There might be piranhas. Oh, I'll avoid it.
Matt: Okay. You continue southward, scooting. You can sense the very exterior of the wall that leads to this path, so you're staying away from it as you glide through the rock and earth. Eventually, you come close to the very top, breaching the dome that leads down into the chamber where you had your battle naught but an hour ago. As you poke your face through, you're looking down, you can see the dark sphere there, hovering. You can see the large pyramid structure below it, probably about 60 feet below you. You can see the entrance to the tunnel that leads into here. There is a small ladder up along the wall that previously you didn't notice because of the lack of light and attention to the ceiling portion. But people were either climbing up into or climbing down from.
Laura: What do you see, Keyleth?
Marisha: There's a ladder, man, there's some very innovative people. Yeah, these are very innovative cultists.
Laura: Wait, you're looking down at the ziggurat?
Marisha: Yeah! Hey, Pike and Grog, you guys did an excellent job.
Ashley: Oh thanks!
Travis: Oh thanks!
Travis: It really means a lot.
Laura: Get the fuck away from it, Keyleth!
Marisha: Okay! Good idea!
Matt: By the way, it's fantastic. You all hear through it (earth elemental grumbling).
Travis: Oh, right, yeah!
Matt: The grumbling, low voice of an earth elemental speaking to you through the earring.
Laura: We still don't know how far that field goes. If you turn into Keyleth again, you're fucked!
Marisha: (unintelligible grumbling)
Laura: Get the fuck out!
Marisha: I try and say, like, well, I know it's about 180 feet because I tested before, so I'm trying to be conscious of it. And then I back up a little bit, and I go over to where that tunnel was, and I start collapsing it down. As I work my way up, I'm going (impacts).
Matt: Easily enough. You go by and you start kicking through the tunnel as you go. You can sense near proximity where any of the various weak points are in the stone. Systematically go through it, collapse it, piece by piece, until eventually most of the tunnel is useless and unusable.
Marisha: It's like a platformer.
Matt: How long can you maintain your wild shape?
Marisha: Half of my level, or something like that?
Matt: Oh, you're fine, then.
Marisha: Or it's a third of my level? Still several hours.
Matt: You emerge a little over an hour or so of doing this. You emerge from the top. You watch as Keyleth (rock impacts), looking like a large version of Fantastic Four's Thing.
Laura: I'm holding my rope for her. You don't-- okay.
Matt: It appears to be taken care of. All of the entrances have been collapsed. There's no way that you can imagine any average person can find their way into this.
Laura: Good job. Are you going to stay that way, or are you turning back into you so that I can get you on the broom?
Marisha: (guttural noise of agreement) (laughter)
Laura: You can still talk, right? You just sound low.
Travis: No.
Marisha: (guttural gibberish) I speak a different language that I still don't think anyone has--
Matt: You can-- you maintain your mental acuity and statistics when you're in there.
Marisha: I don't know. We've gone back and forth on it!
Taliesin: It never occurred to you to speak Common. Why would I do that?
Matt: The texture and timbre of your voice. You can hear words, but it's almost like words being made by slamming rocks together.
Laura: Crazy.
Marisha: Not that different from my normal speech.
Liam: I won't bore you with the details, but while all that was going on, while they were searching and they were destroying things, Vax wandered a hundred feet out and sat down and did a little talking to the mother of ravens, and basically said, not expecting an answer: This is it, isn't it?
Matt: Make a wisdom check.
All: Ooh.
Liam: Not good. 13.
Matt: 13? That's enough. As you sit there in silence with your eyes closed, beseeching the attention of your patron, which seemingly wasn't present when you attempted to in the proximity of this doorway. The familiar soft, omnipresent voice creeps into your psyche as she tells you, "It seems that the bender of fate is feeling the tug of destiny. It's almost as if you're coming towards me. If you sense this path is the right one, follow your instincts. Perhaps we'll meet soon enough."
Liam: I will see you soon.
Matt: All right. So you guys reconvene.
Laura: Hey, guys. How's it going?
Liam: Hey, guys!
Laura: What should we do?
Travis: You should try the local fruit. It's delicious.
Ashley: Yeah, you guys should try it.
Taliesin: I pick up a piece of the local fruit and smell it.
Matt: How do I describe the smell? It's reminiscent of discovering old lemon juice that has grown sticky on a surface, like a dark mahogany wood surface. Kind of like a bar floor. We'll go with that.
Taliesin: No, I don't think I will.
Travis: It belies its true flavor.
Taliesin: I don't think it does.
Marisha: This looks like it's rotten from the landscape. It looks like it's all gone bad. Has it gone bad?
Matt: Make a nature check.
Travis: Oh, great.
Marisha: 25.
Matt: No. There are elements that have gone bad on the ground and have been covered by sand as winds blow through.
Taliesin: Naturally awful.
Matt: It's like desert noni. It's extremely healthy and has a lot of practical medicinal use. In fact, it's traded specifically for its use in various herb pouches.
Marisha: Does it have a name?
Matt: Yes.
Liam: Like that giant, stinking flower. Grog took a bite of the giant, stinking flower.
Matt: A vafall fruit.
Marisha: A what?
Taliesin: Did it alter Grog's stats on any level?
Matt: No.
Taliesin: Then it's not that healthy, is it? It's like agave.
Marisha: Vafall?
Matt: Listen to Sam. He's got the pronunciation.
Liam: I will eat you with a lovely chianti and some vafall.
All: Vafall.
Ashley: Should we take some, then?
Laura: Make some medicine?
Taliesin: You could try to bake with it. Maybe it's bakeable.
Marisha: It makes a really good salve. It's good for sunburns.
Liam: Or shoving in somebody's bed.
Travis: How do we get back to Whitestone?
Taliesin: Is there a tree that this fruit was coming off of?
Matt: Yes.
Taliesin: I point at the tree.
Matt: The ones on the outskirts of the mountain range are small, but the deeper into the valleys and ravines between the large spire-like mountains, you do find a few that are probably large enough to utilize through your spell.
Marisha: Yeah, I can do that.
Laura: Tary, are you coming back to Whitestone?
Sam: I have to, yes. I have to repair Doty, and also find some new recruits. I think there are some in Whitestone, right?
Taliesin: You're really going through with this?
Sam: Of course. It's my destiny. I met you all to become an adventurer, and now I'm bringing my knowledge back to my people. It's like it was written in a book.
Laura: A very good book.
Travis: Yeah, you're writing a book!
Sam: I am.
Ashley: And not only that, you're going to be the leader of a band of adventurers.
Travis: Are you a colonel, a general, a private?
Sam: I hadn't thought of that. You know what? There's no leader of Vox Machina, so maybe there won't be in the Darrington Brigade. Well, besides you. You're unofficially-- you're definitely the treasurer.
Liam: I'm behind her doing this.
Travis: Yeah, rolling eyes.
Laura: Lionel?
Matt: His mouth is filled with fruit. (laughter)
Laura: Is it good? How are you doing?
Matt: "It's getting really heavy. This is really heavy."
Laura: Yeah. Are you coming back to Whitestone, as well? Scanlan, I mean Aes-- is he coming back?
Sam: I suppose we'll need him for now, yes.
Laura: Okay.
Taliesin: I still like the idea of perhaps the two of you working together. You could talk to Scanlan about it and see if he'd be all right-- (laughter)
Taliesin: I'm never going to get bored of this. I'm never going to get bored of this!
Liam: Scanlan, what do you think?
Travis: That was a fucking awesome physical reaction.
Liam: At least in the short term.
Sam: You're suggesting that I, Scanlan Shorthalt, bequeath my employee Chod to this gentleman here? You mean me, Taryon Darrington? You mean Chod could join my brigade? Well, yes. I guess that's what they're talking about. Well, I don't see why not. He's very capable and strong. Yes, and I won't have much use for him for a while, so if you'd like to take him with your brigade, you can. Well, I'm not going to say no to a fellow member of Vox Machina now, am I? No, you're not. No, I'm not.
Travis: Yes.
Matt: "I don't see any similarities." (laughter)
Taliesin: That's everything I wanted. I'm good.
Laura: Through the tree, then?
Marisha: Through the tree.
Matt: All right, so as you finish concentrating on the outside of one of these large, 15 to 20-foot-tall, leafless, fruit-bearing trees in the center of the Smoldercrown Forest, the doorway shifts open, revealing on the opposite side the dark, sunless night of Whitestone.
Marisha: I pick a blossom from the tree on the way out.
Liam: I pull two of the fruits.
Matt: Okay. You guys arrive. It's early evening. You can see the windows of nearby homes, shops, and various structures near the square are beginning to glow from the interior light of small lanterns and candles. In the distance, you can see the perimeter beacons being put along the castle walls on the exterior of Castle Whitestone. You're back home.
Laura: Let's gather our troops.
Taliesin: Make thy way to the castle.
Laura: Find out what they've learned.
Matt: All right. At which point, Lionel keeps asking, "Can I put him down yet? Can I put him down?"
Sam: Not quite yet.
Taliesin: We're going to take him to the castle.
Sam: Change arms.
Matt: "Ooh! That helps a lot." You make your way to the castle. Doty's delivered to the workshop. Taryon?
Sam: Stays there.
Matt: Okay. (laughter)
Taliesin: We'll keep you informed.
Sam: Thank you.
Matt: All right, so you guys now have the run of the castle. What do you wish to do?
Laura: We asked Cassandra to gather people to study the Shadowfell as soon as we did the oracle arrow last time, so it would probably be smart to find out what they've learned before we make our plans.
Matt: Okay. As you approach Cassandra, at this hour, she currently has a recently steeped, still-steaming cup of tea resting on the table, towards the window side, the front window side, of the general dining hall area of the castle where you usually eat your supper. She's facing away from the table and has a thick robe over her and has the tea and is in the process of reading through books. Her hair's pulled up tightly, and some of it's a mess in front of her face. She's very much in work mode. She's poring through books, and as soon as you enter, she reaches over for her cup of tea. "Oh. Hello, everyone." She gets herself a little more presentable. "I've got the assistance of Eskil Ryndarien. Everyone else seems to be a bit busy at the moment, but Allura is doing the best she can research on her end, as well."
Taliesin: We're going to need everybody. It's worse than we could have imagined.
Laura: And we have far less time than we would have imagined.
Matt: "How much time do we have?"
Taliesin: This has to be taken care of immediately.
Liam: Things are happening now.
Matt: "Well, you have far better means of acquiring these people than I do. I can merely send missives and requests."
Taliesin: We're going to send word out. I'm going to take out my flask and put it on the table. Sit down for a moment.
Matt: She takes it and adds it to her tea.
Laura: Is Ryndarien here?
Matt: "He is. He's currently inspecting the ziggurat again. He's setting his notes up where he previously set up research quarters during the incursion of the Conclave."
Laura: We need to get everyone away from it.
Marisha: Where's Allura?
Matt: "She's in Emon. She's still part of the council there."
Taliesin: We have to get her here immediately.
Liam: Is Gilmore still in town?
Matt: "No, he's back in Emon."
Liam: He left for good?
Laura: I'm going to run down to the ziggurat and try to get Eskil Ryndarien away from it and warn everyone to stay away from it.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: Let's double-check that armor for any weird influences it may have, to make sure it is what it seems to be, which is ornamental, with a bit of magic. Let's make sure that the captain of whatever guard is on shift down by the ziggurat is wearing it, and is aware that he's there to befuddle the enemy.
Matt: Okay. You make your way down there, and you can see it's still fairly dark in that chamber. Most of the lights have been snuffed except for a few torches that are set around the central platform that was built about mid-height on the ziggurat, where you guys had the council meeting with Raishan that one time, and where most of the research is being done there. Up top, you see a number of guards, the Pale Guard are assigned to keep watch. You see Jecht, the manservant of the Realmseer Eskil there, as well. Currently, you see Eskil Ryndarien is spreading out his thick scrolls and books, and they're all across the big central wooden table, and he has his thick spectacles on, and he has a number of candles already set up, and he's deep into getting his space prepped and acquiring whatever information he'd put away since the investigation was put on hold.
Laura: Eskil?
Matt: "Yes? Oh, it has been some time, Lady Vex'ahlia. I've heard you've come up in the world."
Laura: Oh, yes. I'm a lady now.
Matt: "Wondrous. Yes. What do I have the honor?"
Laura: Well, I hate to be the bearer of bad news, but I'm afraid being down here isn't safe anymore.
Matt: "Right, so you brought me all the way out here, and now I can't do my work? That's great. No, that's par for the course. It's basically most of my life."
Laura: Plenty of work up top, away from this orb of death. It's very dangerous.
Matt: "Oh! You're right. I didn't know that. I've only spent six months with the thing!"
Laura: We've discovered it's a gateway, and things can come through it, and there might be armies coming through because we just fought somebody on the other side of another ziggurat.
Matt: "That's preposterous. Siphons only work one way, my dear. Nothing's coming through there."
Laura: She changed it. Did you know that siphons can be changed? It changed from one color to another.
Matt: "You know this how?"
Laura: Because I was there to witness it.
Matt: "What, here?"
Laura: In Ank'harel. And it looks the exact same as this one.
Matt: He looks you over really intensely. "If what you believe you saw is indeed another one of these siphons, then perhaps we should take a little more care."
Laura: I agree.
Matt: "Jecht, please continue. Gather everything. We're taking this outside."
Laura: Fabulous. You're so agreeable. I do love talking to you.
Matt: "Wonderful. Good to know. Goodbye." They gather up the materials. The Pale Guard escorts them back into the hallway, and he's now talking to Jecht off on the side. He goes, "Well, then we can go ahead and stage ourselves in the grand guestroom with the nice big bed. Yes?"
Laura: The big ornate bed.
Matt: He looks over his shoulder as you say this. "Oh, you're eavesdropping now, as well. That's wondrous."
Laura: I have wonderful hearing.
Matt: "So I can tell. Yes, the big bed. The one that helps with my back."
Laura: Yes, that's terrible. Can you look at this armor really fast and make sure that it's not actually cursed or anything?
Matt: "Looks fine to me!" Keeps walking.
Laura: Was it cursed, or anything, when you looked at it?
Sam: I don't know.
Matt: Did not appear to be cursed from your glance at it.
Laura: Would he have known from the Identify spell if it was cursed? Great. Well.
Marisha: Can Keyleth go talk to Percy?
Taliesin: I'm in Cassandra's room, still.
Marisha: Keyleth waits for Percy. Hang on. I can go talk with Cassandra, as well.
Matt: Unless you're having a closed conversation.
Taliesin: Just ten seconds of it. We'll see how this goes. Have a bit of that flask.
Matt: She's already poured some into her tea.
Taliesin: We've found a second ziggurat. We found a cult that is moving things through it. The cult was being led by Delilah Briarwood.
Matt: The silence, the stark absence of sound, is completely sundered by the sound of shattering porcelainware. The tea that she had recently barely sipped on is now shattered and spilled across the ground. She stands there, her hand open as it slowly curls back. She stares off into the distance, clenching her fist very tightly.
Taliesin: She escaped into the ziggurat, so she's no longer on this plane of existence, but some form of her, whether it's undead or otherwise, we're going to need to put it down again.
Matt: "Yes, we do."
Taliesin: I wanted you to hear it from me. There will be no running this time.
Matt: "No running."
Taliesin: Not from me.
Matt: "But you'll take care of her?"
Taliesin: This is the end of her. I will be there to see it.
Matt: "She's escaped death once already. Who knows how many times she has before. You have to end it."
Taliesin: We will discover what she did.
Matt: "Don't destroy her body. Destroy everything she is."
Taliesin: If we can't kill her, we will entrap her forever.
Matt: "Shatter the soul. Whatever it takes. End her, brother."
Taliesin: I know. I shall.
Matt: She takes the flask.
Taliesin: I wanted you to hear it from me so you could compose yourself when other people begin to tell you.
Matt: "I need a moment alone, please."
Taliesin: They're going to need us to be the strongest. I have faith in you. I'll leave you to it. I'm so sorry.
Matt: "I'm going to be sick."
Taliesin: Yes. I'm going to leave her to her room and shut the door.
Matt: You close the door and there in the hallway, waiting opposite the door, is Keyleth.
Taliesin: Hi.
Marisha: How did that go?
Taliesin: Honestly, better than I expected.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: At which point, you hear behind the door, a muffled (retching).
Taliesin: More sick and less things breaking. I'd rather her be sick than angry.
Marisha: You think? I hate being sick. Anger at least drives you towards something.
Taliesin: It does not drive de Rolos towards anything good.
Marisha: Fair point. I have a crazy thought, and I needed to run by you. Sorry, didn't mean to hit you. Okay. I'm excited. All right. We watched the orb change. She changed the magic in the orb, right? We just spent a year making magical orbs that change in some way, that are all linked to our city. Clearly, not as powerful as what this is.
Taliesin: No, not at all.
Marisha: But what if-- I don't know. What if she corrupted something that was already there that wasn't supposed to be corrupted? What if she can corrupt more things, like our crisis orbs? I had this immediate fear that what if I built something that was supposed to help--
Taliesin: I'm so glad you thought of me when this came up.
Marisha: Well, you helped me build it. Am I crazy for thinking it? Am I totally off base?
Taliesin: I think we're going to be walking a very fine line of paranoia for the next however long.
Marisha: Maybe there's something in our own technology, in our own magic, that can help inform us. I don't know.
Taliesin: When they get here, we're going to look at everything.
Marisha: All right. We'll sleep on it.
Taliesin: I think we're going to be fine, but you did give me some ideas that I'm going to think about.
Marisha: And those symbols. The necklaces. Druids, we use similar things when we plane shift to other worlds.
Taliesin: I'm going to take one to the library and inspect it. I'm going to also see what any of our other arcanists think of it. If it's from a cult that anybody has heard of before.
Marisha: I think I can plane shift us there with it if we don't want to go through the orb.
Taliesin: Really?
Marisha: I think. It seems like very similar technology. Magic.
Taliesin: I'm rubbing off on you.
Marisha: Yeah. I don't know. Sleep on it. I'm going to go think.
Taliesin: I have no idea what just happened. Yeah. I'm going to double-check the orb room just for a moment, for my own paranoia.
Marisha: The crisis orb room? Actually, I'll go with him.
Taliesin: Just to look, and then I'm going to start researching that symbol. I'm going to go to the library and I'm showing the council everything.
Matt: Okay. You speak with the rest of the standing chamber. You begin to do your research. Make a history check.
Marisha: Oh, that's good! Take it.
Taliesin: 22.
Matt: 22. You've read through most of the books here, between you and JB, who's spent some time also reading quite a bit. There's no mention of the symbol itself, and there's very little information on the Whispered One, on Vecna. It's interesting: there's almost a gap in history. There are subtle mentions of this figure, this once-powerful mage that had begun to look into the secrets of life, prolonging it. The fabric of reality. And then it's just missing from history. And you recall... all the books that would cover that time period, you remember hearing stories from Allura regarding the Whispered One, originally. There's no mention.
Taliesin: Is it a physical omission from the books, or is it even that the books that would cover it are not here? Books that should cover it that don't?
Matt: Books that you feel like should cover it. Historical recalling of Wildmount, which if you recall, based on some of Allura's discussion on the Whispered One's previous existence as a mortal, largely, Vecna's work was done over on the Wildmount side of Exandria.
Taliesin: And there's no--
Marisha: Bitch! Sorry. Go on.
Taliesin: I don't know what's happening over here.
Matt: I don't, either.
Taliesin: There's nothing that's simple. Like, the more I'm looking, I'm looking for mention of the symbols--
Matt: No.
Taliesin: Keyleth, you know damn well where I am right now, I'm sitting in the library reading books, so if you have something to say. Oh, wow, you're going way back.
Marisha: I'm looking. I'll meet you in the library.
Sam: How to Play Pathfinder. (laughter)
Taliesin: Is that Hercules Mulligan?
Marisha: This is a tiny Hercules Mulligan. I was looking for him! He's been in here the whole time.
Liam: Delilah gets knocked out, she gets the fuck back up again!
Taliesin: Four set of corsets.
Matt: He's a barbarian, I think it is. We have to work out the 5e classes for the Hamilton characters. Get on it, Critters.
Taliesin: I'll let everyone know where I am, too. I'm in the library reading if anybody needs me.
Matt: Anyone else wishing to accomplish anything else?
Travis: I'm in the kitchen. I want to see if they can make a salad with meat in it.
Taliesin: If they figure out how, bring some up to the library.
Travis: Okay, I'm not very up to--
Taliesin: Deposit it up.
Matt: Grand Poobah, if this is indeed your request, they will do their very best to do so. Within an hour or so, you are presented with a bowl of various textures of shredded, cured, and prepared meats to loosely resemble a salad, I guess.
Taliesin: A malad!
Matt: It's like a giant poke bowl.
Sam: It's not a salad with meat on it, it's a salad made of meat?
Liam: Thin slices.
Travis: This is far greater than anything I could have hoped for.
Taliesin: Previously, on Hannibal.
Travis: Did you invent this just now?
Matt: You look at the wait staff and they, "Actually, sir, it was Chef Varon." You look over and you see this one, and you've seen a couple of the chefs here, you haven't interfaced with them too much. You're not a social figure necessarily, more of a demanding figure when it comes to the food and the meal. But you see this gentleman with this thin John Waters pencil mustache, this thinning hair that's short, but slick, with a bit of pattern baldness going on. He's a bit thick around the waist and he's sitting there with a big, beaming grin of pride.
Travis: Chef, this is going to put you on the map. We need to name it.
Matt: "Oh, well, Grand Poobah, I image that would be your honor to give. I am but humbled to present you with such a meal, so the choice is yours."
Travis: What fine tender meats are in this dish?
Matt: "Oh, well, we've got quite a variety. I wanted to provide an extravagant walk through the various creatures that we prepare here in Whitestone. Would you like me to continue?"
Travis: Please, yes! I'm talking to myself.
Matt: "We have two-week salted goat meat. On top of that we have hickory-kept long angle-smoked fish guts mixed in there with a wondrous mix of minced steaks, we've spared no possible expense on the various pieces of the cow. We've, from that point forward, presented a sprinkling of pork belly that's been ground up and salt-cured as well over the period of about two months usually kept to our various steam meals, but I thought this was a special occasion."
Travis: I'm just free-dripping saliva in and on the plate.
Matt: "So, it has a very sedimentary layers of the planet-type feel to it where each reveal occurs it's a whole different genus of animal. You're eating nature in a bowl!"
Travis: I mean, did you even, like, salt it or nothing? It's just all these beautiful animals in my own private ark of a bowl?
Matt: "They came salted."
Travis: Well, because it's got goat, fish, beef, and pork in it I'm going to call it the GoFiBePo.
Matt: "GoFiBePo it is."
Travis: But, like, you seem to have an accent, so let's put a little flair on it when you say it. The bowl of GoFiBePo.
Matt: "GoFiBePo."
Travis: I like it.
Matt: "Of course, Grand Poobah."
Travis: And I must decree there will be no utensils used when you dine of this sublime dish.
Matt: He begins writing these things down. "All right, all right. You would need approval from Lady Cassandra, of course, to put this in the familial--"
Travis: Approval?
Matt: "Well, if you were to make this the official meal of Whitestone, that is entirely within--"
Travis: This just gets better and better. Submit whatever paperwork is necessary. See that it's done. (laughter)
Matt: "You heard him, folks! Grand Poobah has spoken."
Travis: GoFiBePo.
Matt: GoFiBePo.
Travis: Even better. And I'll just start hand-smashing into my face this delicious salted meat collection.
Laura: I'm hungry now.
Matt: Yeah. Oh, it is delightful. It is delicious.
Travis: You should not be able to make up food that delicious just on the fly like that. I literally felt like I was at a fucking restaurant. That was absurd.
Laura: I want to eat it!
Taliesin: As I was saying 'Grand Poobah', I knew it was going to bite me in the ass. I don't know how.
Travis: Meat salad. You're welcome.
Taliesin: It actually sounds really good. Cured goat meat.
Matt: And it's currently being submitted to the senate of Whitestone for approval to become the official dish.
Travis: Yeah! After every battle, we'll get all the protein we need and we'll just fart our happy asses off, all night long.
Liam: It's all shabu-shabu from here on out.
Matt: Yeah. With a constitution check it might improve your speed. All right. So. What else do you wish to do, as it is now getting close to the midnight hour here at Whitestone?
Ashley: I've been an extra set of eyes in the library.
Marisha: Yeah, and I call Vex there as well.
Laura: Be there in just a moment, dear. I just want to find Vax. Can I find Vax?
Liam: You can certainly try.
Laura: I'm going to go look-- I'll look in his room and then I'll look in the temple to the Raven Queen that we have.
Liam: I'm in my room.
Laura: Hey!
Liam: Kiki, is that-- Oh.
Laura: Oh. Well. No. Hi. That's gross.
Liam: Is it, though? Is it?
Laura: Is it? Hey. One quick thing that I was thinking about, and I know that you keep bringing it up and I keep dodging this, right?
Liam: Right.
Laura: But-- So, when I was researching the Raven Queen--
Liam: Yes.
Laura: -- she hates undead.
Liam: That's kind of her thing, yeah.
Laura: So the fact that Delilah Briarwood is back again and the person that we're going after, it seems perfect.
Liam: Almost like fate, isn't it?
Laura: Hey.
Liam: Hey.
Laura: Do you think your queen lady is going to chime in there and help us out? Maybe end this cycle of whatever the fuck it is she's doing.
Liam: She will be there.
Laura: In the Shadowfell?
Liam: She will be with us when we reach the end.
Laura: That's so cryptic.
Liam: Well, it is religion.
Laura: Right.
Liam: Right.
Laura: Okay.
Liam: I mean, like Pike has always said, I don't have all the answers at all.
Laura: No. I mean, do you talk to her, though? Because, you know, Pike talks to Sarenrae.
Liam: I do.
Laura: Right! So have you asked her if she's going to help us kill Delilah Briarwood?
Liam: You know, she's not very big on specifics. It's more of a vibe kind of thing.
Laura: Okay.
Liam: But the vibe I get, I'm not going to call it good. This is it. This is what you and I have been doing our homework for.
Laura: All right.
Liam: And it's not going to slow down, it's only going to speed up.
Laura: Well.
Liam: I don't think I'm going back to Zephra anytime soon.
Laura: Not necessarily. Don't talk like that. I'm serious. You have to keep a positive outlook. Otherwise you're doomed.
Liam: This is the best year of my life. I'm very happy.
Laura: That's good.
Liam: Life is good.
Laura: Life is good.
Liam: We're going to ensure that it stays that way.
Laura: Yeah. All right.
Liam: Sorry I didn't have more for you.
Laura: No no no! It's about what I expected.
Liam: Hmm. If you see my druid, would you send her to bed?
Laura: Yes.
Liam: Thank you.
Laura: Good night.
Liam: Good night.
Laura: And I go to the library.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: Boring.
Matt: Now, Percival, Keyleth. Pike, I believe you're helping out in the library as well?
Taliesin: We're literally reading through old notes right now.
Marisha: A fuckton of old notes.
Matt: Well, Vex arrives to meet up with you guys in the library of Whitestone. Whatever you're doing, Scanlan, I don't know.
Marisha: Vex.
Laura: What?
Marisha: Okay. Oh my gosh. Oh. Okay. Oh, praise Sarenrae, there's so much going on. Okay. Remember how Whitestone used to be all dead and awful? Very similar to how the other Ziggurat was dead?
Taliesin: Yes, of course.
Marisha: And then they called the ziggurat the seat of Pelor, right? So what if it was already there? What if she's taking doorways and dimensions and corrupting them and bastardizing them and--
Laura: If she's done that, if she did that to the Sun Tree, how old is Delilah Briarwood?
Taliesin: Well, we don't--
Matt: The Sun Tree has been around since before--
Taliesin: The Sun Tree was here before the castle was here, but-- And things have always happened here. The city has a history of strange occurrences. I'm inclined to believe there was something-- Well, there was obviously something beneath the castle before she got here, or else she wouldn't have come here to begin with.
Laura: It was a temple to Ioun.
Matt: The history, you know, is back in the Age of Arcanum, this valley housed a temple to Ioun, which was corrupted, and in the Calamity, the battle between the gods and mortals that changed the epoch, the Knowing Mistress suffered a grievous wound from Tharizdun, the Chained Oblivion. And in that battle, Pelor, the Dawn Father, delivered enough of a blow to the Chained Oblivion to defeat it and aid in locking it away. With the temple still lost beneath this valley, that was when the Sun Tree seed was planted by Pelor to be guardian over this space.
Marisha: What was he locking away?
Matt: A god called the Chained Oblivion.
Marisha: The Chain Oblivion?
Matt: The Chained Oblivion. Tharizdun. Yeah. A mad god of chaos and destruction.
Liam: Totally awesome metal band.
Travis: Yeah, great name.
Marisha: Okay, well, that's a big deal.
Taliesin: And, I mean, I think it's safe to assume that that's what's down there and that's what they were looking for when they came here in the first place.
Laura: Right.
Marisha: And Delilah came from Wildmount?
Taliesin: Yes. She was also, I mean--
Marisha: You did a bunch of research on Vecna. He used to be a man, right?
Taliesin: Yes.
Laura: Yes.
Laura: He wanted to become the Prince of the Undead, right? Am I saying that right? No no no.
Matt: From what you've come to understand and the research you've done since the name has come up--
Taliesin: I'm pulling out my notes.
Liam: We spent a year reading books.
Matt: Right. Now mind you, the information is still very hard to find.
Laura: Because he's the god of secrets?
Matt: He's not a god. Wants to be, or at least wants to, and there is some obsession with the ascension of a mortal to a beyond-mortal state. Which has only been achieved by one being before.
Marisha: I mean, it sounds a lot like what Delilah is going for.
Laura: What if she is Vecna?
Marisha: What if she is Vecna?
Taliesin: Well, or she wants to become the next Vecna.
Marisha: Yeah. Dread Pirate Roberts of the Vecna. She came from Wildmount, where Vecna originated. She came here for research.
Laura: She's just finishing what he started.
Marisha: Maybe she's just finishing what he started. And wasn't she doing a bunch of research for runes and tomes? Do we have the research that the Briarwoods-- Didn't we seize a bunch of their research?
Taliesin: We got some of it, but they burned a lot.
Matt: You got some of it and a lot of it dealt with ley energies. There are certain lines that stretch across, invisible lines that stretch across Exandria, where the magical powers that hold together the planes and protect it through the Divine Gate and other elements--
Marisha: Do any of those ley lines go through where we were in Marquet?
Matt: You don't know that. But you do know that Whitestone resides right beneath a nexus. These ley lines were shifted during the Calamity. And now one of these nexuses is right over Whitestone, which is why this location was chosen for the ritual that the Briarwoods were assembling.
Marisha: I wonder if each ziggurat is over a nexus.
Taliesin: It could be. We know that she's not ancient, because we have a bit of a paper trail. We do know that she was ruling in Wildmount for a while. We do know that she studied at the Alabaster Lyceum briefly. And there's some paperwork for that.
Matt: In looking up the background history, you would know that King Bertrand Dwendal of the Dwendalian Empire was given information in regards to the Briarwoods, who were essentially accused of forbidden necromancy. And were to be arrested and put on trial, and that's when they fled westward towards Tal'Dorei and then encountered your family.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Laura: So they got run out of Wildmount?
Matt: Seemingly.
Taliesin: From what we understand and again, there's not much that survived that. They tend to cover their tracks.
Marisha: They were also trying to build that whole bridge situation? Remember the bridge? That was weird.
Taliesin: They wanted to move. Well--
Marisha: They wanted to move an army. Right?
Matt: The bridge, from what you can tell, there was no way, plans or means of even building a bridge. And a bridge has been attempted in the past over the Shearing Channel and it's just too-- The cliffs are too steep and too windy and the water beneath is too strong. Which is why the prospect to the previous sovereign was such a possible good thing to make a deal with the Briarwoods at the time. But there are no plans. Nothing in their notes spoke of actually making a bridge. It was more a means to get into the graces of the royal family.
Taliesin: And probably collect assets as well.
Marisha: Okay. If you were run out of somewhere--
Taliesin: Which I have been.
Marisha: Which you have been. After a lot of research--
Taliesin: Which I've done.
Marisha: -- and you were trying to do something--
Taliesin: Which I do.
Marisha: -- what would be your second place of choosing to go?
Taliesin: Anywhere that they serve some sort of meat salad, I imagine. (laughter)
Marisha: I'm just saying, if you're run out of one place for doing something, I imagine--
Taliesin: You're thinking maybe they have another portal in Wildmount.
Marisha: Yes, I do.
Taliesin: Yes.
Laura: Another ziggurat?
Taliesin: Could be several of them.
Marisha: If they are run out of one place for something, my first thing would be try to find the next place to keep it going.
Laura: Right. And then she got run out of here, so she went to Ank'harel.
Marisha: Correct. What if she's already been killed in Wildmount? So many theories, you guys. So many theories! It's kind of exciting.
Taliesin: Let's not get overly speculative here.
Travis: Are ziggurats always pyramids?
Liam: That's what a ziggurat is. It's like an Aztec bip-bip-bip.
Marisha: We know the Briarwoods also did dealings with the Stormwinds in Wildmount.
Laura: What other pyramids have we seen, though? Have we seen any other--
Travis: The thing we fought the beholder in.
Laura: The mindflayer place. That was a ziggurat.
Marisha: Son of a bitch!
Laura: Under Kraghammer! Oh my god! Is there a ziggurat in Kraghammer?
Liam: Hell yeah there is a ziggurat. Yeah, it was a ziggurat.
Matt: You've seen a few, actually.
Liam: I'm speaking in my voice because I'm not there, but he said-- Yeah, oh, he's poker-facing it. We said ziggurat many times when we were down there.
Marisha: Did we see a pyramid when we were in Wildmount? When we went there?
Taliesin: We were barely there, though.
Laura: But it would've been underground. I mean, who knows where the fuck it was? Wait, wait, wait! What about the temple where we saw the other sphinx? Was that another ziggurat there?
Marisha: And that was up in Vasselheim! Thank you.
Laura: Ah! Is there a ziggurat--
Marisha: There's a ziggurat on every continent! (singing) Every continent has a ziggurat.
Laura: They can come out everywhere.
Travis: So collapsing the tunnels didn't really do that much.
Taliesin: No, because it shut one potential vein of a dozen.
Marisha: It's these damn ley lines. I knew there's been something up with these ley lines and I tried to talk to the Sun Tree about it and he didn't know.
Laura: Well, he's a tree.
Marisha: He's a tree.
Taliesin: Be nice to the Sun Tree.
Marisha: No, he's very cool.
Travis: So all the bodies that were hanging under Whitestone, right, they were all stapled to the walls? Was that the army? Was she trying to fill them with necromantic energy?
Taliesin: Oh my god, they would've come alive if there had been a giant blast of necrotic energy.
Travis: Yeah. The bodies weren't feeding the thing. She was trying to imbue them with--
Taliesin: She was preparing to create an army.
Liam: Yeah. And they were missing arms?
Laura: We didn't look in the ziggurat in Ank'harel. There could've been bodies there, too.
Taliesin: I don't think they had gotten that far yet.
Marisha: And one of the things I have written down.
Travis: Why were they throwing magical things into it, though? It was magical items into--
Taliesin: Offerings? Because they would've become magical once they got to the other side of the portal. I mean, they would've been great gifts.
Liam: What do you think, Taryon Darrington? Or Scanlan.
Matt: Tary is fixing Doty.
Sam: I'm just giving him CPR. (laughter)
Sam: You've never given up on anything in your life. Now live! (laughter)
Liam: Ed Harris in The Abyss. You've never given up a day in your life, you bitch.
Ashley: Scanlan?
Sam: I'm in my room, praying.
Laura: You're not here?
Marisha: In your room, praying?
Laura: Praying to Sarenrae?
Sam: Mm-hm. Or Logic. (laughter)
Taliesin: Logic is a fickle god.
Marisha: Yeah. Desmond (mumbles). Briarwood's carriage driver. Lady Briarwood is immune to daylight.
Taliesin: It's like watching your game in fast-forward.
Marisha: Briarwoods have an army. I have it in giant, big letters, but I don't know what that means.
Laura: Obviously, it would take a very long time to go to every ziggurat that we've seen and see if there's an army inside of it. If they've been preparing things there over this past year that we haven't been doing anything!
Travis: We don't know that any of this is right. We should just go through.
Laura: We should go to the Shadowfell and fucking end this before she sets out her armies everywhere.
Travis: We did let her regroup a little bit, but we didn't know what we were doing.
Taliesin: There was nothing we could have done.
Travis: Do you want to mess with the stones? Try and duplicate them? We have seven, right?
Laura: We have seven. We could go through.
Taliesin: Seven of us could go through.
Sam: (whispering) We're only seven people.
Laura: There's only seven of us.
Taliesin: There's eight. One of us would have to stay behind.
Sam: Who's the eighth? Count the table, friend.
Travis: Tary's staying.
Taliesin: Tary's the eighth. Are we going to go through with Tary? I'm being such an asshole right now.
Matt: You're terrible.
Marisha: I could also maybe Plane Shift us there with one of these?
Travis: If we take damage going through the portal with the stone, does that mean we might take damage if you Plane Shift us there?
Laura: Who knows? It's the Shadowfell.
Taliesin: I say we speak with Allura, and if this looks--
Laura: We need to talk to Eskil Ryndarien and see what he knows about the Shadowfell, right? He's been studying the Shadowfell, too.
Matt: Since he arrived, yeah.
Taliesin: I think the plan is we take the fight to them.
Laura: Yeah.
Travis: Yeah.
Marisha: Is it worth going back to any of the other ziggurats, or no?
Laura: I don't think so, at this point.
Taliesin: I think that it's not time to check the doors. It's time to go out and chase the monsters. If we take care of them, it doesn't matter how many ziggurats there are.
Travis: Yes.
Laura: We just have to--
Taliesin: Hope we don't miss one. Travel the world.
Laura: Hey, at least Vecna's not a god. Bonus there.
Marisha: That's true.
Taliesin: Let's have an evening, and then tomorrow, we'll--
Travis: Tally-ho?
Taliesin: Collect what we've learned, and if we're prepared, jump into a sphere of death.
Laura: We can't waste time.
Marisha: If we jump through the sphere of death, they might be expecting us on the other side of the sphere of death. If we Plane Shift, we might be able to come up with a flanky, secret, other tactic.
Taliesin: If you can figure out a way to use one of these to create a Plane Shift that you'll feel comfortable with, then I'm all right with that.
Marisha: I'll talk it over with other magic-users, first.
Travis: Which ones?
Marisha: I don't know. I'll find one.
Liam: We can go visit one of them. I'm not there.
Matt: You're not there.
Travis: Make the call.
Marisha: Eskil knows stuff like that.
Taliesin: Let's all get some sleep, and in the morning, we're going to take care of this. One way or the other, we'll take this fight to them.
Laura: You'll talk to Eskil, because I hate that motherfucker.
Taliesin: He likes you. Well, he doesn't dislike you any more than he dislikes anybody else.
Marisha: He dislikes you even less. He just hates everyone.
Taliesin: He's terrible, isn't he?
Laura: Crotchety old fuck.
Matt: All right, so you're all going to go in for the evening, and we'll come back to this in the morning.
Liam: Wait. One second.
Matt: Sorry, go ahead.
Liam: Did you guys--
Marisha: Oh my gosh. We figured out so much stuff.
Liam: Give me the download.
Marisha: Delilah might be Vecna, and all this, there are ziggurats everywhere, and we're so dumb because we've probably seen several ziggurats, and they're all on these massive ley lines, and I give him a whole dialogue.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Holy moly. Do you need to get word back home? Because I don't think we're going home.
Marisha: What do you mean?
Liam: I mean, the dreams I've been having all year and telling you about. They felt like this. This is the moment.
Marisha: You think if we go in, we're never coming back?
Liam: I'm not saying that.
Marisha: You think if we go in, you're never coming back?
Liam: Well, I didn't say that, either. We were going to go back in a day or two, and I don't think that's happening. Do you think everyone at home, they're good?
Marisha: I'll have someone send a message.
Liam: Okay.
Marisha: You can't resign to this. You can't give up on me.
Liam: Kiki, I'm not giving up. I will never give up on you.
Marisha: I can see it in your eyes. You think this is it.
Liam: I'm so glad that we're together for this, whatever it is. And no, I'm not resigned. I would love to see you off to a very long life in Zephra. No, with you. With you, until I'm not with you. Your dad's probably worrying. I worry about him worrying about you, that's all.
Marisha: Really? Everything going on right now, and you're worried about my dad? Typical boyfriend, I guess. That's fair.
Liam: You know, I am so anxious right now, and the only thing that is going to distract me is all your fucking freckles, so come to bed, all right? Come on.
Marisha: Promise me you'll come back with me, no matter what.
Liam: I promise.
Marisha: Even if it doesn't happen, just promise.
Liam: Well, that's an easy promise to make. I promise.
Marisha: I just need you to believe it.
Liam: I believe. Get the fuck in this bed.
Marisha: Sure.
Matt: Okay, so you all find your evening's rest, preparing for the next morning in whatever means you wish to prepare for. We're going to take a break. We'll be back here in a few minutes to pick up this next length of the journey and see where it takes us. We're giving away on the break a Purpleheart dice box from Wyrmwood.
Liam: That's the most beautiful one.
Laura: The Scanlan wood!
Ashley: The Scanlan wood!
Matt: Get that Scanlan wood!
Liam: I mean, the Gabon ebony is really nice, but the Purpleheart--
Sam: Did you say gay-bone?
Liam: It's the Gabon. Gabon?
Matt: Yes, so for that contest you need to come over to Twitch chat, and I've actually forgotten what word we chose for today.
Sam: Scorsese.
Matt: (laughs) What was the word? Thank you. Whisper. The word is whisper. So go ahead and when prompted, enter "whisper" into the chat room to enter, and we'll come back after the break to announce who the lucky winner is. We'll see you guys in a few minutes. (cheering) [break]
Matt: Hello, everyone, and welcome back to Critical Role. Oh god, they're closer now. I'm starting to rethink this scenario.
Liam: Life comes at you fast, Matt.
Matt: That it does, apparently. Anyway, welcome back.
Laura: I think that was the best one I've ever heard, though, Ashley. That was a really good one.
Matt: You may fight one later. (laughter)
Matt: So as you guys rested for the evening and found yourself the following morning, presenting the possibility of making your way into the Shadowfell and what waits for you there. You come to consciousness, you have your morning meal, you begin to plot and plan. What do you wish to do?
Marisha: Go find Eskil.
Laura: Go find Eskil. Somebody else is going to go find out from him, right?
Matt: He's actually eating out in the garden. He has one of the little tables set out there. It's a nice morning out in Whitestone right now. It's chilly, but the clouds have broken a bit. You can see some blue skies; a little bit of sun's breaking through. He's out there with Jecht, his associate, who's in the process of cutting his food for him while Eskil's sitting there, still looking through books and occasionally reaching over and plucking things from his plate to eat. As you approach him, he doesn't even look up. He goes, "Yes? What do you require?"
Marisha: Good morning.
Matt: "Good morning to you, as well, I suppose."
Marisha: Lovely weather today, isn't it?
Matt: "It is weather, yes."
Marisha: So! How's the research on the Shadowfell going?
Matt: "It's done. I've researched it. I don't know what you require."
Marisha: All of it. All of the research?
Matt: "As much as is in the tomes I have at my disposal, yes."
Marisha: Anything we should know? Anything important? Fill us in a little bit? Spark Notes?
Matt: "It's a plane of negative energy, and elements of it are used to funnel the transition of souls from life to death or back. A number of it is scourged by undeath and those that skirt that process. It exists as a mirror plane, much like the Feywild. There are elements that resemble Exandria, but twisted, shifted. It is a very barren, very broken, dust-filled, dark-- not a very pleasant place, really."
Liam: And chock-full of undead, you said?
Matt: "Elements of it, yes."
Marisha: Used to transport souls? Give me a second.
Liam: Sorry, she carries this book around. She's very precise with her notes.
Matt: "Good. You should be. Precision is recommended."
Marisha: Okay. I'm going to show him the necklace that we found. This seems to have a slight magical attunement to the Shadowfell. Do you think I could use this as a plane-shifting device?
Matt: "It would need some alteration. It's possible. Very careful alteration. You need it to be a very narrow fork in order to properly channel the spell, and this does not quite match the proper division of magical energies. It could be physically altered to do so, but too much and you ruin the minor enchantment and attunement."
Marisha: All right. That's very good to know.
Liam: But doable?
Marisha: With how much time?
Matt: "I don't know. I'm no metalworker. I imagine not too much."
Marisha: Okay. Are you able to send messages? You have Sending, yeah?
Matt: He leans back, looking slightly offended. "I have means to communicate with individuals of importance, yes."
Marisha: Just wondering if you could tell my dad that I might be gone for a long time?
Matt: "I have absolutely no interest in any of what you just said."
Marisha: I'd really owe you one, Eskil. Just a quick message?
Matt: "I'm not a messenger service for individuals' parental units."
Liam: Well, we are potentially going to throw ourselves at the greatest evil that this world has ever known, in the hopes that the entire world can survive, so that's a big favor. That's a big gimme for you. So maybe in exchange for that, you could send a little message.
Marisha: Just to my dad to let him know that I might die attempting to--
Matt: "Who's your father?"
Marisha: Korren of the Ashari, who is one of the headmasters.
Matt: "Right, of the wind people. Whatever. Right, okay."
Liam: Who is your daddy, and what does he do? (laughter)
Matt: He thinks for a second. Begins to run his finger in the air, and you watch as there's a faint scrolling of soft bluish-white light. (poof) Turns to smoke and vanishes. "All right, he knows you're going to be off doing stuff in the Shadowfell and probably won't be back for a while."
Marisha: Thank you.
Matt: "You're welcome."
Marisha: Can we maybe borrow your research notes on the Shadowfell? Is that a thing? No? (sighs)
Matt: (thud)
Marisha: Thank you.
Liam: Seriously, thank you.
Marisha: Thank you.
Matt: "You're welcome. I will call into this favor later."
Marisha: Sure. You know where to find us. What?
Liam: Nothing.
Marisha: All right. Enjoy your tea and biscuits.
Matt: "I will."
Marisha: Thanks, Eskil.
Liam: Are they sweet or savory?
Matt: "They're delicious."
Liam: I grab one.
Matt: (frustrated noise)
Laura: While that was going on, is that caravan still in town that was coming through? We've only been gone a day.
Matt: It's still in town.
Laura: Are there any fancy fucking chalices that I could fucking buy for a Heroes' Feast?
Matt: (laughs)
Liam: Whitestone is made of fancy chalices, isn't it, Percy?
Taliesin: We have a chalice room.
Matt: I will say, if you're spending a good portion of the morning going around, asking. Being your charismatic self and well-versed in gathering information in a marketplace, you do find two chalices for sale that would match the specifications required to cast a Heroes' Feast.
Taliesin: Hey. Do you want to buy a chalice?
Laura: Fabulous!
Matt: "The finest chalices this side of Wildemount. It's crazy."
Taliesin: Sipping cups. What do you need?
Liam: One of them is super gauche.
Matt: "This one has an anti-dribble chinnage. For all those nights you're drinking too hard and you don't want to spill all over your front pouch?"
Laura: Do you have a sippy cup lid, though?
Matt: "That will cost you extra."
Laura: How much?
Matt: "Five gold, for the sippy cup."
Sam: Is this fancy enough for a Heroes' Feast?
Laura: How much for the cup?
Matt: "Each cup, because these traveled quite a bit. They'll bring you about 1,200 gold pieces."
Laura: 1,200 gold pieces.
Marisha: Apiece, or total?
Matt: "Apiece."
Liam: Why is the school crossing guard from my hometown in New Jersey in Whitestone right now?
Matt: "Hey, you think I haven't been busy after you left school?" (laughter)
Liam: Everybody in Weehawken is like, what happened to Larry?
Matt: "Found a new occupation  chalice collector."
Taliesin: What am I going to do with all these chalices?
Matt: "Actually..."
Laura: Well, Larry. You know that these chalices are probably going to be used to save the world.
Matt: "That sounds like a perfect reason to buy them."
Laura: It does, doesn't it? And just think how wonderful it will be when you can tell everyone that you sell to that you sold the things that saved the world to Vox Machina.
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Laura: It wasn't a one. Persuasion, 19.
Matt: "Vox Machina, you say? You know these folks?"
Laura: Lady Vex'ahlia, at your service.
Matt: His eye widens on one side. "Well, I've not really seen or know much about you folks, but I've heard tales of you."
Laura: I turn and show him the scales from the Chroma Conclave.
Matt: "That real dragon? No shit. Well, I mean, tell you what." He pulls out a piece of paper and starts scrawling on it. He pulls out his inkwell and starts dipping it. "If you would do the honor of signing this official document that says that these were sold to none other than Lady Vex'ahlia of Vox Machina that I can use as proof of this transaction for my own promotional purposes, I'll be happy to give you both of these--"
Laura: This is my favorite shop on the Citadel.
Taliesin: This is the equivalent of the head shot on the wall.
Matt: Yeah, basically. "I will happily give you both of these at a discount of 1,000 gold pieces apiece."
Laura: I like your style. Can I insight and make sure this isn't some sort of enchanted piece of fucking--
Matt: Sure, go for it.
Laura: What would I add to that?
Matt: Your insight.
Laura: Okay, see if he's full of shit. 14?
Matt: 14? Hard to read. (laughter)
Laura: You know what? Fuck it. We're probably going to die, anyway.
Matt: "A pleasure doing business with you, milady." Hands you the two chalices. They're beautiful. One's more reddish gem-encrusted. The other has a platinum spiral that runs around the base of it. They're both beautiful and intricate.
Laura: And you just threw the sippy cup lid as a little--
Matt: "Yeah, okay."
Taliesin: For the chalice on the go.
Liam: Now stay in school, Liam. Stay in school.
Matt: "Wait, that guy looks familiar." I forgot to also say we have a winner, by the way. Kiajade. Congratulations. I should have mentioned that. I got caught up in the story. Thank god that's never happened before. But congratulations. All right. You've acquired your chalices. What other business do you guys want to take care of?
Taliesin: I'm going to make sure I have enough powder and shot for a bit of a jaunt, so I'm going into the stores of what we make here and reloading. I'm also going to try and make some silver shot. I've never tried it before.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: Not a ton. I want to try and make 12. I want to see if I can make 12.
Matt: Make a tinkering check. Dexterity. Well, no. This would be intelligence.
Taliesin: It's intelligence?
Matt: It's a new concept you're trying.
Taliesin: Intelligence check.
Matt: Plus your proficiency.
Taliesin: Plus my proficiency. That's 19.
Matt: 19? Sure. You manage to make about 12 pieces of silver shot. You know, for the most part, because it's not as hard as other forms, it's going to be... but it is susceptible to enchantment.
Taliesin: Which is why I was going to then take those to Pike. I don't entirely understand how this works, but I had an idea. And I show her the 12 silver bearings, basically. Would you know how to bless something like this?
Ashley: I could certainly try.
Taliesin: I think this might come in handy. It's a wild idea. I don't know. I'm trying to think of surprising her with something.
Ashley: I think that's actually a fantastic idea.
Taliesin: They're a bit hard to make, and they may just not be useful at all, but I thought... I don't know how any of this works.
Ashley: I'll see what I can do. Yeah. I'll see what I can do.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Matt: Okay. You take the silver shot. Anyone want to try anything else?
Laura: Yeah. I want to buy some holy oil, or get some holy oil from the church, or something. (laughter) Where do I get holy oil?
Sam: From the church.
Laura: We've gotten holy oil before. I just can't remember from where.
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Laura: 21.
Matt: 21. "You look like you're looking for something to buy."
Laura: Oh, really? Larry, do you have any holy oil?
Matt: "My lady. Do I? I happen to have one vial of holy oil, good for two applications."
Laura: All right. That's it? Just one?
Matt: "Traveled a long way, and you're a little late in the shopping day. I was all full on them, but they've been flying off the shelf. My apologies."
Laura: Skeletons everywhere.
Ashley: Vex, I have some holy oil?
Laura: How much?
Ashley: I don't know. I just have a vial of it. I don't know how much that is.
Laura: That's good for two applications, I think.
Ashley: Probably good for two applications.
Matt: Three applications with the vial that you have.
Laura: Oh, this one has a little bit missing? How much? Because this is less than it normally is.
Matt: "Look, you've already done some good business with me. I'll give it to you for 150."
Sam: But you have to sign this poster. (laughter)
Ashley: For my Hawaiian poke bowl mascot. (laughter)
Travis: I would eat there all the time.
Laura: 150 gold. Sure. Only because Percy gave me a look. You know what-- yeah, okay.
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: She's going to keep trying to listen to one word.
Marisha: A lot to unpack here.
Matt: I'm not hearing music. We'll check that in a second. Anybody else want to prepare anything?
Liam: Yeah. I want to track down Kynan for a minute.
Matt: Okay. You find him. It's early morning. They've finished their early round of training for the morning, and some of the early Pale Guard recruits are in the process of rushing off and taking a small lunch break. He's currently taking a lot of the equipment from the training grounds and setting it aside in the various weapon racks, and generally cleaning up the space as you approach. He looks over his shoulder as he sets some of the practice blades along the edge.
Liam: Hey, brother man. How's all?
Matt: "Good. All's well. Just keeping things going. Got a lot of good up-and-coming folks."
Liam: You got all these ladies and gentlemen in shape?
Matt: "Working on it. It's a process."
Liam: I don't want to take up a lot of your time. We just got in, and we're heading out again. Anyway, I'm glad that I have Simon back, but I feel bad because I gave it to you and I took it away. But we're leaving, and I want to travel light, so I wanted to make it up to you. I have this. I'm going to give you this dagger. It's the Keen Dagger. Take this. It's too much; I can't use it. I've got this thing. Anyway. Just hold onto it. That's it.
Matt: "Thank you very much. I'll keep it at my side." He takes the basic dagger out of his sheath and chucks it into the corner.
Liam: Yeah. That one's better. And thanks, and I think Percy's thankful, too. I think. You're doing really good work here.
Matt: "Thank you. Thank you very much."
Liam: Long, twisted road, but look where we are. Look where you are.
Matt: "There's still a ways to go."
Liam: Pat, pat.
Laura: Pat, pat where?
Liam: On his dick, obviously. (laughter)
Travis: The open palm?
Liam: On his cheek. That's it. Anyway, you're busy. We'll see you soon.
Matt: "I look forward to it. Stay safe."
Liam: I will. Keep up the good work. (whoosh)
Matt: All right.
Sam: I guess Taryon will go find Vex. Stumble up and say, I have to stay here and keep working on Doty. I understand you're leaving today.
Laura: You're not going to come with us?
Sam: I cannot. I have to stay and fix Doty and get back to my home. I'm sorry. It's been a pleasure.
Laura: Don't say it's been a pleasure!
Sam: It's been an honor to have your acquaintance, and I'm afraid I have to return, but perhaps we'll meet again sometime.
Laura: I give him a big old hug. And I give him...
Liam: Three copper.
Laura: I give him-- I don't have any feathers left, I don't think.
Sam: Do you have any money? (laughter)
Laura: I have no money, Tary.
Sam: I need money.
Taliesin: Technically speaking, you've been on salary.
Sam: How about this? I wrote you a check. Can you rip it up? I don't think I can pay it, ever. (laughter)
Laura: Tary, I ripped it up about two weeks after you moved in.
Sam: Thank you. And you have no other money on you?
Laura: I open up my pouch, and I've got zero personal gold. Just party funds.
Sam: Well, I feel like I should leave you with all of my belongings, and all of my magical items, but I need them for my brigade. I'll leave you with the seashell crown that who gave me? Grog?
Laura: Percy.
Sam: Percy gave me.
Laura: I think he'd want you to have that.
Sam: Do you want the half of a geode rock with 30 living souls inside of it?
Laura: Yeah, give it to me. Thanks, friend.
Sam: I can't use it.
Laura: 30-soul rock. Got it.
Marisha: 30 Rock Soul? (giggles)
Travis: 30 souls just sitting in a rock. You think my shit's weird?
Sam: Maybe I should have shown that to Pike sometime in the last year?
Laura: I will show it to her.
Taliesin: That's just been sitting on your bedside, hasn't it? Slowly making the sound of crying.
Matt: If you get really close at night, you hear this faint (screams).
Laura: Help me!
Matt: He puts another pillow over it.
Laura: What is that?
Taliesin: Anything else?
Sam: Do you think you'll see Percy anytime soon?
Laura: I think I might.
Sam: When you do, (pink) can you give him this little gem for his flashlight? I can't spare many, but that will give him one flashlight.
Laura: Definitely.
Taliesin: He'll have to come back, anyway, because he doesn't know how to make the ammo for his gun.
Laura: How are you going to get Doty home?
Sam: Well, after he's fixed, me and Chod--
Laura: Right. Lionel. I think he likes to be called Lionel.
Sam: I prefer Chod. I think we'll set off the old-fashioned way.
Laura: See who you pick up along the way?
Sam: Ooh! That could be chapter one of the new book.
Laura: Exactly.
Sam: Yes. A New Hope. Something like that.
Laura: I like it. It's epic. Catchy.
Sam: Yes. Well, I'm not going to say have fun, because you're going to a terrible place.
Laura: We might not make it out alive. If you talk to my brother, that's what he says. He says it every time.
Liam: I never said that.
Sam: If you die, I will be very upset. Hey, if I die, your thing will glow, so that will be good.
Laura: Same. So we'll know.
Sam: I'll see you sometime in Wildemount?
Laura: Of course we'll come visit you.
Sam: All right.
Laura: I love you so much.
Sam: You, too. Take care of your hair. You know, you shouldn't wash it as often as you do. It just makes it dry and flaky.
Laura: The oil is helpful. Thank you.
Sam: Get it trimmed every two weeks.
Laura: Right.
Sam: And have someone comb it.
Laura: Yeah, I probably should do that, huh?
Sam: It's really disgusting sometimes.
Laura: Okay. I'll brush it a hundred brush strokes every night, just like you.
Sam: Thank you. All right. Goodbye. I'll see you soon, Little Elf Girl.
Laura: Bye, Goldie. (fake-cries)
Matt: All right, so what do you wish to do, guys?
Ashley: Is there a way that I can bless these bullets?
Taliesin: They're musket balls, technically. They're not bullets.
Matt: It will take you a while to do so. You could temporarily bless them with the Bless spell, but to infuse them with the blessing would be the equivalent of a small enchantment, so it would take you a couple of days or something.
Ashley: Well, I could start it, depending on when we leave, I guess. I have Bless. I was looking at that, but I didn't know I could use that on actual objects, other than people.
Taliesin: We also have to modify one of the necklaces.
Laura: Yeah. That needs to go to a blacksmith, or something?
Marisha: Unless we want to go through the old-fashioned way like the cultists did.
Liam: The old-fashioned way?
Laura: We can't Plane Shift unless we alter the necklace.
Taliesin: But we have enough necklaces that we could just jump through.
Travis: That one.
Marisha: We might take a little bit of damage on the way through.
Travis: I'm game.
Laura: You have a bajillion health points.
Travis: I also thought of something overnight. All right? It hurt, because it's kind of brilliant. Can you hold your breath for-- (whispering) what's higher than ten?
Ashley: (whispering) 11.
Travis: 11 seconds.
Sam: Sure.
Laura: Why?
Travis: Why don't all you bitches just hop in the Bag of Holding, I jump through, take all the damage for us, and then you just (popping sounds) pop right back out?
Taliesin: I can think of many reasons why that's probably not a good idea.
Travis: What could it possibly be?
Taliesin: The Bag of Holding is a negative space. It's not designed to sustain life.
Travis: Have you ever been in one?
Taliesin: Very specifically not, because things die in there.
Liam: Grog, think of all the things you've pulled out of there that look like sloppy joes, when they didn't look like that going in.
Laura: Let's put something living inside of there and wait ten seconds and then take it out and see if it's still alive.
Travis: But it has to be able to hold its breath. If we throw a dog in there--
Ashley: So if it breathes, it will die.
Travis: Yeah, there's no air, I don't think.
Laura: If it's ten seconds and it's not knowing to hold its breath, it will come out alive, still.
Travis: If you want to do CPR, whatever.
Taliesin: What if the things inside take the damage even if they are in the Bag of Holding?
Travis: We should find out. Are you going in?
Taliesin: No.
Travis: I'll go in.
Ashley: You stick your hand in there all the time. No?
Taliesin: This is not a magic you want to be messing around with.
Travis: All right. I just wanted to put it out there. We can all take the stones and go through. I bet it's not going to be that bad of a deal.
Taliesin: No, this is the fantasy equivalent of locking yourself in a refrigerator.
Travis: Just wanted to put it out there if you wanted to live on the edge of life, but no, we'll just do it the boring way.
Taliesin: I feel comfortable with the level of risk-taking of jumping into a giant sphere that crushes anything it touches.
Marisha: It's definitely a large amount of risk-taking already.
Laura: Can anybody tell if this plate is cursed? Can you tell if something's cursed, bro?
Sam: Oh, the armor?
Liam: No.
Laura: Can you tell if something is cursed, Pike?
Ashley: I could try. Can I check it out and see if it's cursed?
Travis: That is a face that says, I'm giving you nothing. (groans) Garlic chicken.
Laura: Gross. Were you the one burping earlier, too?
Travis: I blew it that way, though.
Laura: Yeah, but somebody burped in the first half of the game, and it was foul.
Travis: It's probably me.
Taliesin: Careful where you aim that. You might break a camera.
Sam: Let's go. Let's move!
Laura: I'm trying to figure out if this plate mail is cursed or not.
Sam: Who the fuck cares? We're going to a cursed place.
Laura: No, but it's so we can put it on somebody here.
Taliesin: Let's grab a bit of funds. Do we have the group funds, as well? We have access to the group funds.
Sam: You think one plate armor's going to do anything?
Marisha: Scanlan's back.
Travis: Let's go.
Liam: Guess who's back?
Marisha: Hang on. Do we want to do a Heroes' Feast?
Taliesin: Not yet.
Laura: Yeah, 'cause what if something's waiting for us on the other side?
Taliesin: What if nothing's waiting for us on the other side? Because now we're down one Heroes' Feast.
Laura: Yeah, but what if there is?
Travis: We've got a mansion.
Taliesin: Then we dive into the mansion and we have a Heroes' Feast.
Laura: We've got to waste a fucking minute. We've got to protect Scanlan for a minute.
Taliesin: I think we're going to be okay.
Liam: I'm with your beau.
Taliesin: I think over-cautious. Even when jumping into the depths of the undead, there's such a thing as over-cautious.
Travis: Let's go down to the ziggurat.
Taliesin: I'm putting the-- as I hit the microphone. Do not touch your microphone when you put on your necklace. I'm putting on my necklace.
Laura: Okay, I'll put on my necklace.
Matt: Each of you don one of the symbols?
Travis: Yeah.
Marisha: Do we need to put on the robes, too, that we found?
Laura: Fuck the robes.
Taliesin: I want them to see me coming.
Marisha: All right. Do you want the robes?
Liam: I don't feel strongly about it.
Travis: If we put on the robes, we've got to pull out an eyeball each, too.
Ashley: We're already there? We're standing at the ball?
Laura: Are we going down? Sure.
Travis: We're going down to the ziggurat.
Matt: All right. You find your way down into the subterranean tunnels beneath Whitestone, winding through the caverns until you enter the chamber that contains the ziggurat where you initially faced off with the Briarwoods. As you climb to the top, there before you, you see standing in all of its glory, the black, as you've called it, spinning orb of death. Approximately that large now, and it's this dark void, that as you get close, it has this weird vibration to it. And there it is, suspended about four feet off the ground at the top of this ziggurat.
Laura: Can I get close to it and put the necklace near it without touching it?
Matt: Yeah. You put the necklace near it, and you watch as the sphere, this weird grayish aura around it begins to emanate faintly, almost like the closer it gets, the brighter this weird gray aura tends to get and the wider it grows.
Laura: That seems promising.
Liam: I'm right behind you.
Taliesin: Who first?
Liam: Me. (whoosh)
Sam: (screams)
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: Well, that happened.
Matt: I would like you to make a constitution saving throw.
Marisha: Keyleth reaches for Vax right as he goes in. Oh shit.
Liam: I'll use my first Luck of the day. Wasn't that bad, but it's an important roll. That's better. 20.
Matt: 20. Okay.
Travis: That's a lot of dice.
Marisha: Oh Jesus, that's so many dice.
Ashley: (whispering) I thought we bamfed into it.
Marisha: He twitched again.
Matt: You take 11 points of necrotic damage. Anybody else?
Marisha: Just that? That's it?
Matt: You don't know that. You just saw him vanish.
Travis: I'm game. I'll go.
Marisha: All right.
Matt: Everybody going in?
Marisha: Yeah, in.
Matt: All right. Everyone, make a constitution saving throw, please.
Sam: Nine. No, 17.
Matt: 17.
Taliesin: 23.
Matt: 22 points of necrotic damage. 11 points of necrotic damage.
Travis: Nine.
Matt: 22 points of necrotic damage. 22 points of necrotic damage.
Ashley: Six.
Matt: 22 points of necrotic damage.
Marisha: 16.
Matt: 22 points of necrotic damage. So as you leap into the sphere, you feel as if the gravity that holds you to the ground, or sometimes the ceiling, bends around you and your limbs are wrenched forward, like someone has you in a full Nelson that doesn't end. Your body is about to be condensed and crushed, when you feel the symbol pulse, and the gravity lessens somewhat. It's still tearing into you, and you feel this coldness and this numbness come over your body, as you feel like you're a square peg being pushed through a round hole, physically pushed through against your will. You begin to yell out in pain instinctually before it comes to a stop and you all land to your feet, out of breath. The numbness begins to fade to immediate pins and needles, just pain across your entire body. You feel like someone just raked a number of tacks across every surface of your skin and as the pain begins to throb, you can feel the blood pulsing throughout your body as it all shoots to the surface. You still sense that you, thanks to your symbols around your neck, you managed to withstand a much more dangerous arrival. As your eyes focus, you already feel the chilled air that surrounds you, like a cold, cold winter morning. The sky above is sunless and gray, like an overcast horizon without clouds to texture it, breached by distant mountain ranges like so much broken glass. You see behind you immediately the other corresponding siphon, floating, bright gray-white in color and glowing, the same color that you saw briefly shifted to in the ziggurat near Ank'harel. Beneath it, you find shards of ruined objects, piles of long-dead bodies, flesh and bone rended and twisted like they'd been put through some rapid tornado on different sides of their body. And you see a lot of these shattered pieces of wood and metal were all a number of objects that were thrown in here during the experimental phase when you guys first uncovered this. You look around and notice that you stand atop a rectangular platform of dark, smooth stone, about 15 feet on each side. Beneath the edges, about 20 feet down, 'til it comes to the ground. So you're on an elevated stone platform that the siphon is affixed to above, floating about four feet above the top of the surface. And you look down to the ground immediately around you and you see just dry, cracked badlands. It seems to spread out, making up the majority of the Shadowfell around you. Surrounding your location, your sight clarifies to see what appears to be hundreds of buildings and structures that form this shade of an ancient city, like a town, a sprawling village. Half the structures toppled and destroyed, piles of rubble and rock. The ground itself seems to jut up in places, these tiny, shooting spires of black and gray earth that the city has either been built around or seemed to have grown through. As you look past that, you see movement throughout the streets in the distance, but before you can focus on that, your vision immediately sticks towards, in the center of this circular-like city, the standing, ominous, commanding, massive spire of obsidian black, familiar to both of you through two different types of vision you've experienced. A jagged monolith that exudes ancient hatred, encircled by dozens of dark, winged beasts that watch over the dreary skies. Who here is proficient in history?
Laura: Nobody is proficient in history?!
Sam: We're doomed to repeat it.
Travis: Really, Percy?
Taliesin: No, I have other qualities, history was not my forefront. I know Whitestone.
Sam: Somewhere, Taryon is reading a history book.
Matt: Exactly. The two of you make history checks with disadvantage because you lack proficiency. Yes, you being a bard, you pick up information in passing. With disadvantage, each of you.
Taliesin: Nine.
Sam: 11.
Laura: Oh god.
Sam: That's a bad sign.
Matt: You have no inclination of where you stand or what's before you. All you know is you stand now on the cold plane of the Shadowfell, the echo of the Prime Material.
Laura: Our notes on the Shadowfell.
Matt: You do.
Taliesin: Can we consult the Rand McNally?
Travis: The Rand McNally guide, yeah.
Matt: You're welcome to. Just so you guys know, you are all standing out in the middle of the open, on this large stone platform looking down in the center of this giant city--
Laura: There are things that are moving below. I see them.
Marisha: And the ziggurat is above us?
Matt: There is no ziggurat. There is a large, black spire, but that's in the center of the city maybe two miles off.
Laura: As we hop down, I cast Pass Without a Trace on all of us.
Liam: There are buildings around, so are we in the middle of a field, a plain, badlands?
Matt: There are buildings. You see two structures maybe 50 or 60 feet from you on each side, and then going forward, from your current position, it leads right into the city. So this structure is on the outskirts. It's right on the perimeter.
Laura: Do we see any other orbs around?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Laura: 25.
Matt: You glance and, in the faint gray sky above you, around the glowing white-gray orb this side of the siphon, you see a very, very faint aura of bluish-purple that is weaving into a thread, a rope almost, various strands that knot and twist to form a cord, a very barely visible cord that just drifts up towards the very top of that tower for miles. And there at the top of the tower, you see a vibrant, sparking, pulsing, purple glow. And from there, you can see two other distant strands that arc off into the very faint other edges across, triangulating around the other sides of the outskirts of this ancient city. You see the faint, glowing white-gray pulse of two other siphons affixed to two other platforms, all these strands converging at the top of the tower.
Ashley: Before we get to it, can I cast Bless on his bullets so I can give them back to him?
Matt: How long does it last?
Ashley: Not very long.
Matt: You can. There's a difference between casting a spell and enchanting something. It's a loose enchantment to Bless the ammunition. That takes a while to focus on.
Taliesin: I imagine it'll take a few days when it's done.
Ashley: When it's done.
Taliesin: I don't expect us to be in and out of here, I think this is going to take some time.
Ashley: I'd rather enchant them.
Travis: The structures to our left and our right, are they solid, do they have focus?
Matt: They're solid, they're stone buildings, they're homes, though plain and cracked. There are sections of wall missing in places. As you look about the grounds here, and you know this because you've ransacked and been responsible for the ransacking... or the rubble of Westruun. But this city appears to have been, some time long ago, under siege. You see signs of battle, you see impact, you see roofs that were burned and now lie as just black husks. This area has seen warfare long ago and the signs of it are old and it looks like the signs of life that exist in this space, the movement you see of figures in the distance wandering through the streets, there's no immediate threat to this city, but you get the sense just looking out that something big happened here a long time ago.
Travis: Any of you with the eyes, can you see what that is up in the air?
Laura: Yeah, I also want to look and see what the fuck kind of creatures it is that are moving around in the city. But I want to see what kind of creatures are flying around as well.
Matt: Okay, so you guys have moved down from the platform, and you cast Pass Without a Trace, so I'd like everyone to make a stealth check, please. Adding plus ten to your roll.
Sam: 26.
Taliesin: 22.
Marisha: 27.
Liam: 40.
Laura: 23.
Ashley: 21.
Travis: 18.
Laura: Ooh shit, you rolled bad, yo!
Matt: Okay! So, to stay stealthed, you have to find some place to be stealthy. You're not stealthing out in the middle of nowhere. Where are you going to find--
Taliesin: Towards the city.
Laura: Those buildings.
Liam: Are we temporarily staying put and talking shit out or are we going?
Taliesin: The building on the left, I'd say.
Laura: Yeah, like hide behind something.
Matt: Okay, you guys dart off to the left. It appears to have once been a two-story structure, but the upper level has since collapsed and part of it is falling into the bottom floor. As you begin to approach the doorway on the inside, Vex'ahlia, you hear what sounds like a faint crunching sound on the inside.
Travis: (nervous laughter) What the fuck? Oh my god.
Liam: (whispering) What's the matter?
Laura: (whispering) There's something in this building. (louder) Are there windows on the building, at all?
Matt: There are. There is one window on your side, and the doorway around the corner.
Laura: Peek in.
Liam: I'll look in the window with my 40 stealth.
Matt: You glance inside, and as you peek over the top, in the brief bits of light coming through the shadow in here, you can see the collapsed piles of broken stone and wood planks that used to hold the structure of the upper level together. You can see what looks like furniture that's been destroyed. Simple, basic. This is not an extravagantly decorated space. Built for function, more than anything. But moving amidst the shadow, you see what appears to be a humanoid creature of pale gray skin, elongated limbs, long, clawed fingers. Bald head, pointed, hooked ears, and what looks to be slightly broken, jagged, yellow, elongated teeth in this jaw, as it's currently munching on what looks to be a small furred rodent of some kind. (crunching)
Liam: This is probably redundant, but I will Divine Sense undead.
Matt: It is very undead.
Liam: Do I sense, see, hear anything besides this one?
Matt: What's the radius?
Liam: 60 feet.
Matt: Nothing else catches your attention, no. You watch as it finishes and walks toward the doorway. Vex'ahlia, as you're off to the side, you watch as this creature leans forward and goes into a sprint, and then leaps up onto a distant rooftop. (leaping noises) Just leaping from rooftop to rooftop. As you're watching that leap, another movement catches your eye, and you see another one about three blocks down. You can see, there are at least a handful of these creatures stalking through the ruins, leaping from building to building, from floor to floor.
Ashley: What was it eating?
Matt: A small, furred creature. You didn't get a good look at it. You got a fair look at it.
Travis: It was an otter. I love otters.
Matt: Apparently, so does the creature.
Laura: Why would there be otters in the Shadowfell?
Matt: There's something you didn't know about otters, Laura.
Marisha: They love holding hands?
Laura: Does it look like any of those scary creatures are around each other, or are they avoiding each other?
Matt: It's hard to tell at this distance. You're so far out of the city. You've only been able to notice a few shapes from this distance. You'd probably have to get in a little closer and spend some time watching their behavior to pick that up.
Liam: I'm going to crouch down by this dead rodent. Do I sense the Queen, more or less, here?
Matt: Make a wisdom check.
Liam: 18.
Matt: You close your eyes for a second. No. None.
Travis: Can I pop my head back out the door, and looking at the ground, is there any semblance of a sewer system or a runoff grate or anything?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Travis: Oh Jesus. Yeah, bitch. Seven.
Matt: No. Not at all.
Laura: Grog! Get your head back inside.
Travis: What?
Laura: There's things flying around out there.
Travis: I'm keeping a lookout.
Taliesin: I'm going to crawl up the wall to the second floor to see what's up there.
Matt: As you go up the side and step over onto the rubble, you see a large, broken, what was once the floor of the top floor that slid into this giant decline, this slide of rubble, if you will. At the top, you can see what looks to be a broken weapon rack that is empty. No weapons on it, but you get the sense that this small structure was a perimeter tower outpost.
Taliesin: It's been cleaned out.
Matt: Apparently.
Taliesin: There's no sign of anybody who used to be here? Nothing of value, nothing of interest?
Matt: Not in the structure, no.
Taliesin: I think we're going to have to move deeper in.
Sam: Should I make us all ghoulie?
Travis: Do we notice anything strange about the little necklaces that we're wearing now that we're in this place?
Matt: Nothing at the moment, no.
Liam: Hey, you feeling good about your decision to come with us?
Sam: This is terrible. I haven't had this much fun in a long time. Let's go do it. I'll cast Seeming on us and make us all gray, pointy-eared, little Nosferatu-vampirey things, I suppose. Did I see the thing that skittered out?
Matt: Very briefly.
Sam: I've seen other undead things.
Matt: Yeah. You can make something that looks undead-adjacent.
Sam: Yeah. My guy will look more like the Meat Man in undead form, but otherwise, everyone's normal.
Laura: I want straggly, but still a braid. Really nasty, straggly hair.
Sam: Your ear's half off.
Travis: I definitely want an eyeball hanging out.
Sam: Sure.
Taliesin: Straight hole right through the head. No jaw.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: All right. What do you guys do?
Laura: I think we should probably try to observe the things that are flying around the tower.
Taliesin: Slowly make our way to the town.
Laura: Observe. Still try to avoid any of those scary creatures, but see if they avoid each other as we look at them.
Liam: Super slow, super careful.
Sam: Maybe we should stagger.
Laura: No, those things were speedy. Be normal.
Sam: We'll walk like this.
Taliesin: Left, right, left, step, step, step. (laughter)
Matt: Make a performance check. No.
Marisha: While they were looking at weapons racks and doing stuff like that--
Taliesin: You make it sound so tawdry. Carry on.
Marisha: While they were doing that, I pull Vax aside. I grab him--
Sam: Let's get married.
Laura: Let's just do it.
Marisha: Goddamn it. Scanlan's back. Listen, you can't die, and I don't know what's going on in your head, or what you're thinking, but I feel like it's not good.
Liam: I'm the best I've ever been. Don't worry about me. Worry about us.
Marisha: Has the Raven Queen spoken to you at all?
Liam: Yes.
Marisha: Recently? Down here?
Liam: Not since we got here, no, but recently.
Marisha: I need you with us. Not with her. I need you with us, and with me. So let me do this. And I'm going to burn my 9th-level spell and cast Foresight on Vax.
Sam: Ooh, Foresight!
Laura: What is that?
Sam: Shit. It's real good. (laughter)
Liam: This one goes to nine.
Laura: What is Foresight?
Marisha: Don't fuck it up, man. It's my 9th-level spell.
Matt: For the next eight hours, not concentration, you can't be surprised. You have advantage on all attack rolls, ability checks, and saving throws, and other creatures have disadvantage on attack rolls against you.
Laura: Holy shit.
Sam: You can see just in the future. Three seconds.
Laura: That's amazing!
Liam: You guys, let's go shopping! (laughter)
Travis: I raise my blood axe...
Matt: All right.
Sam: Am I going to die in three seconds? Am I going to die in three seconds? (laughter)
Taliesin: Let's make our way into town. Quietly.
Liam: Within the next eight hours.
Sam: I feel like Vax should lead the party.
Matt: All right, so are you stealthing through?
Taliesin: Yes.
Laura: Still being stealthy, but yeah.
Liam: Looking cool, but stealthing.
Marisha: We look so cool.
Taliesin: We're not doing--
Laura: Matt's like, I will kill you all.
Matt: You guys scatter just enough to dart between alleys and find shaded bits and leap from base of building to alley, keeping a cohesive unit as best you can. The first thing you notice, the further in you get, even within just the first couple of blocks of the city, you see broken swords, you see pieces of armor, and you see figures walking through the street ahead of you. You see hundreds of scattered skeletons, decomposing bodies shambling through, but they all walk in patterns. They're not scattered, mindless. There is some will or direction to their movements. You see them wearing ornate armor with designs and symbols on them that look old and tarnished and scratched.
Liam: Are they moving like troops or is each individual following its own...?
Matt: Some are moving as troops, and occasionally you see an individual wander off, but they're just sort of walking around and scanning. I'm going to have Scanlan, you roll a history check, and Pike, roll a religion check.
Sam: 17. Oh! You know what, seems important, I will inspire myself. Can I do that? I haven't done this in so long.
Matt: Yeah, add a d12 to it.
Sam: 18.
Matt: Got to get the dust off, man.
Ashley: 23.
Matt: Okay. You, looking over there, a lot of the armor that these skeletons are wearing, it doesn't fit with the Shadowfell. The silvers, the golds, the tattered blue cloaks, there's something regal about some of these armor sets, as old and ancient as they may be. It doesn't seem to match the sense and feel of the Shadowfell. While you're having this thought, Pike, you glance over and look at one of these pieces of armor and you recognize the symbol, it's like a stained-glass circle with a gold star in the center. It's the symbol of Pelor. Many of these bodies, these undead wandering the city, seem to have been soldiers that fell in whatever battle that once besieged this city, and many bear the mark of Pelor.
Taliesin: I mean, the Chained--
Laura: The Chained Oblivion.
Taliesin: The Chained Oblivion, there was a fight between.
Matt: That was, but that was on the Prime Material, and that was in the vicinity of the Alabaster Sierras.
Taliesin: That mark couldn't have ended up--
Laura: Was the Shadowfell always the Shadowfell?
Taliesin: I don't know.
Sam: Maybe this city was taken somewhere else or something. Transported here.
Marisha: Does this city look like Whitestone?
Matt: No. None of the buildings, the structures, resemble Whitestone.
Sam: Is there any architecture that I, or anyone, notices, like from a region of where we've been?
Matt: No. Not really.
Sam: Mid-century modern, mostly?
Matt: Yeah, yeah, lot of Ikea. No, but you do get the sense-- some of the architecture here does resemble elements of some architecture designs that remind you of Wildemount.
Sam: Man, we should have brought Tary.
Matt: But, like, old Wildemount. Like, no modern structures, definitely from centuries back. As you continue to wander and keep your eyes out, you occasionally hear the distant (creature shrieking). You watch as the (wings flapping) winged, dark beasts are circling overhead.
Sam: Do we recognize them?
Matt: No, not yet.
Laura: Never seen anything like it?
Matt: You have not seen anything like these before. Black as night against the gray sky. From this distance, you make out no details in their bodies. It's almost like a moving shadow above you. Wherever light would hit to give you some sense of structure, it's just absence, void. It's just a flying shadow.
Taliesin: Are there any buildings that have enough structure to them where it feels like there might be things inside that have been relatively unmolested at this point?
Matt: Possibly. Make a perception check.
Taliesin: 12.
Matt: 12. I mean, there are some buildings that look like they have some structure, and the further into the city you get, the more you see that this becomes a little less destroyed. But you begin to see some figures moving that are not armored undead, not zombies, and not any of these quick-moving creatures. You see three figures walking back towards the orb where you guys came from in the same black cult robes, hoods off. They would appear to be human.
Taliesin: But they're cultists.
Matt: But they're cultists.
Laura: They don't look like they're afraid of walking around?
Liam: Yeah, what's their demeanor?
Matt: They're just walking through.
Liam: How far are they from us?
Matt: They're about 100 feet up. A little further than that.
Liam: Coming our way?
Matt: Coming your way towards the sphere where you guys were.
Ashley: Maybe that's what we need to look like.
Travis: Cover and ambush?
Liam: Or watch, see what they're doing.
Taliesin: Kill two, keep one to question?
Marisha: How many are there, three?
Matt: Three of them.
Taliesin: God, can we even kill people here? Will they die?
Liam: Yes. But do we watch, see what they do with the sphere first?
Taliesin: Let's cut them off.
Sam: I could be bait. Then you could come ambush them.
Liam: Let's watch for a moment longer.
Travis: Find cover.
Matt: Okay. So what do you guys do?
Travis: I'm going into the building.
Laura: I'm following them, just subtly.
Marisha: Yeah, let the twins go ahead first.
Matt: Okay, so the two twins follow and the rest of you duck into a building off to the side? Okay. You guys, I need you both individually to roll stealth as you tail behind them.
Laura: And we still have Pass Without a Trace on. 34.
Liam: 45.
Sam: Wait, we're staying put and they're walking off somewhere else? How are we going to see what's going to happen?
Travis: They were walking towards us.
Matt: The cultists are basically walking past you guys, going the opposite direction of where you were traveling, and both the twins just vanish from sight. You're like, "Well what if-- Gone again." You guys pace behind them, jumping from alley to alley. Occasionally they'll stop and do a walk over. There's not a sense of paranoia, but they're very watchful. Their attire, while still cult robes, is a little more intricately adorned, and you see the one in the front is carrying a hanging lantern that gives off this weird smoke behind it, like a censer.
Travis: A censer?
Liam: Yeah, like a Catholic.
Matt: Yeah. But it gives off this faint glow, and they walk and make their way slowly outside of the city towards the pillar where the orb is. And they just look around it, walk over to the few buildings to the side, divide a little bit to a perimeter, reconvene at the base of the orb, and begin making their way back to the center of the city.
Laura: Is there anything else around? Should we kill them?
Liam: All three? Take one? Kill two, leave one?
Sam: We can ambush them.
Laura: Get ready for an ambush.
Taliesin: When they walk by the house, push them.
Laura: When they walk past you guys, we'll attack.
Sam: Should I put someone out there to confuse them?
Liam: No. When we go, follow suit.
Marisha: I can Grasping Vine one into the building, right into Grog's hands.
Laura: Wait until we attack them first.
Matt: All right. The three of them walk back, leaving a small censer trail behind. The smoke, the almost incense-like smoke, burns off within a few feet after. They eventually cross right next to the doorway and window to where the rest of you are waiting. Both of you guys roll for an attack. Are you aiming at two different ones? Same one?
Laura: Two different ones. And it's an automatic...
Matt: It's an automatic crit if you hit, and you have advantage on the hit because they don't see you.
Laura: Natural 20. Not that it matters, because I already got a crit.
Matt: But still, it's nice.
Liam: 26.
Matt: 26. Both hit. Go ahead and roll damage, both of you, doubling your weapon die damage and your sneak attack.
Laura: Bramble shot.
Sam: There's three of them, right?
Matt: Three of them, yes... You also double the bramble shot damage because it's a crit.
Sam: Hey, look, we're killing things! Well, maybe.
Taliesin: Incapacitating, at the very least.
Liam: 85.
Laura: Oh, shit, dude.
Sam: 85?
Matt: 85 damage. Rogues, man. It's what they do.
Taliesin: The head is cleaved from the body.
Laura: 56 for me.
Sam: It was Kima and Allura on a mission. They're dead.
Matt: As the three of them walk, the two on the outside both, at the same time, (impacts), crumple. No noise, just fall to their knees, face down on the ground, unmoving. The one in the center that's holding the censer turns and looks back and sees--
Marisha: And I go (whoosh) and Grasping Vine him, and throw him right into Grog's hands.
Laura: Don't kill him!
Travis: And if he's successfully thrown, I just cover his mouth and grab the back of his head and squeeze.
Sam: Which mouth?
Travis: Ew, God.
Matt: That is a 16.
Marisha: Fail.
Matt: Fail. That's right, because 21. So as soon as he turns around, out of one of the cracks in the stonework nearby, you can see some dry, grass-like gray brush. There is what appears to be some faint hints of local plant life, but it all looks like gray, dry grass. Or, you know after a morning freeze, when you see elements of a field that have that weird, textured, almost water plant look to it? It's clusters of that, but curled. And one of those whips out with this one, long, grayish, almost fleshy-looking vine that wraps around it and yanks it inside the house. (grunt) Gets yanked in. Grog, you catch him.
Travis: Cover his mouth.
Liam: Like clockwork.
Matt: Go ahead and make an athletics check, Grog.
Travis: Oh, that's a million. 26.
Matt: He struggles against your grasp, and it's nothing. It's like holding a baby in your arms.
Travis: Percy, will you give him a reminder not to move?
Taliesin: Oh, yes, this will be fun. I take out a small, three-inch steel ball. I look him right in the eye, and go, Manners. And I toss the steel ball at our friend. The iron bands.
Matt: Okay. What does he have to save on that?
Taliesin: I actually make a ranged attack roll.
Matt: Okay, make a ranged attack roll. d20 plus your dexterity. You have advantage because he's currently restrained by Grog.
Taliesin: Makes me feel better. Thank God. That's still fine. 23.
Matt: Okay, so as you chuck it the three feet, it impacts, and you watch as the orb swells and expands, and all of these chain-like plates of dark, reddish iron metal wrap around him, constraining his hands, his legs, and locking him into place around his jaw and his head and his mouth.
Taliesin: Excellent.
Laura: Can he still talk?
Travis: Yeah, when I take my hand off his mouth.
Taliesin: This thing will allow him to talk. I believe this thing has a...
Matt: It has a little slit that you can remove to the side.
Liam: It's got a gimp hole?
Matt: All good magical items do, Liam. That's what you call an artifact.
Taliesin: I give him a second to sit and I wait until we're all inside.
Matt: Okay. You guys both attacked.
Laura: Pull the bodies inside.
Matt: First make a stealth check, because you both exposed yourselves with the attack, and there are creatures overhead shrieking.
Taliesin: With advantage. He has advantage.
Liam: Plus Pass Without Trace.
Laura: 35.
Liam: 37, that's kind of low for me.
Matt: Okay. You watch as one swoops nearby, and you hear the (shrieking), and you guys dart by. Doesn't seem to take notice. You drop back into the building, and there you see your quarry now bolted to himself through a series of dark iron metal plates.
Travis: Our quarry, does he have two eyes?
Matt: He does not have both eyes. Left eye is missing. You see him now. This is a man in his mid-40s, salt and pepper hair, seems to be an unkempt beard around his chin. Hair is maybe about ear-length, a little tattered now since he's been roughed up and manhandled a bit. His skin's a bit yellowed, a little jaundiced. You get the sense he's probably been living here for quite some time, and he doesn't look healthy.
Laura: I grab the thing that was making the smoke and bring it.
Matt: The smell is awful. It's hard to differentiate from the general smell of decay and dust that this entire realm seems to be suffused with, but the smoke that billows off of this is like fresh putrescence, mixed with a very, very strong charcoal.
Taliesin: This may be how they move freely.
Laura: That's what I'm thinking. We hide the bodies. We'll bring the bodies inside, too, so that nobody sees them.
Liam: Press him.
Taliesin: I'm going to let you speak, and we're going to have a conversation. Given where you are, the circumstances that we find you in, I'm going to let you know that there is a curse upon my weapon, and the souls that are killed with this weapon are claimed by a demon named Orthax. Now, I haven't experimented as to what happens when somebody's soul is claimed by more than one creature, but I'm excited to find out. So wouldn't it be interesting if everything you've been promised here is suddenly null and void? So, yes, we may threaten your life, but I want you to know that what's really at stake here is just precisely what's left of your soul, so answer with caution. And I unlock.
Matt: Roll an intimidation check.
Travis: That was nasty, it was real good.
Taliesin: Fucking dice. No love on that one. Terrible. Eight.
Matt: You unlock, and he just goes (laughs) "I don't have to tell you anything."
Liam: I punch him in the temple.
Matt: "This pain is meager. I've felt far worse. I've given myself far worse. Pry and poke all you want."
Liam: I punch him in the mouth.
Taliesin: This sort of thing isn't going to get us anywhere. Pike. Think you can give him back his eye?
Laura: Oh, that's a good idea.
Sam: You're going to use a carrot?
Liam: No, that's the stick.
Marisha: Do you have Regenerate with you?
Ashley: I do.
Laura: Separate him from his god.
Ashley: I put my hand over his eye.
Matt: He doesn't flinch.
Laura: Do it.
Ashley: Are you ready to have your eye back?
Matt: "I'll just pluck it right back out."
Ashley: Well, you can't. Because you're just going to stay in these binds forever.
Liam: Or Grog will pull your arms off.
Matt: "Do your worst."
Laura: No, he's not scared of pain.
Travis: Just ask him some questions before the fun begins. Let's see what he answers with.
Laura: Do you know Delilah Briarwood?
Matt: "Maybe. The fact that you're already here means that you have no way out, so I fear not. Even if I perish, I die with the comfort of knowing that you'll perish soon after. That is the comfort in the Whispered One."
Laura: Vecna.
Matt: "So you knowingly came here. You are both foolish and simple."
Travis: No, that's just me.
Matt: "So you said you have questions."
Travis: What's flying around in the sky?
Matt: "The sentinels."
Travis: Sentinels.
Matt: "That is what they are for us, but they are known more formally as Gloom Stalkers."
Travis: Gloom Stalkers. That is a great name.
Matt: "They are hungry. Ever hungry."
Travis: They also look fearsome. Do people cower before them in their presence?
Matt: "You will."
Travis: I'll bet. I am easily startled.
Taliesin: Where are you from?
Matt: "It does not matter. The past means nothing when you give up your secrets."
Taliesin: The ziggurats, there's three of them. You've come through the Wildemount one?
Matt: He shakes his head. "You will get no information from me."
Sam: All right. Can I have a try? You've got one eye, right? Ugh.
Matt: You see the gaping socket, and as he goes to blink one eye, you can see the marking on the inside, it looks like it was burned out, so you watch the outer edge of the flesh and muscle twitch whenever he blinks.
Sam: Gross ocular muscles. I just want to make you feel good, man, so I'll just sing to you. I'll hold up my cone, and I'll sing, (singing) Just the two of us. You can't quit me if you tried. Just the two of us. Me and your eye. So I'll Dominate Person.
Travis: He's back.
Matt: That is... That's an 11. All right. His grin glazes over and he goes...
Sam: Will you please tell us everything you know when we ask you?
Matt: "But of course."
Sam: Where are you from?
Matt: "I am from the outskirts of a far eastern Wildemount village named Zuvan. It was built on the ruins of Orthanus. I was a poor man, but I found purpose."
Sam: Did you come through a ziggurat in Wildemount? And if so, where?
Matt: "I don't know. I was taken with many others who had given themselves to the secrets of the Undying King. I awoke here, mauled but living, and was inducted, and that was when he took my eye."
Sam: He?
Matt: "He. One of the acolytes."
Sam: The flying things. Well, we know what they are now.
Travis: What do they do?
Sam: Do the flying things have magical powers?
Matt: "I do not know. They shriek, they eat, they watch. I do not mess with such terrible and wonderful instruments."
Ashley: How does he get through all the dead?
Sam: The smoke-making thing that you were carrying. What is it and how does it work?
Matt: "It protects those of us who are not as esteemed in the arts of necromancy to not be bothered by the roving, long-dead soldiers of the last war on Thar Amphala."
Sam: The last war on Thar Amphala! What does that mean?
Laura: I don't know!
Sam: What does that mean?
Marisha: The last war on what?
Matt: Thar Amphala. Thar Amphala, the city built for the Whispered One, long ago.
Sam: Oh, that's where we are.
Laura: Who lives in the tower, Vecna? Is that where he is?
Matt: He just looks at you strangely.
Liam: It's got to come from him.
Laura: I'm a really good friend of his.
Sam: She really is, that's being rude. But who lives in the tower? Is it Vecna or Mistress Delilah?
Matt: "It's where his essence has slowly reclaimed the space. He will live soon."
Laura: Oh, but he's not back yet!
Sam: The Mistress Delilah. Where is she right now?
Matt: "I have not seen her, but if she is not out, then perhaps the ritual is soon. She is probably at the top of Entropis."
Sam: Entropis is the tower?
Matt: "Yes."
Marisha: That tower?
Sam: The only tower.
Travis: What other alarms are there in the city that would detect outsiders?
Sam: What protections do you have on the tower?
Matt: "I do not know the specifics. I am but a watcher on the outside of Thar Amphala."
Sam: You don't go in?
Matt: "I have not gone in since I gave my eye."
Sam: And what are your people called? Your group, your cult?
Matt: "We are the Remnants."
Ashley: What's his purpose?
Sam: What's your job with the Remnants?
Matt: "I am to watch the outskirts of the city. I am to escort those who would bring various things in preparation for the ritual."
Laura: What ritual? What is the ritual going to do?
Sam: What will the ritual do?
Matt: "The ritual is to restore him. To bring him, so that he can complete the main purpose. The ritual of seeding."
Sam: He's just a farmer, guys.
Liam: How does Delilah factor into it? What does she get out of it? What does she do?
Sam: I don't think he knows all of the intricacies.
Liam: I know, but he's probably promised them all something.
Sam: What has Delilah promised you? What do you gain out of this?
Matt: "When he, the Undying King, returns to this world, and we bring what we have gained, what we have brought from the other plane, that seed will be taken to the ritual of the space."
Laura: What have they brought?
Sam: Did you bring something through the portal? What was it?
Matt: "I do not understand the details, but for many months now, these siphons, they have been building the seed. They have been preparing for his return. And from there, he will complete what he started so long ago."
Laura: And that shit's happening soon?
Sam: When does the ritual begin?
Matt: "Soon. Things accelerate."
Sam: I know we look different now, but if you had to pick one of us, which is the most handsome?
Matt: "That would be you, my friend."
Sam: I thought so.
Travis: Can he take us safely to the tower?
Sam: Can you escort us to the tower? Dominate Person has got to be wearing off.
Matt: I'm checking the spell just to be sure.
Laura: We have a thing. We can at least get through town.
Sam: One minute. It's probably over.
Matt: Yeah. So by about now, after these questions have come through, his one eye blinks, and he goes, (grunt), "It matters not. He already knows you're here."
Liam: I punch him in the temple again.
Laura: He likes it. Stop giving him pleasure.
Travis: I poke him in his remaining eyeball.
Matt: Do you? Roll a strength check.
Liam: A strength check? For some Jello?
Travis: Oh God. 25.
Matt: (shriek of pain)
Taliesin: I close the mouth.
Matt: There is a smear of crimson down his face as the other eye has just been turned to paste.
Laura: Wow, we're terrible people.
Travis: Oh, what was that? It matters not? Oh, are you going to be rewarded? Yeah. How many middle fingers am I holding up?
Laura: We should put him out of his misery.
Travis: Why? I like misery.
Sam: Well, if we just release him into the city without his censer...
Liam: He's going to stumble out like a maniac. Squish the bug, Grog.
Sam: No, no. If we send him away from us, maybe one of those things will find him and we'll have a clearer path.
Travis: He's yelling. He'll make all sorts of sound.
Sam: Yeah, if we send him away from us and then we go the other way. He's a human distraction!
Taliesin: We don't need a distraction, we need quiet at this point.
Liam: And those things, we don't know if they could alert back if they saw something fishy like that.
Taliesin: I'll release him and you do your business, all right? Manners.
Matt: (mechanical clicking) It all unfolds and returns into the sphere.
Travis: Great word.
Taliesin: Thank you. It's programmable.
Travis: Should we let you back out so you can find your way back?
Matt: "Do your worst."
Travis: (crack)
Matt: With a sickening snap, you can hear as the spinal column is severed at the base of the neck, and he goes limp in Grog's grasp.
Ashley: Grab his necklace in case we need another one for some reason.
Laura: Should we grab any cloaks?
Taliesin: Grab the necklaces and the cloaks and the censer. All three of them.
Matt: Actually, he has almost nothing on him but the censer.
Marisha: No necklace?
Matt: He has-- Actually, no, he would not have one of the necklaces. Because he does not...
Marisha: Travel through?
Matt: He has a symbol, a similar symbol, but it's much smaller, more just a basic holy symbol of some kind. Same shape, but it doesn't have the same thick iron presentation as the ones that you guys encountered.
Laura: I have a holy symbol to Vecna that we took off of somebody in the original ziggurat.
Matt: Yes, and that is the same symbol.
Laura: It is, okay.
Liam: We're in an ancient city. Are there the remains of furniture in here?
Laura: I just want to take a nap or a cozy sit-down.
Liam: No, I want to shove him in a closet or wrap him up in something.
Travis: I'm putting him in the Bag of Holding as you're talking.
Taliesin: We can't keep everything.
Liam: Does anybody see any-- Never mind.
Taliesin: Is there anything of interest in this building, since we have a moment?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Liam: I'm going to investigate, too, because I was looking for furniture.
Taliesin: 15.
Liam: And I have advantage, hold on. Investigation... 22.
Matt: Okay. You do find some furniture. Most of it's very basic, tables, maybe a couple chairs, a couple of cots that are mainly wood boards with a thin cushion on it. The existence here was not to be-- It's a very plain city of worship. You can see everything was built here to gather worshipers, to gather the Remnants, or whatever they were called before, the last time that Vecna fell and the city was assaulted.
Liam: Right, so this is all worse than Fallout Three at this point.
Matt: It's on par with.
Liam: PlayStation Three graphics.
Taliesin: I say we make our way towards the spire.
Matt: So now, still under the guise of various undead, holding a wandering burning censer procured from the now-dead, eye-popped corpse of a wandering cultist, you slowly make your way deeper into the city of Thar Amphala, towards the tower of Entropis, where seemingly the cult of the Remnant are attempting to bring Vecna back to physical form for an even greater ritual thereafter. And that's where we'll finish tonight's episode. We'll return next week to pick up from there, guys.
Laura: This is amazing!
Travis: This is the best setup ever!
Matt: So happy. I know! I get to touch people's hands!
Liam: Dorks!
Matt: I know, we're such huge nerds. This feels so much like the home game, it makes me happy.
Liam: Serious deja vu.
Taliesin: All it needs is honey and brie.
Laura: We could put food out in front of us!
Matt: Next week, pajamas and mimosas. What better way to celebrate a Vecna arc in the Shadowfell?
Liam: Bring your dog to work day!
Taliesin: PJ's, mimosas, and very old puppies?
Liam: And Charlie? Can Charlie come?
Laura: I think it's necessary.
Taliesin: Charlie can run Trinket.
Matt: So guys, thank you so much. We're back next week. I want to give another big thank you to the amazing crew and people here at Legendary/Geek and Sundry that have been working almost around the clock to make this set work, to make this table work, to make the equipment work, the lighting, the audio. We've taken all of your suggestions, we've reached out to the community, to try and make this as best and as comfortable as possible for us and you guys. I know it's a work in progress, and you'll watch things improve as we go, as we learn and figure things out, so thank you for your patience. But seriously, if you get the opportunity, show some appreciation for the people who've been working really hard to try and improve this experience for everyone involved. Thank you guys, you're all so amazing. (cheers)
Matt: In the meantime, I want to tell you all, I love you very much. Happy 101st episode. And is it Thursday yet? Good night, guys! [art]

[END OF EPISODE]