The following lines contains multiple episode transcripts of a Dungeons and Dragons game played by a group of players. Each episode transcript is delimited by [START OF EPISODE] and [END OF EPISODE]. The transcripts are followed by a question about the game statistics. Answer the question based on the transcripts. Do not try to guess, estimate or approximate the result. Do not ask the user for clarification or follow-up. Do step-by-step reasoning if needed. Return the final answer in \boxed{{}}. 

The following lines contain the mapping between player names and character names.
Matt plays the character DM.
Laura plays the character Vex'ahlia.
Travis plays the character Grog.
Marisha plays the character Keyleth.
Orion plays the character Tiberius.
Taliesin plays the character Percy.
Liam plays the character Vax'ildan.
Sam plays the character Taryon.
Ashley plays the character Pike.
Felicia plays the character Lyra.
Mary plays the character Zahra.
Wil plays the character Thorbir.
Will plays the character Kashaw.
Kit plays the character Lillith.
Jason plays the character Garthok.
Chris hardwick plays the character Gern.
Chris perkins plays the character Shale.
Patrick plays the character Kerrek.
Noelle plays the character Tova.
Jon plays the character Lionel.
Darin plays the character Sprigg.
Joe plays the character Arkhan.

Use this mapping when answering the questions below.

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to this evening's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy voice actors sit around a table and play Dungeons & Dragons. If you are returning, welcome back. For those who it's their first time watching us live on the stream, welcome to the chaos. So, before I begin, a couple of quick notifications I want to give you guys. We had our first subscriber giveaway hit before the show started at 4,200. It was LL1973. Turn the mic around. Oh, now you can hear me. Look at this! The magic of live. Live communication. You have a wonderful view of this fantastic midsection. It's delightful. There we go. Is that better?
Zac: Yep.
Matt: Velcome. So, welcome to Critical Role, for those who didn't hear me before. D&D, voice actors, you know the drill now. So our first giveaway already happened tonight for the subscriber count at 4,200 to LL1973. Congratulations. You're going to be winning a signed Player's Handbook of Dungeons & Dragons Fifth Edition, as well as a signed photo of the Critical Role cast. Our next one will be at 4,250, so, up to every fifty subscribers after that we will be giving away an additional Player's Handbook and photo signed by the cast. Awesome times. (cheering)
Marisha: Awesome times?
Matt: Indeed, very awesome times.
Marisha: Good times, good time together.
Matt: I think so, indeed. Also, as a heads-up to you guys, there will be no Critical Role next week because the San Diego Comic-Con is happening. Down in San Diego.
Marisha: We're doing a panel, aren't we?
Matt: I know, we have a panel, though. We have a panel Thursday, I'll be on the main Geek and Sundry panel with Laura at 1-2 and then we have our actual full Critical Role panel from 4-5. So if you are going to be there, come see us at PetCo Park on Thursday.
Laura: You don't need a badge.
Matt: Nope, you can just come and walk on in.
Marisha: Yeah, it is at PetCo Park, so don't get lost looking around the convention center. Because it won't be there. It's at PetCo Park.
Matt: It's the big sports stadium, which to me is a wonderful irony of us giving a panel about Dungeons & Dragons in the center of a giant sports stadium. That's right! Indoor kids. However, however, they are also filming the panel for those who can't be there. The panel will be on the stream the following day, I believe, so check it out there, after, with the rest of the Comic-Con stream coverage. It'll be fun. Yeah, so that'll be good. The week after that, me and Marisha are going to be out of town in New Zealand, so this means a two-week period without Critical Role main-story stuff, and I apologize, this is all stuff that got planned before the stream even started. We'll be at a convention in New Zealand. For those out there planning to come to Armageddon, please come see us, we'll be down there. It'll be fun for all New Zealand fans. Otherwise, the rest of the Critical Role cast that are available will be here and will play some other sort of game together and generally interact with the chat and have a good time until we return. So.
Marisha: We're working it out.
Matt: Yeah, we're getting the circumstance ironed out.
Marisha: Hi, Liam!
Orion: Hi, Liam!
Matt: We have Liam on Skype over here.
Liam: Hi, guys.
Matt: What's up, buddy?
Liam: Hi!
Matt: Liam, who's finishing up his vacation as well. As far as I understand, we have a--
Marisha: How's New Jersey?
Liam: I am deep in upstate New York on the Canadian border.
Matt: Slowly migrating into expatriotism. Don't go Canadian on us.
Liam: It's frightening to drive here at night. I can't wait to do it at two in the morning.
Laura: Yay.
Matt: Yes.
Ashley: I'm drinking out of your mug.
Matt: She is.
Liam: My mug? Here's mine.
Matt: On river time, there you go.
Marisha: On river time, what?
Matt: That is-- that's a mug.
Marisha: Did you instantly turn into a 64-year-old golfer as soon as you went there?
Liam: I'm on a river. I'm on a river.
Laura: I'm on a boat. I'm on a boat.
Matt: So that's going on. Other things we want to mention. We'll have a special presentation at the break today. We're taking a break from the 826LA charity for another special charity that has been running for the past week known as GameChanger: it's a cancer charity and it's been working in conjunction with SquareEnix this past week. To raise money for cancer research, they've been doing-- if you donate $1 to it they're giving away codes for the first Deus Ex game for PC and a lot of other fun stuff. We'll have more information and a presentation for you at the break. So be aware that's the fun charity we're promoting tonight, so if anyone has the ability to give, please do, they're an awesome charity. We're also waiting on Sam Riegel and Taliesin Jaffe, they're both fighting traffic but will be here shortly. However, let's go ahead and cut to the intro to give us a one-minute break, and then we'll jump right into this crazy, crazy episode. So see you in just a moment. [no audio] Well, while we get that figured out--
Orion: Oh, is this a podcast now?
Matt: Apparently.
Orion: (old-timey voice) Old time radio.
Marisha: Well, I think the intro--
Matt: Intro video's frozen.
Orion: Damn it.
Matt: Also, this is, as opposed to making it a surprise, this'll be our last game for a little while with--
Laura: No, don't say it, don't say it yet.
Matt: Don't say it-- okay.
Travis: If you say it, it makes it true.
Marisha: Makes it too real.
Matt: Okay, you're right.
Orion: Ooh.
Matt: I'll hold off, all right.
Liam: Unfortunately, Travis has to leave the show.
Matt: No, that's not true. Grog's ale still needs to be filled.
Travis: Smash.
Matt: Indeed. So we'll patiently wait, folks, pizza at the ready. Now.
Marisha: What's going on?
Liam: Is there a full table behind this computer?
Laura: Pretty much.
Matt: There is, yes.
Laura: Travis is directly behind you.
Liam: Am I in his chest again?
Laura: Yeah, you might be even in his face at this point.
Orion: It's pretty good, though, I like this better than the iPad.
Marisha: And we can see you more.
Laura: Can you still see Travis?
Marisha: Yeah.
Orion: Yeah.
Laura: Oh.
Matt: It'll be fine.
Orion: How can we not see him?
Marisha: Yeah. (laughs)
Laura: That's true.
Orion: He's a mountain of man.
Travis: I am Rushmore.
Marisha: Travis takes up this side of the frame.
Orion: I'm Rushmore.
Matt: If we're having an issue with the intro video, do you want to just go to the game?
Travis: We can do a live intro video.
All: (intro video music)
Matt: Grog! Goliath Barbarian.
Marisha: (crow sound) (laughter)
Matt: -- and we're done.
Travis: I'd been thinking that this had to happen at some point.
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: Boomf! I was being you, Tiberius.
Marisha: Yeah.
Travis: We could totally do a Brady Bunch.
Marisha: Ah ha!
Laura: Light!
Matt: That was pretty good.
Travis: You guys are on the bottom of the feed, right?
Orion: Right.
Travis: So if you looked up and we looked down, we'd essentially be looking at each other.
Marisha: Oh right, Brady Bunch style!
Laura: (gasps) Oh, no way.
Travis: Oh, hi guys.
Marisha: Hi, Travis.
Orion: Is that how it looks?
Travis: And then everyone looks to the right to look at Mercer.
Laura: No, yeah, everyone looks to the same--
Travis: Oh, we look right, you look left.
Travis: No.
Matt: No.
Matt: They look right. Everyone looks right.
Marisha: Everyone looks right? So if we're looking this way, "Hi, Matt!"
Matt: And I disapprovingly look to my left. There you go.
Ashley: Are we still on?
Marisha: Yeah.
Ashley: Still going?
Matt: Real-time Critical Role.
Marisha: We're still kind of confused.
Laura: I can't tell what happening.
Matt: So I figure if the intro video's not working, let's not worry about it. Let's just jump into the game and get this started. How about that?
Travis: Yeah, why not.
Matt: Cool with that?
Ashley: Wait, can we show someone that's here that's really cool?
Matt: What's up?
Marisha: Go ahead and bring him on?
Matt: Oh, well, we're waiting on the break, unless you want to do it now.
Ashley: Do it on the break.
Orion: So we have video problems?
Marisha: You can come say hi.
Orion: I'm Periscope-ing until we're not having video issues.
Matt: Well, as far as I know we're on camera.
Orion: Oh, we are?
Crew: Yeah.
Matt: Yeah, just the intro video's not working.
Orion: Okay.
Marisha: Oh, we probably could have been going for a while. We've just been like dicking around.
Orion: Bye, guys, we're live.
Matt: Ah, welcome to the chaos of live internet. All right, so let's--
Liam: I don't think we should go any more meta than it has to be.
Matt: Let's jump in, guys. Let's jump in. So a little bit of overview for those of you who are just joining us. At this point in the story, Vox Machina, this intrepid band of adventurers, misfits, whatever you must call them, completed an adventure through the Underdark, a very dangerous, cavernous--
Laura: Oh, Sam's here.
Matt: Oh, we're gonna let Sam in.
Marisha: Sam's here!
Orion: Yeah, he texted.
Matt: All right, so after completing this Underdark challenge, they discovered and managed to extract an evil artifact known as the Horn of Orcus that held great power and seemingly has a partner somewhere in the world that is unknown. But the one they have acquired is indestructible, as far as folks know, and it was decided by the Council of Tal'Dorei and Vox Machina that it should be sealed away and hopefully forgotten for the rest of eternity. The best place to do so came up in the conversation to be the city of Vasselheim, which is on a different continent far to the northwest of Tal'Dorei, the kingdom where most of the story as to this point has taken place, to be sealed in what is referred to as the Platinum Sanctuary, the oldest existing temple to Bahamut, the good platinum dragon deity. So they were given passage on a skyship to cross the Ozmit Sea to Othanzia, the continent that houses the capital city, Vasselheim. So the group gathered together, rode on to the magically elevated skyship, and are traversing the ocean carrying the Horn of Orcus within this holy container. Hello!
Marisha: Hi, Sam.
Matt: Sam has joined us.
Sam: Hi!
Matt: They found themselves over the ocean, suddenly attacked by a band of what seemed to be wyvern- and griffin-riding bandits. The battle took place on the top of the skyship, some of the magic being taken out, a few lives lost, but the party managed to persevere, take a captive, and continue on their journey, the Horn of Orcus and its container kept safe. And that's where we pick up and begin.
Sam: Can you say all of that again for me? (laughter)
Travis: You don't listen, anyway.
Matt: No.
Marisha: (laughs) You don't listen, anyway.
Matt: All righty, so as you guys have settled in, the Horn safe, you've taken a couple more days on this journey, what was told to be about a six-day journey across the ocean, six to seven days. Is there anything you guys wish to accomplish at this moment?
Sam: Are we in the air?
Matt: You are still in the air on the skyship.
Sam: Not much we can do.
Marisha: Well, we just-- so we fought off the wyverns.
Sam: Oh, do we have one? We have one.
Travis: Is the little magician halfling still being polite and brushing her teeth and stuff?
Laura: Oh, that's right, our little halfling that we--
Travis: Who you saved. Wuss.
Matt: Yes.
Sam: She's a mage, right?
Matt: That you saved. She is a mage, and she has also been bound, at the orders of the captain, so as not to cause any issues on the ship while she's there. So as to her future, after your conversation with him, as to whether or not she could work on this ship, based on the fact that their first meeting involved her and her band attacking and trying to murder his entire crew, Captain Damon was not too keen on the idea at the time being and decided to lock her up.
Laura: Oh.
Matt: So. We shall see her fate in the near future.
Travis: She's locked up.
Laura: Okay. She's locked up.
Travis: She's got tricks, though, right?
Matt: She has tricks, but there is an anti-magic brig built into the ship specifically for this purpose.
Sam: Ooh. Fancy.
Travis: That's all I needed to know.
Laura: Oh, that's good to know. I was going to pay you to put the kibosh on her.
Orion: She's negged.
Travis: Cool.
Matt: (laughs) So. I'll say that Percy is continuing to read his book. The next few days pass without incident. Is there anything you want to accomplish? Anything?
Orion: You said the next few days without incident? Cool.
Travis: Could I try to further my beard?
Sam: Oh, yes! Try to grow a beard.
Marisha: Yeah, his beard. Let's go for the beard.
Matt: Go ahead and roll another percentage dice.
Travis: Yeah! It's a d20, right?
Laura: It's a percentage die.
Travis: Oh, that's right, that's right. The two in a row. I remember.
Matt: Two d10s.
Travis: I'm learning. I'm learning.
Marisha: Yep.
Matt: First one and the second one.
Travis: Three. Eight.
Matt: 38. The little bit of peach-fuzz stubble on the chin of your goliath face begins to slowly grow. It's coming out colorless. It's almost translucent with a hint of gray and white.
Sam: Ew.
Laura: Ew.
Travis: I'm a Targaryen, baby. (laughter)
Liam: That's hot.
Laura: It's translucent, like--
Matt: A color is there. It's almost like fishing line is growing out of the bottom of his chin.
Travis: Yeah.
Sam: Ugh.
Ashley: Whoa.
Travis: Don't be jealous.
Ashley: Grog, it's sparkling. It's sparkling!
Laura: It's really creepy, Grog.
Ashley: Hey, I feel it. It's like sandpaper, a little bit.
Travis: Thank you. Thank you.
Matt: Keep in mind, goliaths, predominantly-- especially pureblood goliaths-- do not grow facial hair. The fact that this magical feat is even achieving any modicum of growth is in itself an arcane marvel, and who knows what detrimental effects this may have in the long run, going against your physiology.
Travis: Oh, crap. It's all right. It'll make me look really wise, you guys. Nobody will know.
Marisha: I have some beads. If you want, we can braid it and put beads in there.
Laura: Ooh.
Travis: I'm all about it. Beads and bells and shit?
Marisha: Okay!
Marisha: I braid Grog's beard.
Travis: Give me a staff and I'll be Gandalf.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: And put beads in it. And a few flowers, as well.
Travis: Wait! Ooh, weird.
Marisha: It looks nice.
Travis: All right.
Matt: It takes you a lot of concentration to try and get any sort of braidage through the about an inch to inch and a half facial hair that is growing from his chin.
Marisha: Looks good!
Travis: It's really tight when you braid it like that. It pinches.
Marisha: You'll get used to it.
Laura: Maybe you can cast Grasping Vine on his chin and grow it out.
Matt: What could possibly go wrong? (laughter)
Travis: Do it. Could be great.
Orion: I suggest against this.
Travis: I thought you suggest violence.
Orion: No.
Sam: He encourages violence.
Laura: I encourage violence.
Orion: I'm against this.
Ashley: Is it just violence?
Laura: So we're healed. We're healed, right?
Sam: Oh, days have gone by, right?
Matt: Yeah, you guys have rested. Days have gone by, your spells have returned to you--
Liam: Hey, DM, days have gone by?
Laura: Trinket's feeling good.
Matt: Days have gone by at this time. You've continued traveling over the Ozmit Sea.
Orion: Are we nearing the destination?
Matt: I'll get to that in just a second. Do you have a question, Liam?
Liam: No, not a question, but last night while Grog was sleeping-- I can see right up Grog's nose. While Grog was sleeping, I went and got a bit of rope from the ship and used my disguise kit that I have. I sort of frayed a part of the rope and spent about an hour using spirit gum to glue bits of frayed rope to Grog's chin into a small Gilmore-esque goatee. And he didn't seem to wake up, and I'd like to see how that worked out.
Matt: (laughs) All righty.
Travis: I'm gonna do a sleep check or something, right? I can't let him survive that.
Matt: For this, go ahead and make a perception check with disadvantage.
Travis: With disadvantage?!
Sam: Because you're asleep!
Travis: One. (laughter)
Orion: Get it out now.
Matt: You wake up the following morning and immediately run to the nearest reflective surface to check on yourself, and you have a glorious, dark brown, well-braided, mildly frayed, thick, coarse goatee braid. It goes about a good three to four inches from the bottom of your chin. And you are very proud.
Travis: I knew it! I knew it! I am a special boy. (laughs) (laughter)
Travis: Only this one strand is this color and everything else is white and translucent, whatever--
Orion: I think it looks good on you, Grog.
Travis: Thank you! I wave my head and it whips around.
Ashley: (sings) I whip my beard back and forth.
Travis: (sings) I whip my beard back and forth.
Matt: It stays taut on your chin. All right, so as you reach the middle of the sixth day of travel, the sky, which up to this point had been fairly sunny and clear, begins to slowly cloud over. The weather grows more gray, and the clouds themselves seem to cluster more into-- I wouldn't say a stormfront, but definitely a more gloomy atmosphere.
Marisha: Can I do a nature check to see if this seems to be natural or arcane?
Matt: Certainly.
Orion: Nice.
Laura: (sings) With her big fancy die!
Marisha: Okay, that's a 10 plus-- 20, total.
Matt: All right. Looking at these clouds, it is a slow formation, and they aren't moving at an unnecessary speed or seem to have any ominous press towards you. It just seems like the weather itself towards this northern continent seems to be of a colder variety.
Orion: I'm going to sense the weather, I suppose, because this doesn't look fun.
Matt: Okay. The weather is cold.
Orion: Ooh, it's cold.
Travis: So the weather outside is frightful?
Laura: Good call, Tiberius. Good call. I agree, it is rather cold.
Orion: I don't like this. Scanlan.
Sam: Oi?
Orion: Like we were discussing earlier, would you be interested in the still-standing trade of my Ioun Stone for your circlet-crown thingy?
Sam: Oh, you know what, Tiberius, I have been giving this a lot of thought and consideration. What's for lunch?
Orion: What would you like for lunch? I already ate.
Sam: Oh. No. No, I was done with the conversation.
Travis: Oh, good diss.
Laura: Oh.
Ashley: Oh.
Orion: Well. Keyleth, if you could put a little slate up for me, I'd like to illustrate something for little Scanlan. And perhaps his tiny mind can comprehend it. (clears throat)
Laura: Ooh!
Ashley: Hey, that's rude.
Orion: Would you, perhaps, do this?
Laura: His tiny mind is exactly proportionate for the rest of his body, Tiberius.
Sam: Well, not the entire body.
Orion: I'm going to walk up to the hull and be like--
Marisha: No! Write it right here! I throw up a slate.
Orion: Oh. (clears throat)
Matt: Okay. It's the strangest wall you've constructed, as up in the air on the ship that is mostly constructed out of iron and metal, there is little to no stone available of which you can sprout a Wall of Stone. However, there are weights set up on top, so what you create is less of a smooth Wall of Stone and more of a very thin, brittle shale wall that may function for the time being, but probably won't stand up for more than five to ten minutes.
Orion: I see. Prestidigitation. Some chalk.
Matt: All right.
Orion: You see, Scanlan, you've had this particular piece for over ten, let's say, matches or weeks. You have used it zero times. In over six battles, over the same course, using it zero times. (laughter)
Orion: I, being a sorcerer, have a special ability called sorcerer points, where I can do multiple spells in a single round.
Sam: Yes.
Orion: Which none of you can do. Other than monks, of course.
Laura: That's true. Brag about it, Tiberius. Just keep bragging about it.
Orion: When I can do multiple spells, like two, versus you, who can do one, that means that I can do one more spell than you can per round. (laughter)
Sam: All right.
Orion: And every round after that. One hundred percent. (laughter)
Sam: This is amazing.
Orion: Your utilization of the actual item has been equivalent to nothing. In the interest of the group and the use of items in general, it would be wise to switch it, because you have needed extra spells like Invisibility--
Matt: The shale wall cracks. (laughter)
Orion: Several times.
Marisha: I'm sorry.
Orion: Where my item would be more useful in general to you.
Liam: May I ask, is magical ability inversely proportionate to wisdom?
Orion: Oh, me?
Sam: Who are you asking?
Ashley: Is magical ability inversely proportionate to wisdom?
Orion: Absolutely not. I am one of the strongest casters in all of Draconia, and it only takes the strength of my charisma to do my stuff.
Laura: Oh. Everything makes sense now, Tiberius.
Travis: So are you saying you want what he has back?
Sam: (laughs) I didn't recognize you, Grog. Is that you?
Travis: It is I, Brad Pitt from Legends of the Fall. (laughter)
Travis: My beard of glory.
Orion: That is a movie.
Travis: It's an old bard's tale.
Orion: So, Scanlan. What say you?
Sam: Your mathematical skills have been quite impressive.
Orion: I don't like to show them off.
Sam: No, no. For a man of such low wisdom, you are proving wiser than I ever imagined. (laughter)
Sam: I will gladly make this trade with you. You have convinced me.
Laura: Hey.
Marisha: Aww.
Orion: Oh, wonderful. Thank you.
Sam: Yes. Yes.
Ashley: Hey.
Laura: That's wonderful.
Sam: All right. Hugs, hugs, hugs. (laughter)
Orion: (explosion sound)
Sam: Now, what does this thing do?
Orion: Now you can store up to three level spells. Three of them in there.
Laura: Oh, it's better than the Pearl of Power!
Orion: And you don't have to expend spell slots to do the spells.
Sam: All right. Thank you very much.
Ashley: Hey.
Laura: That's a good trade.
Travis: Oh my god, that was so good.
Ashley: That was amazing.
Orion: You can put three Lightning Bolts in there and it costs nothing.
Ashley: Oh, math!
Sam: All right, all right. I'm man enough to admit that he's convinced me.
Travis: That was so good.
Ashley: That was awesome.
Travis: I don't know what you wrote, but it looked good.
Marisha: Oh, man.
Orion: I'm sorry.
Matt: The Ioun Stone which you had taken, you place by your head and release. It seems to fix itself in the air and slowly rotate above your head.
Orion: It orbits.
Matt: Almost held in its own orbital gravity around your head.
Laura: Ooh.
Sam: Pike.
Ashley: Oh. (laughs) Oh, wow. It's like you have a halo.
Orion: It is fancy.
Sam: It's like a halo. Like your god has smiled on me, maybe, and said, "He's cool. Go for it."
Ashley: Oh, wow. Well, I don't know if that's what it means.
Sam: Well. You know, religion is up to interpretation, so I interpret it that way.
Ashley: It is very cool-looking.
Sam: Thank you, Pike.
Travis: (laughs) So casual, her god. "It's cool. Go for it."
Matt: (laughs) Sarenrae. The she-bro you never had. (laughter)
Sam: Sarenrae's my wingman.
Ashley: We cool, Sarenrae.
Travis: I can't breathe.
Matt: Many a cart hold that bumper sticker. All right, so as this conversation comes to a close, the temperature in the sky has gotten noticeably chillier. And you swear for an instant you start seeing what looks like specks of white snow beginning to drift from the clouds ahead.
Marisha: (gasps) It's snowing.
Laura: It's snow, Keyleth.
Sam: (sings) I'm dreaming of a white whatever-we-celebrate.
Travis: Festivus!
Orion: Festivus.
Marisha: There was something I should probably tell you. In this area of land, in Vasselheim, on this continent, somewhere, I'm not sure where, resides the Fire Ashari. Somewhere in the town of Pyrah.
Laura: What's that?
Ashley: Ooh.
Laura: What are Fire Ashari?
Marisha: Well, they're my sister tribe. They're a part of my sister tribe. I come from the Air Ashari.
Laura: Right.
Travis: Uh-huh.
Marisha: Yeah, from Zephra.
Ashley: (whispers) Fire Ashari?
Laura: So they-- oh.
Marisha: Yeah, so there are Fire Ashari. So the point behind the Ashari-- I'm not sure I have expressed this to you all in the past few months. The point of our tribe is we sought out the weakest points where the elemental planes start to bleed with our plane of existence, and these planes need to be protected, so our people have sought them all out in order to make haven there and be the protectors that we were all born to be. And as part of my Aramente, I have to seek out each of the headmasters and prove myself a worthy leader.
Travis: Ooh.
Marisha: Which makes me really nervous.
Laura: We've got your back, Keyleth.
Ashley: Oh, you'll do it. You'll totally do it.
Travis: Yeah. Yeah, we can burn shit for days.
Marisha: So I just thought, you know, maybe after we handle the Horn, maybe we can pop in. You know, since we're here.
Laura: Totally. You know, if you want to, Keyleth, when we go, we'll all follow your orders and make it seem like you're an extraordinary leader of us.
Travis: Ooh, yeah.
Marisha: Oh. That could be good. Oh, that sounds fun!
Orion: Oh. Good idea, yes. Of course, I will be your mage guard.
Travis: Do they make you burn things as a display of your abilities?
Marisha: Well, they kind of teach me new things.
Laura: Ooh!
Marisha: They kind of instill me with their knowledge.
Laura: So the tornado thing. You could be like a fire tornado?
Marisha: I could. I know!
Travis: Shut up!
Marisha: I'm so excited! But yes. Super nervous, because social skills aren't my strongest suit.
Laura: We've noticed.
Travis: You're a natural. You're great.
Laura: You're great, though.
Marisha: Oh, you guys.
Ashley: But it's very charming.
Travis: We gotta go there. It's fire everywhere!
Orion: (laughs) Oh.
Marisha: Yes. Yes.
Liam: Is everything copacetic between the different tribes?
Travis: Oh, good question.
Marisha: What? What?
Travis: Is it copacetic?
Laura: Are you guys friendly with each other?
Liam: Are they happy?
Orion: The tribes.
Marisha: Well, yes. Yeah, no, we're all happy. I mean, that's kind of the thing, where once a generation someone sets out and goes on the Aramente in order to come back a headmaster, and it's kind of like our once-a-generation check-in, if you will, to make sure everything's okay.
Travis: Exchange students.
Marisha: Unfortunately, the last person to go on the Aramente didn't come back, which happens sometimes. Yeah.
Travis: Like, didn't come back ever?
Marisha: No.
Laura: So, like, you could die?
Orion: Or maybe they got lost to the winds of the road.
Travis: Right, yeah.
Marisha: It was actually my mother.
Orion: Oh, goodness.
Laura: (gasps) What?
Travis: To which tribe?
Marisha: I-- we don't know. She left when I was a little girl, so I don't remember much. So I don't know if she's alive or dead, really, but--
Laura: Keyleth.
Travis: We did not know that.
Marisha: It's okay. It's okay.
Travis: Yeah, no bigs, right?
Laura: Yeah.
Travis: Just your mother.
Marisha: I mean, it's-- I mean. Well. It's fine. It's just. It's weird. I haven't seen her, so I don't know.
Sam: Awkward.
Marisha: I barely remember her.
Travis: Do you think there's a chance of when we visit this place, we might have to defend ourselves?
Marisha: No. No. I wouldn't think so.
Orion: Which means "of course."
Laura: It's not like your family, Grog. They're actually nice.
Marisha: Yeah, we're pretty-- we're cool.
Travis: Look, my family is nice, too. We just share love with fists.
Orion: Understandable.
Laura: That sounds wrong in so many ways.
Travis: It does, actually.
Liam: Keyleth, did your mother have to go alone, or does your tribe permit there to be help for you?
Marisha: I'm assuming it would be okay. We're pretty welcoming.
Laura: That's good.
Travis: Yeah, we should totally be there.
Laura: All right. We will go.
Marisha: Yeah.
Travis: And maybe ask them if they've seen your mom.
Marisha: Yeah. That'd be interesting.
Laura: Yeah.
Marisha: It's weird. There's this part of me in the back of my head that kind of always wonders if I'm going to run into her.
Travis: How old-- when was the last time you saw your mother, or do you even remember?
Marisha: I was five, six maybe, years old when she left.
Travis: Wow.
Marisha: So I'm the next in line.
Laura: (whispers) Wow.
Sam: This is heavy.
Travis: Yeah.
Ashley: This is very heavy.
Marisha: I'm sorry. I didn't mean to bring the mood down.
Sam: No, it's fine. It's good to know this.
Marisha: I'm just letting you know that we're going to be in that neck of the woods, so I should probably--
Laura: Stop by.
Ashley: Yes.
Marisha: -- you know, go.
Travis: Absolutely.
Laura: Give a little hello.
Matt: "Land sighted!" A voice breaks out from the side of the ship's bow.
Orion: Ooh.
Matt: You guys glance over quickly to the edge of the skyship, and you see, right over the edge of Deera, what looks to be this ominous continent slowly approaching. Through the mists, the low clouds of this area, you can make out what looks to be a fairly heavily wooded and overgrown landscape. You can see dark forest peppered with a little bit of snowfall across the top.
Laura: My kind of place.
Matt: Occasional mountaintops and peaks breaking through the canopy of the distant forest.
Laura: Look, Trinket! Home.
Matt: Trinket looms up to the side and looks a bit chilly and shakes it off. At which point, Kima comes up and joins the rest of you. Puts her elbows over and looks off wistfully for a second and goes, (sighs) "It's been some time. Welcome to Othanzia, folks. It's an interesting place."
Travis: It is, isn't it?
Laura: We'll follow your lead.
Matt: She points off, says, "This forest here we refer to as the Vesper Timberland, and it goes for miles and miles and miles before bleeding into endless tundra to the north, so let's hopefully not travel that far." (sighs) "This'll be interesting." And she turns around and heads back down into the ship. As you continue--
Laura: Good talk!
Marisha: Why did she say that? (laughs) I know!
Orion: Who was that person?
Marisha: That was so weird, right?
Orion: Everywhere we go. It's everywhere we go. Why can't people be normal?
Travis: She's warming up to me, I can feel it.
Matt: As the ship slowly begins to descend, you can see, in the distance, from one of the various mountain ranges that break past the top, there is one singular mountain spire that tends to protrude from the center of the forest, about 20 to 30 miles off the shoreline of the Ozmit Sea. Around the base of this mountain, you can see, the closer you get to it, what looks like hundreds upon hundreds of stone buildings. You can see little details along the mountainside. Countless staircases are spiraling up this mountain in different directions in a chaotic fashion. There are large structures, fortresses, built into the side of this mountain spire as you progress up the top. And this city proper, which spreads out, I'd say, about a third larger than Emon. Layers of walls and walls and walls. This is probably the most-fortified city you've seen in your existence up to this point. Slowly it begins to bring itself down towards-- and you can see, as you get closer to the city, the walls vary in color and material. Some look recently built. Some look like they'd been constructed in the past 50 to 60 years or so from fine, smooth stone, using modern architectural techniques. Some walls look extremely ancient, partially crumbled and having to be refortified. You also notice the top of these walls are completely covered with what looks like these strange dragon-headed ballistae. These defense ballistae that are along every single row of walls. This is a city that is meant to withstand--
Marisha: A siege.
Matt: -- any sort of a siege or onslaught.
Laura: Does it look like it's suffered a lot of sieges? I mean, is there battle damage to the--
Matt: It's hard to tell from this distance. You're just starting to pick up details as the ship slowly descends into the city of Vasselheim proper. But from what you can tell, there are scars across some of the larger buildings. Some of the walls look like they have sections that have been knocked down and then rebuilt and then knocked down and then rebuilt. This is a very, very old, old city. Slowly, the ship descends towards what looks like a smoothed-out, flattened platform on top of some mill of some kind. It doesn't look like it's built for skyship purposes, more than it's been haphazardly put together to receive a skyship should it come to the city. But it looks like that type of travel doesn't come to this area too often. At this point in time, you can see now, the crew is gathering their ropes, they're getting ready to go ahead and lower it down. Captain Damon is slowly steering and shouting directions back and forth to his deckhands. The Scalebearers and Kima come up to the top of the ship, carrying the box that contains the Horn of Orcus, as well. As the ship slowly makes its way to dock on the top of this mill, Kima, who has all of her materials over her shoulder, says, "All right, so. It's everyone's first time here in the city?"
Sam: Yes.
Travis: Yeah.
Sam: Yeah, well. Keyleth?
Orion: I've never been here.
Marisha: No.
Sam: Okay. Yes.
Matt: "All right."
Orion: And there's enough in the interim for a short rest from us getting from there to the last day to where we're at?
Matt: Yeah, yeah.
Travis: A day's rest? All right.
Orion: Okay, cool. Awesome.
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: Tiberius, you ever been here?
Orion: No. (laughter)
Laura: Is it cold in the city?
Matt: It's pretty chilly as you come down. I mean, you wear furs naturally in cold environments, but this is-- the temperature's to the point where you may have to consider getting a little bit of warmer clothing if you travel too far outside of the city.
Travis: How do goliaths do? Not wearing much.
Laura: I have a lot of winter cloaks already in my--
Sam: We have some fancy cloaks, too, don't we?
Laura: Well, those are fancy clothes.
Sam: Oh.
Laura: But I've got winter coats that I bought for the group a long time ago.
Sam: All right. Pass them out.
Laura: All right.
Matt: So she pulls out the really nice, thick--
Marisha: Oh, that's right. We went shopping.
Laura: Remember?
Marisha: I remember.
Ashley: Oh, we went shopping.
Travis: We have three other fancy robes.
Ashley: We had a girl shop day.
Marisha: Yep.
Sam: A fancy. I want a fancy robe.
Travis: You do? It's huge on you. You want it anyway.
Orion: I'd have to take off my cloak, though, to wear that, right?
Matt: Yeah.
Orion: I won't wear one. I keep my cloak on.
Travis: I give you a colorful one.
Sam: I'll gird it.
Matt: We'll say you could probably put it over. It will just look a little chunky.
Orion: Okay.
Sam: I'm going to take a large fancy robe and try to tie it up-- to gird it so that it looks okay.
Laura: He wants a fancy robe, not a fur.
Travis: Be aware, we only have two left.
Sam: I'm going to gird my loins.
Matt: And you gird them well. You look like the tiniest Turkish wrestler you've ever seen.
Laura: Oh. (laughter)
Matt: It's kind of adorable.
Sam: Also, I'm going to cast Lightning Bolt into the Ioun Stone.
Orion: Yay.
Matt: Okay. So mark that down, you have a third-level Lightning Bolt saved. You still used the spell slot, but after you rest, it'll be safe inside there. Which is an interesting experience, you see him do this arcane finger wiggle in the air, and then he releases what is a burst of electrical energy that immediately funnels itself and vanishes into the stone, which is now humming with this low pulsing glow of greenish-blue light.
Sam: (whispers) Pike, are you watching this?
Ashley: Wow, and you're--
Laura: It's green? It's a green-- wait, is it like a diamond shape?
Sam: I don't know.
Laura: It's like a Sim!
Marisha: Oh, it's like a Sims thing.
Orion: It's like a little--
Laura: As long as it's green, you're happy, Scanlan!
Orion: But I believe it's white, right? It's a white stone?
Matt: It is a white stone, but the energy glowing off it is greenish in color.
Orion: Ah, there you go.
Marisha: He's happy.
Ashley: And you're so well-girded.
Sam: I'm girded and I've got a shiny head.
Matt: Eventually the ship comes to a stop. You feel a little bit of a lurching sensation as the ship suddenly halts its advancing. All the ropes get dropped off the sides. They start bringing what looks to be some sort of a haphazard crane also, in preparation for Trinket to be lowered off the ship. You can see, there's a look of-- I can't describe it better than anxiousness to Kima. She says, "If you have any questions about the city, just speak up and I'll do my best."
Laura: Where do we take the Horn?
Sam: (laughs) That's a good question. (laughter)
Matt: "I believe--" And she looks over the edge of the ship. "I believe our escorts will be happy to guide us."
Laura: Our escorts?
Liam: I'd like to do an insight check before we hustle off.
Matt: On?
Travis: Kima.
Liam: Kima.
Matt: Go for it.
Orion: I would like to look for any places-- oh, sorry.
Liam: I rolled an 18.
Matt: Okay, and what are you trying to glean off of her?
Liam: Why does she seem anxious? Does she seem different? Does her demeanor seem different, or does she just seem in a hurry?
Matt: You can probably take it as a little bit of being in a hurry, but you also get the feeling like-- there's a nervousness to her that stems-- it's hard to really tell where it comes from, but there is a nervousness to her.
Laura: Kima, when was the last time you were with your Order?
Matt: "Proper? That would be eight years."
Laura: Oh.
Orion: That's a long time to be out of Order.
Matt: "Of which-- we are about to meet them."
Orion: Sorry.
Sam: High five.
Laura: Do you get along well with them?
Matt: "Yes. Yes. They're just, well." (laughs) "You'll see." And she leaps over the side of the ship, grabbing the rope, and lowers herself down, as do the rest of the-- the two Scalebearers come down in tandem, clutching the chain on the sides of the box, bringing it down almost like a big Jacob's ladder.
Travis: (quietly) I love you.
Matt: Eventually, you all make your way onto the platform, and they're waiting for you. You see there's a cluster of well-armored men and women, wearing semi-matching gray tabards over patchwork and plated armor. They look like a really rough-and-tumble militia, but they all stand firm and as you guys walk up, they give a nod of respect and understanding. Amongst them, you see one gentleman, an elderly gentleman with no hair, completely bald, thick spectacles on the tip of his nose, wearing the same silver and blue robes as the envoys that met you at the Council of Tal'Dorei, the ones that are carrying the box. As you all approach, Kima steps out ahead and says, "Yonn. It's been a while."
Sam: Yonn.
Matt: The old man steps forward. "It has been, indeed, Kima. It has, indeed. And that's Scalebearer Yonn, if you don't mind--"
Travis: Scalebearer.
Matt: "I would prefer in mixed company the proper niceties of our presentation."
Laura: Oh, we're no proper company. It's all right.
Matt: "Hm. And you are?"
Sam: We are--
Orion: I'm Tiberius Stormwind, and we are Vox Machina. Everybody has names, too.
Laura: Hmm.
Ashley: I'm Pike.
Marisha: Keyleth.
Sam: I'm Ioun Stone-bearer Scanlan. (laughter)
Matt: He cocks his head curiously.
Sam: You can call me Kingslayer. I also did that.
Matt: "Very well." Percy introduces himself, as well.
Travis: I have a beard. (laughter)
Matt: He gives you the most curious look of all, which is hard to follow off of Scanlan over here. "And I'm to understand these are the bearers of the artifact?" Kima gives a nod. "Yes, and I think we should be on our way quickly." "Yes, yes, of course. Please. These are our escorts. Follow suit. We will bring you onward to the Platinum Sanctuary proper to dispose of this thing."
Sam: How far is the Platinum Sanctuary?
Matt: "No more than a 25-minute walk."
Laura: Oh.
Sam: Oh.
Ashley: May I insight-check Yonn?
Matt: You may.
Liam: Yes, please.
Marisha: Oh, so--
Orion: I'm going to look for any temples that might have a sigil inside while we're going through the town.
Matt: All right. Do you want to ask around about that?
Orion: I'll ask the Yonn guy.
Matt: Okay. Well, first off, you finish your insight check. What did you roll?
Ashley: What did you get, Liam?
Liam: 13.
Ashley: Okay. I got 15.
Matt: Okay. He seems stuffy. He seems definitely dedicated to whatever his intent is, but there doesn't seem to be anything deceptive in his speech.
Marisha: So am I correct to assume our plan is that we're going to march this Horn through the town? Until we get to the temple?
Laura: Well, nobody knows what it is.
Orion: Right.
Sam: Well, unless someone--
Laura: So we'll just be aware there's a huge envoy.
Marisha: I mean, we can only assume-- Yonn?
Matt: "Yes?"
Marisha: How many people in this city are aware of this Horn being brought here?
Matt: "Well, up until now, other than myself, you travelers, and the Highbearer Vord himself, no one else."
Orion: Hm.
Marisha: Highbearer Vor-- his name is Vord?
Matt: "Vord. The Highbearer of the Platinum Dragon."
Laura: What kind of man is he?
Matt: You hear when he mentions Vord, Kima twitches a little bit, and you remember Kima's official title is Lady Kima of Vord.
Laura: Hm.
Orion: Hm.
Sam: Her ex?
Travis: Is that her pops? Her pops?
Orion: Vonn. Yonn?
Matt: "Scalebearer Yonn, yes."
Orion: Oh, Scalebearer Yonn, that's a fun name. (clears throat) As we travel through town, if you could point me to any place that would have a sigil of arcane-ness--
Sam: Arcane-iosity is what he's trying to say.
Matt: "There are none."
Orion: Oh.
Matt: "This city, arcane magic for the most part, is not allowed within consistent practice. This is a divine, a holy place."
Orion: Ah.
Matt: "And the arcane tends to, ah. How do you say, when unwatched, corrupt and destroy from the inside. "
Liam: Oh shit, Tiberius.
Orion: No, I'm fine! He's talking about other people.
Travis: You don't have any arcane abilities anyway, right?
Orion: Oh of course I do, I'm a sorcerer.
Laura: No no no, right?
Sam: Ix-nay.
Travis: Wink wink, nudge nudge.
Orion: No, no, I think he-- sure.
Matt: "This here in Vasselheim, the cradle of faith, the Dawn City, of once all civilization and current faith once stemmed from. There is no way in but by foot. It is a pilgrimage, a journey for each to come here, and those that stay, stay of their own will and divine right." And as he refers to the guards, each guard you see now has around their neck a very visibly shown holy symbol of some kind of deity. Most seem to fall--
Marisha: We've basically walked into the Crucible.
Orion: It's fine.
Matt: -- into the realm of Arathis, Avandra, Melora, and a couple with Bahamut. None of--
Ashley: None of Sarenrae.
Matt: None of Sarenrae.
Travis: Or as Liam calls it, Sa-REN-rae.
Laura: The best one?
Ashley: The best, the best one.
Liam: Sa-REN-rae! (laughter)
Ashley: Sarenrae!
Orion: I'm going to take it you don't see very many dragonborn in these parts.
Matt: "No, and frankly you're making me a bit nervous."
Orion: Oh.
Matt: "However, as we ourselves are followers of the Platinum Dragon, we understand that it is dragonkind at the heart of it, the metallics, that bring life and civilization and order to this world."
Orion: Yes.
Matt: "Your color I find off-putting."
Orion: It's--
Laura: I've always noticed a fine metallic sheen coming from your red scales.
Orion: No, I'm of the chromatic nature, I'm a bit of an anomaly in my family, they're all of the metallic brand, I assure you. The Stormwind name runs true and wide throughout Draconia, but--
Matt: "I have heard of the Stormwinds, yes."
Orion: I cast Alter Self real quick and I turn myself into, I believe, gold. Because that's the red-- equivalent of red. On the metallic scale.
Matt: Okay. He gives you a curious look and goes--
Orion: I think that would be better for everyone involved.
Matt: "I would be mindful to not do such things so openly in public in the future."
Orion: Oh, sorry.
Matt: "Ahem." And he kind of adjusts his robe. "This way please, follow me." And Scalebearer Yonn leads you--
Laura: You look very nice, Tiberius.
Ashley: You look really great in gold.
Orion: Thank you, thank you.
Marisha: So wait, hang on, hang on, hang on.
Travis: What?
Marisha: Before we move on-- we're about to leave, I'm assuming?
Matt: You're stepping off the platform onto a staircase that leads off of the top of the mill.
Marisha: Should a few of us kind of like flank around and--
Laura: Definitely, we should all kind of surround the box, sure.
Travis: Like rooftops and shit.
Marisha: Rooftop shit, yeah.
Laura: Oh.
Travis: I like it.
Marisha: I can go eagle form and have aerial support.
Travis: I love it.
Laura: I can stick to the rooftops, I guess, try to follow along.
Travis: Overwatch.
Marisha: Overwatch. What's that? Yeah.
Laura: I'll snick to the rooftops and try to follow along, sniper eye.
Marisha: Okay.
Travis: Yeah, you two up top.
Ashley: I'll just stay right on the path.
Travis: Yep, you and me.
Matt: All right.
Travis: Smash hands.
Matt: All right, so.
Orion: I'll take the six.
Matt: Okay. As you--
Liam: I'm gonna stay with it but try to blend in with the crowd.
Matt: All right, all right. Go ahead and make a stealth check.
Liam: Yes.
Travis: Scanlan?
Liam: 23 for stealth.
Matt: All right, ah, if you wouldn't mind, Vex, making a stealth check as well?
Laura: Oh.
Travis: Overwatch.
Matt: Just to keep your rooftop activity inconspicuous.
Laura: Not disturbing.
Travis: We have a UAV.
Laura: Oh, well I rolled a one. So that's lovely.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Are you flying up above?
Marisha: Yeah, I'm going eagle.
Travis: Don't you have advantage?
Laura: Do I have advantage in-- no.
Orion: And I'm taking up the rear, following behind.
Matt: No. Not in this terrain, unfortunately.
Ashley: But there are forests here.
Laura: But with the forests I'd be amazing.
Liam: I do applaud your honesty, though, sister.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: So as you loudly clomp up and begin rooftop-hopping, a few individuals in the city kind of take notice and they point up, which by the way--
Laura: I wink at them as I'm climbing up.
Matt: Ah, the classic Vex wink. All right, so. Just you guys-- kind of atmosphere, as you step down the staircase and get to the main city street proper, the first thing you notice, the roads themselves are not cobblestone, are not brick, they are mud. They are thick, recently sleeted mud. You hear the clomping of horse hooves as carts are pulled through and each one is a sickly (squelch) sound as each footstep makes it through. The people of this city are a very hardened and rugged folk. Most clothing is swathed in furs and thick leathers, armor is patchwork in itself, most of the men grow coarse facial hair and the women themselves, their hair is wild and their appearance very stoic and grizzled. The landscape of Vasselheim-- oh, thank you kindly. Delivery of our chicken.
Marisha: Chicken through the magic door.
Matt: The people who live here, you gather, quickly walking through-- and Kima gives you a bit of insight as well-- live here not because it's easy to live, not because there's many comforts, it's a very harsh living in the city of Vasselheim. But the city is also currently the oldest known bastion of civilization in the world. As far as it's understood, most human civilization, and a lot of humans believe pre-elf and pre-dwarf, although the dwarves and elves very staunchly disagree, all stemmed from this city, which is believed to be tens of thousands of years old. They have uncovered the single oldest temples to the main deities of good and neutrality within this city, and as such it is considered the holiest place in the modern world, which is why it has been through many, many wars and has seen much warfare and strife and difficulty. And those that live here live here because they feel that they can fight against this, and they actually call it a privilege to exist in this harsh landscape as devotion to their respective deities. Also, because it is such a holy place, this is why the arcane is considered, for the most part, profane in public and very carefully controlled otherwise.
Travis: So we gotta be sneaky with that.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: The buildings look old--
Travis: So I'll put my spells in my back pocket for now.
Matt: The buildings range from old to newer stone, warped wood from just the weather itself. You can see a lot of the wood has a kind of mossy texture to it just from the general overgrowth that tends to take the city. It's not kept for beauty, it's kept for function. There's scars across most of the buildings where you can see warfare has bled into the city, and there are markings and various points of ancient damage and certain structures that have not been rebuilt, that have just been left in ruin where they stand, because they have not yet found somebody or a purpose to be restructured. It's a very different landscape than what you're used to, and the walk itself is a very solemn, quiet walk through the city. The folks that do take notice just kind of give a nod of acknowledgement or a gruff grunt as they pass by. There doesn't seem to be a definite interest in your travel, this isn't a special occasion. It seems like travelers and strange occurrences are not that unnatural in this city.
Marisha: Okay. So it's like New York.
Matt: You could say that, yeah. It's a very ancient New York.
Sam: And we're carrying a large ark, or a box of some sort?
Matt: You are carrying the platinum box that the Horn was kept in.
Sam: How big is it?
Matt: It's approximately like a foot and a half, or two feet by two feet.
Ashley: Oh, Taliesin's here.
Laura: Oh!
Travis: Taliesin's outside.
Sam: And it's platinum? It's just a platinum box?
Matt: Yes, it is made of like solid platinum and silver with a series of very, very intricate scrolling and engravings on it.
Marisha: Is it sticking out like a sore thumb?
Laura: There were some sapphires in there, too, some blue sapphires, I remember.
Matt: Yes, yes.
Marisha: Is it sticking out like a sore thumb?
Matt: Best you can tell, there are people taking notice of it, but none that like stop and gawk, they just kind of, "huh." Keep walking.
Marisha: Damn, maybe we should've thrown a blanket or something over it.
Matt: You could if you want to, now.
Travis: Can we, though?
Marisha: Burlap sack or something? Anybody?
Matt: The guards still flanking you guys, surrounding this ensemble as it presses towards the base of the mountain. You make your way towards the edge of the mountain, or where the mountain begins at the bottom of the floor, and you can see dozens of staircases ascending the outskirts of this giant pointed cragless spire that just sticks up into, actually, the clouds cut off the top of it. It's reminiscent of Gatshadow, the mountain outside of Westruun that you guys traveled to long ago.
Travis: Right.
Matt: But even larger. You continue up this staircase, and the stonework itself is a little lopsided and awkward, and with each step sometimes you have to kinda catch yourself, especially as the wind begins to pick up the higher up the mountain you go, and it takes about 15 to 20 minutes to ascend this staircase. Your legs begin to grow a little sore, until eventually you reach the base of what you can only imagine is the Platinum Sanctuary. You see before you, built into the side of the rock of this mountain, a grand stone fortress that looks older than time in itself. You can see the elements have weathered to the point where even the solid points and how the stonework was meant to be an edge has been rounded and smoothed down. There are a series of silver markings across the outskirts of it, which Tiberius, you recognize as Draconic.
Orion: Look, Percy, it's Draconic.
Taliesin: Oh, so it is. (laughter)
Matt: Certain words in Draconic--
Marisha: Percy, you've been so quiet here lately.
Taliesin: I don't want to talk about it.
Matt: You see phrases emblazoned on the side of this giant temple that say things like "honor, justice." Various, very old base Draconic stuff. The current language is a more refined version. This is a very, very ancient basis of that language.
Orion: See that, Scanlan? That says something like Apollo Justice something.
Sam: It's Phoenix something.
Orion: It's maybe the rise of the justice of the phoenix.
Sam: Nah, I don't know.
Orion: It's a lot of things.
Travis: Dawn of justice--
Matt: On the top of this fortress, you see three constructs that don't match the stone structure. These may have been constructed or built many years later and have been added onto the temple. But three ivory and silver spires, towers that ascend from the top of the fortress itself, almost parallel to the very steep mountainside that this fortress is built into. You come to the front doors of this structure. Two very, very large gray stone doors with almost what looks like white marbling through them, and you can see, mostly worn away but still barely visible, the symbol of a shield with a dragon head emblazoned on the front of it, the symbol of Bahamut. As the Scalebearer-- yes, that there-- as the Scalebearers approach the front, the doors, on their own, and open to the interior, the grinding sound of stone across the marble flooring of the fortress proper. You can see the interior. Did you have a question?
Marisha: Can I see inside the temple? Or are the temples pretty enclosed?
Matt: You can see now as the doors begin to open.
Marisha: Well, I was an eagle flying overhead.
Matt: Oh, yes! You--
Marisha: And I was gonna do a perception check to see if I noticed, like kinda do a loop of the temple.
Matt: Go for it.
Sam: So, I'm an eagle.
Marisha: So I'm an eagle right now, so.
Taliesin: You're such an eagle. Oh my god.
Laura: I very, very poorly fall off of the roof and clamber down.
Marisha: 20 total.
Matt: Best you can tell, there are for the makeshift guards in the city-- which, you've heard them referred to as Bastions, they're all volunteers, and actually from what you gather here, probably a quarter of the populace are Bastions. So they have a very, very heavy civilian-based militia that guards this city.
Sam: Are those the guys who were with us, the envoys?
Matt: Yes. No, no, not the envoys, the envoys' come from the temple of Bahamut, they have the blue and silver robes. You see, they're just wearing makeshift patchwork armor, whatever that could be scavenged or constructed to outfit a militia, essentially.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: You see them going up and down every which staircase, just doing various passes and patrolwork. Some of them have spyglasses and you see them looking off in the distance, and as you're getting higher up the mountain, too, you look out about, and you can see the entire forest around you. Very thick, ominous, and you swear every now and then you can see some trees move suddenly and heavily before coming to rest in the distance.
Marisha: I'm gonna go check that out first.
Matt: The rest of you are entering the temple. Keyleth is not there.
Orion: Is it lit in there?
Matt: The doors close behind you.
Sam: Hope Keyleth is okay.
Laura: Keyleth--
Marisha: (eagle noises)
Liam: I don't think that I was with the group, I think I was back with the crowd--
Laura: No, you--
Sam: Great.
Liam: -- so I see the eagle fly off and I'm just gonna follow after her.
Laura: What?
Matt: The eagle flies out of the city.
Liam: Yeah.
Laura: You're gonna leave the city, brother?
Liam: No.
Orion: You're leaving?
Marisha: Gonna see if I can figure out what's making the trees move.
Liam: Now that I understand the--
Laura: Come on in the temple.
Liam: But do I still get shut in my face? So.
Marisha: I'm flying! I'm fine.
Liam: It's a big solid building, doors are shut, that's it?
Matt: Yeah, I mean, the temple, would you like to enter the temple with the rest of the group?
Laura: Yeah, you would.
Ashley: Yeah, do it.
Matt: All right.
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: So just as the doors are closing, you rush out of your subtle following pattern and, wait, and put your hands up and manage to make your way into the temple right before the doors close, catching up with the rest of the group. Keyleth, make a perception check.
Marisha: I have advantage because I'm an eagle. Ooh, natural 20!
Sam: Nice!
Travis: Nice!
Taliesin: On the shiny die.
Matt: All right.
Orion: It is on the shiny die.
Matt: It's hard to see much of anything because the canopy of this forest is so dense and so thick, and the snowfall itself, which is getting stronger through the air, and is kind of obscuring some of your vision, but you glance down and you see another set of trees shift suddenly about a quarter-mile away from the city's walls. And you can see on the edge of the city wall a number of guards are beginning to swarm up to the ballista and starting to load them and prepare them. You glance down, and all you see are something fast-moving beneath the canopy, something large. Something you can swear you see it looks serpentine-like. But multiple serpentine-like bodies or forms. And then it's gone in a second.
Laura: Hydra! You think it's a hydra?
Orion: I don't want it to be a hydra.
Liam: Stop gasping, I don't see shit, Laura.
Orion: Oh, that's right.
Laura: Shut up!
Matt: You see a couple ballista set loose. The bolts go flying through the air, entering the forest. You can hear a loud screeching sound, and a few dozen forests now begin to shake to the side as the creature makes its way away from the city before going still in the distance.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: You get the sensation that this is a--
Marisha: A common occurrence.
Matt: -- a common occurrence.
Marisha: Okay. Good to know. I'm going to loop back around. Is there like an open window in the temple that I can just fly through--
Orion: Ooh. Is there a super clear one that she could try to go through first?
Marisha: Be like that Windex commercial, back in the day.
Matt: The temple--
Orion: (crashing sounds) Dammit!
Matt: You make your way--
Marisha: I break my neck, I die.
Orion: No.
Matt: There are small-- they are not windows, more than they are slits for arrow defense.
Travis: Right.
Matt: You as Keyleth could squeeze through. It would be one of those things where you have to careen in, transform, and then squeeze through.
Marisha: Okay, I'll do that.
Matt: Which you do, and as you do, you come right into the face of a spear right there--
Laura: (gasps) You should have transformed into a fly.
Matt: -- as another one of the Platinum Dragon guards says, "Who goes there?"
Sam: Oh boy.
Marisha: Hi. Hi.
Matt: Another guard begins to approach from the side.
Marisha: I am with Vox Machina. I'm pretty sure they just came through the front door. It's cool. I was just doing-- just like aerial support. I'm just going to go and reconnect with my group. It's fine.
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Marisha: I'm Keyleth.
Travis: (whispers) Mention the Scalebearer.
Marisha: I'm not good at this shit.
Matt: You're not there, Grog.
Marisha: What am I doing? A persuasion check?
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: Christ.
Orion: You're going to roll a one.
Matt: Sorry, Miss Charisma.
Marisha: Shut up.
Taliesin: Oh, wow.
Marisha: Oh, wait. I don't know why I'm rolling two.
Taliesin: That's real funny.
Marisha: Six?
Laura: Oh no!
Sam: Keyleth's dead.
Orion: (whispers) No, they'll probably just put her in prison.
Matt: The guy holding the spear to you keeps it there. The other guy walks up behind and says, "Let me see your hands."
Laura: (gasps)
Liam: Shit.
Marisha: Why?
Matt: "Let me see your hands." He takes your hands, pulls out a set of shackles--
Laura: (gasps)
Ashley: Oh no.
Matt: -- and locks them on.
Laura: This is the second time you've been arrested!
Marisha: Yeah, it is.
Matt: The guy with spear turns behind you and just holds it to your back as the gentleman who just cuffed you grabs the chain between and starts pulling you towards the main chamber.
Marisha: You know, can we just buzz by the front foyer, and then we'll find my friends, and then we'll all be like, hey, those are my-- It'll be fine.
Orion: I think that's where you're going.
Matt: He leads you down the stairway to an area where it opens up into a small courtyard, takes you to the right of the courtyard into a central chamber, where the rest of Vox Machina is currently being led.
Laura: Keyleth!
Orion: Do I see her?
Matt: Yeah, you guys all see her being led in, in cuffs, essentially.
Orion: Seriously? Again?
Travis: What did you do?
Laura: Again, Keyleth?
Orion: Your Highness, what is your problem?
Ashley: Oh. She's with us. She's with us, she was just outside, we got in before.
Travis: No, we don't know who she is.
Taliesin: Actually, can we have a few minutes to discuss this?
Marisha: Shut up, Grog!
Matt: At this point, Kima turns and says, "She's with me."
Laura: Oh.
Matt: And both the Scalebearers go, "Lady Kima, I am so sorry." And they go ahead and take the cuffs off real fast and pull the spear back and step back.
Ashley: Wow.
Laura: Yeah, you listen to Lady Kima.
Orion: The classic.
Marisha: The classic.
Orion: The classic handcuff wrist twist.
Marisha: Ouch.
Liam: Hardass. (laughter)
Marisha: Yeah, I'm with her.
Matt: They back off and bow deeply and escort themselves off, embarrassed.
Marisha: Did you guys see that?
Ashley: That was cool.
Orion: I nudge Grog.
Travis: That was cool. You were arrested.
Orion: Grog, Grog, I'm nudging you.
Travis: You hadn't done anything.
Taliesin: I knew you had it in you.
Marisha: I'm starting to feel so hardcore.
Orion: I'm just nudging you.
Travis: Oh, okay.
Orion: Because Kima did something super hot.
Taliesin: You need a tattoo.
Marisha: I do need a tattoo.
Travis: I know, I noticed. She doesn't love me, though.
Laura: She does, Grog.
Travis: No, not yet.
Matt: All right. Scalebearer Yonn continues to lead you through this main chamber. And this chamber, like I said, it's the temple. It's strange, because most temples you've seen to Bahamut or many other deities are extravagant or are, you know, built with a modern-day sense of architecture. This is a very plain, simple stone fortress. It's hard to grasp what time it was built, but just the smell itself seems very ancient. There's a scent of dust and age, and functionality to its construct. But there's still a sense of power to it. Especially you, Pike, where you're sensitive to divine energy. This whole place is humming with it. Even though it's not the kind you're used to connecting with. This is-- When they say this is a holy place, you can feel it.
Laura: Is everything okay, Pike?
Ashley: It's just-- there's a lot of holiness here. (laughter)
Orion: I would imagine.
Marisha: Oh.
Sam: On a scale from one to five, five being super holy--
Ashley: Probably six.
Sam: Whoa.
Laura: Whoa.
Marisha: (gasps)
Orion: That's extra holy.
Marisha: This temple goes to six.
Ashley: This temple, I mean this--
Orion: (laughs) This temple goes to six.
Ashley: Just this whole land in particular. I mean there's a lot, there's a lot here, but--
Orion: That is good, though.
Ashley: Yes, good.
Sam: Do you need a moment? Do you need to sit down? Do you need me to hold you?
Ashley: I think I'm okay to keep going.
Laura: All right.
Ashley: But maybe later. We'll see. If I get a little tired.
Matt: At which you feel a nudge at your side and it's an armored elbow from Kima, saying, "If you wouldn't mind holding off on the fraternizing in the temple of Bahamut, I would really appreciate it."
Marisha: Oh, that's right.
Sam: Message understood.
Matt: At which point Scalebearer Yonn is now at the second set of double doors and he presents his holy symbol above his chest, it glows a second, and what was originally just smooth stone doors, you see a divine glow and the symbol of Bahamut you saw at the front of the temple appear for a moment, and then as it vanishes the two doors open on their own into a central worship chamber. This is a much larger domed room. It looks like it goes up about 80 feet to the top of the ceiling, and the dome itself has what looks like an extremely ancient, detailed drawing, like Sistine Chapel-style, the tale of the entirety of creation. You see all the elemental planes represented in the corners, the theoretical corners, where corners would be in a domed room. You can see a crude representation of how all the planes lay over each other, you can see the Astral Plane, you can see where the Nine Hells would exist, and the Abyss itself, and in the center there's the Prime Material Plane, and across it you see a giant image of the great platinum dragon Bahamut drawn in all of his glory, currently snapping down on one of the throats of a multi-headed dragon. This other dragon, with five different heads of five different chromatic colors, and this struggle between what you know to be Bahamut and Tiamat.
Travis: Tiamat?
Matt: Tiamat.
Laura: Is that the bad one?
Matt: You gather.
Liam: That is the baddest one.
Laura: I mean, I know that because I know a lot about dragons.
Matt: Indeed.
Marisha: Whoa. Do I see or learn anything about the elemental planes that I didn't know before?
Matt: Not from the artwork. It's very pretty.
Marisha: Ah, so pretty.
Orion: I take it all in and I'm reminded of one of the museums at home.
Matt: And actually, you've seen this art piece in a book. It's been a long time, but you know that this has been studied before and exists somewhere in Draconia, the tome that talks about this exact temple.
Travis: A book?
Marisha: We just made cave drawings, I don't--
Sam: That's those square things.
Orion: The square things with all the paper leaves in them and squiggles.
Travis: Right.
Laura: Is Tiamat still alive? Is he still around?
Orion: I read a lot of those. Can't put my finger on it.
Matt: At which point both Yonn and Kima and the Scalebearers kind of turn to you with a look of-- kind of understanding that you don't quite know, but also the fear and the knowledge that-- they don't say anything, they just give you a look that says, yes, very much so.
Laura: Oh. I mean. (nervous laugh) Tiamat's still around, huh?
Orion: Unfortunately, yes.
Matt: They continue walking.
Laura: Oh.
Matt: Now, the floor of this chamber, which is a very simple stone, you can see there are small sculptures, each one representing some sort of a humanoid entity dressed in similar robes to the other envoys and members of this temple that you've encountered thus far. Some of them are in full armor, some are wearing just robes, and they're very, very old. Some of them seem a little more recent, and you gather these each have some sort of cultural or religious significance to this temple. However, one of these is not a statue. In the center of this worship chamber, which is strangely, eerily quiet, there is one humanoid that turns to the rest of you. What you see before you is a slender, elven male draped in long, white robes that drag a few feet behind his form across the ground. He has jet-- not jet, stark-white hair that is slicked back against his head, no facial hair, frail but very handsome features. Elves, when they age, they age very gracefully--
Laura: Yeah we do.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: -- and from the look of most elves you've seen, this is a very old elf that has aged very gracefully. He turns to the rest of you and you see across his neck a very, very well-crafted, intricate series of draconic symbols that finishes with a giant emblem of Bahamut himself. His voice rings out and echoes throughout the hallway as you approach, each footstep echoing as you get closer. "Welcome, everyone, to the Platinum Sanctuary. I am called Highbearer Vord."
Laura: Oh, right.
Matt: "Keeper of this most holy of places. I received word from a disciple of mine--" At which Kima has now stepped forward, and bows, kneels before him and says, "Your holiness." At which he looks down with a smile. "Ah, Kima. I am pleased to see you. It has been a long time, my disciple." He looks up to the rest of the group. "I understand you carry something of terrible omen. Let us discuss how to be rid of it. Please. Present the container."
Laura: Right here?
Matt: The Scalebearers step forward and set the container on the ground. They go to reach for it and he goes, "No no no. Do not open it." And he kind of takes a second and holds his symbol to his chest and closes his eyes, and you can see this kind of divine glow pulse off of him for a second.
Marisha: Kima, what's happening?
Matt: She goes, "Shh, shh."
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: The box begins to pulse with the divine light as well, and then suddenly vanishes and he kind of (gasps) catches his breath. "It is as you said. This must be sealed immediately."
Orion: Well, yes.
Marisha: Yeah-huh. We could have just told you that.
Matt: He gives a look to the rest of the group here, and you can see there's a noticeable bead of sweat he kind of wipes off his forehead. "I just needed to confirm that this was not some haphazardly constructed fake or some other artifact mistaken for such a horn, but we indeed have within our presence one of the Horns of Orcus, and this does not bode well."
Laura: (whistles)
Matt: "Thankfully--"
Laura: Are you guys-- oh, sorry.
Matt: "No, please. What do you want to say?"
Laura: I was just wondering. You've had one of these before, yes?
Matt: "No, but we know that these exist. A few of us do; the knowledge itself has been lost to time intentionally. It was brought to my attention, and through discussions with the Council that sent you on this journey, that this would be the safest place to seal such an artifact, and amongst all our other options, as of this time, I see no other choice. So. What's been proposed. Allow me to explain to you the plan. One of our most divine relics of our most beloved protector Bahamut was kept deep beneath this temple, within the mountain we rest against. The Star of Exaltation, a crystal born from the tear Bahamut shed for the sacrifices his first devoted made in the Great War of the Beginnings, the Dawn War. This item was unfortunately lost nearly 300 years ago, giving the last of its power to protect this very Vasselheim. The intervention it brought from our great deity expended and left the artifact destroyed. Since the chamber that held this Star, a blessed and ever-watched nexus beneath the gaze of the Great Platinum Dragon Himself, has gone empty, we've tended to it. We've kept it fairly well-watched and in the state it was originally constructed for. And we think no greater location to seal such a deeply-rooted evil exists within our spheres of influence or any other. Unfortunately, the last time the chamber was cleansed and prepared was some 15 years ago. Our curate tasked one of our own Scalebearers--" And he looks over towards Yonn, who sheepishly backs away. "-- was tasked with preparing it for your arrival, and the artifact's, and it was found that the lower chambers have been infested with some manner of foul subterranean spider creature."
Marisha: Oh, man.
Matt: "Our Scalebearer fled." At which point Yonn leaves the entire conversation and exits the room.
Ashley: (quietly) Excuse me.
Sam: Yonn.
Matt: You hear Kima kind of give a spit in his direction.
Matt: "But not before initiating the vault's defenses." (sighs) "So thus, I ask you to complete your journey into the Hall of the Exalt below, clear out these meager beasts, and guide your reliquary into the vault chamber to seal it for good."
Orion: Will we have to contend with the defense systems as well?
Matt: "Not all of them, but apparently in his haste to escape and defend himself, he set a few of them to aid his escape."
Laura: Great. (shouts) Good job, Yonn!
Marisha: Thanks, Yonn.
Matt: You hear no response other than the pitter-patter of steps.
Sam: Why does he still work here?
Travis: (laughs) Right?
Orion: (laughs) Very good question.
Taliesin: Would you like to speak to his manager?
Sam: Does he have tenure or something? Is it a union thing?
Matt: "He's been with us for many, many years, and he has great heart and devotion. Though addled may be his mind, he does bring much to the temple."
Marisha: He has seniority.
Sam: All right.
Marisha: So wait, you said you lost the Crystal of Exaltation during the War of--
Matt: "It was destroyed during a siege of the city."
Marisha: During the War of what? Beginnings?
Matt: "The War of the Beginnings."
Marisha: The War of the Beginnings.
Taliesin: That was close.
Marisha: And how long ago was this War of the Beginnings?
Matt: "Well that, oh, I'm sorry. It was created in the War of the Beginnings."
Marisha: It was created then?
Matt: "It was lost in a battle, a siege of the city of Vasselheim 300 years ago."
Laura: 300 years?
Marisha: Called what? During what war?
Taliesin: The Siege of the Metal Champions.
Matt: "That had no particular name."
Marisha: Oh.
Laura: Oh.
Marisha: Just a siege.
Laura: It was just a thing?
Matt: "It was one of the sieges and there was--"
Sam: The Battle Where the Thing Was Lost.
Matt: Yes. There it is.
Orion: Right. (laughter)
Liam: Vord. Hi. Question, please. We'll clear out your basement, that's not a problem. I'd like to understand how you plan to protect this horn, how you plan to keep it out of the hands of entities who would use it for ill--
Laura: That big scary creature living out in the woods. Sorry, brother.
Liam: Then how-- that's fine.
Matt: He glances towards you and says, "Oh, that is but one of many."
Laura: Huh.
Matt: "Let it be known that this temple is extremely well-guarded. It is continuously under the gaze of our patron deity and while some of the defenses have been put in place for your arrival, if the entirety of the vault is triggered, there is nothing that will make its way there unannounced."
Travis: Good sell.
Sam: Are we to carry the box down as we journey into the dungeons below, or are we to leave it here while we go clear out the basement?
Matt: "The Scalebearers will bring it with you."
Sam: Okay.
Matt: "Keep them safe."
Sam: Keep them safe? Oh. All right. We've got enough to worry about keeping ourselves safe.
Marisha: So just to get one thing clear, and I mean no (clears throat) disrespect, but how was the crystal lost 300 years ago, if it was in this chamber? So this chamber has been broken into before?
Matt: "We can enter the chamber under very specific circumstances. We, at the time, requested the use of the Star of Exaltation as a divine focus--"
Marisha: Oh.
Matt: "-- a ritual that required the intervention of Bahamut to keep the city safe."
Marisha: Oh, so someone brought it out and then was clumsy and lost it.
Laura: And then it was lost.
Sam: And you know what--
Matt: "It wasn't clumsy and lost. It was used as a focus in the ritual."
Marisha: Oh.
Matt: "It was by the will of Bahamut Himself that the Star no longer was required to exist on this plane."
Orion: She gets it. She gets it.
Matt: "It served its purpose."
Marisha: So it was destroyed.
Laura: Lost, as in--
Orion: Like not around.
Marisha: You should change your verbage here.
Taliesin: Charisma of ten, ladies and gentlemen. Charisma of ten.
Laura: While everybody's been talking, can I have used my Primeval Awareness to see within six miles if there's any dragons around us?
Sam: (sings) Primeval Awareness, yeah.
Matt: So you take a moment and kind of zone out for a second. You do not sense any dragons in the immediate vicinity of the six-mile radius of the city, no.
Laura: Oh, okay. All right. That's all I wanted to know.
Sam: (sings) Primeval Awareness, over.
Travis: Can we drop off this box, or what? I want to go see the fire dancers.
Sam: Yeah, let's go.
Laura: No, we need to go-- we also need to-- are we going to do that now?
Sam: Let's just go.
Laura: Go clear out the basement?
Sam: Yeah, it's the morning, still. Okay? Let's go.
Orion: Are we all potioned up, are we all--
Marisha: Yeah, we're good.
Ashley: We're all healed.
Orion: We're good?
Laura: Let's clear out the basement.
Travis: There's nothing down there, right?
Laura: Yeah? I mean, you want us to do it now, yeah?
Taliesin: I'm not-- I haven't been paying attention.
Matt: "Lest this artifact be left longer in the open, which I would not be comfortable with."
Laura: No, neither would I.
Matt: "I would prefer this be taken care of immediately."
Travis: Yeah, we'll do it now.
Sam: Let's go do it.
Taliesin: We've got a bear.
Laura: I mean, obviously we want the Horn taken care of, but--
Travis: Here we go.
Laura: -- you know, we're taking care of a problem for you, too.
Sam: Oh, here it goes.
Travis: Here it comes.
Sam: Here it goes.
Ashley: Get it, girl.
Travis: Son of a bitch.
Ashley: Get it, girl. Get it.
Liam: The holiest place on the map.
Ashley: Yeah. (laughs)
Laura: The holiest place?
Sam: Haggle with the pope.
Taliesin: Shaking down the pope.
Matt: "You want a monetary reward--"
Laura: I was just wondering.
Matt: "-- for your aid."
Laura: I'm not asking.
Matt: "The temple can provide a sum of three thousand gold pieces."
Laura: Per party member, yes?
Matt: "Entirely. Three thousand gold pieces for your trouble on this journey." At which Kima steps forward and says, "Highbearer, we do not need to take money from--"
Laura: We don't want money, of course not. I mean, I--
Sam: But think of the good we could do with that money, giving alms to the poor back home where we are.
Laura: Yes, spreading the word of Bahamut where we go.
Ashley: Are we going to return for it?
Sam: We do a lot of charity work and it would be well-received back home. (under his breath) In our Keep.
Matt: You make a persuasion roll. You make a deception roll.
Sam: Deception?
Laura: It's not a deception, we really will--
Travis: No, no. Only one of you.
Matt: (laughs) No, he won't.
Taliesin: The ladies of the evening really, really do need the money, apparently.
Marisha: (laughs) No, he won't.
Travis: What did you roll, Sam?
Sam: A 30.
Orion: (laughs)
Laura: Oh. That's really good because I rolled a 19. Wait!
Marisha: A 30?
Ashley: No, you didn't.
Laura: Yeah, I did.
Liam: Three-zero?
Sam: Three-zero! I have a +13 for deception. (laughs)
Travis: Really? (laughter)
Taliesin: That explains so much.
Travis: We've got to get you deceiving more.
Marisha: (laughs) We've got to get you deceiving more.
Travis: Oh my god.
Marisha: You should lie more. It's good.
Taliesin: Lie to me, Pinocchio. Lie to me.
Matt: "Three thousand gold, at your disposal, to bring about and to share in the prosperity of your people back home."
Sam: Amen. (laughter)
Matt: "Once the artifact is delivered and sealed."
Sam: From one holy man to another, I think we've struck a deal. Let's go.
Orion: Burt Reynolds, you've done it again.
Travis: Amen. (laughter)
Matt: As you all turn, Kima goes, "I'll show you to the vault room."
Laura: Are you going to come with us, Kima?
Matt: "Yes, I'm coming with you."
Laura: Oh, good.
Matt: She glances over at you. (sarcastically) "Shall we, holy man?" (laughter)
Sam: Why yes, my sister, lead the way.
Marisha: Sister. (laughter)
Matt: As you guys are walking out of the chamber, the doors close behind, she turns to you and says, "Is that why you were blessed with such a temporarily swollen appendage before?"
Sam: I don't know how the lord works, it's mysterious. (laughter)
Matt: "Let us be on our way." She kind of walks off, flustered and frustrated. You guys are led down two layers. This actual temple recedes further and further into the mountain, until you're led into what seems to almost be a storage basement. It's a very musty smell. It's old earth--
Orion: It's dank down here.
Matt: Yeah, it kind of has that moldy scent to it. There are five guards stationed in this storage vicinity, and as you approach, they all stand up. They're all still wearing ceremonial armor, two of which you can see are really well-armed, one with a greatsword and one with a longsword at the side. They look pretty prestigious to be assigned to a basement this terrible.
Laura: At ease, soldiers.
Matt: "Of course, of course."
Matt: And they step aside. Kima steps forward and takes her holy symbol and removes it from around her neck. She looks at the wall for a second, then places it into what you didn't see before was some sort of a slight recess in the wood. It flashes with divine energy, and suddenly the wood illusion is dispelled and what you see before you is a stone doorway that begins to slowly shift to the side and open up into a staircase.
Laura: Are we going to find any of these defenses right away, or what?
Matt: Kima kind of gives you a look, shrugs, and, "To be perfectly honest, I have not been within the vault."
Taliesin: Well.
Ashley: Okay.
Marisha: Huh. Is there a blueprint somewhere?
Travis: Liam, you're up. I mean, (clears throat) Vax.
Sam: I thought he was Vex.
Liam: Sorry, my communication earring was a little low there. What was said?
Laura: Check for some traps, brother.
Liam: You got it. You got it. I'm glad to get out of upstairs, I mutter to my sister, because the decor up there was shit.
Marisha: (laughs)
Liam: That is... high. That was a 26.
Matt: 26 for?
Laura: Traps in the stairway.
Liam: Just traps.
Matt: Perception for traps? All right. As you slowly begin to descend the stairway, you keep an eye out across the staircase itself and any of the surrounding walls. The stonework here is also extremely ancient, marking probably a similarity to the most ancient of buildings you've seen in this city. This subterranean structure is probably one of the older parts of this temple. You don't see anything trap-wise. The stairway eventually comes to an end into a chamber about 50 feet by 50 feet. It's very, very low light. There appear to be--
Orion: Oh! Light!
Matt: Okay. The brief moment of light, before your eyes can really focus in, there's a flash of light at the end of Tiberius's staff, and the room actually gets harder to see. You see there is a thick white mist that just kind of hangs in the air throughout the entirety of this room.
Orion: Oh! (fssh)
Marisha: It's like having your high-beams on when it's foggy.
Orion: I de-cast Light.
Matt: Okay. You dispel the Light.
Orion: What is all of this poppycock?
Matt: Your eyes adjust a little bit, and you can see what looks like-- this room, for the most part, doesn't have any sort of details. There are a couple of sconces with low, flickering light that are embedded in the side of the walls of this 50 foot by 50 foot room. It's about 20 feet high.
Marisha: I go ahead and I do a little Wind Gust and I go, (blows air).
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Down the hall, to clear out the fog.
Matt: Which spell is this?
Marisha: Gust of Wind.
Matt: Okay, so you cast Gust of Wind. The mist that was filling this room blows out the other side and you can see, the room is a little more visible now.
Orion: Oh, very good. Light!
Matt: There's still a light mist on the sides, but the center of the walkway is clear for a second. You see now in the center of the room what were initially just dark spots in the mist, there are two pillars that are attached from ceiling to floor, roughly about 20 feet apart from each other, kind of in the center of each side of the room. Each pillar is solid gray stone with what looks like intricately carved small dragons almost curling and wrapping around the statues. Each one of their heads kind of turned, mouth opened kind of angrily in different directions.
Laura: Can I check for traps or see if there's anything--
Travis: You should re-cast that.
Matt: You guys, both of you guys make perception checks.
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: That's a 19.
Laura: Oh, he already rolled. Look at him.
Liam: Yeah.
Laura: Perception?
Matt: Mm-hm.
Laura: 25.
Matt: So looking about, Liam-- Sorry, Vax. You notice the base of each one of these pillars is not flush with the floor. There is a slight gap, meaning there is some sort of a rotation or a pivot to these pillars.
Laura: Hm.
Matt: You notice that these mouths of the dragons seem to be what's creating this white mist, and as time progresses, the mist begins to refill up the room rather quickly.
Laura: All right. Do I notice any-- does it seem-- Well, without touching it. Any kind of poisonous in nature, anything like that?
Matt: Looks like mist.
Ashley: Should we run through?
Orion: While we're standing around, I'd like to reassign the earrings to Vax, Grog, and Scanlan.
Laura: I don't get one anymore? You're taking it off of me right now?
Travis: Yeah, he's giving it to me. (laughs)
Orion: Because we're always together, we're always kind of in the back together, and they're always kind of like up in the fray, so--
Travis: That's true, I do wander off easily.
Sam: Oh, is that you, Grog?
Travis: (laughs) Hi. I know.
Orion: She's always kind of like in the middle. She's the wild card. He's always in the back with us also because we're the ranged dudes.
Laura: All right.
Marisha: Wait, do I still have one?
Taliesin: I'm putting down my mask, just in case this is awful.
Matt: Okay. You guys are still at the stairway. The mist has now filled the room again in front of you.
Laura: Ugh. Should we try breathing it and see what happens?
Sam: Yeah, sure.
Marisha: My Gust of Wind--
Laura: I just reach my arm into the mist and just see--
Marisha: My Gust of Wind lasts up to one minute, by the way, so I can keep--
Laura: Oh, maybe we should just not touch the mist and go straight through the room.
Marisha: I'm just airbending.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: You've been wanting to say that.
Laura: So you can blow it and we just walk through?
Matt: As this conversation has continued-- let's say about 30 or 40 seconds has gone by in transferring the earrings and the discussion, so there's still a little bit of-- there is a clear pathway in the center there.
Marisha: Not much time.
Sam: Let's go.
Laura: Should we go?
Sam: Let's go through.
Laura: Let's go before it gets back.
Travis: Yeah.
Ashley: I start running.
Taliesin: Yes, go, run.
Liam: Hustle, hustle.
Laura: Go, go, go.
Matt: Okay. You all start running through. You're running through with them and keeping concentration on your spell.
Orion: Vax, check for traps!
Sam: Vorak, Desona, come!
Laura: I perception-checked the room. It didn't seem like there was anything.
Orion: Oh, are we good? Okay.
Liam: I'm running ten feet ahead of everybody. I rolled a big old one. (laughter)
Sam: He tripped.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Wow.
Matt: You continue forward, and as you're rushing through the group, not paying attention, you gently hit the edge of the mist barrier with your shoulder, as you're rushing to the side instinctually to stealth along the wall. As your shoulder breaks the mist--
Liam: Bring it.
Matt: All of the dragon mouths burst into bright fiery flame and begin spinning rapidly in the room. The people that are in the center running through right now, which include Keyleth, Scanlan, Tiberius, and Pike, all of you guys make dexterity saving throws.
Ashley: What?!
Sam: Whoa!
Marisha: Son of a bitch.
Laura: Vax!
Sam: Way to go, Vax.
Taliesin: Teacher, teacher, did I have time to finish my book?
Matt: You have.
Taliesin: Yes!
Ashley: Dexterity check?
Liam: You said dex save? Dex save?
Matt: Dex save, yes.
Orion: 18.
Marisha: It's all right.
Matt: 18?
Orion: Mm-hm.
Matt: All right. Hmm. Scanlan?
Sam: Oh! 13.
Matt: 13.
Ashley: Three.
Matt: All right.
Liam: 26.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: Also 13.
Ashley: But I'm short! I'm so short. They would--
Laura: Super duper short.
Travis: Just going to hit you in the face.
Ashley: They would just flow right over me.
Matt: Okay. As the flames just burst out throughout the room, tearing into the air with this reddish-white flame, both Vax and Tiberius manage to try and dodge out of the way as best they can, only receiving, each of them--
Laura: Well, all Vax has to do is roll, because he's already on the freaking ground.
Matt: 12 points of fire damage to each of you.
Marisha: To who?
Liam: Well, rogue with Uncanny Dodge, for a successful save gets zero damage.
Matt: You take none.
Orion: And I take half.
Matt: So you take zero damage, you take 12.
Orion: So I take half. Is it 24 total?
Matt: No, 24 total. You take half.
Orion: Oh.
Marisha: The rest of us?
Matt: Scanlan, Keyleth, and Pike all take 24 points of fire damage.
Sam: Ugh.
Ashley: I got 24 points.
Marisha: Ouch.
Orion: Oh! My robe.
Sam: Ow. Are we still moving?
Liam: Tuck and roll.
Orion: Are you getting used to your new foot, Vax?
Liam: I'm back!
Matt: You guys move through-- that's the four of you guys. Percy, Grog, and Vex and Trinket are all behind, as they watch the flames burst out and they all kind of stop their inertia, and now the mist slowly fills up the room.
Travis: Whoa.
Matt: About the time that your spell wears off for the first minute.
Marisha: Okay. (weak chuckle) Let's move?
Travis: It fills up the room?
Laura: We're still in the room.
Sam: The three of us, you're still back.
Matt: You guys are split right now, with the bearers, the Scalebearers.
Laura: Oh, they're coming with us, they're like coming with us through the whole thing?
Matt: They're with you, yeah.
Marisha: Wait, hang on.
Laura: Keyleth, blow the smoke again. Blow the mist away. If you can.
Marisha: Burning another spell slot. All right, here we go.
Matt: Oh, no.
Ashley: We run through it.
Laura: And now we run.
Marisha: Oh, no. He doesn't care.
Travis: He doesn't care.
Taliesin: No, we walk gently through.
Matt: Burning the second spell slot. (wind noise) The mist clears itself. Now that you're aware of what it does, you're very careful to direct it towards the center and leave an open path. The rest of you rush through, including the Scalebearers, in the minute you have. The wind is blowing in your face from Keyleth's position. It's kind of like stepping into the force of a hurricane. You have to put your hand in front of you to see--
Laura: (shouts) Your breath smells pretty good, though, Keyleth.
Marisha: Thanks, I tried to get a little of a sage thing.
Ashley: Sagey rosemary?
Travis: Very minty.
Marisha: A little orange blossom. It's nice.
Orion: I'm going to Prestidigitate a tiny air shield in front of me.
Liam: When I bite into a York Peppermint Patty--
Marisha: It's also pure oxygen, so we could get a little buzz.
Matt: It's a very, very tiny shield. It protects this much of your face.
Orion: That's what I'm doing.
Matt: Your eyes are fine. The rest of your robes are still (windblown cloth sounds).
Orion: Yeah.
Matt: You guys all make your way across the room. You then finish your spell and the mist immediately fills up and completely obfuscates that room behind you once more.
Sam: One down!
Marisha: We made it!
Sam: 20 rooms to go.
Matt: You're now in what is a ten-foot-wide chamber for an additional-- a tunnel or hallway-- for another 20 feet before it opens up into another room, but there is no light source in there whatsoever. You, with Light on your staff again, you kind of step ahead to--
Laura: Do you want to shoot an arrow in?
Orion: Oh, would you like to see?
Laura: Yeah, let's do it.
Orion: Yeah, very good. Light.
Matt: All right, so as Vex releases her arrow, light bursts forth from the wooden shaft as it arcs across the room. As it does, you can see the room. As compared to the previous one that was square in shape, this one is circular. It is almost a cylinder in its design. Go ahead and make a perception check.
Laura: 16.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: 29.
Laura: He's better.
Matt: Okay. You notice that across this floor of the circular room, there are these circles marked across the entirety of the surface here.
Laura: Great. Those are probably traps.
Travis: I bet those are fun.
Laura: Pressure plates, maybe?
Orion: Okay, or sigils or-- maybe we have to activate them or not activate them?
Travis: I have darkvision, now with a range of 60 feet.
Sam: Can we see to the other side of the room?
Matt: Hm?
Sam: Can we see all the way to the other side of the room?
Matt: Opposite side, there is actually a much larger opening and what looks to be another staircase that descends. This one is 20 feet wide. It's a very wide staircase from what you're used to seeing, especially in these structures.
Sam: And I'm hoping there's no door.
Matt: No doorway. It's open. It just descends down below. And the only way you can tell is that the arrow arcs across--
Liam: Everybody stand back. I'm going to click my Boots of Haste--
Laura: What? Shouldn't we throw something onto one of the pressure plates first and see what it does?
Liam: Yeah, me. I'm going to click my Boots of Haste, I'm going to run, I'm going to do a sort of a running roll, land on the closest circle and wait for half a tick and then roll off of it.
Laura: Are you kidding me?!
Orion: What are you doing?
Travis: No, no, let him do it! Let him do it.
Matt: So as you guys are about to go, "Wait!", Vax is already off. Clicks the boots. The arcane magic of the Boots of Haste kick into his body. He leaps forward. Make an acrobatics check.
Liam: Okay. 22.
Travis: I hope you get your eyebrows burned off.
Matt: All right. You leap forward. Your hand touches the first circle in the room. As it does, there's suddenly a large shift in the room. All of a sudden, the hand which you had purchase on slides out from underneath you. You catch yourself on your feet, but now suddenly there's a loud grinding sound and the entire room seems to be shifting, moving, spinning in its own right, and you instinctually feel something moving towards you very quickly. Make a dexterity saving throw, Liam.
Sam: Oh, boy.
Laura: Vax!
Orion: I click my earring. You're an idiot, Vax.
Liam: I'm going to use Luck because that blew. And that's a natural 20.
Sam: Oh!
Marisha: Oh!
Ashley: Oh snap.
Orion: Yeah, 20!
Ashley: Yeah, 20.
Marisha: Yeah!
Matt: So. You barely manage to move out of the way before that circular portion of the ground skyrockets up like a pillar-- one very similar to the one that you created for your spell-- slams into the ceiling with a heavy thud, retracts, and continues again. In fact, looking around you, all of them in the room are now, at different levels, pistoning into the ceiling. (repeated crashing rock noises) This entire room is slowly rotating and there's just a series of pillars mashing into the ceiling.
Marisha: Oh, it's like a mini-game.
Matt: You have to make an acrobatics check to try and get through this now because you have very little space to move.
Liam: Okay. (laughter)
Liam: I'm going to use Luck again.
Matt: (laughs)
Liam: That is 18.
Matt: 18. You manage to make your way halfway across the room, dodging out of the way as these pillars are slamming and retracting. Kind of use the pattern of when they're pulling down from the ceiling, but they're moving very fast. One of them manages to catch you underneath your ankle. Go ahead and make a dexterity saving throw again.
Liam: That is 15.
Matt: 15. All right.
Travis: Uh-oh.
Ashley: You're going to hurt your foot again, Vax.
Matt: It catches you, takes you off of your balance, and it rockets you towards the ceiling. You manage to pull most of your body out of the way in time, but it still catches the back of your shoulder blade. You take 40 points of crushing damage.
Travis: Yes! (cackles)
Sam: Ohhh!
Marisha: Holy shit.
Matt: As you are slammed into the ceiling. And as the pillar retracts, you roll off with a heavy wheeze of pain. (groan) Catching onto your feet again. Make one more acrobatics check.
Marisha: Oh my god. If you get crushed to death--
Travis: (laughs) On Skype.
Liam: That's a 23.
Matt: What was that?
Travis: 23.
Matt: 23.
Liam: I'm like an acrobatic cheetah. 23.
Matt: 23. You manage to-- in the severe pain you're feeling, you can tell there's probably some serious bruising in there and you probably broke a couple of ribs, but you manage to just barely dodge and leap out of the way, making your way across the room to where the staircase descends, out of the immediate danger.
Sam: Ah.
Laura: Jeez.
Matt: The rest of you now are standing on the opposite side of this room, which is currently a rotating grinding mill.
Travis: That was great.
Liam: I'd like to check if there's any kind of device or anything on this side--
Orion: Okay, hold on a second, Vax, just chill out for a minute. We all just took a little damage this last time.
Liam: I'm just trying a perception check.
Sam: He's checking. He's checking.
Matt: All right, make a perception check.
Marisha: For a lever or something.
Travis: For a switch.
Liam: 25.
Sam: 25.
Matt: 25. You can see, in the ceiling, in the very, very center of the room, precariously placed right where one of the pillars in the center slams into the ceiling, there appears to be a small quarter-sized hole, gold piece-sized hole in the ceiling.
Ashley: Yeah, come on, Vex.
Taliesin: Race you for it.
Matt: It's in the middle of the room. In the ceiling, where--
Liam: Is there a clear shot of it or is there (bang bang bang) going on?
Matt: Oh, no, it's still going. The pillars are still slamming into the roof. And that one hole you see is right where one of the pillars slams into the roof. You only see it intermittently when the pillar retracts.
Marisha: Go, sharpshooters, go.
Taliesin: You first, or me?
Laura: Well, let's try this first because you might just break it down completely.
Taliesin: Oh, very well.
Laura: You are much more powerful than I am, Percy.
Travis: Yeah, ladies first, perhaps.
Taliesin: Ladies first.
Laura: All right, can I try to shoot an arrow into the little hole?
Matt: You can. This is a hard shot because it's at an angle now. We're talking, this is Robin Hood-level split-the-arrow. Because you have to hit it and then ricochet upward to see if it'll have any effect.
Laura: Oh, jeez Louise.
Travis: Well, get up there.
Marisha: I place my hands on her shoulders--
Travis: Can you inspire?
Sam: I can inspire her.
Marisha: And I give her Enhance Ability.
Sam: Ooh, Enhance Ability.
Laura: Okay, what does that mean?
Marisha: You have advantage on-- oh, ability checks. It's just ability checks.
Matt: Ability checks. It's not going to help for an attack.
Laura: This is, what, an attack?
Marisha: Never mind.
Matt: This would be an attack.
Travis: I would like to offer my beard for a rub of good luck.
Laura: Thanks, Grog.
Matt: As you offer the beard, it tears off.
Travis: What?
Ashley: Oh, no!
Travis: What did you do?!
Laura: You know what, I'm going to tie this to the arrow. It's going to give it really good luck.
Sam: That seems like it's aerodynamically--
Laura: I'm not actually going to tie it to the arrow.
Taliesin: Okay!
Laura: I'm just going to tuck it--
Matt: Mark in your inventory, you now have Fake Grog Rope Beard.
Travis: Is that a -1 to my confidence now?
Matt: (laughs) It will come into play.
Travis: (cries)
Orion: So the goal is to shoot an arrow into this-- like the Death Star?
Matt: Essentially, yeah.
Laura: Yeah.
Orion: Okay, cool. As I see her ready, I'm going to hold up my hand with my ring and point it right at that hole.
Matt: To do--
Laura: So you can deflect it if I--
Orion: I got your back.
Laura: All right, thanks, Tiberius.
Orion: Get it, Vex.
Matt: All right, and you're going to--
Sam: I'm going to inspire her. With inspiration. I'll sing, (sings) Ooh ooh, shut up and shoot that hole! Your arrow is my destiny, yeah I said,
All: (sings) Ooh ooh, shut up and shoot that hole! (laughs)
Matt: And with that, you feel your focus, you wait, you breathe in, you breathe out, you breathe in, you breathe out in pattern with the slamming of the piston against the ceiling.
Laura: Oh, I'm so nervous.
Ashley: Get it, get it, get it, you're going to do it.
Matt: You let out all your breath and you hold, hold, hold, waiting between heartbeats, and then (twwt), release. Go ahead and make your attack roll.
Laura: I'm going to roll the fancy one we got last week.
Liam: Get it, girl. Get it.
Laura: All right. (laughs) Oh, no. Okay. I add my attack bonus?
Matt: Yes, you do.
Sam: Plus an inspiration.
Laura: Plus an inspiration dice?
Matt: Plus a d10.
Orion: Oh, shit.
Marisha: (whispering) It's so quiet.
Orion: I know.
Laura: Oh, that's awesome! Okay. 35. (yelling)
Travis: Good inspiration.
Matt: As you release the arrow, you see the pillars slamming. The pillar comes down just as the arrow crests over it, past another pillar that just barely manages to miss it by a segment.
Orion: I cast Telekinesis to swoop it up. (whoosh)
Sam: Oh, god.
Orion: Just to help and guide it.
Ashley: No, but it's already gone in.
Travis: We don't need it! We don't need it!
Laura: Oh, let me just see if I got it first!
Liam: She rolled a 35, we don't need shit.
Orion: It's going in there, anyway. I don't even have to roll.
Matt: So. As the pillar pulls down, the arrow goes cascading forward. Go ahead and make a d20 roll with the +5 modifier.
Orion: Sweet. That's 17.
Matt: 17? Okay. So as the arrow makes its way, it ricochets off the bottom edge of the actual hole and immediately bends itself upward, the shaft bending. As it begins to start heading up the hole, there's a sudden force of arcane energy that slams it even harder up into the top of this tiny little slit.
Travis: Yeah, good.
Matt: As it goes up there, you hear what sounds like a splintering of wood and metal. Then you hear metal grinding. You start seeing bits and chunks of grinding metal begin to pour out of the hole and the pillars begin to (scraping stone).
Laura: Hey.
Ashley: Yeah.
Travis: Nice shot!
Ashley: Yeah, Vex!
Matt: Eventually coming to a halt.
Marisha: A wrench in the machine.
Taliesin: I could have done it.
Laura: You totally could have done that.
Taliesin: I could have made that shot.
Sam: Next room's yours.
Taliesin: Yes, next room, next room's all mine.
Orion: That was one of those impossible things, right?
Matt: Pretty damn close to impossible.
Orion: I knew it.
Laura: Nice.
Marisha: (laughs) Pretty damn close to impossible.
Sam: All right, let's go across and heal our rogue.
Travis: Yeah, we walk across.
Laura: Yeah, all right.
Liam: As they come to the other side, I clutch my broken rib and injuredly hold a hand up and give a half-assed high-five to my sister. (grunts)
Laura: Good job getting slammed into the roof like that.
Liam: Yeah, you're welcome.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: So can we take a short rest to heal up and then also a short rest to take a short rest in real life?
Matt: You can. We're going to go ahead and stop here. You're now taking a short rest.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: You guys take a moment. If you want to go ahead and heal up using any of your hit dice, you're able to, Vax.
Marisha: I'm going to do that.
Sam: Me, too.
Matt: And on that note, we're going to go ahead and take our five-minute break here, guys.
Travis: Cool.
Sam: Five.
Matt: While the party takes a short rest, we're taking a five-minute rest. We've got to be done by ten tonight with the stream, so.
Sam: Let's do it.
Laura: Woo.
Matt: So we're going to take a five-minute break.
Sam: True five. True five.
Matt: Orion, if you want to go ahead and come over, we're going to go ahead and give you guys-- yes, sir?
Zac: Bring them on up.
Matt: Okay, yeah, so we're going to go ahead and introduce our guests and give them an overview of the charity that we have currently on the stream tonight.
Travis: That was great work, though.
Laura: Yes.
Marisha: Oh my god, I rolled two eights in a row.
Taliesin: Nice!
Marisha: That's awesome.
Matt: I'm going to pass this over to Orion.
Orion: Okay.
Matt: Come on over. Gonna enjoy my chickens.
Sam: Don't forget to go to Teespring and buy our T-shirts.
Laura: Oh, let-- no! We haven't even talked about it at all!
Matt: Yes! By the way, our T-shirts are on Teespring. We'll have six more days.
Sam: Six more days.
Marisha: They also just went up on our website, on critrole.com. So you can go to our website and find the link.
Matt: All right, guys, we'll see you in a little bit. Meanwhile, take it away.
Sam: I'm going to tweet the Teespring link right now.
Zac: Lucas, go fullscreen.
Marisha: Sam is tweeting it.
Orion: Give me that chair.
Zac: Cool. Are you good, man?
Orion: Yeah.
Zac: Sweet.
Orion: We had points. We had points. Are we standing for this?
Taylor: Yeah.
Orion: Tell me that for the chat thing. Hi, everybody! Orion Acaba here and Taylor Carol. This is our special guest. And he's with GameChanger, and he has a couple of things to say for this particular awesome charity that we are working with today with SquareEnix and the Deus Ex anniversary.
Taylor: Yeah.
Marisha: Taylor!
Taylor: Well, first of all, on behalf of GameChanger, I just want to say what a blast it is to be with you guys. Personally, I've never watched D&D before. You guys have made me a huge fan.
Orion: Yes.
Taylor: And, yeah. So a little bit of backstory about GameChanger. About nine years ago, I was diagnosed terminal form of cancer. I was given about two weeks left to live, but thankfully it's been a long two weeks. I'm totally healthy now. (cheers)
Taylor: Thank you. But when I was sick, the most incredible thing that I saw was the impact that video games had on the people and on the children that were fighting cancer and other rare diseases. And witnessing the incredible good of the game community of video games. My dad and I resolved to make an organization that used and capitalized on that incredible good of the video games, of the gaming community, to help those suffering from rare diseases. And so one year later, GameChanger charity was born, and we started out just collecting games from the incredible gaming community, giving them back to kids suffering from rare diseases. And seven years later it evolved into what we have now. Now we're sponsored with some incredible gaming organizations like Square. A huge thanks to them for partnering with us for this awesome campaign. But yeah, today we go into hospitals and do things called GameChanger days where we go and we bring food for the staff, for the families, for the kids suffering from rare diseases. We bring them gaming packages so they can bond together. We provide college scholarships, and we really just try and provide hope and inspiration-- the same hope and inspiration that games really provided me when I was sick.
Orion: Yeah. That's awesome. And we here at--
Taylor: Oh, thank you. No, thank you guys.
Orion: And we here at Critical Role really love organizations like yours, which is why when we started talking, it was such a nice partnership for you to come on and tell us about this organization. Tell everybody where they can find to help, if they wanted to send to GameChanger.
Taylor: Yeah, GameChanger. Yeah.
Orion: Yeah, where would they go for that, to check it out?
Taylor: To support GameChanger, to learn more about what we do, you can visit www.gamechangercharity.org, and if you go to our website, you can see our campaign with Deus Ex. You can go online and if you donate anything more than a dollar, you get a free copy, a director's cut--
Orion: Oh! Well, awesome. That's cool. I'll probably do that too. It sounds like it's pretty sweet. And I want to thank you, the rest, with all of us. I'm doing this because I'm currently fighting cancer. I have-- I don't have that bad of a trek to go through, but it is very inconvenient and painful, but hearing stories like you. I mean, you're 20. He has a beautiful singing voice. He's a singer. And you're going to Harvard, is that what's going on?
Taylor: I am, yeah, I'm a rising junior.
Orion: Stupid doctors, they don't know shit. But people like you inspire me, because up until a few months ago, I didn't need any of that kind of inspiration. So it's great, and your organization's great, so we just wanted to thank you for coming on and speaking with everybody and letting everybody know, and we'll be working together in the future, too, and we'll be doing lots of fun stuff, so yeah. Check these guys out, please.
Laura: Donate, donate.
Ashley: What are you studying at Harvard?
Taylor: I am an English concentrator.
Orion: Whoa.
Marisha: Nice.
Taylor: Yeah, yeah.
Laura: I don't even know what that means.
Orion: Hold on a second. Do you mean like you concentrate on English?
Taylor: (English accent) English primarily.
Orion: Oh, very good. Okay, cool. That's like my second language.
Taylor: You guys have to teach me better accents. I love all of your accents.
Orion: (laughs) Any other questions for our guest, guys?
Zac: I'd like to let everybody know, the mods all have access to the GameChanger command in the chatroom, so if you guys are watching and are not in the chat, just join the chat really quick and you guys will be able to get that link for the donation link to get Deus Ex and anything over a dollar and you get a copy of the game. We're going to go ahead and let that run all the way throughout the rebroadcast and throughout the weekend, so mods, just keep spamming that throughout the chat.
Laura: So donations tonight are going to GameChanger, yeah?
Orion: Yeah.
Zac: It's up to you guys whether or not you want 826LA to go to GameChanger because the link right now just goes to Critical Role, so it's up to you guys for where it goes from there.
Orion: So we can do that.
Laura: Awesome. I think donations tonight will definitely go to GameChanger, yeah.
Orion: Yeah, so that's what we'll do. Awesome!
Taylor: Thank you all.
Orion: Right now. That's the decision.
Taylor: Go team.
Marisha: Tell them it's the last day.
Orion: And this is our last day. Is that right?
Taylor: Yes, so this is the last day to get your copy--
Orion: For the Deus Ex thing.
Zac: Okay, then I will not let it run over the weekend.
Orion: Yeah. But again, dude, thank you for coming on.
Taylor: Hey, thank you.
Orion: And we'll break because I have to pee really bad. But thank you so much.
Taylor: Thank you.
Zac: So guys, just to be clear, all of your donations tonight will go towards GameChanger, but if you want a copy of the game, just go and donate a dollar on the link that we have access to in the chatroom. And just so you guys know, there will not be time for them to read messages tonight after the show. Lucas and I both have to catch a flight, so sorry. We'll get to them next time.
Taylor: Anything more than a dollar.
Zac: Anything more than a dollar, to be clear. Anything more than a dollar.
Ashley: Go donate. Just do it!
Zac: Listen to Ashley. We're also really close to another giveaway, guys. If you guys subscribe, I think we're only like ten away from another giveaway, a large giveaway, which is a signed Player's Handbook and a signed photo of the cast. And every 50 we'll do a giveaway until the show's over tonight. We will not be going late, so just keep in mind, guys, don't send Geek & Sundry messages upset that your message wasn't read. We'll get to it next time. We appreciate you guys donating and Lucas, go ahead and go to drop cam. Yeah, go drop cam. [break]
Matt: Welcome back.
Zac: I had a really quick announcement before we get back into the game. The winner is Paula Konito, so congratulations--
Marisha: Paula Konito!
Matt: Paula Konito, congrats!
Marisha: Paula Konito!
Zac: -- and I understand that we crashed their website for donations--
Matt: (laughs)
Ashley: What?
Zac: So congratulations, guys, for crashing the website, but what is not crashed is our donation link, so if you scroll down and click on the 826LA link, all of the donations that are made tonight they've said will go to GameChanger
Laura: Yeah, the portion of the donations that would normally go to 826LA tonight are going to go to GameChanger.
Zac: So just scroll down on the channel page, click on 826LA or the donate link that's being spammed in the chat room, and all of those donations will go to GameChanger. And they let us know before they left, they just got 10,000 more Deus Ex keys, so we will let that run throughout the weekend.
Travis: That's amazing.
Laura: Oh, awesome.
Orion: Nice!
Zac: So the mods will keep spamming that throughout the weekend and you guys can donate throughout the rebroadcast and things like that for a one-dollar Deus Ex code.
Laura: Anything over a dollar.
Zac: Anything over a dollar, yeah.
Matt: That's so awesome.
Zac: One-oh-one! Enjoy Deus Ex.
Matt: Yeah! Thank you guys so much.
Laura: It would be good if you donated more than one dollar, if you want.
Taliesin: It's still needed.
Matt: The Critters are strong. The Critters are legion.
Travis: It is. They are.
Matt: It's amazing the things we can do.
Orion: It is on. YES.
Taliesin: There are Critters in the walls.
Marisha: They're in the god--
Marisha: -- damn walls!
Taliesin: -- damn walls!
Taliesin: Thank you for being there with me on that.
Matt: All righty, so! Back into the fray.
Laura: Oh, god, okay.
Matt: You guys, after finishing your short rest, healing up various wounds in that circumstance--
Sam: (plays note on flute) (laughter)
Matt: You make your way, playing a fancy little ditty on the flute. You make your way down this long, long staircase. You continue down for, I'd say, probably a good hundred feet or so before you start encountering, I'll say, a mild change in the scenery, at least. What was normally just a musty hallway is becoming thicker and thicker coated with large spiderwebs.
Laura: Ugh.
Travis: Awesome.
Orion: Everything's so sticky.
Ashley: Spiders!
Matt: You manage to push through and cut through, but it gets to the point where it's just so matted you guys are having to bushwhack your way through as if you had a machete.
Taliesin: I'm not taking off my mask.
Travis: Can I turn to one of those (clears throat) Scalebearers and ask if they've ever dealt with any umber-hulks in this region.
Matt: Scalebearer Vorak gives kind of a curious look to your question. Scalebearer Desona looks to you and says, "No, I don't believe they exist in this region. Nor this close to the surface, as far as I know."
Travis: Right. That's important, isn't it.
Orion: Are the spiderwebs-- are they becoming more as we traverse--
Matt: Yes, they're getting thicker and thicker.
Orion: Okay, so I'm going to make my way towards the front of the group because I'm noticing this and I'm going to do a Fire Breath, and I'm going to instantly cast Control Flame and catch as much as I can of it, and start spinning it, burning the webs as we go.
Matt: Okay. Very cool. So, Tiberius steps forward and breathes a heating breath of dragon fire out of his mouth. As it cascades forward, burning through the nearby webs, he casts a secondary spell and captures it and begins to shape it, almost like it's a fiery clay in the middle of the air. And he utilizes it in a very similar way to how he uses Telekinesis and begins to use that rolling fire to burn through the webbing as you guys continue down the stairway.
Laura: Nice.
Taliesin: That's convenient.
Marisha: At least it'll be disinfected.
Orion: Mm-hm-hm. Fire cleans all.
Matt: It also leaves a terrible stench. Burning web has this awful kind of--
Travis: Burnt hair?
Matt: It's similar. Burnt hair with burnt plastic, if you can think of it-- it's awful.
Laura: What's plastic?
Matt: This is more for your own player knowledge, sensory knowledge. (laughter)
Matt: The sound of crackling of the nearby webbing that's slowly retracting and burning and melting is immediately joined by the sound of a low clicking. (groaning)
Laura: I stealth immediately.
Marisha: Oh, that frickin' sound. Do we-- I can try to cast Pass Without a Trace on all of us, if we want to sneak through here.
Laura: Oh, yeah, that would be good!
Marisha: Do you want to try to sneak through?
Travis: Yeah, do it.
Marisha: I cast Pass Without a Trace.
Travis: Now let's vogue. This changes every time!
Orion: Sweet!
Matt: All right, so Pass Without a Trace is cast, while you two both make stealth rolls.
Laura: So, with the Pass Without a Trace?
Matt: With the Pass Without a Trace, yes.
Laura: 31.
Orion: (quietly, to Marisha) Is my magic on stealth, too?
Liam: 24.
Matt: With the plus ten?
Liam: Plus ten from what? Say again?
Laura: Pass Without a Trace.
Matt: Keyleth cast Pass Without a Trace.
Liam: Oh, 34.
Matt: All right. You guys dart off to the side, kind of using the remnants of the web to block your physical forms. The boiling fire that has been placed ahead of you is starting to reflect small little points of reflected light throughout the shadows in the distance that are moving towards you as you see giant hairy arachnid legs.
Orion: I back up! I have my cloak on. And I'm going to go ahead and cast Stoneskin. That's what I do right now.
Matt: You cast Stoneskin? I'm going to go ahead and ask--
Marisha: I'm also going to cast Stoneskin.
Laura: Can I cast, while they're coming-- where did I write it down?
Sam: I'm going to go invisible.
Laura: Never mind, I can't find my spell.
Sam: This is exciting, guys. There's a board of some sort.
Laura: I cast Entangle on the ground.
Matt: In front?
Laura: Yeah.
Sam: You have-- you can cast things?
Laura: (quickly) Yeah, yeah, yeah!
Orion: (quietly) Yeah, she's a ranger, she can cast stuff.
Travis: Apparently.
Taliesin: As long as it's at range.
Sam: Grog, you've got a beard spell.
Travis: I do.
Taliesin: That was my terrible joke and I wish I hadn't. Now I'm embarrassed.
Travis: I can also cast Flatulence.
Sam: And you have Frenzied Rage.
Matt: All right. You can now see skittering off to the side what appear to be a series of large arachnid-like creatures. As you cast Entanglement, you can--
Laura: I'm reading it now.
Matt: Go ahead and read the spell.
Orion: Did I manage to catch with the Control Flame my entire Fire Breath when I did that? And I'm controlling it still?
Matt: Currently you are.
Laura: Oh, that's not what it was. That's the wrong spell. Sorry, sorry, it's Spike Growth, is the spell.
Sam: Spikes growth?
Laura: I cast Spike Growth.
Matt: Spike Growth, okay, that is different.
Laura: Yes, which is-- the ground in a 20-foot radius centered on a point within range twists and sprouts hard spikes and thorns. It's difficult terrain for the duration, but anybody that can see me casting it doesn't take damage to it, it's only the people that don't see me casting it.
Marisha: Dope.
Sam: Really?
Matt: All right.
Laura: Yeah. Any creature that can't see the area at the time the spell is cast must make a wisdom check.
Orion: Cool.
Sam: All right, but can they see the area?
Matt: They can see the area.
Laura: Oh. Well, that's not quite the same thing, then, what I saw. (yells) Forget it, my spell is stupid!
Sam: No, no!
Orion: It's fine, just not in a hallway with stairs.
Laura: I know!
Sam: It's fine, just stick to arrows, really.
Ashley: She can do so much more than just arrows!
Orion: As I see this, can I release my Control Flame and let the Fire Breath just happen, and not control it anymore?
Matt: Looking into your spell now. Oh, Control Flames is a cantrip. You are able to control just enough fire to burn away the things. It wouldn't actually do any damage if released. Control Fire kind of like captures an element of it.
Orion: Okay. So that's what I was using, the element of what I did.
Matt: Yeah.
Orion: So I used it so I could have the fire.
Matt: Exactly.
Orion: Got it.
Matt: You set it as a catalyst to it.
Laura: They can see the ground.
Matt: They can.
Laura: Then no, don't cast it.
Travis: Doesn't it mess up the ground if we try to walk through it?
Laura: Not you guys, but they--
Marisha: But they're spiders. They're probably not that wise.
Orion: Can I cast something else?
Matt: No. Right now everyone rolls initiative.
Orion: Damn it!
Ashley: Ugh.
Matt: There are only so many things you can do here, Tiberius.
Orion: I know, but I like doing lots of things.
Matt: I know you do.
Marisha: That's not bad! I'll take that.
Sam: I lost my dice.
Laura: That's my punishment.
Travis: Fuck, yeah.
Taliesin: I love my new stats.
Laura: I don't think that should count.
Taliesin: I rolled terribly this time but my stats are good.
Sam: Every time, every time.
Orion: What?
Sam: I've never rolled a double digit initiative roll, ever.
Matt: Oh, Scanlan, but you roll when it counts.
Travis: Just Wil Wheaton roll every time you do initiative.
Taliesin: Is that what we're calling it? Wheatoning?
Travis: Yeah, Wheatoning.
Laura: Wheatoning? Yeah.
Taliesin: All right.
Travis: Wheatoning.
Sam: (announcer voice) Wha-Wha-Wheaton.
Matt: All right, so. 25-20.
Ashley: Natural 20. (yelling)
Ashley: I don't think that ever happens when it's like damage or something.
Matt: That's okay.
Laura: 23.
Ashley: I'm gonna go with it.
Matt: Okay, so 23. Grog, what have you got?
Travis: 21.
Matt: Okay, so we've got Vex, Grog, and Pike, what's your dex? What's your initiative bonus?
Ashley: Nothing.
Matt: Nothing, so 20. All right. 20 to 15?
Marisha: 17.
Matt: 17, Keyleth.
Orion: 15.
Taliesin: 16.
Matt: All right, Percy. Tiberius. Vax?
Laura: He's gone.
Matt: Has left the screen.
Travis: Oh, really?
Sam: Great.
Ashley: Last.
Matt: I'm going to consider that a low initiative.
Marisha: Oh-ho-ho-ho.
Orion: He just went to go poop.
Sam: Seven!
Matt: Seven for Scanlan.
Orion: Or deal with--
Matt: All right, we'll get to his turn when we get to it.
Ashley: (yells) Vax!
Matt: It's okay. All right, Vex.
Marisha: Wait, there he is.
Sam: He's holding a cat.
Orion: He has a cat.
Sam: It's Trinket! It's Trinket!
Matt: What did you roll for initiative?
Liam: That is a 16.
Matt: 16?
Orion: Okay.
Travis: Get your head out of your ass.
Sam: He's Dr. Evil. (laughter)
Matt: All right, Vex.
Laura: Me?
Matt: Yes.
Laura: Oh! I'm going to cast Conjure Barrage at all of the spiders coming at us.
Matt: All righty.
Laura: I'm going to Hunter's Mark whatever one looks the biggest.
Matt: Okay, from this position you will also hit Tiberius to hit all the spiders.
Laura: Oh, where am I?
Matt: You're right here.
Laura: Oh.
Travis: You gotta do what you gotta do. (laughs) Sorry.
Matt: I mean, you could--
Laura: I'm going to move to where I'm in the middle of them. I'm still kind of stuck.
Matt: Right there?
Marisha: Get it!
Laura: Yeah, and then I'll Conjure Barrage from there.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: (quietly) Don't encourage it.
Laura: I cast Hunter's Mark on the biggest one I see.
Matt: Okay, this one here is one of the larger ones.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: So I'm going to go ahead and mark that one. So go ahead and-- Conjure Barrage does what damage?
Travis: (quietly) Hate it.
Laura: It does 3d8 on all creatures.
Matt: Do they get a saving throw?
Laura: They get-- yes, they do. They get half-damage if they save.
Matt: Mmkay. What's the DC on your spells?
Laura: (in a funny gruff voice) My DC is 14.
Orion: (laughs)
Matt: All righty.
Orion: (mimicking Laura's gruff voice) MemememememeME.
Marisha: What's your DC, girl?
Laura: Okay.
Marisha: What's yo digits? Gimme those stats.
Matt: Okay, all you need--
Laura: Do I need to roll for attack?
Matt: Only this one makes it.
Laura: Oh, sweet!
Matt: No, the barrage just happens. They're all caught in it.
Laura: Okay, cool.
Matt: So all of them take full damage, except for this one takes half damage, so go ahead and roll the damage on that.
Laura: Okay. 3d8. 15, and then 20 for the big one with the Hunter's Mark.
Matt: All righty. So. So you moved, did that. Do you want to move Trinket as well?
Laura: Can I have Trinket attack?
Matt: Trinket--
Laura: Oh, that's a lot of them.
Matt: Well, that, and the spell you cast was an action. Trinket can attack as part of your attack round.
Laura: Okay, so I get a second attack?
Matt: Well, no, your spell was an action. So that's your turn. You do Conjure Barrage instead of your attack.
Laura: Cool, I'm going to step back against the wall.
Matt: All right, so you step back there. Do you want to move Trinket anywhere in particular?
Laura: Nah, he can't really get anywhere, it's fine.
Matt: All right, Trinket is there and-- (bear noises)
Laura: It's good times, guys.
Matt: Angrily, a growl in the distance. Grog, you're up.
Travis: I'd like to hold my turn.
Sam: What?
Orion: Ooh, yeah!
Matt: All right, Grog holds initiative.
Orion: Strategy.
Marisha: Must be something good.
Matt: Pike, you're up.
Ashley: Okay, how far can I move up to use a Spiritual Weapon? I can't tell where I'm at. I'm sorry, I didn't wear my glasses.
Matt: I mean, you can move through your allies without an issue. You can shift through your own guys without a problem.
Ashley: Okay, so I would like to cast a golden spiderweb of thorns.
Sam: Ooh.
Laura: (gasps) What?
Marisha: Ooh.
Orion: (laughs) Nice!
Taliesin: Fancy.
Matt: All right. Okay.
Ashley: And encase the spiders.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: That's cool.
Matt: Okay. (laughter)
Ashley: Like a thorny net.
Matt: This would be considered a net, if we are considering a weapon that you are conjuring for this.
Ashley: I'm just making it look really pretty.
Matt: Right.
Ashley: Basically.
Travis: (quietly) It looks so pretty.
Matt: So the effect of this-- I'm letting you hit multiple guys with this. It would not do any damage.
Ashley: It wouldn't do any damage, it would just contain them?
Matt: It would possibly have an effect on their ability--
Ashley: Even if they're thorny? Even like holy thorns? Oh.
Matt: It would be very itchy for them.
Ashley: All right, you know what?
Orion: Oh. Well, I mean, that's not out of--
Laura: I think you should stick with it, it's awesome.
Sam: Yeah, man, commit.
Ashley: Okay. Contain them.
Orion: Yeah, it's thematic.
Ashley: Contain them and then somebody could just--
Laura: Fireball.
Ashley: Throw fire, a fireball at them.
Matt: All right, go ahead and roll a d20 and then add five to it.
Ashley: Okay. 12.
Matt: 12? Okay. These four in the immediate front, right there, as you bring back your mace in the air, you kind of hang onto the side with the leather strap around your wrist. You reach up and grab your holy symbol. As you release the holy symbol to hold your hand up, divine energy streaks out from your fingertips and forms into this kind of gold and silver net. As your arm is doing this kind of throwing animation in the air like that, the net shoots out from the front and spreads down onto the spiders and contracts around. You can see it catches them and they start scrambling inside. These front four are considered grappled. (cheering)
Ashley: All right, all right!
Matt: The one in the back managed to avoid it.
Orion: Cool.
Laura: Nice!
Marisha: Nice!
Matt: That's it? That brings it to Keyleth.
Marisha: Okay, with that new development--
Orion: Wait. Can you do lightning?
Marisha: I can. I'm going to do Poison Spray, though. Where am I right now?
Matt: You're right here. Behind Pike as she threw her giant golden net.
Marisha: I'm going to be like, 'scuse me, 'scuse me, Pike, 'scuse me. Sorry, sorry.
Ashley: Yes? Oh, go through, go through, go go go!
Marisha: Thank you, thank you, thank you.
Ashley: Tag you in! Tag you in!
Marisha: (whoosh) Poison Spray! It's a ten-foot cone.
Matt: Ten-foot cone. If you want to get right up in here you could get these three there.
Marisha: I'll do that.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: (whoosh) So, it's a constitution saving throw.
Matt: Okay. This one succeeds, this one fails, this one fails.
Sam: (singing along with the battle music) It's the music that means we're having a fight.
Matt: All right. So, this one succeeds, so no damage, but these two take damage. Go ahead and roll it.
Marisha: Okay, so they take 2d12. Six. Ugh. Seven damage.
Matt: Seven damage to each.
Marisha: It's not great. I think he takes half damage, though, even though he fails.
Matt: Does he? I think Poison Mist--
Marisha: Poison Spray.
Matt: Oh, Poison Spray. It's a cantrip. I think it's damage or nothing.
Marisha: Oh, yeah, I guess so.
Matt: All right. It's your move, do you want to keep moving or do you want to stay where you are?
Marisha: Can I get out of everyone's way?
Matt: You're currently-- actually, down from where you cast it, you would be able to move out, yeah.
Marisha: Can I back up a little bit? Yeah.
Matt: You can, they're still grappled.
Marisha: I just kind of want to-- yeah.
Matt: To there. All right.
Marisha: Your turn!
Matt: That ends your turn. Vax, Percy.
Taliesin: Please, be my guest.
Liam: Did you say Vax, Percy?
Matt: Yes.
Travis: Yep.
Liam: I'm doing my best seeing from where I can see here. Keyleth is right in front of me?
Matt: She was. She just pulled behind you.
Marisha: I moved behind.
Laura: Now you're in front of the spiders.
Marisha: You're good, you're in front.
Liam: Okay, there's a little bit of distance, so I'm just going to start hucking daggers at them. I'm going to start with dagger of life stealing.
Marisha: You're only two squares away.
Liam: That is a 16 to hit.
Matt: 16 to hit? Hits.
Liam: Okay, so that is four, six, is ten of damage.
Matt: All right.
Liam: Then the keen dagger follows. That is a 27.
Matt: That hits.
Liam: That hits for ten damage, and then--
Laura: You're killing them!
Liam: And then the flametongue dagger.
Matt: You're not Hasted anymore, by the way.
Liam: You're right, forget it, yeah, forget that last. That's right, two.
Matt: So as you're off to the side hiding among the slowly burning webbing, you move around, huck both daggers. One strikes a spider right in the center of where its eyes are and it screeches for a second before it curls up, its legs kind of pulling into its torso. The other one begins to pull out of the net that Pike set, and as it does you throw the secondary dagger. It strikes it in its abdomen, and the blade retracts and returns to your belt, and as it does, it leaves this streak of greenish liquid. And you have a better view of these spiders now. Go ahead and make a nature check, both Keyleth and Vex.
Marisha: Dope.
Orion: By the way, I'm here, but I'm also there.
Marisha: Natural 20. (yelling)
Matt: You're also there?
Orion: Cloak of Displacement.
Laura: Good, because I rolled an eight.
Matt: Oh.
Orion: There's like two of me.
Matt: All right. So, Keyleth
Sam: (whistles with the battle music)
Matt: You notice as most spider-like creatures go, you're used to like the darker, furry, wolf-spider types. These have a different color. Their physical bodies are more white and blue. Their coloration is mostly white but with a kind of bluish hue to it and their eyes are almost pink-white in color.
Laura: Ugh.
Ashley: Because they live underground. There's no sunlight.
Matt: They're a very strange, different kind of spider.
Liam: I don't like this.
Marisha: Is that all I know, with my natural 20?
Matt: You haven't encountered too many types of arachnids, but there's something about them that seems loosely themed in the ethereal.
Laura: Oh.
Marisha: Hm.
Matt: You in your experience, you've heard of certain spiders that can travel through the planes rapidly.
Orion: Now damn plane spiders?
Travis: Maybe we don't have to kill it, maybe they just (pfft).
Marisha: Gotcha. Hey, guys, I think these are like magical bamf-ing spiders.
Orion: Oh.
Taliesin: Okay.
Sam: Cool, bro, let's kill them.
Marisha: Yeah, let's kill them.
Taliesin: There's one spider that's not caught?
Laura: There's what, there's three spiders left?
Matt: Yes, one back here.
Taliesin: All right, I'm going to take a couple of shots at it with my Sharpshooter, so let's start with 24 to hit?
Matt: What was it?
Taliesin: 24 to hit?
Matt: That hits.
Taliesin: And let's do this. My first shot--
Sam: Ka-pew!
Taliesin: That's depressing. Well, I get the bonus, so that's 18 points of damage.
Matt: 18 points of damage? All righty.
Marisha: That's not too depressing.
Ashley: That's not depressing at all.
Travis: That's not depressing.
Taliesin: That's not too depressing. It's because I'm taking a negative five to hit.
Laura: Oh.
Taliesin: And that's-- oh, that's not bad. I have new numbers. 16 to hit.
Matt: 16 does also hit, yeah.
Taliesin: Aha!
Matt: Same target?
Taliesin: Same target, with an added fire bonus. Three fire damage and 17 as well.
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: 17 plus three fire damage.
Ashley: That bonus is awesome.
Laura: He is so dead.
Matt: (gunshot noise) That spider gets splattered. You see there's a burst of flame and a (explosion noise) as its body is knocked in the air, torn asunder, and then consumed by the flame burst at the same time. You see what looks like a scattering of ash across the ground and the steps beneath it.
Marisha: It looks like flash paper?
Matt: Essentially, yeah.
Taliesin: And I duck back behind Grog. (laughter)
Travis: Where are you going?
Matt: All right. These two spiders that are currently caught in the net both (whoosh) vanish and the net falls flat.
Laura: Oh, bamf-ing spiders.
Matt: (teleportation noise)
Taliesin: Oh, shit.
Matt: One is striking at you.
Laura: Me?
Matt: That is a 21 to hit.
Laura: It hits me.
Matt: And against Percy, that is a 25.
Taliesin: Oh my god, that hits.
Matt: All right. You both take 13 points of piercing damage
Taliesin: Ow!
Matt: And I need you both to make a constitution saving throw. (groaning)
Taliesin: Oh, bugger.
Marisha: That can't be good.
Taliesin: 13 points of piercing damage?
Matt: Mm-hm.
Marisha: They poofed. Poofers.
Laura: 17? Oh, wait. 19.
Matt: 19 constitution saving throw.
Taliesin: Constitution saving throw. (blows raspberry)
Marisha: Oh, no, Percy!
Taliesin: Rolled a one.
Matt: So as all of a sudden, the strange (teleportation noise) sound streaks behind you, you turn over your shoulder just in time to see the spiders pop out of seemingly nowhere and strike into you. The fangs sink into your side and you knock them off with your elbow.
Laura: (grunts in pain)
Matt: You feel the venom extract itself from the fangs, but just as you pull it out of the side, so it actually does not envenom your body. Percy, you're not so lucky. The venom pulses into the side of your shoulder.
Taliesin: (groans in pain)
Matt: And you feel this burning sensation ripple through your entire upper right torso. You take 21 points of poison damage.
Marisha: Oh, shit!
Liam: What was that number, again?
All: 21.
Sam: He's fine, he's fine.
Marisha: Is that all it does, just poison him?
Matt: Yep.
Taliesin: I am poisoned, though.
Matt: You are not considered poisoned. It's the damage that's poison.
Laura: Oh, it's straight-up damage.
Marisha: Okay, that's not too bad.
Taliesin: It could be worse.
Matt: That ends their turn. Tiberius? You're still holding your turn, Grog?
Travis: Mm-hm.
Marisha: I did take Protection From Poison.
Laura: I should cast that on us.
Marisha: If that's necessary.
Matt: All right, Tiberius?
Orion: So we're in a hallway, a stairwell?
Matt: Yes, it's a stairway heading down, essentially, right here, and then it evens out at the bottom point there.
Marisha: Fighting on the stairs.
Orion: Is it like a big--
Matt: It's about 15 feet up to the ceiling. Ten, 15.
Orion: Oh. Very well. How many are left, two?
Matt: Two.
Laura: Yeah.
Orion: Obelisk of Stone.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Squishy spiders.
Orion: Yeah, these squishy spiders.
Matt: So as both the spiders are knocked off both Percy and Vex, you guys kind of rear back, ready to defend yourselves. Suddenly the stairwell shakes for a second and pillars of stone go (stone crushing noises) from underneath. Similar to the trap room you encountered earlier.
Orion: That's it. 21.
Matt: 21? And what's the DC on your spell?
Orion: 17.
Matt: 17? Both spiders get mashed pretty horribly into the ceiling. You see where the pillars are slammed into the ceiling permanently. You can see the legs kind of dangling out for a second and then slowly curl in towards where the edge of the stone pillars are at the ceiling.
Laura: Eat it.
Marisha: Are there any corpses that are more accessible than the one that got torched and the ones that are squished?
Travis: Yeah, are there any spider fangs we can put in the bag?
Marisha: Yeah, because I have that book that helps me do that now.
Taliesin: There's the one I shot.
Matt: You can, actually, there are-- there's one that you shot. No, actually, the one that you killed is the one that burst into flame.
Taliesin: Yes, the one that burst into flame.
Matt: That one's not going to be salvageable. There's a few that you and Vex killed. Vex and Vax both just kind of wiped out a few of the spiders. Go ahead and make an herbalism roll.
Laura: Ooh, I bet we can get some of that poison. Dip the arrows in it.
Marisha: What did the book do again, gave me a plus or an advantage? Did it give me an advantage on rolls or like a plus something?
Matt: I asked you to write that down. I will say advantage.
Marisha: Oh, wait, you did ask me to write it down and I think I did.
Matt: Advantage or a bonus, which of the two is it?
Marisha: Oh, no, I didn't write it down, I just wrote that I have the books.
Matt: Ah. I don't remember what I did for that. I will say advantage. That's the easiest to remember.
Marisha: That's better. 24.
Matt: 24. You managed to extract two poison glands from one of the spiders. The other ones were too damaged beyond repair.
Laura: Ooh.
Orion: Sweet.
Marisha: Two poison glands.
Matt: Two small venom glands.
Orion: Nice.
Marisha: I give them to the twins.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Oh, we can just use them?
Matt: You don't know.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: She hands you two nasty-looking glands that are still wet with spider ichor.
Marisha: I got this for you guys.
Laura: Oh, thank you, Keyleth.
Travis: Do you want me to hold onto them?
Liam: That's very... that's sweet. I love it.
Laura: Tiberius, would you happen to have a little glass vial or something I could put this in?
Orion: I think I have two left.
Laura: Oh!
Orion: I need to get more.
Travis: I have them.
Orion: Oh, here we go. (pop)
Laura: Thank you.
Taliesin: (laughs) Well.
Travis: I'm like a Wal-Mart over here. You could have asked me, but that's cool.
Marisha: Your book helps.
Sam: I'm ready to make my attack turn.
Matt: All right. There is nothing there. (laughter)
Sam: I sheath my sword.
Matt: There you go. (laughter)
Taliesin: A little help here, please? Would be nice.
Ashley: Yes.
Laura: Oh. Oh, wait, I thought you weren't poisoned-- oh, you need healing because you are--
Ashley: What are you at?
Taliesin: I'm at 47.
Laura: Okay.
Ashley: Okay.
Sam: Eh, you're fine. Suck it up.
Ashley: I guess we all need some-- what's everybody else at?
Liam: Ah, that's what I was at after I healed myself with a handful of hit dice after getting crushed into the ceiling.
Laura: Yeah, but we took a short break and we're not doing that now.
Sam: Use your hit dice, you'll be fine.
Taliesin: I could just use my-- oh.
Ashley: Um, hold on.
Matt: Are you guys taking a short rest, is that what you're doing?
Laura: No.
Travis: No, no.
Marisha: No, we're good.
Ashley: Let me heal you up, Percy, hold on.
Laura: Can I ask a question while she's healing Percy?
Orion: We've taken a short rest already, right?
Marisha: Yeah.
Laura: The grappling arrow I used on the little halfling, I can get that back, right?
Matt: Yeah, you retrieved it.
Laura: Just making sure.
Sam: I'll continue on down the hallway.
Travis: I join him.
Matt: Keyleth, are you still using Pass Without a Trace?
Marisha: No.
Laura: No?
Sam: She had to break it to use Stoneskin.
Matt: It's a concentration spell, isn't it?
Marisha: Yeah, but I cast Stoneskin on myself.
Matt: You did. All right. So go ahead and make a stealth roll.
Marisha: Sorry.
Sam: Not good. Nine.
Travis: I'm with you.
Matt: Nine. All right.
Sam: (nasal voice) Nine.
Ashley: Nine, Percy.
Liam: I would like to continue to stealth ahead of the group and also continue checking for traps.
Sam: We already went.
Travis: Scanlan's already ahead of you.
Laura: Sam already said it.
Liam: Oh, he is?
Matt: As you stealthily move along the side of the wall, Scanlan comes pattering down the stonework.
Sam: Skipping.
Ashley: Percy, 18.
Taliesin: 18? Thank you.
Laura: Scanlan, no. (groans)
Matt: Into what is a large central chamber. You can see webbing scattered throughout the entirety of the stone room. It's about 60 feet up. There is very low light from the flickering sconces that are on the walls of this towards the base of the actual room. The building in the center, it looks almost like an ancient mausoleum structure, how it's placed in the center of the room. Closed stone doors. But what catches your eye is that the entirety of the structure seems to be crafted of the same platinum-like material as the container that you guys are carrying the horn in.
Laura: Oh, wow.
Sam: Oh, we made it.
Laura: Are there sapphires all over the walls in here, then?
Matt: Not the walls of the actual chamber itself, just this central building right there.
Orion: We're not stealing from this place.
Matt: Go ahead and make a perception check, anyone who wishes to look for traps.
Sam: While we're out there, I'm going to check--
Laura: (gasps) Oh no, that was my big fancy one.
Orion: Nice. I'm going to check for any arcane stuff and I got--
Liam: 14.
Matt: 14 perception.
Liam: Yeah, 14.
Orion: I'm going to check for 25.
Taliesin: 21.
Matt: Perception?
Taliesin: Perception, 21.
Matt: Okay. 25 for arcane?
Orion: Yeah.
Matt: Best you can gather, as far as the presence of any arcane in this room, the scrolling on the structure in front of you, there are elements of the scrolling that you can see are based in the arcane runes that are used for ritual inscribing, but there's nothing of any magic that you've ever been familiar with that is utilized in this structure. What did you roll?
Laura: Really, really high. Eight.
Matt: All right. So, who is moving in? Who wants to--
Sam: I moved in with Grog.
Travis: I move in as well.
Liam: I'm moving in.
Laura: Can I try to stealth and move alongside just kind of keep to the edge?
Ashley: Going in.
Travis: We're all going in.
Liam: Ditto, kiddo.
Matt: All right, you move off to the side, kind of pushing through some of the webs and there's still webs on the side of the room.
Orion: I'll keep close to the guards and the box.
Ashley: Yeah, I'll go in.
Laura: Okay, I rolled 18 on the stealth.
Matt: All righty.
Ashley: I'll go in close to Grog.
Matt: All righty.
Travis: Yeah.
Liam: I'm going to tail my sister, actually.
Matt: All right. (whoosh) You move around over here with your sister.
Laura: And Trinket's going to stay next to Keyleth.
Matt: All righty.
Marisha: Come here, Trinket.
Matt: So they'll go back to this point.
Sam: I'm going to go invisible.
Taliesin: Wait. I'm furry, but I'm not Trinket. Jesus Christ.
Marisha: (laughs)
Matt: All right, you are currently marked as invisible, Scanlan.
Laura: Can we see a spider in here, like a big spider?
Matt: You don't.
Marisha: There's always a big mama spider.
Laura: Okay, can I-- it's dark?
Matt: It's very low light.
Sam: No one's cast Light yet.
Orion: I know.
Laura: I'm going to use my Primeval Awareness and see if I can sense any spiders in the area.
Matt: Okay. You take a moment to concentrate and you sense-- while not in visible range, on the opposite side of this room, a whole bunch of tiny little life sources and one rather large one.
Laura: Good to know.
Travis: Shit.
Ashley: Ugh.
Laura: (whispers) Lots of spiders. Lots. I'm going to cast Protection From Poison on myself.
Matt: All right.
Travis: I cast Terminix.
Taliesin: (laughs)
Liam: I'm drinking a healing potion right now.
Matt: All righty.
Ashley: I'm going to do the same thing.
Marisha: Also, I'll go ahead and-- nah, nah, it's fine.
Taliesin: What does a level two healing potion do, again?
Marisha: I'm going to keep my Stoneskin up.
Ashley: Yeah, what's the level two?
Matt: Level two healing potion does 4d4 + 4.
Orion: I'm going to go use Greater Invisibility, as well.
Matt: Okay. All right. You are also considered invisible.
Sam: Why greater?
Orion: Because I can cast and still stay invisible.
Matt: All right, Kima pushes ahead through the group while you guys are doing this, walks up to the front of the chamber, and you see she takes the holy symbol around from her neck, the symbol of Bahamut, and much like she did to the doorway at the bottom of the temple earlier to find this initial passageway, she feels around in the scrolling and eventually finds a section of it and rotates what looks like a circular part of it that shifts and then pulls out. When she pulls it out, you can see there is a kind of engraving, there is a recessed engraving of the same shape as her holy symbol.
Laura: Before she touches anything, can I let her know that there's a whole lot of spiders on the other side of the room.
Matt: You may do that.
Sam: Wait, what? You didn't tell any of us that.
Travis: Can I shift to her right flank, just at the corner of the mausoleum structure? Right there.
Laura: Just so everybody's aware, those things we just fought? There's a ton more of them on the other side of this little chamber.
Sam: Oh, thanks for telling us.
Laura: No problem.
Matt: Grog, make a stealth check.
Marisha: (whispers) Be very quiet.
Travis: Oh, shit. Natural 20. (cheering)
Taliesin: Spiderman.
Laura: Good thing you took that beard off because it had bells and shit in it.
Travis: Oh, the beard is still there.
Sam: No, no, it fell off.
Travis: Its most majestic part fell off.
Sam: Oh.
Matt: Yeah. There's still some goliath peach fuzz there.
Travis: Substantial Viking-ness happening.
Matt: Grog, for a moment there, you recess into your old hunter training when you were traveling with your barbarian tribe and you take in the darkness around you and walk, fleet of foot, to the edge of it, not making a single sound. You're damn proud of yourself.
Travis: I am.
Taliesin: (whispers) Quietly.
Matt: So as you tell this to Kima, she goes, (whispers) "What? Spiders?"
Laura: (whispers) Lots and lots of spiders. Is that going to make noise?
Matt: (whispers) "I don't know. I haven't been in this chamber before."
Laura: Perhaps we should deal with the spiders before we make noise, or maybe just be prepared. In fact, you know what? I'm going to cast Spike Growth on the ground in between where they're going to have to walk through.
Marisha: Ooh, good. Smarty-pants.
Laura: Because they can't freaking see it right now, can they?
Matt: Which way?
Laura: Yeah, there, yeah.
Ashley: Both sides?
Matt: You said Spike Growth. How much does it affect?
Laura: It affects-- damn it-- I didn't put it in my thingy because I'm dumb. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
Matt: That's okay.
Orion: You're not dumb. You're a strong, smart person.
Ashley: While she's looking, could I--
Laura: Spike Growth!
Ashley: You found it.
Taliesin: Way more than arrows.
Laura: It is a 20-foot radius. That's not that much.
Matt: Okay, cool. So you can do this whole area right here is all spiky growth.
Laura: And it's hard spikes. Hard spikes and thorns.
Matt: Good to know.
Taliesin: Briar.
Sam: All right, well, I'm going to follow suit and go to the other side and cast Stinking Cloud. No, over--
Matt: Over here?
Sam: Over there, yeah.
Travis: Our side's the best! (laughter)
Matt: Go ahead and make another stealth check.
Sam: Okay. 15. 17!
Matt: 17.
Sam: That's the best stealth I've ever done.
Ashley: Well done.
Travis: Yeah, buddy.
Matt: You quietly come by and mutter under your breath your arcane ritual and all of a sudden (quiet whoosh). And what was the size of the cloud on that one?
Sam: 30 feet, I think? I think it's 30 feet. Hold on, hold on, hold on. 90 feet! Oh, that's the range.
Matt: What's the radius?
Sam: It's a 20-foot radius.
Orion: Oh, your cards are cool!
Matt: 20-foot radius, which would be-- Actually, a 20-foot radius for this would be...
Orion: Nice, they have little bard thingies.
Marisha: Oh, they're purple. Mine has like a--
Orion: Nice color diversity!
Matt: This whole area here--
Laura: Oh, nice!
Orion: (laughs) Oh, I did see this.
Matt: This whole area here is done.
Marisha: I've got like a scythe.
Taliesin: A sickle.
Matt: And you also now make a very nasty cloud in this vicinity as well. This whole area is completely marked off on both sides now.
Orion: I'd like to walk up as I see this going on. I'm going to take out my deck of illusions. I'm going to toss two cards both ways, two cards on each side. So I'm going to do this, real quick.
Laura: Question. That chamber in the center of the room, does it go all the way to the ceiling, or is it--
Matt: No, there is a gap.
Orion: Deck of illusions, everyone.
Laura: So there's a huge-- so technically, the spiders could crawl up the ceiling and drop down on us?
Travis: Yes.
Matt: In theory?
Taliesin: Why would you give him ideas like that? Just feed him irony!
Travis: Let's go.
Orion: Ten of Hearts, Yes! Joker, Queen of Hearts, and another Joker! What?!
Sam: What does that mean?
Matt: Wait, you threw--
Orion: I put two on each side.
Matt: Oh, two on each side.
Orion: Yeah. So, like, two over in the spot before all that mess over there and two are in the other mess.
Ashley: Do you want to go one up top, just in case?
Laura: Yeah.
Travis: Yeah.
Orion: So the Jokers--
Matt: Are you.
Orion: And a female version of me.
Laura: Ooh, that's awesome.
Matt: All right, so a secondary Tiberius appears right there.
Orion: (falsetto) Hello, everyone.
Marisha: You know, you make a good woman.
Orion: (falsetto) Tiberiosa.
Matt: Female Tiberius appears over on that side.
Marisha: Tiberiosa.
Orion: And then whichever side you decide, a Queen of Hearts and Ten of Hearts.
Matt: Queen of Hearts-- oh, interesting.
Travis: (falsetto) Levi-O-sa, not levio-SA.
Matt: A succubus appears over here. Winged.
Marisha: Well, that's fun.
Matt: Sorry, what was the other one that you said?
Orion: Queen of Hearts and a Ten of Hearts.
Matt: Ten of Hearts. A cloud giant on this side of the room.
Laura: What?
Orion: (explosion noise)
Ashley: Rad.
Matt: We'll use that mini for now, it's fine. All of a sudden appear, kind of translucent, their image flickering. It's not a great illusion, but it's enough where it catches some attention.
Orion: And they're positioned right before the messes of each side.
Matt: Like right there.
Orion: Yeah.
Matt: All righty. Kima's now sitting there like, (whispers) "Put the key in now?"
Sam: No, no, do it.
Taliesin: Yes, yes, go.
Marisha: Okay, you're good. Go for it, yeah.
Matt: She puts her symbol into the recess. As it does, the stone doors shift and there's a dull kind of creaking of the stone as it slides not open, but into the walls, revealing an interior that is, as the light filters in, the entirety of the wall, floor, and ceiling of this room is of the same scrolling, the same platinum/sapphire material as the outside of the building and the box that's there, except for the design seems to all filter in towards the center, like the center of a spiderweb. All the design coalesces to the center point.
Laura: Had to be a spiderweb.
Matt: It's not an actual spiderweb. There's a raised dais up in the center there, about four feet wide, about a half-foot thick. Kima kind of takes her symbol and puts it back around her neck and kind of motions like this. The two Scalebearers begin to move down, carrying the case, looking about the rest of you like--
Orion: I invisibly follow right behind the box, still keeping my illusions in check.
Matt: All right.
Ashley: Same, same, same.
Matt: Everyone holds in place?
Marisha: Yeah, I'm not going to move far away.
Ashley: Following.
Travis: As you will.
Marisha: No, no, no, no.
Matt: You're staying right there?
Marisha: Yeah, yeah, if I held-- let me shift one over, just so I'm not in Trinket's way. The other way. Yeah.
Matt: There you go. All right, so. As they enter the chamber, Kima enters as well, you guys filing in behind them, I need you all to make stealth checks.
Travis: Everybody?
Laura: Everybody?
Matt: No, Tiberius, with advantage, because you're invisible.
Liam: What kind of check?
Sam: Stealth!
Travis: Not you.
Matt: Not you, don't worry about it.
Ashley: I don't?
Matt: You do.
Orion: 17.
Ashley: Three. (laughter)
Sam: Clang, clang, clang.
Matt: So you step into the chamber, losing your footing for a moment on the smooth, kind of platinum-like ridges across the ground, and you kind of catch yourself, your plate hitting the ground with a loud (ting) sound, at which point the two Scalebearers kind of look at you--
Ashley: (whispers) Sorry! Sorry!
Matt: With a heavy sigh, and Kima goes, "Go, go, go!" They both step forward and take and place the box into the center of the room on top of the dais. As they both release the chains, the box seems to levitate on its own to the center of the room, much like how the Horn itself ascended and was kept aloft in the center of the box. The box lifts up and slowly begins to rotate on its own. As it does, you can see the sapphire bits that are ingrained on this box flash with a bright blue light and all of a sudden the blue energy spreads into the ceiling and the floor of this room and all of the blue and silver veins that are carved into this begin to glow with a similar blue light.
Sam: Cool.
Marisha: Cool.
Orion: I love light.
Matt: At which point, the doors begin to--
Sam: Which doors?
Matt: The doors you guys entered this room through begin to close.
Sam: Ah, we should leave.
Orion: I'm going to scootch.
Matt: Yeah, you guys immediately scootch out of the way. Kima darts off. Both of them turn around and start running back.
Sam: (whispers) They're going to die.
Matt: They both make it out.
Ashley: Oh! That's good.
Matt: They both manage to just squeeze through real fast as the doors slam behind.
Marisha: That would be terrifying.
Matt: At which point, you see a series of spiders beginning to try to cut around-- these here, what's the DC on your--
Sam: My spell?
Matt: Your spell, yeah.
Sam: 17, because I didn't do it through the hand cone.
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: (whispers) Why?
Marisha: Should we run?
Matt: Both of these spiders get disoriented and try to find their way through the Stinking Cloud, kind of like (choking, clicking noises).
Marisha: Yeah, who's going to be back down here, theoretically.
Orion: The guards could come back.
Matt: None of them make their way through. The rest of these begin coming forward-- what's the roll they have to make for the Spiky Growth?
Laura: 14.
Taliesin: To repair the room that we broke, anyway.
Matt: 14. Both missed their save. What's the damage on that?
Laura: That's 2d4 for every five feet crossed.
Matt: They would probably be skittering around here halfway through before they changed trajectory, so-- 1d4, 2d4?
Laura: 2d4 for every five feet.
Matt: So 10d4 each.
Marisha: Nice!
Matt: They come charging around the corner rapidly (skittering noises).
Marisha: 10d4? That's cool.
Orion: Oh, nice, what?
Marisha: For her thorns.
Orion: (whispers) Sweet, thorns.
Marisha: My little sister once fell into a rose bush.
Sam: Good story.
Marisha: It was very painful.
Orion: Good story? (laughs) I once fell into a fire ant hill.
Marisha: That sucks, too.
Orion: It was very painful. I was riding my bike. It sucked.
Laura: 22.
Matt: 22. Both of these spiders stop in place, looking severely messed up and damaged and just kind of hold their ground, looking very confused. You see, crawling up over the top of this structure, one large white and bluish spider that leaps up. As this is happening, you guys are noticing that blue energy is cracking through the floor and now following the pattern across the entirety of the structure. It crawls up the walls--
Marisha: Oh.
Matt: -- and that blue energy reaches to the ceiling and illuminates it. And what you missed when you entered the room is you can see, recessed into the ceiling of this room, four large humanoid entities that are just currently held aloft, buried in the ceiling, of platinum armor.
Orion: Go.
Travis: We've got to go. We've got to go.
Matt: One of them suddenly flashes, dislodges, and (whoosh, thud), squashing the spider in the process. (yelling)
Marisha: What is that?
Matt: Just (spider screech, croak) screeching sound, the spider slowly tries to curl in place, the giant platinum golem now slamming on top and squishing on top. You see as it slowly comes to stand, each hand holding these giant platinum cleavers. You suddenly hear a voice ringing through your heads collectively: "Get out."
Laura: (whispers) We should get out!
Orion: You heard the man! You heard him! You heard him! The earrings, everybody heard him.
Sam: Wait, can we just leave the thing here with the golem?
Laura: Golems are meant to protect.
Orion: It's going to kill everything there.
Sam: Oh, then let's go.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: All right, so all of you guys start bolting out. I want everyone to go ahead and make a dexterity check.
Marisha: Okay. Yeah, sure.
Orion: 13.
Matt: All right, anyone lower than a ten?
Travis: What about on a ten?
Marisha: No.
Matt: Lower than a ten?
Orion: (quietly) We all got above ten?
Matt: Anyone? All right. You as well?
Ashley: 14.
Matt: Awesome. (laughter)
Orion: Even Pike!
Matt: You guys all come darting out of the room, except for Kima, who rolls a one. So all of you guys come running out of the room--
Sam: Kima's dead.
Marisha: Kima?
Matt: The rest of the Scalebearers come rushing out, they're no longer encumbered by the box. Kima's kind of helping everyone get by, trying to keep everyone at bay, being the hero. As she turns around, the first one comes leaping off of the structure, runs towards her and gives one giant sweep with one of its blades. Ooh, yeah, that'll hit. You see the blade streak across the front of her silver armor. She takes 24 points of slashing damage. It sends her flying back ten feet with the sheer force of it, but she manages to roll out of it, yeah! With an acrobatics check, catching herself to her feet and just keeps bolting behind the rest of you guys.
Laura: Can I see?
Matt: You now see behind two more (crash, crash) dislodging from the ceiling as the one that's charging after you is coming up the stairway. Through this, we're now going into a skill challenge as you guys are rushing out.
Laura: Oh, god.
Travis: Must go faster. Must go faster.
Sam: Skill challenge.
Marisha: Skill challenge!
Ashley: Ah, go, go!
Orion: Yeah, all right. Run for your life.
Marisha: We haven't done this in a while.
Matt: Now, as you're running to get through, there's still bits of webbing still in the way. I need everyone to go ahead and make another dexterity check.
Sam: All right, doing good.
Orion: Yes!
Taliesin: Yeah!
Marisha: Oh, okay, yeah, yeah, sure.
Orion: 21!
Laura: 25.
Taliesin: 22.
Travis: 21.
Liam: 26.
Ashley: 17?
Marisha: 11?
Taliesin: 22.
Matt: All right.
Sam: 19.
Matt: All right, as you guys are all charging up, kind of helping each other but also clamoring to get through, Kima is rushing up and you can see where one of the Scalebearers has now tripped and fallen on the stairs.
Sam: Oh, no!
Matt: She runs past, leans back to reach her hand out as the golem comes up behind--
Marisha: No!
Matt: -- with two hands, swings down with both blades.
Sam: Against Kima again?
Matt: No, this is against one of the Scalebearers.
Sam: Oh, okay.
Taliesin: Oh no.
Laura: Should I be rolling for Trinket?
Matt: I'm considering Trinket with you, so no.
Marisha: Too late, just leave them.
Laura: Okay, thank you.
Matt: We'll do that next round because I forgot. There's a lot of things to consider. One of them hits the stone and just streaks off, sparks flying through the air, illuminating the space secondarily. However, the other Scalebearer takes 28 points of slashing damage from the blow. As it reaches up again for a second blow, Kima reaches down and grabs Desona's arm and lifts her up off her feet and they both go charging forward. You guys make your way up the stairway as you see now the golem pushing its way through.
Orion: I'm going to dissipate my card illusion and I'm going to cast Fly on myself, so I'm hovering.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: How much of a gap is there between the last trailing-behind Scalebearer and the golem?
Matt: Well, now that Kima's got them, they're rushing up and there's about a ten-foot, 15-foot gap now.
Laura: Okay.
Marisha: I'm going to turn around and do Wall of Stone. Boof!
Matt: Okay. As they rush past, a wall of stone slams up as the golem goes smashing into it--
Orion: I'll do support. I'll do Obelisk right behind it, too.
Matt: All right. So as you guys come rushing up to the top of this, you guys are just doing the stone wall, obelisk, obelisk, obelisk. We'll say you cast it twice to go ahead and reinforce.
Marisha: Boof!
Matt: All right, you hear the impact from behind. You hear stone crack and break and you see two of the pillars that you put up impact, dust and bits of rock shoot out, but it settles. Apparently it's holding strong and you start hearing slamming of some sort of heavy weight behind it.
Marisha: Right, run.
Matt: As well as the following of additional giant heavy footsteps. It's now got its reinforcements caught up to it. You guys charge into the room with the broken trap, which now has partially raised platforms. You're rushing around and trying to find your way through. You get to the other side of the room. There's now an entirety-- a room filled with mist in front of you.
Laura: (gasps) Oh no.
Marisha: I still have it. I can Gust of Wind. That's my last 3rd-level spell.
Matt: Okay. All right, Gust of Wind. I'm going to ask all of you guys to make a wisdom check as you rush through.
Marisha: Including me?
Matt: Everyone.
Sam: Wisdom check or saving throw?
Matt: This is a wisdom check.
Marisha: Just adding your wisdom?
Ashley: Natural 20!
Laura: What what!
Matt: Nice!
Ashley: 24.
Marisha: Saving throw or just your ability modifier?
Orion: 12.
Matt: Ability modifier.
Taliesin: Oh.
Marisha: Okay, 16.
Orion: I thought it was negative three.
Sam: Ten. Ten for me.
Taliesin: 14.
Laura: 13.
Liam: Nine.
Travis: Two.
Sam: Nine, wow.
Matt: All of you guys are pushing through. So, as you guys come rushing in you're like, go go! You see Keyleth's focusing and getting the wind to escape, Keyleth rushes up, Kima comes through with the two Scalebearers, everyone comes through, Grog's bringing up the back. You can see now, in the back behind him, a giant blade-wielding fist as the golem comes smashing through the wall. The rest of you guys, ushering Grog along, Grog comes running, hears the sound, looks over his shoulder and in the chaos of it, his trajectory is off and he ends up brushing into the side of the mist.
Laura: Oh, no!
Matt: Grog, go ahead and make a dexterity saving throw.
Travis: 12.
Matt: You end up taking 24 points of fire damage as the pillars spin, unleashing a torrent of flame.
Travis: No, bad car wash, bad car wash!
Marisha: (laughs) Bad car wash.
Laura: Oh, no, Grog, your beard has been singed.
Orion: Oh!
Travis: What? (laughter)
Matt: You reach up instinctively, you feel it's as smooth as a baby goliath's face. (laughter)
Orion: All that work!
Matt: As you guys charge up the rest of the staircase--
Orion: Is Grog behind us now, like the furthest away?
Matt: He's just caught up to you guys as you're rushing up the staircase. You get to the final door. You exit. As Kima rushes everyone through, she brings out her holy symbol real fast, and as she pulls it off her neck, you see the first golem reach the bottom of the staircase. It begins looming up--
Orion: We're leaving! What are you doing?!
Marisha: Yeah, go home! Go home! Bad golem.
Taliesin: I take a--
Matt: Kima takes out her holy symbol and holds it aloft in front of her and says under her breath (murmurs), at which point it begins to glow with this extremely vibrant glow. As it does, you see a symbol emblazoned on the front of the golem and it flashes with light as it stops and just kind of holds its place-- and waits. And Kima looks at the symbol like "I wasn't sure that was going to work." She takes--
Orion: Tell it to go kill the spider.
Matt: She takes the symbol and puts it back in the side of the stone door that originally was closed. The doors slowly seal shut once again. She pulls the symbol out-- and she falls to her knees, breathing heavily.
Sam: Oh, Kima.
Marisha: We did it!
Travis: Next time, lead with that.
Orion: I agree, Grog. Very well said.
Matt: "It kind of happened very quickly, I'm sorry."
Ashley: All right, do some people need to be healed?
Taliesin: Oh, dear.
Laura: Yeah.
Sam: Kima, for sure.
Orion: I'm actually okay.
Marisha: I'm all right. I'm all right.
Taliesin: I'm fine.
Sam: Oh, Grog's got a burnt face.
Travis: No, I want to wear this pain as a remembrance of my beard.
Laura: You can grow it back, Grog.
Orion: It's okay, big fella.
Matt: You make your way back up to the main chamber, where High Bearer Vord is currently waiting for you.
Sam: Oh, this guy.
Matt: He turns to you as you enter. "So I am to assume that your journey was a success?"
Orion: Yes, surprisingly so. It went off without a hitch. Well, no.
Laura: You've got some good security down there.
Marisha: Very good.
Matt: "I told you. Once it's instilled, it will be safe."
Laura: A little warning next time would be great.
Ashley: 25 points of healing.
Matt: There you go.
Orion: You're really a girl on fire now.
Marisha: That really heals me up, then.
Taliesin: That will top me off very nicely.
Marisha: I'll take that.
Orion: Well done, everyone, by the way.
Laura: Yeah.
Taliesin: That could've gone worse.
Marisha: It could have gone worse.
Matt: At which point, the High Bearer Vord kind of raises his hand. "Yonn, if you do not mind." And Yonn kind of shuffles forward.
Sam: Yonn.
Orion: Such a bore.
Marisha: Yawn.
Matt: "Excuse me, I'm right here."
Orion: It was a play on words. Your name also means something that you do when you're tired.
Marisha: Yeah!
Matt: "I don't like you." (laughter)
Matt: He reaches out and puts a big old sack of coins in your hands.
Laura: Oh! I'll hold onto that.
Orion: Of course.
Taliesin: We should mention, you may have to have one of the rooms repaired.
Orion: I take a couple out.
Taliesin: The spinning column--
Sam: Circle of death.
Laura: Yeah.
Taliesin: May have gotten--
Laura: A little broken. We thought were maybe just disarming it but I think we probably broke it.
Taliesin: We put an arrow into it.
Travis: (tearfully) If you find the remnants of a glorious beard, preserve it.
Laura: Oh, Grog, actually--
Travis: What?
Laura: I've got some remnants of a lovely beard. And I try to smush it onto his chin.
Travis: It is not the same.
Matt: It is not the same.
Laura: It looks pretty good.
Matt: It is not the same.
Laura: Dang it.
Matt: At which point, the High Bearer turns to you, Pike. "Mighty cleric, I see this meeting, though it escaped my vision before, that you bear the holy sigil of the Dawnflower, the Lady of Redemption Herself. While we may walk under different stars, I offer these words that caught my ear naught but a week ago. In an excavation beneath the toppled tower of Syrac, the long-cursed ruin that sat like a blemish upon this city for hundreds of years, it was revealed that perhaps the five holy paths that began here at Vasselheim, there may indeed now be a sixth."
Sam: What?
Matt: "A forgotten temple to Sarenrae has been uncovered. Crumbled, lost, and without light, it sat, forever and a day, and few are around in this city of her guiding flame to recover and restore its glory. Perhaps you should look into it."
Ashley: I will gladly look into it.
Matt: "The ruin lies to the west of here, at the base of the city's mountain. Look for the dark stone ruin. Nevertheless, I thank you for your time. Kima, if you wouldn't mind, we have some things to discuss as well."
Marisha: Oh, quick, Vorg--
Matt: "Vord. High Bearer Vord."
Marisha: Vord.
Taliesin: Vord.
Laura: Highbearer Vord.
Matt: "Was that so hard? Yes?"
Marisha: Vord? You wouldn't have happened to hear of maybe a druid tribe called the Fire Ashari? They call their little hometown Pyrah. Do you happen to know, maybe?
Matt: He gives you a keen look and says, "There has been talk of a rogue band of druids, not more than two day's travel, in the-- let's see, where did I put the maps here?" He thinks to himself for a moment, considering it. "Towards the Sunder Peak Mountain Range. Dangerous territory, fraught with volcanic activity. Yet these folks seem to call it home."
Marisha: Is Sunder Peak like west or east to where we--
Matt: "Southwest of the city. It's hard to miss."
Marisha: Southwest.
Matt: "Look for the plumes of sulfurous smoke."
Laura: Is the temple to Sarenrae on the way to the--
Matt: "The temple to Sarenrae is on the same mountain that this temple is built on."
Laura: Oh.
Matt: "To the west of here. Follow the mountain base."
Marisha: Oh. So we can stop there first?
Orion: Yes, it's close, it seems.
Laura: All of us can--
Orion: Before we part, you seem to be quite learned about many things that I am not. Have you ever heard of anything called the God's Hammer or the Pale Stone? Or any particular artifact, Ropes of Mercy, perhaps?
Matt: "I can't say I have, unfortunately."
Orion: Of course.
Matt: "But I shall keep this in mind, should the information come my way."
Orion: Thank you. I bow.
Matt: He gives you a look, a quick glance, and notes: "For the record, while your color is not what it was when you first entered, know that the great Platinum Dragon sees through this guise to the heart beneath."
Orion: Yes, thank you for noticing. I agree with the same sentiment. And I bow in the Draconic fashion.
Matt: "Well, Kima. Business. Thank you all very much." And he kind of lends his hands out. As he extends his hand, the doors on the opposite side of the room open up.
Laura: Magic. Thought it was banned.
Matt: For the sake of brevity, because we have people who have to leave on this, very soon, it doesn't take you long to find your way across the city. You find some of the city's Bastions standing guard on the outskirts of this crumpled tower ruin. It's like, black and soot-covered stone that looks like a plot of land that has been left untouched. Like, once it fell, no one wanted anything to do with it. You speak with the Bastions and they eventually let you through, especially given the aid of those you've walked with since arrival. You come to the ruin and you can see there's about a 40-foot gap in this pile of stone that is a recess in the ground, almost like a small sinkhole. It looks like there is some sort of excavation that has been set here. Very haphazard. There is very simple wood boards that have been placed into the side of this small sinkhole to allow relatively comfortable, though a bit rickety, descent into the structure. As you make your way down, your eyes adjust to the little bit of daylight that spills into this dark subterranean cavern. There before you, you see a surprisingly glorious sight: a simple structure of brass and polished limestone, ancient as the day is long. One of the walls has partially collapsed, and you see what looks like three figures rummaging through the debris. An older human woman, who is being helped by two others: a young man of blond hair and simple clothes and an older gnome that's carrying a crutch under his arm. They're all in the process of collecting and setting aside and cleaning up various things that have been recovered from this temple. You immediately see against the brass structure the very simplified symbol of the wings of Sarenrae, multiple times across the structure in various incarnations. This is very much indeed a lost temple of Sarenrae.
Laura: (whispers) Wow, Pike.
Ashley: (whispers) Wow.
Sam: So, when you've fully excavated it, you can come back and check it out.
Ashley: Yes...
Orion: Or you can stay here and restore it.
Matt: At which point, the older woman sees you guys walk down and says, "Please! There's nothing to take. Nothing but history and rock, I guarantee you. Bandits are not welcome here."
Ashley: No no no! I take out my symbol and I say, no no no, I'm here to help.
Matt: You can hear an audible gasp from her. She says, "My eyes don't deceive. Oh my, I am sorry. My name is Gesyra, a simple painter, but one of, as far as I know, the three devoted to the Lady of the Everlight here in Vasselheim. And now a fourth. I don't know where you came from, but would you stay with us for a bit and help us rebuild? Bring her name into the light amongst the others here in Vasselheim? Restore it to its glory?"
Ashley: (tearfully) Yes. Oh, man, I don't want to leave you guys.
Matt: "It shouldn't take long, especially with your help. And we can bring the light into the heart of others." And you can see the two other kind of joined her at the side and they all look at you with this look of hope that you can probably tell from the crinkles in their face they haven't had in quite some time. And they look up to you in their simple clothes as the first true strong bastion for Sarenrae that they've seen in a long time. With that, Pike, you get to turn to the rest of the group.
Ashley: Well, I think this is a pilgrimage I have to take. So, Vox Machina, keep your eyes out. I will contact you every once in a while if I can, and we will meet up once this is completed. All in.
Travis: Right.
Ashley: Vox Machina on three. One, two, three.
All: Vox Machina.
Orion: (tearfully) You will be missed very much, Pike.
Ashley: I'm going to miss you guys very much.
Matt: And on that note, we have to close because people are in a rush. Yeah, Ashley will be leaving us for a time. She's going to New York for a few months to shoot a web-- a television series. (laughter)
Sam: A little web series.
Matt: A wonderful television series she has recurring. We're really happy and proud of her-- we're just a jumble of emotions under the circumstances.
Ashley: You guys have been so amazing and have made this experience even better for us, and thank you so much for going with us on our journey. It will keep going, but I will be back when I can.
Orion: You will be back.
Laura: You'll be back.
Taliesin: You'll be back.
Orion: She will be back.
Ashley: But it might be a long time.
Matt: Yeah, she'll pop in and out if she can, and there will eventually be a return of Pike, but for the time being she feels the calling to stay and help rebuild this temple of Sarenrae.
Marisha: We're going to miss you, Pike.
Ashley: I'm going to miss you guys.
Marisha: But we understand personal journeys.
Ashley: Personal journey.
Travis: You have a good time.
Ashley: I will.
Sam: Pike, I, Scanlan, will not physically wait for you, but emotionally-- (laughter)
Sam: Emotionally I will wait for you, and I will not stray emotionally. I will always be there for you emotionally.
Ashley: Okay, Scanlan.
Sam: But physically, I mean, come on, it's going to be months.
Matt: Thank you so much, Ash. We're going to miss you but we'll tabs and we'll have you back soon.
Ashley: Okay.
Matt: All right. Thank you all so much for watching. Everyone give Ashley love on the Twitter, on the internet.
Travis: Good going, Ashley!
Matt: And we'll see you guys at Comic-Con next week. Those that'll be at Anime Expo, I'll be there tomorrow for a couple of panels.
Zac: Buy those shirts!
Sam: Oh, yeah, buy the shirts.
Matt: Six more days for the Critical Role shirts before they go away.
Laura: Hey, it's still got Pike on it, you gotta get it now.
All: Yeah.
Sam: Collector's edition.
Ashley: Definitely limited edition.
Matt: All right, guys, thank you and have a wonderful evening, we've got to let these guys go. We'll see you-- me and Marisha will see you in three weeks.
Orion: See us at Comic-Con.
Marisha: We'll see you at Comic-Con.
Matt: The others will see you in two. All right. Have a wonderful night, guys.

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Welcome back to Critical Role this week, ladies and gentlemen, where a bunch of us awesome voice actors get together and play Dungeons and Dragons weekly. We have the return of some of our fantastic guests from last week, but we'll get to them in just a second. But first, let's go ahead and get you started with our fancy intro. [dramatic music]
Matt: Welcome back! (giggles) Welcome back. We got most everyone here right now. Travis is on his way. He flew all the way from Alaska, and thanks to some delays-- weather and everything-- he's getting here as fast as he can, so we may have a Grog arriving a little late during today's session. Pretty late for today's session. But in the meantime, our illustrious Laura Bailey will be controlling Grog.
Laura: (Grog voice) I would like to rage!
Matt: Excited for that prospect. It should be a lot of fun. So also want to thank you again, our invited guests returning for their second week. We have Felicia Day and Mary Elizabeth McGlynn. Thank you, guys.
Mary: Pleasure is mine.
Laura: Pleasure.
Mary: Pleasure.
Felicia: Pleasure. I smell like peanut butter.
Matt: That's delightful.
Felicia: That's why I smelled my fingers earlier.
Mary: Is this a normal thing, or just today?
Felicia: I just was like, hi! (sniffs)
Sam: That's normally how people greet me.
Felicia: If you smelled like grape jelly, we would be BFFs! Anyway, hi.
Matt: So welcome back. Well, cool. Before we get into it, a couple of quick announcements. One. For every 100 subs that we get during the show tonight, we'll be giving away our packages that include a picture of the Critical Role cast, signed, a Player's Handbook for Dungeons and Dragons, signed by the cast of Critical Role. We'll also be giving away a copy of Felicia's awesome new book that she's about to go on a book tour for. (cheering)
Sam: And it doesn't look like some self-published thing, that looks like a real-- whoa!
Felicia: Not to insult self-published things, but it's legit. There is a sparkle on my dress. That is a very high-class sparkle.
Sam: Does it have a barcode on it?
Felicia: That is an android, that's why I look so trim there. Yeah, but the book's coming out on Tuesday! So I'll be going on book tour, so if you guys want to come see me, I'm going to 12 cities. Sorry Midwest. I'm sorry. You're so angry at me. Anyway, thank you, yeah.
Matt: Awesome, cool, well you guys get some copies of that coming through. We also have a bunch of other random goodies we'll be throwing in with these packages that include other awesome DND stuff and comics and it'll be a little surprise, so for every 100 subscribers, we'll be giving one of those packages away, so that'll be fun. Also wanted to do a quick announcement for one of our friends recently put up a project here. Marisha, if you want to do the intro.
Marisha: Yes! Hi everybody. Okay, so. Boonzy Arts-- they make geeky candles. They have a Kickstarter right now called Wheel of Flame, and they're making essentially DND thematic immersive candles that smell like the environments that you're in! This one is Dragon's Lair and it's smoky and musky.
Matt: We're going to be lighting this tonight.
Laura: Is there moldy dungeon smell?
Marisha: They're coming out with a few more because their Kickstarter's doing pretty well.
Matt: Basement tavern refuse candle.
Taliesin: Ogre's nest.
Marisha: I think they're making a tavern one.
Sam: Bed crap? (laughter)
Matt: That's a Critical Role exclusive. The Scanlan offshoot.
Marisha: Yeah, I think they have one that's Elven Forest, that smells like a forest and they have one that's Sorcerer's Lair, that smells like sage and stuff. But yeah, Wheel of Flame is their Kickstarter. Go check them out, I know they have a limited amount of candles they can give out. Also, there's a d20 hidden in every candle, so when the wax melts, you get a d20!
Laura: That's lovely.
Marisha: So yeah! Check them out. Wheel of Flame.
Matt: Great. Thank you, Marisha. (cheering)
Matt: So much flame. So yeah, for all you guys who pay the extra subscription dollars for the smell-o-vision twitch stream, you will be able to also experience the sensory death of the party.
Laura: Why would you say that?
Matt: You guys picked it. But yeah, so that's actually pretty cool. Hopefully there's not a flammable d20 in there somewhere. That would be problematic.
Felicia: That was weird.
Sam: That happens all the time.
Felicia: Is it really just random kiss-bys? Drive-by kiss?
Matt: Two weeks in a row. We already have a winner?
Zac: PrimeJohn1.
Matt: PrimeJohn1 is our first winner! Congratulations, PrimeJohn1.
Sam: PJ Uno!
Felicia: Did you have to rename him?
Sam: Well, I gave him a nickname to the nickname.
Felicia: That's really adorable. It's a sub-nickname.
Sam: A sub-nick! (laughter)
Felicia: It'll eventually just be like (grunts).
Matt: Awesome, so let's go ahead and jump in here. Anyone else have any other announcements they want to say before we get into the game?
Laura: Travis and I will be in Vancouver next weekend. Not this coming weekend, but the weekend after. But we're not going to be here next week, so yeah, should say that.
Matt: Awesome, so in Vancouver?
Laura: It's a con. And you should come say hi.
Matt: In Vancouver.
Laura: In Vancouver. Go look at my Twitter. You'll see what it is about.
Matt: There you go. Vancouver convention. Laura and Travis; it's going to be awesome. Also, me and Marisha are flying out early morning tomorrow to a convention called AkaiCon that's over in Tennessee, so we'll be there this weekend. So if any of you guys are over there on the eastern seaboard and that vicinity that want to come say hi and hang out with us for the weekend, we have a bunch of fun panels and stuff, so. AkaiCon. Come say hi.
Felicia: That smells delicious. I want to eat it. Or is that you? No, it's not you.
Sam: No, I rubbed peanut butter all over my chest. (laughs)
Matt: Homeopathic VapoRub, really.
Sam: Oh wow, I do smell it now. Yeah, that's nice.
Taliesin: Nothing fun right now.
Felicia: Does it smell like ogre butt, because isn't that what we're doing? Troll butt?
Matt: Oh, and I also wanted to give a big thanks out to Obsidian! They actually approved my use of the Pillars of Eternity soundtrack in our music for the show. So now I'll be able to use elements of their soundtrack for our game, so thank you guys. And I guess, let's get into this game. So. Where we left off. Our party of adventurers, Vox Machina, had broken a few rules in the city of Vasselheim and had actually infracted upon a contract for a guild of creature hunters known as the Slayer's Take. And this group essentially told Vox Machina that either they could go and be arrested for this and put on trial for breaking the law, or they could go and join the guild, as such could be included and written onto the contract and everything would be fine. So they decided to go that route. They inquired with the Huntmaster, and she basically told the party that they could join after they went through a trial where they had to complete a contract. However, she hand-chose and divided the party into two separate, smaller groups. The first group being the one that began playing with us last week, in which we had the illustrious Scanlan, Percy, Vex, and Grog paired up with two new adventurers, one of which was Zahra the tiefling warlock, who also is a prospective interested person to join the guild, the Slayer's Take, and Felicia's character, Lyra, the human wizard, who somehow became a member of the guild and is assigned on her first-ever excursion to lead this group towards the end of their contract. Now, you the audience chose the creature which they were going to hunt, and you voted on an adult white dragon. So they've been hunting that.
Laura: I didn't realize the audience chose that.
Felicia: Thanks, guys. (laughter)
Matt: So after stalking your way up the Glasswalk Road to the north of the city of Vasselheim, through the Vesper Timberlands, through the cold weather as you continue to travel northward on the word of a crazed gentleman in a tavern somewhere who supposedly saw a dragon, you managed to knock over your flask. You managed to see such a dragon skulking through the skies and actually attacking near where you were staying. While you were sleeping, a group of orcs and some ogrish creature and a dire wolf, attacked your group, you managed to slaughter the encroaching evils, rather rapidly in a daring display of butt-flap long-john Percy. (laughter)
Matt: Some majestic combat prowess you guys managed to completely eliminate. You interrogated one of the orcs before Grog decided to take his head off. It pushed you north, north-west direction within the forest itself. You managed to come upon what looked to be a perpetual blizzard that was blowing around this mountain range, and the dragon was sighted again taking its rest to the north part of this mountain. You pushed through the forest, managed to avoid a few possible dangerous situations, thanks to your ranger guiding you through her favored terrain, eventually coming upon the base of this mountain range. Now, you looked above and you saw what looked like the entrance to a cavern where at least the dragon seems to fly in and out of. It's a ways up the mountain, and there was a smaller cavern towards the base of the mountain. You went to inquire what was in there, at which point out of nowhere, a giant rock made of solid ice and stone was flung out of the forest, slamming into Vex, knocking her onto her ass and doing a decent amount of physical damage.
Laura: 30. 30 points.
Matt: 30 points physical damage to the ranger, at which point two frost giants seemed to, one coming out of that cavern, another seemed to be stalking through the woods, approached the party and that is where we left off. So to begin this, I would like everyone to roll initiative.
Felicia: But they're friendly. They look friendly.
Sam: Let's try reasoning with them. Whoa! That's not bad
Felicia: I'm not going to go last this time! (gasps)
Sam: There's a lot of gasping going on.
Felicia: It's not horrible but it's not (sharp gasp).
Matt: All right, so.
Sam: Wait, does Travis not--
Matt: Roll for Grog.
Laura: Roll for Grog.
Matt: Roll for Grog's initiative.
Laura: I rolled 18 for me. Oh, that's good. 19 for Grog.
Matt: All right, so we have 25 to 20, anyone?
Taliesin: 28.
Laura: What?!
Sam: He rolled a natural 20.
Taliesin: I rolled another natural 20.
Laura: Those dice are magic.
Taliesin: I sacrificed a small child to these dice.
Matt: So Percy's up first. Anybody else above 20?
Felicia: I rolled a 20, but I have a negative two initiative.
Matt: Okay. 19 or 18?
Laura: 19 for Grog. 18 for Vex.
Matt: And also for Lyra.
Felicia: 18 buddies.
Matt: (chuckling) That's sweet. So 15 to ten?
Sam: 15.
Laura: These are pretty good initiatives.
Mary: 13.
Sam: Hey, then we're all above 13, it's pretty good! This bodes well.
Mary: I have no initiative whatsoever. (laughter)
Matt: All right, that'll do. So at the top of the round as one giant has pulled itself out of the cavern and begins shouting over in Giant about the intruders. The secondary one that comes stalking out of the forest, both of them with these giant axes that are currently held on the side of leather belts (roars) give a bellowing scream and go charging into the fray. At the top of the round, though, Percy is ready. What have you got?
Taliesin: What is that strange orange thing, right here?
Matt: This is actually a tree.
Taliesin: That's a tree. Okay, good. So that's cover?
Matt: Yeah. This rock and these boulders here have some cover, but from a giant who has a very large perspective maybe not as much as you'd think.
Taliesin: Okay, so is there any way I can maybe get some partial cover right over here?
Matt: You could move over this way, yes.
Taliesin: Yeah. So I've got cover from the tree from this one until he moves, but I can see this guy?
Matt: Correct.
Taliesin: It is Bad News time! I'm going to bust out Bad News and take a shot.
Matt: All right, so. Rip out Bad News, uses one of your attacks, second attack prepares it. You're ready to fire, go ahead and shoot.
Taliesin: All right. They're pretty big, so I'm going to take the negative five to my attack bonus and see what that does. That's a 21.
Matt: 21 will hit.
Taliesin: That's a good shot. Oh yeah! That's 17, 27, plus-- 33 points of damage.
Matt: 33 points of damage? Nice. So you hear this loud, ringing explosion that echoes through this small valley at the base of the mountain, and from out the corner of your eye, it's the first time you've seen this weapon do its wonders. You see a flash of light, a plume of smoke goes up and you see this impossibly fast blast of some projectile go slamming into the shoulder of the giant over here that's currently reaching for a rock. It pushes him back against the wall, which prevents him from falling over and he catches himself. Looks back, and you can see there's a small crater in the armor where a little bit of blood begins to pour out, and a little bit of smoke seems to be pouring out of the impact. (snarls and yells) Gives out a really angry yell. You can see like spittle that begins to shake loose and spray from his mouth out of frustration. That the end of your turn?
Taliesin: That is the end of my turn. Yeah. I am now going, maybe I shouldn't have done that. (laughter)
Felicia: It was very impressive. It was very impressive.
Matt: All right, Grog's up first.
Laura: (Grog voice) Grog--
Sam: (Grog voice) Would like--
Laura: (Grog voice) No, Grog doesn't want to Rage! Grog shouts out in Giant, wait! My giant masters were killed by a white dragon, which we think is here. Will you help us fight him?
Matt: Okay. So as Grog stands there, shouting this out to both sides to the two giants, I want to have Grog go ahead and roll a persuasion check.
Laura: Okay. I am going to use Grog's dice.
Matt: Yes. Let's do this proper. This is customary.
Laura: It is proper. Wait. Okay. That's not his, that is mine.
Taliesin: (Grog voice) I would like to negotiate.
Laura: Okay. Well that is good. He is really happy that I am playing him, because I rolled a one for Grog.
Sam: It might work. (laughter)
Laura: I think I should not-- okay. Wait!
Mary: Doesn't Grog get two actions or no?
Laura: That's his action.
Matt: He is not putting up any aggressive action.
Laura: Does he get advantage, however, because he is speaking Giant and he's in the cold?
Matt: No. (laughter)
Matt: Because you have an entire band of seemingly advancing and armed individuals that are currently stalking towards what appears to be the home of these individuals. So unfortunately no. They seem unfazed, and the one at the back seems almost partially amused at this plea and you can see as he takes his axe and puts it up against his shoulder and runs it across the leather in a very aggressive, intimidating fashion as he stalks forward out of the forest.
Laura: (Grog voice) Can Grog move at all?
Matt: Yeah, would you like Grog to move? It would be easier.
Laura: (Grog voice) Where is he?
Matt: He is right here. He is hard to miss. Where would you like Grog to move? There is a giant rock there.
Laura: He is going to stay there.
Matt: Okay. Grog is going to stay up against the rock. His axe across the front. Right, that ends Grog's turn. Vex, you're up. (laughter)
Laura: A moment of silence for that horrible thing I just witnessed.
Matt: You are over here. You just got up off the ground after being slammed with a boulder, and you have Trinket there.
Laura: I am very hurt. Can I get up? Am I prone?
Matt: In the process you've gotten to your feet as they lurched forward and began shouting at each other about the intruders. So you are on your feet.
Laura: Okay. I am going to cast Hunter's Mark.
Matt: Hunter's Mark. On?
Laura: On the one that took a little damage already. And then I am going to shoot him. All these are for like really large groups of people. I am going to shoot him three times. Can I shoot him three times?
Matt: You have two attacks.
Laura: I'm going to shoot him two times. This was good times. This was fun, you guys. 14 for that. That probably doesn't hit. 14 also doesn't hit the second time. Oh my god! What is happening?! (laughter)
Sam: She just disappeared!
Mary: Vex! Vex, stay with us! Vex!
Matt: So as you get to your feet, you look over your shoulder, you point your finger out and as you squint down, you use your ranger focus to make sure this guy is your quarry, and you take a quick scope of his body parts. You're like, those are the areas that will make him weakest. As you go to pull your arrow, you can feel a kink in your shoulder. The impact of the rock seems to have affected you. You release the first arrow and it's just slightly off mark. The second one you pull back and as you release it, it actually splinters off his shield as he knocks it out of the air.
Laura: I am going to run over to cover. What is that other side?
Matt: That is one of the mountain outcroppings.
Laura: Yeah, I am going to hide in that little thing and go, Trinket hide with me.
Matt: Okay, Trinket moves up. (bear moan) All right, and that's your turn.
Laura: That's all of it.
Matt: (laughs) All right, Lyra, you're up.
Felicia: Okay, I am freaked out right now. These are very large individuals. I have only read about them, and they smell slightly like feet. So I am going to-- that is a stench. That is like an athlete's foot commercial waiting to happen. So I am going to take 10d6 and do Disintegrate.
Matt: Go for it.
Felicia: I mean, it seems excessive, but they're very large men! One, two, three, four, five-- That one, he looks like a bull. In the nether-regions.
Matt: So which one, this one or this one?
Felicia: I don't think I can reach that guy.
Matt: What's the distance on it?
Felicia: Oh boy.
Matt: At your spell sheet.
Felicia: I should've written that down. Disintegrate. Oh, there it is! 60 feet.
Matt: 60 feet? Yeah, they're both within range.
Felicia: Oh gosh, well I should probably hit the wounded one. That always makes RPG sense, right?
Matt: So for that one, do you have to make an actual spell attack roll?
Felicia: No, I don't. I think it's force damage.
Matt: That's right. You just point at it and he has to roll a saving throw.
Felicia: Oh yay! Look at that! Six! Six! Six!
Sam: Well, don't say that. (laughter)
Matt: All this time trying to fight the stigma of DND, and there we go.
Mary: Talking to my people here!
Felicia: All right. That's 20 plus-- now you're all staring at me! 30, 40 points of damage!
Sam: Whoa!
Matt: That's a total of 40? Plus 40?
Felicia: 40 plus 40.
Matt: Yeah, Disintegrate. And he failed his saving throw.
Taliesin: Yeah!
Felicia: In your anus! That's what she yells, she's like, in your anus!
Matt: So as she shouts, she points her finger out, there's a little poof of arcane energy on her finger, and a tiny, sickly green ray of energy just streaks forth from her finger. The giant looks at it awkwardly, and in the split second it hits him in the front of his chest and suddenly the armor in front of him turns to dust and you can see his flesh beginning to just disappear in front of him (gasps) and suddenly tries to gasp for air, as you see part of its jaw beginning to just turn to sand, and it's actually struggling in a series of pain, and it's still standing, but you can see a large part of its body now is just missing. It looks like it got-- it's almost like a portion of it rotted right before you, but there's no actual necrosis. It's just gone. Flesh is missing from a large part of its body. It looks like it's doing really poorly. It lurches forward, and one of its arms is not working as well and it looks at you with a look of confusion, frustration and "how could you?." It's incredulous in its torturous pain.
Felicia: And I go, (gibberish) in Giant and it's the only thing I know in Giant, and I think it says, you are my foe, and I actually say, my cat is your friend.
Matt: Its head turns even further to the side as the tongue lolls out of where the cheek once was.
Felicia: Take that!
Matt: (chuckles) Its angry white eyes glaring aggressively at you. Do you wish to move, or would you like to stay where you are?
Felicia: Oh, I think I'm going to duck behind that little outcropping I have.
Matt: Over here?
Felicia: Yeah, no, behind that little rock-- oh, where am I? Oh, I'm over there. Yeah, I'm going to get-- oh boy. Just stand there, I'm just too flushed right now. I can't go anywhere. This is too situational for me
Matt: All right. Well, (chuckles) this very unhappy giant is going to reach over with his one good arm, the other one's clutching the axe, it reaches over and grabs another rock off the ground that it can find nearby and (whoosh) flings it at you.
Felicia: I should have moved! (laughter)
Matt: That is a 16. What's your armor class?
Felicia: 13.
Matt: Yeah. You, unable to really move out of the way, you look over and just watch it come toward you as it slowly spins in the air. Time seems to slow as you make no intent to shift out of the way. (whack) It slams into you, physical pain not hitting in as the immediate look of-- the sight of white, your vision is knocked to nothingness briefly. You end up taking--
Mary: No, Lyra, no.
Matt: Okay, you take 32 points of bludgeoning damage.
Felicia: Whoa! That is a very intense amount of damage for a tiny woman. Okay.
Laura: You should avoid those boulders in the future.
Matt: And as soon as you recover from it, your vision clarifies and you're able to see everything before you, and you see that same giant is stalking up, right into your face, with its axe in its bad hand. It switches it into its good hand and rears it up preparing itself for another round. That ends that giant's turn. It's going to go five, six and move in between the two of you. You guys, Zahra and Scanlan, as you see this happening you hear the (heavy steps) heavy footfalls behind you, and you look over your shoulder as the second giant comes up with the shield in one arm. Axe is going to go ahead and giant swing towards the two of you. That is going to be a 19 to hit on you, Scanlan.
Sam: Oh yeah.
Matt: And Zahra, that is going to be a-- that's a 25. All right. (laughter)
Matt: 27 points of slashing damage to you, Scanlan. Ooh. All right. And that is 31 points of slashing damage to you, Zahra. As it just (whack), cleaves through the both of you. You are almost knocked off your feet from the sheer blow. Most of the armor takes the damage but you can feel a heavy bruise, and underneath your armor you can feel a little bit of the blood beginning to soak through from the severe impact. Part of the armor plating might have cut into part of your torso (grunts) but you right yourself there. That ends their turn. That brings us to Scanlan.
Sam: Okay. Hey, question. If I hold a turn, do I hold the whole turn? Can I hold my action but do the bonus action? How does it work?
Matt: You got to take all your turn at once. You can hold your initiative. Meaning you can wait to activate your turn later in the tier, but you can't piecemeal your actions.
Sam: Okay, then I am going to just move. I am going to act. I am going to do things. So I turn to the guy who just hit me, and I am going to cast Dominate Person on him. I will sing some sort of song to dominate him with.
Matt: I will say, Dominate Person is effective against humanoids.
Sam: (gasps) Really?!
Matt: Dominate Monster would be--
Sam: They're not humanoid?
Matt: They are not. They are considered giants. They are a different species. You would know that.
Sam: I would know that. Well, then, I guess I won't do that.
Matt: You turn, and your instinct is there, and you're like, these are a little out of your reach as far as that spell is concerned.
Sam: Okay. (laughter)
Mary: It is a very short show tonight.
Sam: Yeah. Okay, well, then we just die. (laughter)
Matt: You've got options!
Sam: Yeah, no, I have options. I'll be fine. Should I go for the guy who-- I'll do (blows raspberry). I'll cast Lightning Bolt on him. That's always a good go-to.
Matt: So as you fumble with the idea of what spell would work, you release a bolt of lightning up towards it. It streaks into the front of its chest and shoulder area. You can see its muscles tense and shake from the sheer amount of electricity that courses into it. It does not make that saving throw, not with a five. So go ahead and roll your damage.
Sam: Is it six or eight?
Matt: It's 8d6.
Sam: Thank you! Okay. Six, six, four. What is that?
Felicia: Six.
Sam: Oh, really? Oh, that's awesome! Now I lost track. 32.
Matt: 32 points of damage. Nice! So as you release the torrent of electrical energy, it courses through the body and ends up streaking off into the snowy, blizzardy sky behind the giant from the upward angle. It (grunts) shakes from the impact, and then rights itself and looks down at you with a really angry face. You can see as it opens its mouth, this light blue and dark teeth on the bottom of its beard-covered jaw. Mist and steam tend to pour out of its mouth. But not like heated steam, this is like a cold air itself that it seems to emanate from it. Its pale whitish-blue hair, slightly framing its form. Up close, at its sheer size, this is a very intimidating creature, as it just stares down looming over you, now with smoke pouring off its shoulder where you impacted it with the Lightning Bolt. Do you want to do any--
Sam: I would like to inspire our new fellow, Zahra, with a quick little ditty. (singing) Ooh, you so scary, ooh, you so scary, ooh, you so scary. You fighty long time. (laughter)
Matt: All right. So you go ahead and take a d10 inspiration dice. Which means, whenever you have to roll an attack roll or saving throw, you can add a d10 to the result you get if you don't think it's going to make it. You don't roll it now, but you just have it on reserve whenever you want to use it.
Mary: Love it.
Sam: And if I move away from him he'll hit me?
Matt: He'll get an attack of opportunity, yes.
Sam: Can I snuggle between his legs and maybe he'll forget I'm there?
Felicia: He's hung like a horse.
Taliesin: You're going to hit yourself in the head
Mary: Swing on it, man. Swing on it. (laughter)
Mary: Yes! Yes, Scanlan!
Matt: Do you want to try and do that?
Sam: It might anger him? Or it might entice him. (laughter)
Sam: I'll just stay put.
Matt: All right. Zahra, you're up.
Mary: All right, I have a question. Do they understand English?
Matt: You are not aware, actually.
Laura: But he said intruder when we came in.
Matt: You heard him say it in Giant. It was understood by Grog that it was intruder.
Mary: All right. They're both within about 30 feet of me, yes?
Matt: Yes. They're both within 30 feet of you
Mary: All right! I'm going to use one of my skills that I have which it doesn't expel a spell slot and use Awakened Mind and touch them both with telekinesis, and in doing so I shall cast Mass Suggestion, and I shall say to them, you will take us to your enemy, the white dragon, and there we shall slay it together. Then you shall return us here safely, where we shall part as friends bonded forever in the slaying of a common enemy.
Matt: All right. As you're looking out at the two of them, you release this energy, speaking through your mind, reaching out to theirs. What is the DC of your spell? It should be at the top of your spell list, the difficulty class.
Sam: Spell save DC. Top right.
Laura: Spell save DC is a 17.
Matt: 17, all right. So both of them seem to--
Laura: Can you add your inspiration? Add your inspiration!
Matt: Inspiration has to be added to a roll.
Mary: My charisma is added to any spell that I cast.
Matt: Well, that's included with the DC there. So both of them reach up and grab their faces, one with its messed up, partially disintegrated hand and falls back on its back foot and both of them look at the group in confusion. There definitely seems to be some sort of interference with their current actions based on this spell; there is a conflict within them. That's as much as I can tell you right now at the moment. That's your action. Do you want to do anything else? You can still move. You still have a bonus action, if you want
Mary: What do you mean bonus action?
Matt: Your Hex is a bonus action, but that is a spell, as well.
Mary: If I move away from them though...
Laura: He can hit you.
Taliesin: If he's going to hit you. He might not.
Laura: That's true! Your spell might have worked.
Mary: I shall go and protect Scanlan, underneath the legs of that giant.
Matt: So you move in to help defend Scanlan.
Mary: He's so tiny, I love little guys. I always have.
Sam: She's a mother figure.
Matt: All right, so both of them seem to be looking around themselves, slightly confused and taking in some sort of strange circumstance. Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: I'm going to hold my turn.
Matt: Okay, Percy's holding initiative. Grog.
Laura: Should I say, in Giant, (in Grog voice) What say you? Let's fight this bastard. Together.
Matt: All right, they look at Grog, confused. Look at each other again. That's Grog's turn, Vex?
Laura: Seriously? While everybody's having a conversation, I would like to take a healing potion.
Matt: All right. Go ahead and take one of those
Laura: Okay. How much do I take for a superior?
Matt: Superior? Superior is 8d4 plus eight. It's quite a bit.
Laura: It is, so just regular healing potion for now. Which is what, 2d8?
Matt: A regular is 2d4 plus two.
Laura: Yay! That's good.
Matt: Lyra.
Felicia: I'm confused. But I do not feel good; I might throw up. So I'm going to hold my turn to see what happens.
Matt: Go ahead and make a constitution saving throw.
Felicia: Oh, good.
Sam: Oh, for the barf.
Felicia: Oh, it's a five! Constitution five. It's a ten.
Matt: You covertly do your best to not reveal to the entire group that you make a little greenish-brown snow. (laughter)
Matt: It is the most adorable barfing sound you guys have ever heard, though. The combination of the stress and the smell, it's been a harrowing experience for Lyra in these past few minutes. At this point in time, as it comes to the giants' turn. The one who is messed up looks over to the other and (sighs) puts the axe into his belt loop, and the other also one puts its axe in the belt loop, and they glare at the rest of the group, and say in Giant, (gibberish). And any of you speak Giant? Or just Grog.
Laura: Grog.
Matt: Grog translates. Essentially, they say, "We will take you but it is at your own folly."
Laura: (in Grog voice) They'll take us, but it is at our own folly.
Sam: Take us as in-- Grog, can you ask them, take us as in lead us or on their back?
Laura: (strangled gibberish) Which translates to, take us as in lead us or carry us on your back?
Matt: They both chuckle to themselves, and they start walking in towards the cavern.
Laura: Wait! Can we rest a little before we go fight this thing so we can get spell slots back and heal?
Matt: That's up to you guys.
Laura: Can we? Yes! Yes!
Felicia: Up to 24 hours. This one lasts the whole day. Yeah, can we?
Matt: It lasts for 24 hours.
Mary: Mass Suggestion lasts for 24 hours.
Sam: Oh, that is good information.
Mary: Oh and very important  none of us can damage these two giants. Anything else can, we're fine, but should any of us damage it, the spell is poof.
Laura: Are they going to fight with us? Grog? Will you ask them if they're going to fight with us? (gibberish)
Matt: How does it go, again?
Laura: (repeats previous gibberish)
Matt: Right. One of them looks over the shoulder as it's walking into the cavern and puts its hand on the top and leans over and its voice, and I will say from this point forth it is translated to make it easier.
Sam: Just like in Hunt for Red October?
Matt: Yeah basically. "We take you but that is as much as you get. The rest is your own choice. Perhaps the dragon will eat you. That'll keep it satiated for a while." It steps inside the cavern.
Laura: (Grog voice) I think that's a no.
Felicia: Yeah. And I say (speaks gibberish). My cat is your friend!
Taliesin: Bless you!
Matt: (laughs) As you say that, one walks inside. The one that you partially disintegrated earlier steps out and goes, (spitting noise) and spits a-- what in midair looks like liquid and then (shattering) shatters into almost like crystalline ice as it hits the ground on a rock.
Felicia: It is just rude. He smells so much like feet.
Sam: We'll Mass Suggest that they take a bath later.
Taliesin: Let's take a breather. For a moment, collect ourselves.
Laura: I wish I wouldn't have wasted a healing potion just then because we can take some--
Felicia: We can heal our 1d6 plus three.
Matt: So as you guys step inside the cavern. You guys are taking a short rest, currently?
Sam: Short rest.
Matt: All right, so the giants are just sitting there waiting, arms crossed against the wall, talking quietly to each other as the rest of you sit down and bandage your wounds. You tend to your adrenaline as it slowly wears off and suddenly the pain starts to set in from some of the wounds you've taken. So you guys can use as many hit dice as you want to heal yourselves.
Mary: So what do I do?
Laura: You roll a d8. You can roll up to 11d8, plus two for each time.
Sam: Hey, DM.
Matt: Yes?
Sam: How many hit points do I have?
Matt: You haven't taken damage at this point.
Sam: Have they increased at all?
Matt: That is true. You leveled up after the last one. So with this short rest I will say go ahead and roll an additional-- for a bard I think it is a d8, correct?
Sam: I don't know.
Matt: What's your hit dice number?
Sam: d8.
Matt: And what's your constitution?
Sam: 15. Plus two.
Matt: All right, so go ahead and roll a d8 plus two to it
Sam: Four.
Matt: All right, so you add four hit points to your total hit point maximum. Welcome to level 11, Scanlan. (cheering and singing Super Mario victory ditty)
Matt: You also get access to your first 6th-level spell.
Mary: What!?
Laura: What? Get some stuff before we fight a dragon, yo.
Sam: I got it already. I am ready to rock.
Matt: Good. Good choice. You take the next half an hour or so to rest up. You still used your Disintegrate. You need to do a whole night's rest to get that back.
Felicia: Oh! I don't get it? It's six spell levels.
Matt: It is six spell levels you can get back on a short rest?
Felicia: Short rest. Recover six spell levels because I have arcane recovery. So I can actually get that back
Matt: (singing) Wizards are awesome!
Laura: (Grog voice) Grog would like to take his Chain of Returning off of one of the axes he had it on and put onto the Firebrand Warhammer that he took off of that dwarf in Kraghammer.
Matt: All righty, I like it.
Laura: The mean guy he took it off.
Matt: Off of, that was King Murghol, I think, wasn't it? The duergar king you fought in the Underdark.
Mary: I have a question. So I rolled to get my health back and I got more hit points than I had before--
Matt: You can't go more than your maximum. You're at full hit points now.
Taliesin: I want to borrow Grog for just a second and ask these two if they've encountered the dragon before, and what its disposition is. Anything we should know.
Matt: I want you to go ahead, and I will say through Grog-- this is going to be interesting. Since Grog is translating, I'm going to go ahead and have you roll a persuasion check.
Felicia: Wrong dice! Why did you use that dice?
Taliesin: I was feeling weak. Ten.
Matt: Ten. And I want you to roll a persuasion check for Grog with disadvantage.
Laura: Great. Oh, that was a good roll, come on also good roll.
Felicia: It wasn't a good roll. I see a face there.
Taliesin: It was a one, wasn't it?
Laura: It was a one.
Matt: All the crits were last week.
Taliesin: This is my fault. This is all my fault.
Felicia: You are a plague. Your good fortune is a plague upon your friends.
Laura: Travis is going to be so pissed when he gets here.
Matt: I know.
Sam: He'll be dead by the time he gets here
Laura: His flight landed. I got a text. His flight has landed. He's on his way.
Matt: Great, awesome. As Grog finishes translating (gibberish) to the giants, the giants chuckle to themselves and the other one says down to him, what he translates for you, the equivalent of, "There's no help here. They killed our people, but we're alive because we serve it. We'll bring you, like we promised, like we brought all the others."
Laura: They serve the dragon?
Felicia: Can we look around? Are there any dragon tips around?
Matt: You took a rest inside the cavern as you just entered the mountain and at this point as you guys step up the giants are leading you further into the cavern.
Mary: May I talk to him, as well?
Matt: You know Giant?
Mary: No, through Grog. I have telekinesis, so can I speak to one of them?
Matt: Well, telekinesis and telepathy are different things.
Mary: Oh, I mean, I have Awakened Mind.
Matt: Oh right. So you can speak directly to their minds
Mary: Yes. Your people have been persecuted for so long, and you have lost so many of the female version of you, and your children, and you serve them now. Do you want to live as slaves?
Matt: "We want to live."
Mary: So to live as a slave is better than--
Matt: "To not live at all?"
Mary: We are offering you the opportunity to stop your servitude. To end it forever.
Matt: (grunts) They keep walking
Laura: What?
Matt: We'll see how this plays out. This is a process here. You guys heavily failed some early persuasion rolls here, they're in a very negative position with you right now.
Laura: Sorry about that.
Felicia: Let's not bring it up again. I love your hair.
Sam: It's really cool.
Matt: So about 200 feet further into this cavern, the tunnel opens up into a gargantuan natural rock chamber, coated in ice crystals across the entirety of the rounded crag in the ceiling. You can see now as the light you're bringing into-- by the way, is anyone bringing a source of light other than the torchlight?
Laura: Yes, Grog lights his blazing axe.
Mary: And I cast Light on my dark dragon staff.
Matt: All right, so between the (whoosh) now the fire that is now burning off of the warhammer and your Light spell, you can see as you enter following these giants, there are definitely the remnants of a village here, a village that was designed on the scale of these giants and while many of these structures still stand, it is eerily quiet as you step inside. As you begin to step further into the center of this cavern, you see many of these structures have been smashed and destroyed and there is a layer of ice and snow that has been carried in from various blizzard winds or just the internal temperature in this room. And the room is extremely cold. With the little bit of light you have, everyone's breath is very clearly visible with each puff into the air around, and you swear that in a few pockets here it is so cold that you can hear the moisture from your breath coalesce and then shatter on the ground. You all bundle up even tighter with your various furs.
Laura: I snuggle very close to Trinket.
Matt: Trinket snuggles very close to you because Trinket, while made for this type of temperature, is still uncomfortably cold, even at this point.
Sam: Did Lyra give me--
Felicia: I did! I gave you my stone. My Transmutation Stone, which helps you resist cold.
Sam: Wow, I feel so warm and cuddly.
Felicia: Well, don't brag about it. Oh my gosh, my mom told me never bring-- well, she's dead, but before she died, she told me if you can't bring one for everybody, don't bring any. So just be quiet about it.
Sam: Okay. I'm sorry. I was just distracted because we're in a dire situation and I miss the love of my life, Pike. I'm sure you can't identify with that.
Felicia: Oh no! I was just thinking the other day, just outside the cavern, if Aldor was here--
Sam: Aldor?
Felicia: Yes! Did I tell you about him?
Sam: A little.
Felicia: He smells like sandalwood and dismissiveness, but that's okay. We'll get over that.
Sam: Well, we have something in common then and thank you for your stone of warmth or whatever it was.
Felicia: It's a cold resistance.
Sam: I'll just call it a stone of warmth.
Matt: There is no character class more dangerous in DND than mother. (laughter)
Matt: Do not have children if you are ever in a fantasy genre or anything. You ain't getting past 30.
Mary: May I again, sorry, use Awakened Mind to ask the giant what happened here?
Matt: As they begin walking through and looking about, one of them starts giving you these images, and it's less of a language and it's more of a series of memories. And you see visions of a time not long ago. Months, even years. This relatively thriving village of frost giants that had essentially claimed this mountain as their own for generations. Hunting in the nearby Vesper Timberland, occasionally harrowing the traveling merchant band heading up the Glasswalk Path or various other entities that live in this forest. They're not by any means a good people. They exist and they take what they want, but it appears that not long ago this dragon decided that it wanted to live here instead. And you see visions of it stalking through the tunnels, carving its way through the ice and ambushing this frost giant village. You see visions of it tearing into families of them and freezing them on the spot, which is interesting because you see, these giants seem pretty well-adapted to ice and cold weather. It seems it is less of a freezing them physically and more of locking them into place. And as you see these visions, you begin to step further into this village and you can see there are spires, large spires of crystallized ice, and loosely within the shadows of the ice you can see what looks like the suffocated forms of frost giants that are locked in that position under many feet of ice. You see most of this village brought to its knees and destroyed, murdered, eaten, or imprisoned and these two, essentially chosen to survive and given the order to bring what this creature wants.
Mary: There's only two of you left?
Matt: You get this sense of sadness and fear, but also a sense of a lack of any other option.
Mary: Oh, how I wish we could release you from these bonds.
Laura: Is there a way to, like, melt the spires? (whispers) I interrupted you.
Mary: To release them.
Felicia: They are dead in there though, right?
Mary: No, I know but at least maybe they could-- Do you have some burial ritual or anything that you would like to or do these stand as a painful remembrance for you?
Matt: There is a moment where it seems almost like it's going to answer, and then the mind closes off suddenly. There is a defensiveness and these entities, you get the sense that even this tenuous relationship you have built with them is based purely on arcane persuasion, and the more you pry, the more you begin to test the boundaries of what you have done. Pick and choose your words very carefully.
Mary: Zahra sheds a tear, which freezes instantly on her face, and her internal flame melts it off.
Laura: That's pretty badass.
Matt: As you continue to walk, you can see the center of this village is completely in tatters. A lot of the wood and the dried brush and the furs and thick leathers that these giants had gathered and constructed their civilization out of is all just shattered and rended to the floor and then frozen over, left in this weird picturesque, almost a tapestry. A frozen moment in time of utter desolation. Actually, I want you to all to roll a perception check, if you could.
Taliesin: 17.
Felicia: 14.
Sam: 20.
Laura: Oh! No we're not in-- 14.
Mary: Uno.
Matt: Wow, getting the ones out. So as you guys are walking forward, Scanlan, you notice that there is, just outside the light perception stepping forward, a lot of the rubble has been pushed and coalesced into a central monolith. Almost like a 25, 30 foot sculpture of chaos. All of these things have been matted together with what looks like mud and refuse, and as you guys begin to notice this, too, you catch the framing of the light on it and it seems to be built into almost an altar or a large sculpture of worship of a winged dragon creature that is currently in the process of swooping down. You get the sensation that this was built as, essentially, a place of offering to this white dragon, and hopefully a symbol to keep themselves alive and to prove their fealty to this entity.
Felicia: I have a spell called Legend Lore. Can I cast that on white dragon?
Matt: Let's see what Legend Lore does.
Felicia: The spell brings to your mind a brief summary of the significant lore about the thing you named: current tales, forgotten stories, secret lore that has never been widely known. If it is not of legendary importance, you gain no information. Would I think that this is a legendary dragon?
Matt: Okay. As you take a moment and everyone stops to look around, you notice that Lyra is sitting there currently muttering to herself and putting her fingers through the air, and you can see these small arcane sigils begin to flash in the air where she places her hands, at which point her eyes glaze over with this shimmering gold energy and she seems to go into a trance. Now, what you first are hit with is the image of darkness, black and struggle, a struggle to push, a struggle to exist, a struggle to survive, and then suddenly light. You see the cracking of something releasing, and from there pulling forth from this singular egg, the only one left of its clutch, a white dragon wyrmling pulling itself out of the egg. This, you immediately sense, is the dragon that now resides within this mountain. You begin to see flashes in time of it struggling to survive in the frozen tundra to the north, desperately trying to escape poachers and individuals trying to hunt it, whether to protect their own villages or to use its physical body parts in some sort of sale. You get the sense that at one point it was already the target of some contract that failed. For a brief second, you see a flash of a frozen cavern recently, and a few individuals locked in an icy prison bitten down on and shattered before it cuts to black again. You begin to see moments of this dragon growing, and with each stage in its physical transformation towards becoming a full-fledged adult dragon there is just spite, there is anger, there is ego, there is a severe sense of self-importance, a lust for others to bow before, serve, or feed it. And you have heard and you have read many things about dragons and you have heard things of great intelligence and articulate entities that even, good or evil themselves, have this extremely intelligent presence. This dragon is far more feral and bestial than anything you've read about. It has an intelligence, but it seems to not be concerned with the intricacies of conversation as much as it is to bend everything to its will and to give (voices deepens) to me. (normally) And the one thing that catches your mind before the spell ends is the name that it finally came upon itself, the name that it heard whispered as one of its would-be hunters was suddenly--
Sam: Jeff. (laughter)
Matt: Jeff the dragon. The name Rimefang rings through your mind.
Felicia: His name is Rimefang.
Matt: The two frost giants stop their walking and turn. "Rimefang." They nod and look up to the giant structure they constructed.
Felicia: Oh wow! Can I make a history to sww if I know anyone in the guild who has been named Rimefang?
Matt: Make a history check on this.
Felicia: It's a 21.
Matt: Okay, Rimefang, you gather, is the name of the dragon proper. And there's another drink for you guys out there. They made fun of me for using the word proper.
Sam: Drink!
Matt: This dragon took the name Rimefang. Because in a lot of dragons as they evolve and begin to really create a lair, they really make themselves known publicly and really draw the fear out once they feel they're in a comfortable position. You feel this dragon is just starting to get to that point where it's eager to drive fear into the local populace. From your history check, you do know that there is, somewhere in the books you've gone through, a similar contract, nothing Rimefang related, but there was a white dragon that was supposedly hunted about eight, nine months back, and the team never returned. And you begin to think, "Wait, so if a team of really practiced people never returned from this contract, and we were sent on this as an entry level..."
Felicia: Hey, guys? I have a suspicion that maybe the guild didn't want us to succeed. And I don't want to panic anybody. I just don't think Vanessa--
Mary: Lyra, do you have any enemies in the guild?
Felicia: Well. Everyone seems to be very-- I make a very good soup and I help people with their laundry sometimes and--
Laura: Oh, are you like an assistant?
Felicia: No, I'm a guild member, I just like to be helpful. Like you guys.
Laura: I was just wondering.
Felicia: Well, they just don't send me anywhere. It's a paperwork thing.
Mary: If you don't mind my asking because I do respect you so much, how did your captainship of our crew come about?
Felicia: Well, I got a missive, I got a scroll in my room and the first assignment. I mean, it was very exciting to me and they haven't really paid attention to me. Mertin is very nice to me but Vanessa-- she just has her days, and I've been asking her for so long, and finally I got my assignment. I was hoping Aldor would be here, but he isn't, and that's fine. It'll be the next one. But there may not be a next one, guys. That's what I'm saying.
Mary: Oh, were you Vanessa's assistant? I mean, before you were a member?
Felicia: No. Aldor. I'm here with Aldor, remember?
Sam: If you think we've been sent on some sort of suicide mission--
Felicia: Oh, that's good, the way you put it there!
Sam: Well, I'm a master of words. Should we abandon all hope and just flee? Is that what you're suggesting as our leader? Or should we carry it through and prove everyone wrong?
Felicia: If we abandon this quest, then we never-- I could get kicked out of the guild, for one.
Laura: What happens if the contract that we magically signed doesn't ever come to fruition?
Felicia: It's not good.Let me think.
Sam: You know what? Retrace your steps.
Matt: There you go. In Memento fashion, all these things flash through. If a contract is broken, one: if you're a member of the guild, you're kicked out of the guild. Two: you guys are on this essentially as a trial basis to prevent being arrested and put on trial for breaking the laws of the city of Vasselheim and essentially hunting creatures that aren't sanctified. Or you yourself have not been sanctified to kill, which goes against guild rules and the city itself. Which means if you were to not succeed at the contract, you would probably be put on trial at the seat of judgment.
Laura: Percy is very good at lawyering.
Taliesin: I am. I lawyer quite well, but the hope is that we wouldn't actually break the contract in the first place, because that's complicated.
Mary: I wasn't part of this band of breaking the law. I'm here to gain entry into this guild.
Felicia: Well, you certainly won't get into the guild if you break the contract.
Mary: No, I completely understand, but I won't be brought to trial. Not that I'm all, "well it's all about me," but I'm serious. That's why I'm here! My motivations are not to save my ass, my motivations are to get into this bloody guild!
Taliesin: We're not here based on other people's expectations. We're here because we thought we could handle this and nothing has changed. This changes nothing!
Laura: We are very capable fighters!
Mary: I've seen this. You have proven yourselves already. Those orcs didn't stand a bloody chance.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Felicia: So we go?
Sam: We go. Well actually, Grog-- could someone ask Ace and Gary if we're there or if we have further to travel?
Felicia: We'll just keep going.
Matt: As Grog mentions this, you guys have moved past most of the village, and you've gone towards the back of this large chamber, and you do see what appears to be a tunnel that ascends upwards, deeper into the mountain proper. See, did it again. It's made me all self-conscious. But the entrance is entirely frozen. There is a wall of solid ice between yourselves and the continuation of this tunnel.
Laura: (Grog voice) How thick is it?
Matt: It's hard to see how thick it is from this side.
Laura: (Grog voice) Can Grog run at it and try to bash it really fast?
Matt: So as you guys step up, Grog runs ahead of the rest of the giants and goes as hard as he can towards this. (laughs) So swinging with the axe towards the ice. Go ahead and make an attack roll.
Laura: It's a hammer, which I feel would be better against ice.
Matt: This giant flaming warhammer from King Murghol.
Laura: I feel like every dice is betraying me.
Taliesin: Would you like to use mine?
Laura: No, I'm going to curse yours.
Matt: No, turn it around. Shake the Wil Wheaton curse.
Laura: I'll just leave it at that. It slipped out of my hands, but I'm going to keep it. 15 plus what, eight? Plus nine?
Matt: Plus nine. That'll definitely hit. Go ahead and roll damage for that.
Laura: Okay. Here we go.
Sam: I hope he can hit a wall.
Laura: I don't know, with my ones as of late. Oh, that's just ten.
Matt: Ten damage? Including the fire damage?
Laura: Oh, yes, right. 13.
Matt: 13 damage. (whack) The warhammer streaks through, the light causing this interesting shifting of the radius around it. As it smacks into the ice with this resounding (thwack) sound, the ice shakes and shimmers. A giant crack forms up the front of it, and you can see as he (grunts) pulls it out, the wall itself seems to have largely crumbled in the small space there and looks very fragile. But it's definitely left an impact on the wall.
Taliesin: I can make an attempt at this. I'm going to walk over and study the shattering position and see if I can find the weak point in the wall.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and make an investigation check.
Taliesin: Seven. Getting it all out of my system now.
Matt: The ice wall itself is not a specific architectural structure. It is made of some sort of blasting of ice that froze the air in that way, so it doesn't have any real geometric positioning, but the ice structure itself, you're unable to make out what would be a weak point or not, other than the place of impact where Grog placed the hammer.
Taliesin: I'm going to take a musket ball, go over to the very center of the crack.
Laura: Should we keep a little more quiet than that?
Felicia: Can I use a Fire Bolt? That would be good, a Fire Bolt.
Taliesin: Let's save the Fire Bolt.
Felicia: No, it's a cantrip. Is that okay?
Taliesin: I'm backing up.
Felicia: I'm the leader. I'm going to say I'm going to.
Taliesin: She said, Fire Bolt. I backed away.
Felicia: And that is 1d8 fire damage, which is seven. Seven fire damage.
Matt: All right. Go ahead and roll to see if you hit with it. So roll and add your spell attack modifier.
Felicia: What is that? Oh, it's 12... plus 11. So that is 23.
Matt: All right, that definitely hits. How much damage? That was seven fire damage, you said?
Felicia: Oh, it's 3d10 fire. Sorry. Because of my level. Which is seven and five and seven is 19.
Matt: Clutching your staff at one side, the book's under your shoulder, you bring your hand out and withdraw your hand with the force of the blast of the Fire Bolt going forward. As it smacks into the section where Grog had slammed the hammer, (boof) it bursts as a flash of arcane reddish fiery energy, and the wall itself shatters inward and starts falling and crumbling nearby. Now, this tall wall, which was about 25 feet tall, begins to fall in giant chunks.
Felicia: (yelps) Sorry!
Matt: I'm going to go ahead and have Lyra and Percy and Grog all make dexterity saving throws.
Felicia: Oh, I'm so good at that, with the negatives. Oh!
Laura: 19!
Taliesin: I can't use acrobatics?
Matt: No, not for this.
Laura: 21 for Grog.
Felicia: I rolled a zero, because I've got a negative two. It's not even on the dice!
Matt: Percy?
Taliesin: Nine.
Matt: All right, so.
Felicia: Is that worse than a critical fail?
Matt: As the whole wall just (shattering noise) breaking and falling down around you, you all go rushing backward. Grog, strangely and unexpectedly, shoulder-rolls out of the way, epic Geordi La Forge style. Escapes the crumbling wall. Unfortunately, though, Lyra and Percy stumble backward, slipping on the ice that's actually coated the floor of this cavern, and get impacted with part of the fall. It's not too bad, but both of you suffer 14 points of cold damage and bludgeoning. Cold and bludgeoning, as the wall comes tumbling down on you. However, the rest of the cavern now lies open with pieces of jagged ice almost like a broken glass window itself framing the exterior of this tunnel.
Felicia: I'm not going to go to the front anymore, guys.
Sam: Well, you're the leader, shouldn't you be--
Laura: We should protect her. She should be towards the back.
Taliesin: I'm going to heal really quickly.
Matt: Take another short rest?
Laura: We should take a short rest so that we're going in, you know.
Felicia: Yeah. I had scoliosis as a child. I'm not nimble. It's funny.
Mary: Before we take a short rest may I, again, use Awakened Mind, just to see how far away we are.
Matt: You get an image of a slowly ascending and spiraling tunnel that ascends towards an upper cavern at the top of the mountain. The upper cavern you only get a few glimpses of as they themselves have only had a few glimpses of it, but it appears this is not the only obstacle in the way.
Mary: Oh, good.
Sam: Let's carry on then.
Laura: Could you see when you were looking into their mind if it is open or if it is just a big cavern?
Mary: I could not see.
Matt: From the best vantage point you could see, it was a chamber about, I'd say 80 to 85 feet to the ceiling, lined with jagged ice crystals that are coalesced in a temperature so cold that it's almost like the inside of a geode, but it's all made of ice. But you see multiple platforms that are risen in the walls of this, and in the center, there is a singular platform, and there sitting on the top of it is apparently the dragon quarry you seek. And then the image shuts itself out, as one of them glances over the shoulder. It's growing uncomfortable with sharing information.
Mary: Got it. I thank him in my mind.
Matt: All right. Pressing forward, you can see one giant still dragging itself forward with a portion of its physical body essentially gutted.
Mary: What if we gave him a half healing potion?
Sam: Don't mess with the magic.
Laura: Because, here's the thing. If they fight with us, it's great, but if they turn on us then we are going to have to fight them at full power again.
Mary: Yeah, but we have 24 hours.
Sam: Yes, but the healing potion might do something. Let's just keep going. You are a very kind soul.
Matt: So are you guys taking a short rest to heal up? Okay. If you haven't already rolled your dice-- You healed up now? Perfect. All right, so as you guys continue to trudge up this extremely cold-- let me see. I think it'll be a fun one to-- There we go. You guys continue to ascend up this pitch-black cavern here. It appears that both the giants and the dragon do not need light to make their way through this cavern structure. So you are the small beads of visual lightness in the entire structure. The floor itself is slick, and there are bits of rough rock that you can find foot purchase but there are a few moments where some of you slip and you lose about ten feet and then catch yourself and have to move upward with this slight 35-degree incline, slowly spiraling upward. You push forward for about 30 minutes or so in this long, seemingly-- for lack of a better term, there isn't a lot of changed variation to it; it's just a gradual spiral in itself.
Laura: I want to keep perception out to make sure that nothing is ahead of us.
Matt: Go ahead and roll a perception check.
Laura: Okay, but this is pertaining to dragons. He is one of my favored enemies, so I have additional bonuses to tracking him and insight against him. Favored enemies!
Matt: All right. So you're perceiving anything dragon-related and things that would be a forewarning of a dragon, okay.
Laura: Things he would have laid down for us. Stuff like that.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and roll again. You have an advantage.
Laura: You know, just to see. Okay. 18?
Matt: Okay. Glancing about, you do see there are claw marks along the walls, you can see where portions of this cavern were carved out by the claws of Rimefang. You can see that occasionally there are pieces of frozen rock that are solid ice, some that appear to be an unthawed chunk of flesh of some kind. As you push further up this cavern, you spot what looks like the lower half of a statue.
Felicia: Ugh. That's a-- oh my god.
Taliesin: That's unpleasant.
Laura: Half of a giant, right?
Matt: This appears to be a frost giant that met its end. The actual lower half of the torso itself is giving off a stench of slowly rotting flesh. There is ice encasing the lower half of it. It's interesting because the physical form of the frost giants resist cold naturally, and this temperature would normally freeze any other flesh completely solid. Here, it naturally decays. But there is a distinct place where the torso was removed forcibly by what looks like a series of daggers and/or dragon's teeth.
Felicia: I have little ginger chews, if anybody wants one.
Taliesin: I'll take one.
Felicia: Here you go. Thank you. Just in my little pack here.
Matt: About ten more minutes of walking, you come upon another frozen wall barrier.
Sam: I will check it for traps!
Matt: Go ahead and roll perception.
Laura: (laughs) Thanks, brother.
Sam: Five.
Matt: As far as you can tell, it is a frost/snow-covered ground with walls and a ceiling.
Sam: Everyone. There are definitely no traps here.
Laura: Oh, good. Maybe we should stay back?
Felicia: Maybe I could do the Fire Bolt from afar. That's a good idea, and a leader idea that I had that you just reminded me of.
Laura: Good thinking, Lyra.
Felicia: Thank you. Oh, that definitely hits. That's 28.
Matt: 28. Go ahead and roll damage.
Felicia: It's a nine and a ten and five. 24.
Matt: 24. So as you focus, close one eye, and aim, you release a secondary Fire Bolt. (boosh) It slams into the front of the wall of ice, which immediately bursts inside. Shattered shards of glass-like ice go flying further up the cavern. The rest of it falls and collapses at a distance, (crashing) around you. Thankfully, you're all far enough away where there isn't an issue, and the wall seems to have shattered.
Felicia: That's the way you do it! Thank you. Oh my gosh, you guys.
Laura: Before we move forward, I've studied dragons a lot. I just want to say. So obviously we all know they're susceptible to fire damage, yes? This is an ice-breathing bastard. Do as much fire attacks as we can.
Mary: Yes. Don't dragons love, especially white ones, shiny, sparkly things? Especially gems, from what I've gleaned over the years.
Laura: If he could be distracted during combat, maybe.
Felicia: A very aggressive person. I got a glimpse of his attitude, and it is not pleasant.
Laura: Not happy.
Felicia: No. He is full of bile and vitriol, and he likes to be worshiped. We could pretend to be worshiping him.
Laura: But he'll still want to eat us. But yes, we could do that.
Felicia: I mean, he didn't eat these two guys!
Laura: It might be something to think about.
Felicia: At least to get close to him.
Laura: Before we spring an attack, yes.
Matt: Go ahead and make an intelligence check.
Laura: With advantage because it's pertaining to dragons?
Sam: (laughs) She's a stickler.
Laura: Is that an insight check?
Matt: That's just adding your intelligence modifier.
Laura: Okay, let me see what that-- oh, that's Grog's. What am I doing? Okay, so 20 was the first roll. 20 is the high roll. Oh, wait! No! 22.
Matt: 22. Okay. A few things you do know about dragons, specifically a white dragon, from your studying. You lost someone very important to you, supposedly to a dragon, and so you've spent a lot of your life focused on their techniques, their abilities, how they work. White dragons, you know, have complete immunity to cold. Cold damage of all sorts has no effect on them whatsoever. You know that they have capability of flight. They surround themselves with ice but are not hindered by it whatsoever. You do know that their claws and teeth are extremely dangerous. They themselves also, using their wings and tail, become a fierce entity from all sides. Its cold breath is extremely dangerous. It can affect a large area, and even its presence is frightful enough to where some of the most seasoned adventurers go running, fleeing, or cowering in a corner. Let alone encountering one in its lair, itself, it already has an advantage, as it sets an environment to put it at its advantage. So anything and everything you can do to prepare and be ready for such an encounter would be highly recommended. You do get the sensation that even though they are cold-based, fire doesn't necessarily do any additional damage, but it is not reduced or able to resist it.
Laura: It can't resist fire. What about lightning damage? Do I know anything about that?
Matt: Best that you know, most magics and other types of damage other than cold have an effect on it, though it does have unnatural resilience to spells and things for a large part of the combat.
Felicia: I can cast Stoneskin on one person. Or up to, actually-- I could cast Stoneskin up to three times.
Matt: But it's a concentration spell, so you can only have it up on one person.
Felicia: I can only have it on one person at a time. So who would be most likely to resist slashing and bludgeoning and piercing?
Laura: Probably Grog. He's going to be the one that's going to be up close, out of all of us.
Matt: As Grog says, "That's all right. If I'm raging, I already have the ability to resist."
Laura: That's true. He takes half to piercing and slashing.
Felicia: Oh, okay. So then we need the other person who might be within range.
Taliesin: Trinket.
Laura: Trinket.
Mary: Trinket.
Sam: Trinket's here? (laughter)
Matt: As you look over. (sad bear moan)
Laura: Trinket's right there, Scanlan.
Felicia: I don't want to demean him, but his performance is--
Laura: Lyra!
Felicia: I love him. Of course he gets the spell.
Laura: He is really, really cool!
Sam: He does things!
Felicia: Yes, of course, I don't know what I was thinking.
Laura: Here's the thing. If he doesn't have Stoneskin, I probably won't let him charge.
Taliesin: But if he does have Stoneskin, will you let him charge?
Laura: Probably.
Felicia: All right, well, that could be another-- Does that seem like a good idea for a bear?
Mary: Scanlan, are most of your attacks up close or are they far?
Sam: I've got a wide range. I like to keep people guessing. It's my thing.
Felicia: But we wouldn't really want you within claw damage.
Sam: I wouldn't want that, either.
Felicia: It does make more-- I don't mean to demean Trinket, he is a lovely bear.
Sam: Of all the bears I've known, he's top five. Top five.
Matt: As you're saying this, Trinket senses the conversation and plants both feet in the ground (growls).
Laura: See how tough he is?
Matt: He seems to be showing off. And for a moment, even though it's a conversation, that's a dangerous-looking bear.
Mary: I use Beast Speak on Trinket. And say, Trinket, what are you feeling right now? What's going on? You seem very excited.
Matt: Okay, you notice Zahra leans forward and starts giving this series of low, guttural sounds. It's weird. There's this weird arcane interference and this strange, almost like the sound itself is being muffled and stretched. And Trinket turns to her and starts giving the same noises back. Trinket says to you, essentially, "I'll do whatever it takes to protect my Vex. If this creature tries anything, I will tear its throat from its head."
Felicia: He's a sexier bear than I thought he was.
Laura: And he gives good massages, Lyra.
Felicia: Okay. So I will cast Stoneskin. It lasts an hour, so I'll cast it within the perimeter that we think we're going to get hit.
Laura: Tell him that I love him very much!
Mary: I also want to tell you, Trinket. First of all, boy or girl? Just have to check.
Laura: He's a boy! Look at his giant dick.
Matt: He leans back in a sitting bear position.
Mary: Thank you, I needed some inspiration for this fight we're about to do. All right. I also want you to know that Vex loves you very much and will do whatever she can to protect you.
Matt: As this guttural conversation comes forth, Trinket comes up to you and nuzzles his nose up against your side.
Laura: Oh, little buddy!
Felicia: I wish Aldor would do that to me.
Sam: Show his giant cock to you? (laughter)
Mary: Show his giant cock to you? (laughter)
Felicia: I saw it once. It was glorious.
Mary: Very inspiring.
Matt: As Lyra's in this memory trance, finishes casting Stoneskin and reaches out and touches Trinket. You can see Trinket's physical form, all the fur seems to coalesce into a thick rock-type exterior shell of magical protection.
Laura: What does his armor class raise by?
Matt: Armor class doesn't change, but all damage that Trinket takes from bludgeoning, piercing, or slashing is reduced by half.
Laura: Nice.
Mary: Thank you, Trinket, lovely to talk to you.
Sam: What else can we do to prepare?
Laura: I promise, Lyra, I will let him attack this battle.
Felicia: Oh good, no, it's fantastic. That invited so many good thoughts in my mind. I don't mind anything at this point. I mean, what?
Matt: The giants begin to move forward into the cavern.
Laura: It's happening.
Mary: Yep. Screw your courage to the sticking-place.
Taliesin: Ew. Oh. All right.
Matt: All right. Scanlan, I want you to go ahead and roll a dexterity saving throw.
Sam: Oh boy, already? Dex. 17. Oh. Plus four. 21.
Matt: 21. As you begin stepping forward up the cavern where the wall itself has collapsed, you step forward onto a part of the ice that is far more brittle than you expected, and suddenly it (cracks) breaks beneath your foot.
Sam: My Scanlan-sense is tingling!
Matt: You push off and fall onto your back, and as you guys look over, you hear the cracking and the falling of some sort of stone or ice-like structure. You see where Scanlan was stepping a ten-foot-diameter pit crumbles and falls beneath. And peering over the inside and using your light, you can see there appears to be an arrangement of razor-sharp ice spikes gathered at the bottom of a 15-foot pit.
Laura: What? Why isn't my brother here? I need to check for traps from now on. Snoop ahead.
Taliesin: I think we've found one. There's a trap right there.
Sam: Does that take up our whole path now?
Matt: The tunnel itself is about 20 feet wide at this point, so you guys can move around it. The giants were ahead of you at this point.
Sam: Did they laugh?
Matt: One of them shakes his head and the other one just keeps walking.
Felicia: Gee, I had a spell that would be useful, but it's not ready.
Sam: Thanks for that update.
Felicia: I'm just being honest. I could've lied, said that I totally prepared that spell, but I could've been knowing Giant the whole time, so I just.
Laura: (laughs) Oops.
Felicia: If anybody falls, I can make them fall gently. That's on the list.
Laura: Oh, that's good. Is that Feather Fall? Nice. Okay, I perceive some more and see if I see any traps ahead of us the whole time.
Matt: All right. You go ahead and make a perception check as you move forward.
Laura: That would be a seven. 15.
Matt: 15, okay. You guys continue to push upwards this long spiraling corridor. You reach another ice wall that has already been partially broken from some sort of encounter long ago. You immediately see that the part of the wall that is broken. There's about a ten-foot-wide blocked passage, the entirety of that walkway appears to be another trap, and the giants are waiting back.
Laura: Good for you. There's a thing here. We should not step on it. I have one job on this ship!
Mary: I know it's stupid, but goddamn it, I'm going to do it.
Sam: How do we get around? What do we do?
Laura: We should maybe break down this ice wall and then not walk on this area. How about that?
Sam: Oh. Okay. Let's, yes.
Felicia: Oh, good. Should I Firebolt? I mean, I'm going to Firebolt. From a distance.
Laura: (singing) From a distance, the world is...
Felicia: (singing) From a distance, the world is...
Mary: (singing) From a distance, the world is...
Sam: (singing) From a distance, the world is...
Sam: Beaches.
Felicia: That's a 30.
Matt: 30. Go ahead and roll some damage.
Felicia: Yeah! Nine and eight and a ten, these are good rolls. That's a 27.
Matt: 27. This bolt arcs around from the side. You hit it right at the point where half of the wall had collapsed, causing the other half of the wall to immediately shatter and collapse inward, spraying bits of ice and rock against the wall on that side. The ground becomes rough terrain in that general vicinity, but it's easy enough to traverse over without any serious issue. As you guys step over, and the giants make their way across, stepping over it entirely with their long gait. You move carefully over the shattered wall bits, but the ground itself seems solid. You get past without issue.
Laura: Before we go into the actual lair of the dragon-- once we get to it; I don't know much more of these thingies there are. Do we want to go in as if we're offering it something and saying, hey, we love you, we want to bring you people, and stuff like that?
Mary: We are here to serve you?
Laura: Or do we want to send somebody in first and act like they're here to serve it, and then we all spring in and surprise it? What do you want to do?
Sam: They like to eat giants.
Laura: It wants to eat anything frozen, basically. It freezes things, and then it eats them.
Felicia: Well, there was another party that the guild-- the guild did send another party.
Laura: I don't know if they had a method or if they just walked right in.
Taliesin: Perhaps if we're quiet and stealthy. Can we be quiet and stealthy?
Felicia: I can't!
Mary: I can cast Invisibility.
Felicia: Ooh, I can cast Invisibility on myself.
Sam: That would help.
Mary: So learning of the dragon, will it be able to detect us if we cast Invisibility?
Felicia: That's nature? That would be a nature check or animal handling?
Matt: This would be an intelligence check.
Felicia: Oh. Well, I can do that. That's a 30-- that's a 23.
Matt: Okay, so what you've read of dragons, their ability to sense their surroundings is adapted to all environments, whether they can see or not. They actually have the ability to see with no sight necessary to a certain extent, so invisibility would help at a distance, quite a bit of distance, but within a certain point it is able to sense your presence whether or not it can see you. Also note, if you cast Invisibility you lose your concentration spell on Trinket.
Felicia: Oh, so let's not do that. Now, his vanity, he does like being worshipped. So that is the key.
Sam: So we could go in with an offering.
Laura: An offering. What if we laid a trap in the offering? What if we used your frag grenade that you did. Is it a bomb? Does it set off on a timer? Is it very fragile?
Taliesin: I have to set it off personally. I actually have to shoot it to set it off.
Mary: So smile, you son of a bitch, basically, if we put it in his mouth?
Laura: Do we have any bombs or anything like that? Because I have a very big beautiful diamond of awesomeness that we uncovered before that I keep about. We could present him with this big, huge-ass diamond and then have it trapped with some sort of exploding device.
Sam: We could.
Felicia: If he picks the diamond up off of the--
Laura: We could put it in a bag and then put the diamond on top of a bomb or something, and then when he picks it up and like, (explosion) in his face.
Taliesin: That's hoping for an awful lot of things to go our way. More things than normally go our way, to be fair.
Felicia: Well, it seems worthy of trying to get close to him, because his attacks-- Would he as a dragon have a very good length attack?
Matt: Yeah, as a dragon has some decent reach with some of its attacks. Its bite, and its length of neck and ability to bite actually has quite a bit of reach. Also, its tail has quite some reach, as well. It can cover some decent ground just with its physical form.
Felicia: The thing is, obviously the trolls don't come up here a lot or there wouldn't be so much ice in here. Walls. So I think that's a problem, so it's not as if they come up here all the time to give it treats. Right?
Sam: We could just walk in there. I could be holding Lyra as my captive and say, I've brought you this captive to eat.
Felicia: I don't like that one.
Sam: Well, you know, you're very appealing.
Mary: We still don't know that the giants aren't going to help us.
Matt: As you guys are stepping forward up the pathway, you turn a corner and you can see the giants have stopped, and they have a physical trepidation to the way that they're leaning backward in their stance. As you turn the corner, the little bit of light that reaches out, you can see there appears to be one final ice wall that has a ten-foot opening where it's left as a pathway, and it opens into a darkened chamber.
Mary: Well, I have darkvision for 60 feet, so I could approach around the side and peer in and just see what's there, 60 feet ahead.
Matt: Okay, so you walk up past the giants to this entrance? All right. As you walk forward, you see your vision spill out in the darkness, with a little bit of dim light and the darkness before you reveals itself. You can see a smattering of broken bits along the ground, looks like rocks and ice, a frozen leg of some humanoid, an arm, some scattered, broken armor and weapons. There are pieces of what appears to be a frozen-over graveyard of previous attempts towards inhabiting this room. And as you continue to push forward towards the edge, just towards the perimeter as far as your vision can see at this doorway, you see a central platform in the middle of this giant chamber that rises up about 15 feet. Ten, 15 feet, and just cresting over the top of this platform is the edge of an alabaster snout, with teeth overlapping. You hear this (snarls) growling snarl. And this little voice spills out from underneath and says, "Why don't you enter? If you're going to arrive and present yourselves, do not cower yet."
Felicia: Get that diamond out!
Matt: And with that, we're going to go ahead and take a break. (shouting)
Matt: We're going to take a quick ten-minute break to go ahead and use the bathroom, get a little snack. Yes?
Zac: We're eight subscribers away from another giveaway. (cheering)
Zac: The giveaway includes a signed player's handbook by all your wonderful hosts, as well as the hosts that will be here next week, and a signed copy of Felicia Day's new book.
Felicia: My new book! It's right there! I signed it.
Sam: What's it called? What's the title?
Felicia: It's called You're Never Weird on the Internet (Almost).
Sam: Aw. That's cool.
Felicia: It's amusing.
Zac: Are you weird in real life all the time?
Felicia: No, I mean, look at me.
Zac: No. Definitely not.
Felicia: I don't believe your face.
Sam: Did you consider the title Day Dreaming?
Felicia: You're pretty.
Sam: I just thought, because it's like a pun.
Felicia: No, that's awful.
Sam: Consider it.
Matt: Somewhere, someone's holding their manuscript entitled Day Dreaming and going (fake crying). (laughter)
Matt: All right, guys, we'll take a quick break, we'll see you back in ten minutes or so to see how this goes. [break]
Matt: Welcome back from the break! Our fantastic Travis finally made it. (cheering)
Travis: I heard I rolled really well in the beginning of this.
Matt: Yeah, it went wonderfully.
Laura: Sorry. But your Chain of Returning is attached to your blazing warhammer now.
Matt: There you go. So as it ends up, we have a new winner. KadenPhilly is the winner, congratulations, of our next giveaway. So we'll be giving away the player's handbook, the signed photo, a copy of Felicia's book-- yay!-- and a bunch of other goodies coming your way soon, so make sure you get your information to the Overlord. We'll have another giveaway at 5,800, if we can get to there by the end of the show tonight, so let's see if we can hit that. In the meantime, guys--
Travis: Shit.
Mary: Yeah. Welcome to the shit.
Travis: I've been watching in the car.
Matt: You guys have all been making your way through the cavern back here. Zahra has stepped forward and in the darkness, you can see right here at the edge a form.
Felicia: He's up above us, though.
Matt: Yep. About ten, 15 feet up on this platform, leaning over the edge is Rimefang, staring at you through the darkness. A claw comes forward and beckons.
Laura: Can I, from here, before we go in there-- I'm going to cast Hunter's Mark on him.
Matt: You can't see him right now.
Mary: I can.
Matt: Zahra can.
Travis: I can, too. I've got my belt of dwarven darkvision.
Felicia: Is he speaking dragon?
Matt: Speaking Common.
Felicia: He's speaking Common. Okay.
Mary: Would he detect if I would cast anything on him at the moment? I don't know! Then I'm going to sit here and drink my drink.
Travis: Are you offering him that jewel, or did we ditch that idea?
Laura: No, are we doing that?
Sam: We might. Depends what he asks. Yeah, let's do it.
Travis: Yeah, roll it out like a tennis ball for a dog.
Taliesin: Do we have a little bag we can put the jewels in?
Laura: Yeah.
Sam: We don't have time to do any of this stuff.
Laura: Yeah, we do.
Taliesin: We have a second. I'm going to hand you my Holy Hand Grenade of Antioch. Why not?
Travis: You can Hold Monster?
Mary: I can Hold Monster. Yeah, we both can.
Travis: Does he qualify as a monster?
Matt: As far as you know, dragon's pretty much a monster.
Laura: I am putting Percy's hand grenade inside this bag along with a diamond. Oh, it's a really pretty diamond.
Taliesin: We'll get it back, it's okay.
Laura: As long as it doesn't explode.
Taliesin: You can't explode a diamond.
Laura: That's true, diamonds are really strong.
Taliesin: Diamonds are forever.
Laura: I put that in the bag. Are we tossing this at him? What are we doing?
Sam: No! We walk in. He's beckoning us. Let's walk in. I'm walking in.
Matt: All right, so you guys all walk in?
Sam: I'm going ahead.
Laura: Here, hold the bag.
Sam: I'll take the bag.
Matt: Zahra, are you staying ahead with Scanlan?
Felicia: I believe that you squishy people should be back here!
Travis: I'm not squishy, I go with them.
Matt: As a note, as you guys are walking through and the light hits the walls, you begin to see the ice itself, which you've become accustomed to, is now being broken up into what looks like little glittering stars. It's almost like you're walking through a frozen area of the night sky. You realize that there are gold pieces frozen in sporadically all throughout the wall, the floor, the ceiling here. The actual, whatever wealth this dragon has acquired is in some way shape or form embedded in its own lair. Anyway. So we have the three of you up front. Who's up next? I imagine we've got Trinket.
Laura: Yeah. Me.
Matt: All right, so you guys all continue to move forward?
Mary: Not too close!
Laura: Scanlan!
Matt: There? Where do you want to stop? You guys have laser pointers to use, by the way, if you want to point out wherever you want to be.
Laura: Scanlan should definitely talk to him.
Taliesin: I would like to go around here.
Felicia: Oh glorious Rimefang, we have an offering for you!
Taliesin: That's not me.
Sam: Is that you? Hello.
Matt: No, that was you, sorry. So Percy goes here.
Laura: Over by Percy. But further.
Felicia: Is that 90 feet?
Sam: It's less than that. We're 30 feet away now.
Laura: Oh, come on, giants. Help us out.
Matt: So as you guys enter the chamber, the actual air here is more still and cold than at any point of the interior of the cavern has been. Even breathing inward hurts in itself as the freezing air hits your lungs. Rimefang sits there, perched on top of this central platform, grinning down towards the rest of the group. You, who have shouted this out, Lyra, about having an offering. Rimefang immediately leans forward. "An offering, you say?"
Laura: I want to make my way further up. While he's talking, I want to make my way along the wall a little.
Matt: Make a stealth check.
Laura: Oh no. 20! Natural 20! And all I needed was fried chicken! (laughter)
Travis: It's true.
Matt: All right, so. You, somehow, manage to dart out of the visual reference of a very focused adult white dragon. Rimefang does not seem to gather any movement, and you vanish into the side. Where do you want to go?
Laura: A little bit further. There. That sounds good.
Matt: Okay. Percy, as you're stepping over you realize you're stepping onto what looks like the broken lower half of another giant that has fallen over, a booted leg and part of an eaten armored torso to your back. As you begin to look through, you also see there currently frozen in place three other individuals that are in mid-battle and are frozen solid.
Laura: If we unfreeze them, they could help us.
Felicia: They're probably dead in there.
Travis: We're standing in front of a dragon!
Sam: Rimefang?
Mary: Oh great Rimefang! What a glorious moon you are amidst the stars of your treasure.
Travis: Oh, pour it on, why don't you? (laughter)
Mary: We do have an offering for you.
Sam: Yes. And I use Mage Hand to lift the diamond out of the bag and dangle it in front of the dragon. We've brought you this diamond. We've come from the Slayer's Take. We represent the guild and we are here to formally apologize for sending a few of our members here in the past and promise that we never shall again, and as a gift of apology and hopefully brotherhood, we offer you this diamond. There are many more to come.
Taliesin: And everything else in the bag, as well.
Laura: And then you put it back in the bag. And then you give it to him.
Matt: There's this low, guttural snarl (snarls). It leans forward, sneaking down off the perch a little bit. Its head moves forward and stretches outward, no more than maybe ten feet from your face. You can see it inspecting the diamond as you're holding it by the Mage Hand, floating above the rest of the bag. Chuckles to itself. (chuckles) "This is your measly offering?"
Sam: There is a diamond of much greater size and value in this pouch. But first, we want to hear that you are going to allow us safe passage out of here before we turn it over to you.
Matt: Persuasion check.
Zac: Guys, just so you know, the stream's buffering, so hold. Twitch problems.
Felicia: Oh no.
Zac: Hold for buffer.
Matt: Do we know at what point it started buffering?
Zac: You're back up. Missing the last two sentences. Buffer over.
Sam: Please allow us safe passage. And then you said roll for persuasion, and I rolled a 19.
Matt: Rimefang's head withdraws back and its claws pull back on top of the platform. It lifts its head up, looking down at you with this very disinterested, snooty look (huffs). As it snorts out of its nose, this puff of frost shoots out and crystals of ice fall and clatter to the ground around it.
Sam: That was so cool.
Matt: "You. You trespass into my domain, your voices bickering and bouncing off the walls, annoying me, waking me from my slumber. My freshly eaten slumber. I am curious, before you so walk into my dinner table, why you seem to have gotten past my guardians?" At which point the two giants who are standing behind you look over at each other nervously.
Sam: Your guardians are well aware of our power and position and did not want to offend you by turning us away.
Matt: "Are you to tell me I spared your insignificant lives so you could let this insulting, insufferable insect into the heart of my domain?"
Sam: I'm called Burt Reynolds, and I take great offense at that.
Matt: The dragon's head turns to the side for a moment as a glance of confusion and almost amusement that you speak up to it with such a disrespectful manner. (evil laughter)
Sam: You can call me Mr. Reynolds or simply Burt.
Matt: (heavy impacts) Its claws dig in and tighten on the edges of this platform. You can see the stonework and the ice crack and shatter under its grip as pieces of stone tumble down the edges of the platform, scattering across the ground with a slight clattering. The wings (whoosh) unfurl outward. Its head looks down upon you directly. "Burt." (laughter)
Matt: "You say you're from the Slayer's Take. I have not lived these hundred years or so to become the hunted. I am the hunter! I am the scourge of the Thorain Tundra! I am the stalker of this timberland. Well. Parts of you shall adorn my walls, glittering in pieces for times to come. Giants. To my side! Tonight, you choose whether I dine on you or just them."
Mary: I use-- fuck me. (laughter)
Taliesin: I don't know if you have that spell.
Felicia: Really, what's the DC on that?
Mary: It's very high! I use Awakened Mind to once more say, now we have seen what you have been through. We see the terror that you face every day from this awful beast. This is your chance. You may not have another. Fight him with us and destroy this beast forever.
Matt: Make a persuasion check versus the dragon's intimidation check.
Sam: Oh, versus a dragon!
Laura: Natural 20 all the way. Natural 20. I've had my bow notched, and I cast Hunter's Mark while all this is going on.
Mary: 18. 18 plus what?
Sam: What is it, persuasion?
Matt: Persuasion.
Mary: Plus nine. 27.
Matt: The giants look at each other, and they look down at the rest of you. They pull their axes out, shields at the ready, and look back up at Rimefang, and in Giant you hear, muttered under their breath, "It's now or never." (cheering)
Matt: Roll initiative.
Mary: Yes!
Laura: Oh my god.
Felicia: Oh my god.
Taliesin: Oh my god.
Felicia: Oh, I rolled lower!
Laura: I rolled a 20.
Taliesin: I rolled another 20.
Laura: Me too!
Travis: What is it with you and your 20s?
Taliesin: I don't know! I don't know what happened.
Matt: Okay, all right. 25 to 20, anyone?
Laura: 25.
Taliesin: 28.
Mary: What?!
Matt: All right. We have Percy, we have Vex, leaving that up there. All right, we have 20 to 15?
Travis: 19.
Matt: 19, nice. 15 to ten?
Mary: 12.
Matt: 12. Zahra, 12. Ten to five?
Sam: Seven.
Matt: Seven for Scanlan. (laughing) what did you roll?
Felicia: Negative one! (laughter)
Mary: That's our leader!
Matt: Did you roll a natural one?
Felicia: I rolled a one, and I have a negative two.
Travis: On your initiative?!
Felicia: Yes! I'm never going. I'm going to just have a snack.
Travis: You break out the trail mix.
Taliesin: The little gingers come back out.
Felicia: Is that a record?
Travis: That is a record. I don't think we've ever had a negative initiative.
Matt: All right, so as the wings unfurl on top of this platform, the combat round begins with Percy.
Taliesin: If I take one shot, can I hold my second shot until an event? Can I time my second shot?
Matt: No, you'd have to hold your initiative, or you do all your actions in one round, unfortunately.
Taliesin: Darn it. What initiative did you roll, again?
Sam: Low. Second to last.
Taliesin: In that case, I'm going to take a few steps behind that frozen creature right there. I'm going to pull out Bad News.
Mary: (singing) Bad News!
Sam: (singing) Bad News!
Taliesin: (singing) Bad News!
Taliesin: I'm going to aim for the face. I'm going to take a head shot on him.
Matt: Okay, the frozen warrior is in front of you.
Taliesin: I'm just using him as partial cover.
Matt: Okay, so you're behind the creature. Are you just putting it on it to aim?
Taliesin: More or less. I'm using him as a steady and as partial cover as I take a head shot on the dragon. I'm not taking a bonus for damage, no. Oh. 15?
Matt: 15 unfortunately does not hit. As you shoot, (gunshot), it actually hits the body but the hardness of the dragon's scales ricochets the shot off, (ricochet sound), you see it impact on some part of the far side of the cavern.
Taliesin: I'm going to burn a bonus action and spend another grit point and do another shot.
Matt: So you're doing your action surge?
Taliesin: I'm taking my action surge.
Matt: Okay, so you use your action surge, and that's it for this round. You use your first round to reload Bad News and place it back up on top.
Taliesin: Come on.
Matt: Another head shot, you said?
Taliesin: Yeah. Oh! 19! That's much better. Plus 12, that's 32 to hit. And that's 15 points of damage, and head shot means he's got disadvantage on all attacks for the next round.
Matt: Okay, good to know. So I'm going to go ahead and roll. All right, so. (gunshot) From the impact of the blast, you see the shot ricochet off of Rimefang's face. The impact sends a couple pieces of white dragon scale shooting off into the darkness, and the head (grunts) rears from the impact, shakes, seemingly loosely shaken by the impact of the blast. The blowback from the gun actually sends a large crack through the physical body of the ice warrior ahead of you, and it collapses into a pile of ice on the ground in front of you.
Taliesin: I feel a little guilty about that. I feel very guilty about that.
Matt: You get the feeling that whatever was there probably has not been alive for quite a while.
Taliesin: Okay, I feel a little better.
Matt: Frozen solid. It breaks like the T-1000.
Taliesin: And he was the most useful he's ever been.
Matt: That ends Percy's turn. We're up at Vex.
Laura: Okay, I'm going to cast Lightning Arrow, and I'm going to attack through my Blazing Bow.
Matt: All righty.
Laura: Okay. Oh, that's good! That is a 25?
Matt: 25? 25 does hit, yes.
Laura: Okay, so that is 4d8 of lightning damage.
Matt: All right. Saving throw for half? Or just take it?
Laura: Saving throw for half, yes.
Matt: That's a natural 20 on its saving throw, so it takes half damage.
Felicia: That's some stink-eye.
Matt: Hey, better on a saving throw than on an attack.
Laura: 13 plus six is 19, 20, so ten. Plus regular damage, right? For my regular. 19. I know. 11 plus ten is 21, plus Hunter's Mark is four. And then plus my Blazing Bow, which adds another ten. Where did that land? Shit, balls! I'm so aggressive right now! I'm going to roll a different one! Oh my god. That looks like a one. Oh wow. Two ones. That's great.
Matt: So as you pull back your arrow, the actual shaft begins to spark with bluish energy as you release it. The arrow transforms (energy noises) into an arcing bolt of electrical energy. It impacts and courses through the upper torso of the dragon, as it's (grunts) still trying to shake off the damage it took from Percy's attack. It manages to push off most of the impact, but still takes damage from it. There's also a burst of fire from the impact, as well, you can see a bit of flame trickle up the side of his body and it eventually goes out from the cold in the air.
Laura: That was one attack.
Matt: Yes.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: But was the spell an action?
Laura: The Lightning Arrow is a bonus.
Matt: Oh, okay. So it makes your next attack do that. Right. Gotcha. So you have one more attack.
Laura: So I am going to send Trinket. Where is he?
Matt: Trinket's over here with the giants guarding him.
Laura: Dear lord. Can Trinket run around and attack his butt?
Matt: It's actually up on top of a 15-foot platform.
Laura: Oh, so Trinket can't do shit right now.
Matt: Not right now, but Trinket can move if you like.
Laura: Trinket's going to move, and I'm going to attack again, can I do that?
Matt: Yeah, you can do that.
Laura: We want to spread out.
Matt: That's as far as Trinket get can get, there.
Laura: Can I attack again?
Matt: You can, yeah.
Laura: All right, I'll hit him again. Okay, just a regular attack through the bow.
Matt: Yep. This is your second use of it, though; you're done with it.
Laura: Yes. 17.
Matt: 17. As you fire the arrow, it takes its wing and (whoosh) batters it out of the way, and the arrow shatters in mid air. You see a burst of fire as it does nothing.
Laura: It was a 25 that hit before. What was the first attack that hit?
Taliesin: I was in the 30s.
Matt: So that ends your turn, Vex. Do you want to move, or do you want to stay right there?
Laura: Can I stealth?
Matt: (laughs) No, that's a hide action, I think.
Laura: Then I'm going to move along the wall further. Yeah, like that.
Matt: That ends your turn. Rimefang, now, shaking off the frustration, looks around the room, lifts up on its back hind legs, spreads its wings, and just gives this large roar. (roars) The entire room shakes, and you see pieces of ice and rock begin to start falling from the ceiling. Everybody, go ahead and make a wisdom saving throw. Everybody. One giant is fine. All right, starting with Percy.
Taliesin: 12.
Matt: 12.
Felicia: 15.
Sam: Natural 20, but it becomes 18.
Matt: Okay.
Felicia: Because you're not wise.
Mary: 21.
Matt: All right.
Laura: Ten.
Matt: Grog?
Travis: Nine?
Matt: That's rough.
Travis: Very wise.
Sam: Oh, lots of red circles.
Matt: All right, so. The sheer amount of presence that this dragon permeates sends a shiver of fear down your spine. Vex, Percy, Grog, and one of the giants are currently frightened of the dragon. While you are frightened, you have disadvantage on ability checks and attack rolls, and you cannot willingly move closer to the dragon.
Laura: Is Trinket frightened?
Matt: Roll for Trinket.
Laura: Okay. Come on, Trinket. No! He's probably pretty frightened. Oh, does that count as intimidation?
Matt: No, it's a wisdom saving throw. So it's whatever his wisdom bonus is.
Laura: He rolled an eight, so I'm guessing he's pretty scared.
Matt: Probably scared. Trinket, all of a sudden also (scared bear noises) backs up a little bit and is looking equally frightened, especially seeing you scared. Trinket feels a moment of fear there.
Laura: You've still got a really big dick!
Felicia: What?
Laura: I'm just telling him to encourage him.
Travis: I missed something.
Sam: Not the dragon. Although, probably the dragon too.
Matt: Rimefang then (whoosh) flies up into the air for a minute. And then swoops over and lands over on this side, and that's going to end its turn. That brings us to Grog.
Travis: I got to break it, right?
Matt: Yeah, you're scared.
Travis: Rage? I look over my shoulder, terrified, at the other one that's scared, and I say, repeat after me, lads. I would like to rage.
Matt: You reach into your inner self, and suddenly you realize this is it. You know dragons, you've fought dragons in the past, you've killed dragons in the past, and you know dragons have been responsible for hurting some of your friends and their families, and through that, that anger just billows up from inside, and that fear shakes from your body.
Travis: I want to kill a dragon like my friend Pike did.
Matt: You're now in a rage. You shake the fear effect, and you can take the rest of your turn as you see fit.
Travis: (battle cry) I would like to run over that direction.
Sam: Oh, you're running away from it?
Matt: You rage-ran.
Travis: I rage-ran. Can I attack?
Matt: You're currently hiding behind a 15-foot platform.
Travis: So I can't see beyond it?
Matt: You're literally hiding from the dragon right now. Cool. All right, that ends your turn? Zahra, you're up.
Mary: All right, how far away is it from me?
Matt: It is currently 30 feet from you.
Mary: All right.
Matt: Real fast. Grog, make a dexterity saving throw.
Travis: 13?
Matt: 13?
Laura: What was that for?
Matt: As you're running through, all of a sudden the floor gives out from underneath you, and you roll off to the side. You almost fall in, catching yourself, you slide down into a pit, but manage to get your handhold on a piece of stone that's jutting out of the rock. Pull yourself up. Underneath where you were in the ground is a cracked piece of ice: a pit in the ground.
Laura: Seriously?
Matt: But you're fine. You get back up to your feet. That could've been really bad. It's about 15 feet down into these jagged shards of ice.
Laura: My passive perception is 21. Just for future reference.
Matt: Good to know. You also have no light source. You're at the far back in the darkness. Actually, you have Grog around you right now.
Mary: And I still have Light cast.
Matt: Yeah, so you're fine. All right. That brings us to Zahra, once again.
Mary: I cast my bonus Hex on this beautiful beast.
Matt: It is now Hexed, as well.
Sam: What's that do? What's that?
Mary: I get extra damage.
Travis: You sexy tailed bastard.
Mary: I take my dark dragon staff, and as this moon orb begins to glow, I cast Witch Bolt-- is that it?-- yes! Witch Bolt upon it! Infused with my own internal moon fire.
Matt: All right. Do you have to roll to hit on that one?
Mary: Witch Bolt? Yeah, what do I do? It's plus 11. 5d12 plus two.
Laura: Yeah, so roll and then add 11.
Mary: 13.
Laura: Oh, that's good.
Mary: 24, plus two damage to all spells cast, so 26?
Laura: No, that's damage.
Mary: Oh, sorry, 24.
Matt: All right, so Witch Bolt does hit. Go ahead and roll damage for that.
Mary: So 5d12. Five times. All right. Do math for me, somebody. What is that? That's a three.
Travis: Three plus the two, so that's five.
Laura: You do it all and then add the two.
Travis: Oh, gotcha. Seven.
Mary: That's four.
Travis: Yeah. Plus four. 19. 26. 38.
Mary: One more?
Laura: No, that's all five.
Matt: Five, and you add 1d6 to that because of your Hex.
Laura: Plus two, so 38 is 40.
Mary: One.
Matt: Okay. So 41 points.
Mary: Yeah.
Laura: Plus anything else? Wait, plus two damage to all-- oh, but that's already--
Travis: That's already there.
Matt: Okay, so. After you Hex it, you can see the shadows around the dragon begin to form and coalesce around its torso, and as it looks around, these small demonic faces that cackle as bits of moonlight begin to pierce through these grins chokehold around its neck, and as it tries to shake it off, you bring your staff forward, and this bolt of bluish-green electrical energy shakes out in what looks like a piercing arc of jagged moonlight that strikes right into the center of the dragon's chest. As it does, the dragon's nearly pushed off its feet for a second, gathers itself, and you can see that energy surrounds it like magical shackles, it continues to keep its hold on the creature, as Witch Bolt does. All right. Do you wish to move, or are you going to stay where you are? You can move 30 feet, six squares.
Mary: I'd like to go stand by the giants.
Travis: You're already there.
Matt: Yeah, you're right here. It's hard for you to see because that guy's in the way, but you're right there.
Mary: All right. No, the other way. Blinding players as we go. Where am I? I'm there? I'd like to move to the slight cover of the pedestal.
Matt: You can get that far. All right, so there you are. That ends your turn, Zahra. Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: My eyes begin to change to a dark shade as I turn my gaze to the dragon and cast Eyebite on him.
Travis: What? Cast what?
Sam: Eyebite.
Matt: All right. And how are you having that affect him?
Sam: I would like to sicken him. Give him a little tummy-ache.
Travis: Is he going to do the twirls?
Matt: Okay, we're going to do Eyebite here.
Sam: Through my Hand Cone of Clarity!
Matt: All right. So wisdom saving throw for the dragon. Use my meteor dice one of the fans out there sent. All right, what's the DC on that now total?
Sam: It's 19.
Matt: 19. That would fail. It's going to use its legendary resistance to choose to succeed instead.
Sam: It can just choose to succeed?!
Travis: How many times can it choose to do that?!
Matt: Three times per day. Welcome to fighting a dragon!
Sam: What? But that was a cool spell!
Matt: So as your eyes darken, the dragon's currently surrounded by the Witch Bolt and the Hex on the creature. You darken your eyes, and you look over and see the arcane energy taking your vision, its vision, combine it in midair. As you do, it shakes its head and (roars) shouts. You instinctively pull back, and as you do, the spell drifts away from you and you realize the incantation's lost.
Travis: Percy, use your badass motherfucker feat to have it work.
Sam: Okay, can I throw with a bonus action?
Matt: What are you going to throw?
Sam: A bag.
Matt: No, that's probably more of an action, but you can drop it as a bonus action.
Sam: Got it. Then I will move a few steps away. I can still move and stuff, right? I would like to move away from this group of soon-to-be-blasted-with-dragon-fire people. Just a few yards away to my left.
Matt: All right.
Sam: That's fine, sure, that's great. And give some inspiration to Lyra. I'll say, (singing) When the moon hits your eye like a big pizza pie, that's Aldor-e. (cheering)
Travis: Yeah, going deep.
Matt: And suddenly, the fear that's getting close to clutching your heart and giving you every instinct to run from this, you hear the name Aldor, and you feel that surge of warmth fill your body, and the need to push on forward. Go ahead and take a d10 inspiration dice to use in any roll you want.
Felicia: Oh my gosh, thank you so much. That's beautiful.
Sam: Well, I wrote it for you.
Matt: All right. That ends your turn, Scanlan. Now the giants go. This one is going to move to the side. It's deathly afraid of the dragon, it's like, this is a bad idea, it's really regretting its decision. It's going to attempt to shake the effect. And does so. (cheering)
Matt: Shakes its fright. The other one is going to step over you. As you're like, all of a sudden this foot goes (wham) in front of you, you're like, (nervous sound).
Felicia: Oh my god, I got hit with his dick. (laughter)
Travis: What were their names? Ace and Base?
Sam: Ace and Gary.
Mary: Ace and Gary.
Matt: The giant's going to move forward. It's going to attempt to make two strikes with its greataxe. That's going to be a 17, that misses. And a 16, that misses. (whooshing) Makes two strikes to the dragon, and it just dodges out of the way. The second one, it reaches up with its claw and slaps, just parries its axe out of the way and just glares at it, and you can see at that moment, the giant also itself is like (growls). Ending their turn. Lyra, you're up.
Felicia: Oh, what? Finally me? All right. I am going to get my big spell out. Now, can I target its wing and try to Disintegrate-- can I try to cut its wing off?
Matt: You know what, yeah, if you want to go ahead and try that. It's going to be a disadvantage on the attack roll.
Felicia: What is that?
Travis: Roll it twice and you get the lower number.
Matt: But does Disintegrate have--
Felicia: It doesn't have a DC.
Matt: Then it would have an advantage on the saving throw.
Felicia: Oh, okay. No, I'm going to try to hit it. It's my big gun, I don't want to be like, sorry. I'm like, I just did this and it looked amazing.
Sam: Which one are you doing?
Felicia: I'm doing Disintegrate. And it's 10d6 plus a d10, plus 40. Right? It's not the best roll, guys. There's a lot of small numbers here.
Travis: Yeah, it's only got plus 40. It's a pretty shrimpy hit.
Laura: Wait, plus 40?
Matt: Yeah, it's 10d6 plus 40 force damage.
Travis: I need to get a wand.
Matt: Disintegrate's nasty.
Felicia: 39.
Matt: 39 plus 40? All right, that's 79 points of damage. What's the DC? It's 17 on that for your spells?
Felicia: Yes.
Matt: It does make its saving throw, so half damage. But rounding up, that's 40 damage still. 40 force damage to the dragon. As you, with the swelling of energy that Scanlan gave you reminding you of Aldor, you release and once again that sickeningly green beam of arcane energy just streaks out, hits the dragon, and with a burst of arcane energy you can see part of its scales have withered, part of its wing is now tattered and missing, and immediately the physical form of the dragon, it's reeling in pain.
Laura: So if we aim at that area that doesn't have scales...
Matt: You'll find out.
Mary: But you've still got the Witch Bolt wrapping around him, yeah?
Matt: That is focused.
Felicia: I definitely want to move. I want to move over there behind that-- over here. Yeah. So I'm a little less conspicuous.
Matt: All righty. Cool. That will be the top of the round. Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: Still no hand-grenade.
Matt: No. The fear has shaken you, so you cannot move closer to it, and you have disadvantage on attacks.
Taliesin: What do I do to shake the fear?
Matt: At the end of your turn, you make a saving throw to try and shake it. You can't move closer to it, but you can still attack it. You cannot move closer to it, and your attacks have disadvantage.
Taliesin: Okay, I'm going to try and take a shot at it with a standard shot for right now.
Matt: Okay. So because you've shot, reloaded, shot, reloaded. Go for it.
Taliesin: 17. Wait, and with disadvantage.
Felicia: Oh no. That's a great 20 you can't use.
Matt: Yeah. So a total of 17? As you fire, it would've hit, unfortunately it streaks through the portion of the wing that currently is left a gaping hole thanks to the Disintegrate spell, the impact of the bullet itself blasting against the back wall, sending chunks and shards of ice spilling off in the distance.
Taliesin: I would like to really quickly then go into that little corner there for some cover.
Matt: Okay. All right. Cool, so that ends your turn. Vex, you're up next.
Taliesin: Oh, I didn't roll to shake off the fear.
Matt: Go ahead and make the save.
Travis: (singing) Shake it off.
All: (singing) Shake it off!
Matt: What'd you roll?
Taliesin: Five.
Matt: Five, yeah. The fear is still clutching you internally, like, "Shit, dragon, bad, dragon!" Vex.
Laura: Can I see him at all?
Matt: Right now? No. You can see parts of the wings fluttering over, but you don't have a very good visual on it.
Laura: And he's pretty far away?
Matt: He's decent distance, yeah.
Laura: If I just try to (bowstring noise) up?
Matt: You can try to. It has three-quarters cover, so it gets a plus five to its armor class.
Laura: And I'm at disadvantage. Does it seem like if I cast something that would do mass damage, would the giant then not want to attack with us anymore?
Matt: That's a risk you'd have to take.
Travis: Drop some stank on that dragon.
Laura: I'm scared to hit the giant with it. Because I want to do Conjure Barrage, but I'm afraid of the giant.
Felicia: Well, if you do damage to him, the spell breaks.
Laura: Exactly. So that would be bad.
Sam: But he's not fighting for us because of a spell right now. We convinced him.
Felicia: Well.
Taliesin: Well.
Laura: Potentially.
Travis: Look at the poker face on that DM. Giving up nothing. Giving up nothing!
Felicia: Stone-faced.
Laura: Should I try it?
Taliesin: I don't know. What do I know?
Mary: If we damage it, this spell that I've been talking to him with goes (poof).
Laura: All right, then I'm going to try to hit the dragon with a regular attack. I'm not going to do Conjure Barrage.
Matt: All right, so what's the first range increment on your longbow?
Laura: It's 120.
Matt: That's the first range increment? Yeah, it's a longbow, yeah. So you're not at disadvantage from that shot. However, it does have three-quarters cover. And given that circumstance--
Taliesin: Does she not have sharpshooter?
Laura: I don't. That's not the feat that I took. I took read lips. I'm really good in populated areas.
Matt: So go for it and roll for the attacks.
Laura: Okay, cool. Here we go! Yeah, no. Doesn't hit. (laughter)
Felicia: We're going to die!
Matt: You pull back and release the first arrow. It actually just barely scrapes the top of the platform and shatters across the ice.
Mary: Come on!
Laura: That's better! 27!
Matt: 27, even with the three-quarters cover, does hit! Go ahead and roll damage. (cheering)
Laura: Okay. What is that? 12, 13, 14! Plus a d6, because I'm badass! Plus six! That's 19. That's not even close to 40, but it does something.
Matt: It's still damage! So as you release the arrow, it just misses the top of the platform, and you get just enough of an angle that it hits one of the wings as it pulls it up, sticks into the part of its hand that crests the top of the wing. It (growls)--
Laura: And I say, fuck you!
Matt: Okay. And it echoes, "Fuck you, fuck you..." Do you or Trinket wish to move?
Laura: We're as far away as we can be, and I can't move any closer.
Matt: That's true. So now you and Trinket both make wisdom saving throws to try and shake the fear. Oh, and you're frightened, so actually, roll again on the attack. Disadvantage on the attacks. Just roll again. You're frightened.
Laura: No, both of those sucked. The first one was 20. 20 was the first!
Matt: So a total of 20 for the second roll? Well, that would hit. Well no, it has three-quarters cover so it wouldn't, unfortunately.
Laura: Matthew Mercer.
Matt: You were frightened! It's part of the effect. I had to remind myself that. So the arrow splinters off the top of the wing as it reaches upward, and you still feel the fear clutching your physical self.
Laura: Now we try to shake it off.
Matt: Now you try and shake it off.
Laura: (sings) I shake it off.
Mary: (sings) Shake it off!
Matt: First roll is for you.
Laura: I do not succeed. It's a three.
Matt: That would be a no, sorry. For Trinket?
Laura: 20! Why did you say the first one was for me? Why couldn't the second one be for me?
Matt: Because that's how it works. So while you're still scared, you look over and you see Trinket shakes it off. Trinket looks over his shoulder at you and gives you a nod of like, I got this. Turns back to the dragon and gives a (roars) giant grizzly-bear growl and shout at the dragon. Do you wish to move at all?
Laura: Where is he?
Matt: Trinket's right here.
Laura: He's going to run up for the time being and hide. Give me this.
Felicia: Hide? Why is everyone hiding?!
Laura: He's not hiding! He's going to run up to this area so that he's got a better vantage point to run up for the next turn.
Matt: That's about as far as Trinket can get right there.
Laura: He can't get any further into this little crevice?
Matt: Unfortunately, no.
Laura: Can he run right here?
Matt: Trinket could move here instead. That's as far as Trinket could move on his movement.
Laura: That's not really protecting him, is it?
Matt: No, but it's not over in a cluster of other people.
Laura: All right.
Matt: All right. Does that end your turn? Rimefang, who currently has this giant in its face, angrily decides to instead, as a legendary action at the end of your turn, actually, before it takes its turn as you've misfired and Trinket's running along, it's going to go ahead and use one of its legendary actions to do a wing attack against the giant in front of it.
Mary: No, Derek!
Travis: (laughs) Derek. It's Gary.
Mary: Gary. He told me telepathically that his name is actually Derek.
Matt: This is an interesting point. Remember, this is a dragon. It's your favored enemy. So keep that in mind, you have an advantage on attacks against it.
Laura: Do I? No, I don't. I looked it up today, yo. I don't get shit on attacks for him because we transferred over from Pathfinder. All I can do is talk to him.
Matt: The chat keeps yelling that the favored enemy--
Laura: Well, chat, I looked it up, and I don't think I have advantage.
Matt: That's true, chat. You're wrong. (shouting)
Laura: I literally texted Matt today and I was super upset.
Zac: Did chat try to challenge the DM?
Matt: Apparently.
Laura: Seriously, I thought I had it, too, and then I looked it up. In fifth edition, I don't get that.
Matt: As a favored enemy, she gets benefits, but not specifically in battle. It's more about knowing--
Sam: I appreciate the chat. Please, keep it coming.
Mary: Couldn't that inspire Vex in some way? Don't you get an inspiration roll from the chat?
Matt: Sorry.
Felicia: You know what's good is that it's a different team next week, because we're all going to die.
Mary: No! Lyra, you're our leader, come on!
Matt: Sorry, chat. You're wrong. Tried to go with you there, but you're wrong.
Laura: I shouldn't have even said anything, I should've just gone with you. I'm an idiot.
Matt: That's okay. No worries, but thank you for being honest and wrong, chat. All right, nevertheless. It's going to do a wing attack against the giant in front of it. The giant is trying to make a dexterity saving throw. Does not. The giant is knocked prone from the wings (whoosh) buffeting it with wind as it begins to take off, knocking the giant back and dealing 13 points of bludgeoning damage. The dragon then picks up and lands right there. And rears back its head (snarling roar) and unleashes a torrent of freezing cold dragon's breath. A 60-foot cone. It's going to hit the giant, it's going to hit Lyra, and it's going to hit Percy.
Taliesin: Do I not have some cover?
Matt: Not against dragon's breath, unfortunately. So I need both of you guys to go ahead and make a constitution saving throw from the sheer freezing cold.
Felicia: Oh no. That didn't go well for me.
Sam: Plus three.
Felicia: Oh, that's true. No, that's damage.
Taliesin: 20.
Sam: Wait. She gets my inspiration on this throw.
Matt: If she chooses to use it, yes.
Felicia: Yes, I definitely want to use it.
Matt: So add a d10 to what you rolled.
Felicia: Ten! Thank god, because that's a 21.
Matt: 21, okay. All right, so both of you take half of the 54 damage it would've dealt.
Laura: 54 damage?
Matt: You both take 27 points of cold damage. The giant that had been partially disintegrated before by Lyra now takes the brunt of the frozen damage, and you can now see the ice begins to build up around it as it (gurgling) gurgles as its life's blood is now stilled. While frozen in place, the ice around its physical form holding it there as a statue of death. The giant is no more.
Travis: No!
Mary: No!
Laura: What? No!
Sam: Grog, go get his axe! It's really big!
Laura: Is it too big to carry? He's got a flaming axe right now.
Matt: All right, and that ends Rimefang's turn. Grog, you're up.
Travis: I would like to race back from whence I came to attack his right flank, if I could.
Matt: You could get there. You will have to make-- actually, no, you can move through there without an issue.
Travis: Also, I have darkvision up to 60 feet.
Matt: You rush up towards the dragon.
Travis: I'd like to take my Firebrand Warhammer and activate it. Ignite it.
Matt: As a bonus action. Well, it's already been ignited, you've had it flaming this whole time.
Travis: Oh, beautiful, yeah. It's like a torch, which means I can see even better. I'd like to go into a frenzied rage and start swinging away.
Matt: All right, so three attacks on the big old dragon.
Travis: 19.
Matt: 19 does hit.
Travis: Beautiful. 25.
Matt: Does hit.
Travis: And 23.
Matt: All three hit. Go ahead and roll damage.
Laura: Okay, so this is the new thing. d10 plus five plus eight. Plus another--
Travis: d10?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: You're hitting with a weapon that's not as big as your greataxe, but you do an additional 1d6 fire damage when you hit.
Travis: Holy shit. Ah!
Matt: d10 and a d6 together three times. Plus eight to each.
Travis: Three d10s?
Laura: Yes. Plus 3d6.
Matt: Plus eight to what you roll on both of those.
Travis: You threw a bunch of numbers at me.
Matt: All right, so a d10 and a d6 plus eight.
Travis: 19.
Matt: 19 damage.
Travis: Do I do that three times? Oh, wow. 19, and that's 12.
Matt: 12, all right.
Travis: 12 and then, help me numbers, that's--
Laura: Oh, that's good, 16. Plus? Ooh. 21.
Matt: Nice. (whack) As you bring the warhammer down, it smacks the side of the dragon, the flames all of a sudden burst off of it from the impact, you can see as you pull back, the white scales are burned and charred and blackened behind from the first attack. You bring it back, slam again on the second part. As you do, the dragon roars out in pain, the actual force of the impact almost sending it to catch itself on the other side of its body. Its head swings around to look at whoever's slamming it in the side as you bring the hammer back, swing underneath and then hit it from underneath the bottom of its torso, right where its ribs would be, with a (crunch) crack sound. You hit it a third time, leaving a second giant charred mark where you made impact.
Travis: Yes!
Matt: That'll end your turn. Zahra, you're up.
Mary: All right, I've still got Witch Bolt.
Matt: You do.
Mary: And it's still going, yes?
Matt: You don't have to roll to attack again. You just use your action.
Mary: I just fucking keep going with the fucking Witch Bolt. Can I use a cantrip, or will that dispel the Witch Bolt?
Matt: No, because most cantrips take an action. So you would not be able to. The Witch Bolt is your action. Almost all cantrips are actions to use them, so you'd be either able to use your action and the Witch Bolt, or use the cantrip. Your choice.
Mary: No, no, I'm going to stick with Witch Bolt. I'm very happy with this.
Matt: So you focus yet again, your eyes still glowing in that strange, midnight moon color with this black smoke that's framing the side of it. You take your staff and force your will through it once again. That connection between you and the dragon and that weird swirling greenish-blue energy that surrounds the dragon connects with your staff. And as it does, it sends another bolt of otherworldly energy careening into the side of the dragon. Go ahead and roll damage.
Laura: I watch her with my mouth agape.
Travis: d12.
Laura: Five times.
Travis: We got you.
Mary: 12. 17.
Travis: 19.
Laura: Ooh, 30.
Travis: Ooh, 30.
Laura: 37.
Mary: 37.
Laura: And one more.
Travis: No, that's five.
Matt: That was five. Then you roll a 1d6 on top of that.
Mary: Plus two on that.
Matt: All right, so 38, then a d6 from your Hex.
Mary: Six.
Matt: So 44 points of damage.
Laura: Nice!
Matt: As it once again, a giant piece of the dragon's scales shatter off the side, like you're cracking into the center of an icy, mountainous cragside. It's starting to show a little bit of damage. You guys are definitely taking this battle head-on pretty well so far.
Travis: I don't like the way he said that.
Matt: You're going to stay where you are, or are you going to move?
Mary: How close am I to it?
Matt: You're currently 20 feet away from the dragon. 15 is between the two of you.
Mary: All right. I stay within 30 feet of it.
Matt: All right, so you want to move this way?
Mary: I want to get up to the heavens. Oh, sorry. I'm going to actually, you know what? I'm going to move three feet backwards, that's it.
Matt: Okay, so you just step back? Okay. There you go. All right. That ends Zahra's turn. Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: How close am I?
Matt: You are currently about 20 feet away from the dragon.
Sam: All right. Yes. Hi. Scanlan here. I'll do, (singing) It's Bigby's Hand! Bigby's Hand. Shamone. I'll just punch him in his dragon face.
Matt: (laughs) Okay. You do a quick little hand gesture, hum to yourself the arcane ritual, and a very large, mystical see-through replica of your fist appears in the air above you and goes spinning off in the air in an arc. Straight up Popeye-punching towards the dragon. (laughs) Let's go ahead, and Bigby-- what do you have to roll for that?
Sam: Oh, I have to roll for that?
Matt: Let me see what the effect is on that, remind myself real fast. Bigby's Hand. All right, so it's an AC of 20. Or no, that's the hand, all right. Clenched fist, cool. So make a melee spell attack. So roll a d20 and then add your spell attack modifier.
Sam: That's the spell attack bonus thing? Okay. 19.
Matt: 19. (wham) Just barely hits as the fist goes slamming into the side of the dragon's face, big old Popeye punch to the side of the jaw. So go ahead and roll 4d8 points of force damage.
Sam: 4d8. I'm taking yours, and I hope that's okay. Ten, 13, 18, 21. Plus something?
Matt: That's 21 points of damage, nice. (whack) It gets socked in the jaw. The hand whips around again, preparing for the next round. Do you want to use anything, move, use your bonus action?
Sam: I'm 20 feet away. I will go 18 feet away from it and drop the grenade.
Matt: Okay. So you move forward right here?
Sam: Yeah, closer to it.
Matt: Okay. The grenade is right there on the ground that Percy made. All right. Going to stay where you are?
Sam: Can I keep moving?
Matt: You can keep moving. You moved 18 feet backward, you mean?
Sam: No, I had to move closer to it.
Matt: Right, so you moved three feet of your 25 feet, dropped it, and you still have 22 feet you can move.
Sam: But if I leave, he's going to whack me.
Matt: No, he's this far away. You have to be within a certain range for him to hit you.
Sam: Wait, how close did I put the grenade to him?
Matt: It's currently 18 feet away from him.
Sam: No, I wanted to put it two feet away from him.
Matt: Oh, I see! There, that makes more sense. So now there is a grenade on the ground, right there. You are there, right next to Grog. So yeah, you cannot move away without it taking a swipe.
Travis: Oh, look at that.
Sam: Hello, I'm a little gnome.
Travis: It's adorable.
Matt: All right. That ends your turn. The giant that's here gets up. That's half of its movement. It's enough to get there, moves up behind and is going to make two of its axe-swipes.
Mary: Hit him in the arse!
Felicia: Butthole.
Sam: That was crass.
Matt: 15 doesn't hit. Second attack is going to be a 13. It's rolling shit. It swings twice and manages to catch air.
Felicia: The most useless giant.
Matt: Apparently. But you know what, they didn't smash you yet. That's a good thing. That brings us to Lyra's turn.
Felicia: Question. Can I Fireball without hitting anybody who's friendly?
Matt: From this point of view, it's going to be very difficult to pull that off. It's a 20-foot radius, so it's going to hit everything within that sphere.
Travis: Oh, you actually care about us that much?
Mary: Can I use-- everybody is really close. All right.
Felicia: Okay, so I can't do that. I think I'm going to cast Hold Monster.
Matt: Hold Monster! You take your arcane thoughts and you put them around, imagining this arcane cage that begins to form out of the ether around the dragon. These bars (crash) and tighten around it. The dragon rolls a two for its saving throw. (cheering)
Matt: But it's going to use its Legendary Resistance to automatically succeed.
Felicia: How many of those does he have?!
Travis: He has one more.
Felicia: I need to move.
Matt: (laughs) The cage tightens around it, and the dragon takes its wings and (shattering) buffs it off, the arcane cage shatters and disappears into the air.
Felicia: I was going to be impressive. Okay. I'm going to get the H out. I'm going to get as far as I can in that corner. Yeah, thank you. Bye-bye.
Matt: All righty. Good to know. All right, that ends your turn. That brings us back to the top. Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: Okay, I'm going to-- That grenade is sitting on top of people right now, isn't it?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: You mean that hamster, right?
Matt: Your call, man.
Travis: Come on, live a little.
Taliesin: It's going to hit you.
Travis: Well, that's all right.
Laura: Yeah, but it's also going to hit Scanlan.
Matt: You still have disadvantage on your attacks, by the way.
Taliesin: Even if my attack is not against the dragon?
Matt: As long as it's within eyesight of you, you're scared.
Taliesin: Okay, in that case, I'm going to take a shot at the dragon for the moment.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: Forget about that.
Matt: Disadvantage on the shot.
Taliesin: 19.
Matt: 19. That's with disadvantage? Does hit. (cheering)
Taliesin: Oh, that's nice. 26 points of damage.
Matt: 26 points of damage, nice.
Sam: Hey! Percy.
Taliesin: I have moments.
Matt: All right, and you reload with the other one. You can't move closer to it. Do you wish to move at all?
Taliesin: No, I'm going to hold my position.
Matt: Okay. Before the end of your turn--
Taliesin: I was about to say, before I do that, I'm going to use a bonus action to do a quick heal. I'm going to use second wind.
Matt: Oh, a second wind, go for it. So you go ahead and heal yourself 1d10 plus your level.
Taliesin: That's 11 points of damage.
Matt: There you go. So you heal 11 points of damage. Before your turn is over, it's going to use its last legendary action to take its tail and swing around and whack it at the gnome that it heard sneak up behind it and drop something on the ground. That's going to be a natural 20. (shouting)
Laura: He said it so happily, too. Evil.
Taliesin: You're in trouble.
Sam: Wait, what did he do?
Matt: As you drop it, you look up and see its tail go (whoosh, whack).
Sam: Whoa, but can I sing real quick?
Matt: It's a natural 20. There's no way you can avoid this hit.
Sam: Maybe it'll fling me away from the grenade.
Felicia: (singing) Bye bye bye.
Travis: No, not cool!
Matt: 36 points of bludgeoning damage as the tail slams down onto you.
Laura: And also onto the grenade.
Sam: But it's not a concussion grenade.
Travis: Oh, I'm right fucking there! I was going to move!
Laura: I'm sorry!
Matt: And down onto the grenade you set on the ground. (boom)
Sam: Is it a concussion grenade? It's already armed, isn't it?
Matt: It is filled with black powder, and is a triggerable mechanism.
Laura: I'm sorry. I don't know why I said that.
Matt: I appreciate the reminder, because I totally forgot for a second. As it slams into you and the ground, it slams into the grenade and there's an explosion muffled sound from underneath its tail. I want Grog and Scanlan to go ahead and make dexterity saving throws.
Travis: Yes! 21.
Laura: Come on, Scanlan.
Sam: 20.
Matt: All right. Both of you guys manage to keep low to the ground, avoiding most of the blast.
Sam: I'm already low to the ground.
Matt: All right. Both of you guys take half damage from the strike. You both take 12 points of fire and bludgeoning damage.
Laura: Did the dragon take damage?
Matt: The dragon does not make its saving throw against it, though, and takes the full-- what'd I tell you guys? 12?
Sam: All right! The grenade worked! (cheering)
Matt: Pulls its tail up, and there's like a big arc of smoke off of its tail as it pulls it up and shakes out the pain that it just suffered.
Taliesin: Can I take this moment of engineering success to try and pull a wisdom saving throw against my fear that I missed on my turn?
Matt: That's right, forgot that. So go ahead and make your wisdom saving throw. The explosion was the inspiration you required.
Taliesin: Natural 20! (cheering)
Taliesin: It worked! (cackles)
Matt: With the explosion the grenade set off, you realize, wait, you might actually have this, and it worked! You could do this!
Taliesin: I built a thing! And it blew up! Kind of on purpose!
Matt: There you go. At the end of your turn, that's its final legendary action. Vex, you're up.
Laura: Can I try to shake off the attack?
Matt: At the end of your turn, you do.
Laura: Oh, at the end. But I was inspired by that explosion!
Matt: It was inspiring. It may help you shake it off at the end of the round.
Laura: Okay. I'm going to attack it. Oh, that's such a good roll.
Mary: That is. Oh, that's even better!
Laura: That's okay. It was a disadvantage. That's 27 with a disadvantage with the exploding arrow.
Matt: With the Exploding Arrow? That does hit.
Travis: More Percy goodness.
Laura: So what do I do? Do I just roll regular?
Matt: So go ahead and roll regular arrow damage. With an additional 2d6. Sorry, 3d6. Well, with the arrow, it's 2d6. The grenade was 3d6. You're 2d6.
Laura: Oh shit. 16 and then 3d6?
Matt: 3d8, sorry.
Laura: 3d8?!
Matt: Sorry. 3d8 was the grenade. 2d8 for the exploding arrow. 2d8.
Laura: 2d8.
Matt: Sorry. It's a lot of numbers.
Laura: That's okay, I'm going to roll them both. Okay. Six additional. Did I say what my other damage was. Was I speaking out loud?
Matt: Yeah, no. I marked it down. I also need Scanlan and Grog to make dexterity saving throws.
Laura: Oh no, I'm sorry, I'm stupid!
Sam: Wait, what did you just shoot at us?
Laura: An exploding arrow!
Sam: Nice.
Travis: 18.
Sam: 11.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: I also meant to say I was shooting from my Blood-Seeker Bow. I pulled it out and said I was going to do it.
Matt: You pull out your Blood-Seeker Bow?
Laura: I was going to shoot from my Blood-Seeker Bow for that.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Can I do that?
Matt: I'll let it. So it is now taking an ongoing ten points of bleeding damage? Now, you take three points of fire damage. Scanlan, you take six points of fire damage. You guys avoid the grenade, and then (arrow noises) a second explosion again.
Taliesin: I'm sorry. I'm a genius! I'm sorry! Sorry! Oh god, I'm clever.
Laura: So for my second attack, I want to throw Trinket in and I want Trinket to go up and attack him.
Matt: Trinket rushes in and is going to make two attacks at it.
Laura: He's going to do two claw attacks, so that's 2d4 each time.
Matt: Go for it. So go ahead and roll for the first strike. He's no longer scared, so Trinket does not have the disadvantage.
Laura: Okay, he doesn't hit on the first one. But the second one, he gets a 21!
Matt: 21 hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
Laura: Yes! Okay. Was I wrong?
Mary: That's 23.
Laura: Oh, okay. Either way.
Matt: It hits even harder!
Mary: It hits harder?
Matt: (Irish accent) Exactly. What's that about? Rightly so.
Laura: That's 13 extra damage for Trinket.
Matt: 13 extra damage as Trinket runs up, first strike hits the armor and just streaks across without damage, but as soon as the dragon turns around to see the giant brown bear that has gotten brave enough to strike it, its other claw goes and sinks into the side of one of its calves and tears a portion of the dragon's flesh. It (snarls) roars and Trinket, bringing its claw down, roars back at it. Dragon roar versus bear roar. All right. That ends your turn. It is now Rimefang's turn. Rimefang--
Mary: He has no more of these legendary saves, yes?
Sam: No, he has one.
Matt: Well, one more legendary resistance.
Felicia: He used a wing-buffet and then two saves.
Sam: He's got one more.
Felicia: Oh, one more save. Ugh.
Sam: If he chooses to use it. He might save it for later in the fight.
Matt: Great. So the dragon is now going to (flapping) fly--
Sam: No, he won't. I cast a spell on it as it retreats from me because I am a war caster.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: And I will cast Bigby's Hand to grapple that shit and pull him back down. (cheering)
Matt: That's right, you took the war caster feat. Okay.
Sam: Don't you fly away from me, motherfucker!
Travis: So hot for you right now.
Matt: All right, so you use your action to do Bigby's Clenched, no, Grasping Hand. No, it's--
Sam: It's the grapple one to pull its wings together so it can't fly away?
Matt: Yes. All right, so. So you use the hand's strength score, so go ahead and roll a d20 and then add plus eight to it.
Sam: 18 plus eight. 26.
Matt: As the dragon brings its wings up, the hand grabs its wings together and forces it back down to the ground. It shakes off the effect, but it's unable to fly away.
Sam: You will leave when Burt Reynolds tells you to leave! (laughter)
Matt: Okay. You also deal 2d6 plus five damage to it.
Sam: 2d6. That's another 18.
Matt: 18 points of damage as the hand crushes on it, holding it in place, it does not get a chance to move. All right. Angrily, in reaction to that, the dragon-- well, first off let me see. Does not get its breath weapon back yet, unfortunately. It is going to use multiattack, so it gets three attacks: one bite and two claw attacks. It's going to make all of them against you.
Sam: Of course it does. And thus ends Scanlan.
Travis: No!
Mary: No!
Matt: We'll make each attack as it goes. So the first attack against you is going to be the bite attack. That is a 23 to hit?
Sam: That hits.
Matt: All right.
Laura: Are you unconscious?
Sam: I will be very soon.
Matt: That's going to be 18 points of piercing damage.
Laura: Oh no, Scanlan's unconscious!
Matt: Are you unconscious? Okay. It would be an additional d8 points of cold damage. Scanlan falls unconscious on the ground. It's going to take a claw attack down. It's already all-in. Its second claw attack hits. You immediately fail a death saving throw from the second strike. The second claw attack hits you, as well, as it's focused on you. You've failed two death saving throws.
Laura: Oh my god!
Sam: It's a dragon.
Matt: That's the end of his turn. Grog, you're up.
Travis: I race over to Scanlan and I pour a level-3 healing potion into Scanlan's mouth.
Matt: Okay, so Grog, you use your action to pull out, grab Scanlan, and pour it into his mouth. This is the superior one?
Travis: Yes.
Matt: You heal 8d4 plus eight hit points.
Sam: Do I roll? Does he roll?
Matt: I'll let you roll for it; it's fine.
Sam: 8d4? Can I roll 4d8s?
Matt: (laughs) 8d4.
Sam: 8d4.
Matt: You have a better chance, actually.
Travis: This is my friend of the lady favors. I need him!
Matt: As you see the dragon bites down on him, he falls unconscious on the ground, the ice around his wounds, and his eyes just roll back into his head, unconscious. One claw slams down into his body, the gnome shakes from the impact. The second claw comes down into his torso and pulls back, you can see bits of flesh and muscle pull back from its claw as it pulls away, and Scanlan's on death's door. You rush over and grab and lift him up, take the healing potion, pop off the cork with your teeth, and you rage-feed him the potion. "Drink it!"
Sam: I'm at 19 now.
Matt: So you're at 19 hit points and you're conscious now, the wounds seal up. You've still failed two death saving throws. They're gone until the end of the battle.
Travis: Can I do anything else after I've poured it into his-- can I do anything else?
Matt: You have a bonus action.
Travis: Can I throw him the fuck away from the dragon? Pick him up and chuck him towards Lyra?
Matt: I'll say because you're frenzied raged, normally you would get an additional attack. I will say you can use that.
Travis: And I won't throw. I'll slide him on the icy floor towards Lyra.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and make an athletics check.
Travis: Okay. Natural 20. (cheering)
Matt: As he wakes up, Grog goes (grunts, whoosh) and slip-n-slides you across the icy floor. You come to a stop about 15 feet away-- actually, be about there. You're still prone; you're on the ground.
Laura: But you can take a potion on your turn, at least?
Travis: And I just turn around and give it the eyebrow of you're-fucking-dead.
Matt: (laughs) All right. That ends Grog's turn. Zahra, you're up.
Mary: Witch Bolt. Fucking Witch Bolt.
Matt: By the way, your Bigby's Hand has faded, because when you fell unconscious you lost concentration. Witch Bolt?
Mary: If you're still within range. I push even harder for Scanlan's sake.
Matt: All right. Go ahead and roll 5d12, I believe it is?
Mary: The fire turns from white to yellow. I'm raging. What is it?
Matt: Whatever the spell is. Is it 5d10 or 5d12?
Mary: It is 5d12.
Matt: There you go. 5d12 plus 1d6.
Mary: Eight. Give me some math here, guys.
Travis: Okay. 14. 29. 45.
Mary: 45 plus two.
Laura: 47.
Mary: Plus 11 attack.
Laura: No, 47, and 1d6.
Mary: 1d6. Six.
Matt: All right, so what's the total damage on that, then?
Laura: 53.
Mary: 51.
Matt: 51 points of damage.
Travis: Did I best you on math? It's a dark day when Grog beats Vex on math.
Mary: She's very upset about the whole Scanlan thing.
Laura: I'm still very scared!
Matt: That is nasty. All right, so. As you blast again, the fury of seeing Scanlan torn down to the ground and nearly devoured by this dragon, you blast again. This time the greenish-blue energy flaring up into a vibrant, angry yellow, and now you can see what once was almost like a bolt of arcane moon energy becomes an actual burning fire in its visual. Do you wish to move, or are you going to stay where you are?
Mary: I'm still how many feet away from him?
Matt: You are currently 20 feet away from him.
Mary: I will stay where I am.
Matt: All right.
Mary: Can I give-- no I can't, I'd have to go and give it to him, wouldn't I?
Matt: At the end of your turn, because it's regained its legendary actions, it's going to use a wing attack against Grog and every creature around it, including Trinket and the one giant. So as it takes the hit from the Witch Bolt, (heavy breathing) the arcane hand no longer grasping its wings, its wings flare out, (whoosh) and swings around with its wings, hitting everything around you. Dexterity saving throw for Grog, for the giant, and for Trinket. Giant does not make it.
Travis: 18.
Matt: 18, it's a DC 19. Make it for Trinket.
Laura: Ten.
Matt: All right, so Trinket and Grog both take 13 points of bludgeoning damage and are both knocked prone.
Travis: Halved, because I'm raging.
Laura: Halved, because he's got Stoneskin.
Matt: Yeah. Trinket takes half damage, as well. So you both take seven points of bludgeoning damage, but you're still knocked prone. You both fall onto your back. The giant also is knocked prone there. All right. That ends Zahra's turn. That brings us to Scanlan. You're conscious. You're on the ground.
Sam: I will stand.
Matt: All right. So you still have half your movement. You can still move roughly ten feet. Any direction.
Sam: Taking a potion is an action or a bonus?
Matt: I consider it a bonus action to keep things moving. Action to administer it to somebody else.
Travis: Do that thing.
Sam: I will Dimension Door way over there.
Matt: (laughs) Okay. Scanlan stands up, waves his hand, and this blackened archway just (whoosh) appears next to him with this crackling sound of energy. He leaps through it and vanishes out of sight. You are now in darkness, you cannot see anything except for a little bit of light bouncing off of the top of the cavern, glittering across all the ice crystals, but you are in complete shadow. (breathing heavily)
Sam: And I'll take one of those four healing potions that someone gave us. Were they moderate?
Matt: They were superior. I think Grog used one.
Felicia: Yeah, we handed them out.
Sam: Okay, I definitely have one, so I'll take it.
Matt: 8d4 plus eight.
Laura: Who all took them?
Mary: I didn't, because I have two.
Felicia: I don't think she and I took them.
Laura: Oh, the four of us, because we're assholes?
Matt: I think you each took one.
Felicia: I sacrificed myself.
Matt: So we'll consider that. It's fine. All right, so that ends Scanlan's turn. The giant is going to get up.
Travis: Get up, Gary, you piece of shit!
Matt: That would be a 21. That hits. And that'll be a 17. That misses. But it does manage to hit with an attack, finally. This whole time. That's 24 points of slashing damage to the dragon. As its first strike whiffs, and as it brings it back with a backhand, it brings its shield up to protect itself. The axe (smack) lands a good seven to eight inches into the dragon's hide. (roars) The head turns around. "You traitor! I will eat every one of you!" That ends the giant's turn. It's going to stay right there, trying to finish him off. That ends the giant's turn. Lyra, you're up.
Felicia: I still can't Fireball, right?
Matt: You could? Depending on where you want to place it, you may hit other things.
Laura: You can place it-- hit the giant and the dragon.
Felicia: Then the giant will wake up. If we hit the giants-- does he look almost dead?
Matt: You can tell he's taken a few hits from the dragon, but the other one is the one that was completely wrecked.
Laura: Is the other giant dead?
Matt: It is frozen in place and dead. It was partially disintegrated by Lyra earlier, and the frost breath finished it off.
Felicia: I could maybe hit Trinket or Grog?
Sam: Trinket's protected.
Felicia: I don't think he's protected from fire damage. It's a lot of damage. I don't want to kill Trinket.
Travis: Is it fire, and it's a frost dragon?
Felicia: It's a very big spell. It's 8d6. Can't really use it. I'll try to Hold Monster again.
Laura: How much radius does the dragon take up?
Matt: The dragon itself is 15 feet across on each side, so if you were to hit the dragon, it would still hit everything directly around it.
Felicia: Yeah, let me try to Hold Monster again. At least force him to use his thing.
Matt: All right. Actually, he fails his saving throw, but uses his third and final legendary resistance to resist the Hold Monster spell.
Taliesin: Good, you drained it. That's over with.
Matt: He's out of legendary resistance. He turns around and looks at you now. It was currently glaring at the giant, growling at everyone around it, and as soon as that spell hits it with the cage once again, (heavy impacts) it breaks it with its wings and turns around, (whoosh) and opens its mouth right towards you.
Felicia: I'm going to move away as far as I can.
Matt: Okay. So you are here.
Felicia: Yes. That's very far. Yes. Thank you.
Matt: Okay. All right, that ends your turn. Back up to Percy.
Taliesin: All right, I'm going to take one last really good shot. I'm going to shoot him right in the face again. I'm going to spend my grit point and hit him in the face. Let's make this work. Yay! That hits. That's 31 to hit.
Matt: 31 will hit, yeah. Go ahead and roll damage.
Taliesin: I'm going to roll damage. That's 15 points of damage, but he's got disadvantage on all attacks until my turn.
Matt: He did take ten points of bleeding damage from your-- Laura. It did take ten points of bleeding damage from your bow, and it does save against the bleed effect, so that's gone, unfortunately. But you did ten additional damage to him.
Taliesin: I'm going to move in this direction. Hug the wall.
Matt: Right there?
Taliesin: Yeah, I think right there.
Matt: Okay. So as you take your shot, (gunshot) it ricochets off the armor. The dragon's starting to look a little rough. You can see bits of the blood beginning to seep from the inside of its scales. It's starting to look a little harsher and harsher. It's still standing up pretty well, but you can see, it's starting to get a little more battle-worn. That ends Percy's turn. Vex, you're up.
Laura: Me?
Matt: Yes.
Laura: Okay, I'm going to move Trinket away.
Matt: Trinket stands up, and Trinket's going to move back this way.
Laura: Yeah, and then hide behind that outcropping thing. Yeah.
Matt: Okay. As he moves away, the dragon uses his reaction. It's going to be a bite attack on him, actually.
Taliesin: With disadvantage.
Matt: With disadvantage?
Taliesin: With disadvantage.
Matt: Oh, because of the head shot. Yeah. Well, it rolled a two and a 15. (cheering)
Matt: So thank god you put that on there. So as it (whoosh) lashes out, Trinket's armor actually takes the impact, and some of the teeth crack a little bit against the armor, and the jaw pulls back as Trinket just (bear moan) runs off behind the ice wall. What are you doing?
Laura: I'm going to cast Hail of Thorns.
Matt: Did you make a wisdom save last turn to try to resist the fear effect?
Laura: I did, and I failed it.
Matt: That's right. Okay.
Laura: Yeah. So I'm going to cast Hail of Thorns on the dragon.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and roll for attack.
Laura: 26.
Matt: 26 hits, yes. Hail of Thorns. What's the radius on that?
Laura: That's a good question. Hail of Thorns.
Matt: (laughs) How's that go?
Laura: Okay, wait. Next time you hit a creature with a ranged weapon-- spell-- range. It just hits it, but then everything within five feet makes a dexterity saving throw. Sorry, guys.
Matt: So Grog, make a dexterity saving throw. Because you're prone, I'd say with disadvantage.
Laura: Oh. Sorry, Grog.
Travis: Nine?
Matt: Actually, you're fine. Just straight roll.
Travis: Oh, great. 18.
Matt: 18? All right. You take half of the 1d10 piercing damage. So roll for the actual arrow damage, and then 1d10. The giant does not make it, and the dragon does not make it. They both fail.
Laura: 13 for the actual arrow, plus another five for Hunter's Mark.
Matt: All right. What's the 1d10 for the Hail of Thorns?
Laura: 3d10 because I'm casting it at 3rd level. 18 for the Hail of Thorns.
Matt: 18. So that's nine points of damage to you, Grog. Nine points to the giant, and nine points to the dragon. All right.
Laura: Oh. And then I get another attack.
Matt: You do. You have two attacks.
Laura: (giggles) This is crazy! Okay, so I'm going to-- should I do Conjure Barrage? Conjure Barrage at them, as well.
Matt: All right. Conjure Barrage is an action to cast, right?
Laura: Oh, you're right. So a regular. I can only do a regular attack. Okay, so regular attack. Oh, that doesn't hit. That's a 16.
Matt: That unfortunately does not hit. Well, it hits, but the arrow shatters across the dragon's armor. All right, that ends your turn. As the giant takes a blasting impact of thorns across its torso, it looks to the dragon, Rimefang. Looks at the rest of you, which some of you have fallen, some of you are on the ground. It decides that perhaps it chose its alliances poorly. And you can see, it takes its axe and shield ready, and almost in a phalanx format is now alongside the dragon. All right, that brings us to Rimefang's turn. Rimefang is going to (flapping) fly up in the air.
Travis: Oh, he's reaching for shit. He duplicates himself into another dragon. Now you're all dead.
Matt: Now he's going to--
Travis: Oh no, the ale's gone!
Matt: This way, up at the top, and is currently up in the air (flapping). Let's see. He gets his cold breath back. Oh, did you roll to try and shake the frightened effect, by the way?
Laura: I didn't.
Matt: Go ahead and do that now.
Mary: Come on, darling. Come on!
Laura: Natural 20!
Travis: Natural 20!
Matt: That will do it. As you shake the frightened effect, you're like, "Ah! All right." You're steeled. "No, I know these guys. I'm trying to kill these guys." As you see it fly overhead. Rears back its head and then (whoosh) arc across the ground with its breath weapon, hitting Percy, Vex, and Lyra. You guys all need to make constitution saving throws.
Taliesin: Oh, so there's no disadvantage roll for him to make here, is there?
Matt: No.
Felicia: 23.
Matt: 23 on the constitution saving throw?
Felicia: Yeah, I actually. I get five constitution, and I rolled an 18.
Taliesin: 15.
Matt: 15? What did you roll, Vex?
Laura: 18.
Matt: 18. All right. (chuckles) So as the ice breath (whoosh) passes across, it's like every center point of the worst ice storm or blizzard impacting you with a series of punches every single second as this breath caresses and beats your body left and right. Both of you guys take 54 points of cold damage.
Taliesin: 54?
Matt: 54. Lyra, you take 27 points of cold damage.
Travis: And the room gets quiet.
Mary: Really fast.
Matt: It continues its flight pattern (flapping, impacts) and lands on top of this upper platform.
Laura: Oh, he's got another fucking platform?
Sam: How high up?
Matt: That's ten feet up. There are two platforms on opposite sides of this room now. That ends its turn. It is now Grog's turn.
Travis: That giant is definitely against us?
Matt: It looks to be questioning its loyalty at the moment, yeah.
Travis: You questioned at the wrong time. I charge Gary and hack away.
Matt: All right. You get up, and you have enough movement, definitely, to move up into battle with him. Go ahead and attack.
Travis: (laughs) What do I do, again? What is this shit? This thing plus five. 16. No, attack bonus.
Matt: You have to hit first. You have to roll to hit.
Travis: I know. Jesus! It's like I've never done this before. 24.
Laura: No, that was higher than 24.
Travis: 16 plus nine? Oh, it's 25.
Matt: Hits. Roll a second attack.
Travis: 28.
Matt: Hits.
Travis: And 20.
Matt: 20 hits. Roll damage against the giant.
Travis: (quietly) What is this, 1d10 plus five? Oh, that's ten. 18. 18?
Laura: Plus six fire damage.
Travis: Oh.
Laura: Six!
Travis: 24 on the first one.
Matt: Nice.
Travis: Sorry, new math. 13 plus-- 17 on the second one.
Matt: All right, and the third one?
Travis: 12, plus-- 15 on the third one.
Matt: As you rush forward, (whack, whack) the first two hits, one hits in the side, and you can see it (grunts) reacts. The second one, it brings its shield up, and you splinter the buckler shield on its arm, and as it shatters, you can see the bones in its arm (crunch) crack from the impact, and it drops its arm to one side, with the flames itself beginning to set fire to the furs it has on its arm. (grunts) He tries to shake off the fire that's on its arm. As you see it bring its arm up, it reveals the underside of its torso. You use that to reach down, leap in the air with an overhead swipe, slam this warhammer with all your strength into the side of its ribcage. As you do, (crack) you can see its torso cave in, and you're probably sure that the splintered bones seem to have impacted something serious as the giant all of a sudden, (death rattle). (cheering)
Mary: Dead? Dead!
Matt: From the damage left over from the battle you had earlier, the damage it already took from the dragon, and that was just enough to finish it off by two hit points. That ends your turn, Grog. Zahra, you're up.
Mary: How far away from the dragon am I?
Matt: You are 30 feet away.
Mary: That's exactly right, which means Witch Bolt is still in effect, and I'm going to fucking unleash on this white wyrm of death.
Matt: All right! (boof) A third time, now, you release Witch Bolt. It slams into it. The dragon actually tries to shift out of the way--
Mary: He can't.
Matt: He can't, because you're locked in.
Mary: You can't get away from me.
Matt: Go ahead and roll damage.
Laura: Creepy Zahra!
Mary: Creepy Zahra. Well, I am a demon. All right. 11.
Travis: 27. 39. 48. 1d6. 53.
Mary: 53.
Felicia: Damn!
Travis: You bad bitch!
Matt: All right, so. It tries to dodge out of the way. This time, as you focus again, the yellowish energy has now transitioned to a deep, hot, searing red flame from your eyes.
Mary: Oh, you can't run!
Matt: (boof) You focus again. The beam now, transitioning into a similar red-hot color, streaks across and slams into the side of the dragon. You can see the impact. The scales are left with this glowing red heat from the blast, and part of its armor is torn open. You can see the burn-charred muscle beneath. The dragon's looking pretty rough. Do you wish to move, or are you staying right there?
Mary: I'm going to approach it by five feet.
Matt: There you go. That brings us to Scanlan's turn. You are way over here.
Sam: I will first use my bonus action on myself. Can I cast Healing Word on myself?
Matt: Yeah. Sure.
Sam: Okay, d4 plus five. That's nothing. Actually, wait. Can I just take a potion as a bonus action?
Matt: If you want to, yeah.
Sam: Okay, I'll just do that. I'll take a greater heal. 4d4 plus four.
Matt: All righty.
Sam: Anyway, I'll roll it later. Sorry. (counts quietly) Plus four is 11. Okay, I'm pretty much back up to--
Matt: There you go. Are you going to stay where you are?
Sam: I'm how far?
Matt: You are over here.
Sam: But how far?
Matt: Oh. It's 90 feet away from you.
Sam: (whispering) Sniper shot. (louder) From the shadows, I cast Lightning Bolt, which has a hundred-foot range.
Matt: It does, and because it's high enough--
Sam: If the angle is nice and clean.
Matt: Yes, that's true. So out of the darkness, release a bolt of energy. It's going to attempt to make a saving throw. What's the DC on it?
Sam: It's my spell? What is it?
Matt: Yeah, it's whatever your spell DC is.
Sam: 17?
Matt: 17, okay. It does make its saving throw, so it is half damage. Go ahead and roll. Rolled a 16 plus five.
Sam: It was 8d6, but now it's 4d6, right?
Matt: No, it's 8d6 still. You roll the total, and it's halved.
Sam: All right, what is that? (counts quietly) 26. 13.
Matt: All right.
Travis: Yes, dude. Way not to be dead.
Felicia: Way to not die.
Travis: I need my whoring partner.
Matt: All right, at the end of your turn, it's going to use one of its legendary actions to make a tail attack and reach over the side here at Percy, who's trying to stay hidden there. Brings around his tail. (whoosh) Comes swinging down over the side. Another natural 20. (groaning)
Felicia: He looks disappointed.
Laura: He doesn't want us to die.
Felicia: It's going to happen.
Mary: No! Would you stop it, Lyra? Come on!
Felicia: I'm sorry. I have self-esteem issues.
Mary: Not today, you don't.
Matt: 32 points of bludgeoning damage to you, Percy. (whack) From over the top.
Taliesin: I'm out.
Matt: Percy is down as the tail (whack) slams him down. You can see now, as the tail pulls back, the ice on the ground is slightly concave. There's pieces of ice that have shattered and jutted up from the impact. As the tail pulls away, dropping chunks of stone and ice, you can see a currently unconscious Percy is now face-down and pushed probably a good half-foot into the ground itself. Your face is a mess, if they ever pull you up from that right now.
Taliesin: I like my face.
Matt: That ends Scanlan's turn. The giant is dead. There are no giants; they're gone. Lyra, you're up.
Felicia: Okay, I can Fireball him now. (cheering)
Felicia: Fireball. Ooh, that looks pretty good! Six and six and six.
Laura: Come on, Lyra. Killing blow.
Travis: Nuke him. Nuke the bastard.
Felicia: So that's 18, 28, 38, 52. 52 points of damage.
Matt: 52 points? And what's the DC on your spell?
Felicia: It's no DC. It just hits.
Matt: Right, but it has a save.
Felicia: 17.
Matt: 17. Okay, it rolled a 15 plus five, so it is half damage, but that's still 26 points of damage to it.
Felicia: It's not bad.
Matt: (explosion noise) As you reach out, this arcing bead of red streaks through the darkness, impacts right at the side of the dragon's wing, and then (boof) bursts into a giant ball of flame. The whole cavern rocks from the sound of the impact. As the dragon pulls back, you can see this giant char mark on the outside of its wing. It's looking pretty rough. It's still standing, but it's looking pretty rough. Unfortunately, the radius of the blast, as it is a 20-foot radius, is large enough. Percy, his body is hit in the impact and blasted onto its back now. He rolls partly out of the impact--
Taliesin: Do I actually roll?
Matt: You actually (boof) over there. You're still technically in the same spot, but you're on your back now. You do automatically fail a death saving throw from that.
Felicia: Oh my god, I'm so sorry.
Matt: All right, that ends Lyra's turn. That brings us to the top. Percy. Make a saving throw. Just roll a ten or higher.
Taliesin: I did not roll a ten or higher.
Matt: You fail a second death saving throw.
Sam: Oh god!
Matt: Vex, you're up.
Laura: (screams) Okay, here's the thing. Did he roll far enough away that he is not within ten feet of the dragon?
Matt: The dragon is ten feet up.
Laura: So he's far enough away.
Matt: In theory, he'd be just out of the way of a ten-foot radius. A 20-foot radius, no.
Laura: Okay, then I'm going to Lightning Arrow the dragon.
Matt: Okay.
Felicia: Do you have a potion?
Travis: I do.
Taliesin: Grog's got it.
Laura: Do I have to attack? I do have to attack regular.
Matt: You do have to roll the attack, yes.
Laura: That's good. That's a 29.
Matt: 29 hits.
Laura: Okay, so that is 4d8 against the dragon.
Matt: Yeah, 4d8 lightning damage. What's the DC on it?
Laura: 14.
Matt: 14? It does not make the save. Rolled a three.
Sam: Come on, Vex. Come on. Do it for Trinket.
Travis: Do it for Percy. Do it for Pike.
Taliesin: Let's not have another Pike, please.
Laura: 17.
Matt: Plus your Hunter's Mark.
Laura: That's good. That's another six for Hunter's Mark. Plus another 11.
Matt: Plus another 11. Okay. As the arrow releases, once again, (arrow flying) it turns into a bolt of pure arcane energy, smacking into the side of it. You can see the explosion hit and the energy crackle through the rest of its body. Its muscles shudder and it has to grasp the side of the top of this platform to keep itself steady. You can see now, the dragon's (heavy breathing). One eye is partially closed, and with each breath you can see this frost mist emanating from its breath. It looks like it's on its last legs.
Laura: For my second attack-- (cheering)
Laura: For my second attack, I'm going to regular attack him. Oh my god. Just going to regular attack him.
Matt: Roll for attack.
Laura: Jesus. Please. Oh! It's 30.
Matt: 30 hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
Laura: 13, 14, 15.
Matt: Including the Hunter's Mark?
Laura: No! Four.
Matt: Okay, so 19 total? Okay. As the arrow (arrow flying, impacts) embeds itself in the side of the neck, the dragon reaches up and it's scratching at the pain. As it pulls the arrow out, blood begins to pour down its side.
Laura: Ugh, he's still alive!
Matt: It's rough. That ends your turn.
Laura: Fuck! Is it his turn?
Matt: It is now Rimefang's turn. Rimefang turns. (heavy breaths, roars) and lets out a spray of icy damage out in this direction at an arc this way. I need to get a dexterity saving throw from Lyra, from Vex, and from Zahra.
Mary: Do I have a reaction?
Matt: After this, you will.
Mary: Okay, got it.
Felicia: Eight.
Matt: Eight?
Laura: 28.
Matt: 28. Okay. Zahra?
Mary: 11.
Matt: 11. Okay, so that is 54 points of damage to you.
Felicia: I'm down.
Matt: Lyra is currently (crackles) frozen in place right now from the blast. She's unconscious, and there is a coat of ice around her body holding her in place. How are you doing on hit points?
Laura: I'm at 28 hit points.
Matt: Okay, you kick the frost off, and you're on one knee. And you take 54 points of ice damage.
Laura: Are you unconscious, too?
Mary: Nope. I'm not. Do I have a reaction?
Matt: You have a reaction?
Mary: I do, I use Hellish Rebuke.
Sam: Oh! What is that? It sounds hellish.
Mary: I know. I get one per day.
Matt: All right, so the creature must make a dexterity saving throw.
Laura: So it does it back to him?
Mary: Yes.
Matt: That is 15. What's the DC?
Mary: I don't know.
Laura: 17.
Mary: 17.
Matt: Okay, so it takes 2d10 fire damage. Go ahead and roll that.
Laura: Yes! Oh my god, you can kill it just because it attacked you?!
Taliesin: Kill it out of spite.
Felicia: Tell him he's very ugly.
Mary: Nine.
Matt: Nine points of fire damage? How do you want to do this? (cheering)
Mary: I don't know what that means!
Matt: How do you finish this dragon with your Hellish Rebuke?
Taliesin: Make it good!
Matt: After it finishes blasting you with ice damage, you watch the wizard frozen in place. You see Percy unconscious and bleeding on the ground. You see Vex on the ground, about to fall unconscious. Your friends are lost in the darkness around you, and suddenly you feel that tiefling surge of anger within you, and you?
Mary: Almost completely turn into flame as I walk towards it. Can I use anything?
Matt: How do you want the Hellish Rebuke to be?
Mary: I want this Hellish Rebuke to be me levitating in the air and using my dark dragon staff to blast it from here down, just eviscerating everything from the bowels down with hellish fire.
Matt: So after the frost takes on the front of you, and there is ice caked against the front of your armor, you suddenly look up at it and as your eyes flare with flame, the ice (shatters) evaporates from the sheer heat your body's emanating. You take a step forward, but the step itself is about an inch off the ground. A second step, you're two inches off the ground. And with each progressive step, you're slowly floating in the air, the warlock energy now swirling around you. The shadows are spinning around you and coalescing around your feet. As you look forward towards it, you see the portion of its armor that was blasted open earlier, with its flesh and sinew exposed. You take the staff forward, and with an angry snarl, the one last blast of infernal energy, the Hellish Rebuke then (shooting sound) sinking into the side of its chest. As the inside of its flesh begins to spark and smoke, the dragon (grunts) reaches out and grabs the side. It's beginning to try to bring its wings up to fly away, and as it does, (explosion noise) a blast of infernal flame comes cascading out of its chest. You can see now, all of its armor begins to peel back as its chest is blown open. Its eyes suddenly go from this piercing blue-white to a dull gray color, and it reaches out, and (heavy breathing) "No." It tumbles forward onto the ground next to Percy, almost crushing his unconscious form. It gets up, (impacts) takes two more steps forward. "No. You can't."
Mary: Yes, I fucking can! (cheering)
Matt: And with that, Rimefang falls dead to the ground. (cheering)
Sam: I run over to Lyra, cast Seeming on myself to give myself the appearance of Aldor, and I pour a potion into her mouth, and I wake her up.
Felicia: What happened?
Sam: You did good, baby.
Felicia: (gasps) And I'm just in him. (laughter)
Travis: I run over to Percy and pour a healing potion in his mouth, and I don't "in him." (laughter)
Matt: You can just barely get there with your movement. Thank god you're a barbarian.
Taliesin: Oh! What happened? Oh, look. It's dead!
Mary: Hello, Percy.
Laura: Oh my god. I stand up and I give Zahra a giant hug.
Taliesin: Can we cut that bastard up for scrap now? Ugh.
Laura: You were amazing.
Mary: Forever besties?
Felicia: Wait, then I notice. Aldor, why are you so short?
Sam: Baby. I can't change height, so I release Seeming and I'm back to normal.
Felicia: That was not as good a kiss as usual. I was worried, but it was special.
Travis: Oh! (laughter)
Mary: Is it time to take what we need from this thing?
Laura: Gather up all of the shit we have to take and put it in the bag of stuff.
Taliesin: That would be  two white dragon eyes, one white dragon tongue, one white dragon heart, six white dragon claws, and 20 white dragon teeth.
Matt: Who's harvesting this?
Mary: You have the bag.
Felicia: It's nature. Who has good animal handling?
Laura: Wait, we have to harvest it special?
Matt: Part of harvesting the organs from the creature is a delicate process.
Laura: Is it nature? What is it a check for?
Matt: It's a nature-based check, yes.
Laura: I have a low nature. What do you have?
Taliesin: Very low nature.
Mary: I have a six nature. Can I harvest him?
Matt: You can.
Travis: Can I go and loot the giant that's not frozen?
Matt: You can. You can also help with this roll.
Sam: Inspiration? Okay. I inspire them.
Matt: How do you inspire Zahra as she goes to start carving into this dragon?
Sam: I will sing something. I don't know what. I'm so out of it. We just killed a dragon! (laughter)
Sam: I go over to her and I'm like, (incoherent, impressed stammering). And that's all I got.
Matt: And with that, you killed a dragon.
Mary: It was a group effort.
Laura: Can I help at all? Can I assist? Can I hold her utensils for her?
Matt: Between the two of you working together, that would give you advantage on the checks. Which one are you going for first? Are you going for the eyes? Choose which portion you're harvesting first.
Laura: Everything. We need all of it, don't we?
Matt: Yeah, but which part are you harvesting first? You choose with each roll. You have eyes, heart--
Felicia: Can I assist? Can I help?
Matt: We already have an assist over there.
Felicia: I want to be helpful.
Laura: We'll all stand and watch.
Taliesin: Start with the eyes.
Laura: Pop them out. Pop those bitches out. But you get an advantage.
Matt: You will get advantage on it because she's assisting you.
Mary: That's nine plus--
Laura: Yeah, that's 15 plus six is 21.
Matt: 21. Okay. As you come over, using a dagger that you have. Pop very delicately each dragon eye out and place it into the satchel.
Laura: Into the cooler bag.
Matt: As you pull each eye out, it's like holding the coldest orb you've ever held. It actually burns your fingers as you clutch it. (gasp) Throw it inside and have to shake your hand off.
Laura: I jiggle them around in the bag. Just because.
Felicia: We have a special crate?
Laura: Yeah, I'm holding it.
Taliesin: The tongue would be next.
Matt: All right, go ahead and roll for that.
Laura: Plus another roll for advantage. Ooh, that's way better. Plus six. 23.
Matt: 23, all right. So you manage to, with the help of Vex pulling the jaw open, Grog holding onto the side, Lyra's supervising. You manage to get to the base of the tongue, carve off-- And you (slurp-pop) pull out the rather massive, very heavy tongue-- which, once again, this in itself, is like (yelps). Put it in real fast. And in the process of doing so, you suffer two points of cold damage, but the tongue has been harvested.
Taliesin: A heart.
Matt: This one's going to be difficult. Part of the chest is blown open, exposing the interior, but there has been damage done to the inside, so go ahead and attempt this.
Travis: Two rolls.
Mary: 12. 14. Plus six is 20.
Matt: Oh, 20! 20 is just what you needed. You pry in and crack open a portion of its body, and you begin to slowly carve out the portion, the heart, and the dragon heart itself is massive. It's huge, and it takes three of you to pull it out.
Laura: How do we fit it in this bag? Is it magic?
Matt: You don't know, but it's not going to fit in that satchel.
Mary: How heavy is it?
Matt: I'd say it probably weighs a good 200 pounds.
Felicia: I should know what people would do in the guild situation if they had an organ that wouldn't fit in the bag, right? We have to preserve it.
Matt: Travel back quickly or have preservation magic. Whether it would be a necromancy-based magic.
Felicia: Nope.
Travis: We're not shoving it in there? Are we cutting it in half?
Laura: We could roll it up in one of our fancy robes, though, and hold on to it. And pack it in-- oh, we, yeah! Let's chisel out some of the ice.
Matt: As you begin to wrap it up, you notice that the cold air begins to (cracking) crack around it, and the heart itself is freezing, as per the nature of a freshly dead white dragon. So it might be a good thing.
Laura: What about all this gold in the cavern?
Taliesin: Claws and teeth.
Mary: Teeth. Yes, roll to carve. Seven. 13.
Matt: 13. Going through the jaw, you begin plucking teeth out, piece by piece (cling, cling) and most of them, you notice, as part of the nature of the body, are beginning to decay faster than you expected. A lot of the teeth are becoming brittle and breaking, and as you start pulling them out, you're frustrated because with each one it seems to almost shatter as soon as you claw it from the jaw. By the end of it, you manage to gather about three dragon's teeth before the rest of them begin to break.
Travis: We have a shitload of dragon teeth left over.
Laura: But we need white dragon.
Travis: He was a white dragon!
Laura: Or wait, are you sure it wasn't the blue dragon that we harvested?
Travis: No, it was a white dragon, we have 37 left over.
Laura: Okay. We have 37 dragon teeth from the first white dragon.
Mary: Can I also get-- if there's any powder left or anything, for myself, I would like to--
Taliesin: Claws, still. We have to get claws still.
Mary: I know, but if it's on the ground, and it's in front of me, I would just like to put it in my little bag, to have it for my own spellcasting.
Matt: Okay, go ahead and make a nature roll for that. Roll two more nature checks, or one more check, with advantage.
Laura: Another one.
Mary: That sucks, too. 13.
Matt: Okay. You managed to pull out some of the more sensitive parts of the dragon, but as you begin to cut away at some of the scales-- you're going for the scales or the claws?
Mary: I was going for the powdered-- the remains of whatever teeth that we couldn't get.
Matt: Oh, that! Never mind then, sorry. So then, that you can gather without a problem. It's powdered dragon ice bone, so yeah, that's fine. All right.
Taliesin: We still need claws.
Laura: Let's go for claws.
Travis: One more.
Mary: Nine. 15.
Matt: 15? In beginning to pull out the portions of its hands and getting the base of where the claw itself begins to grow, you manage to pull out five functional dragon claws without them breaking.
Mary: How many did we need, Percy?
Taliesin: Six. Do we have an extra? We have one?
Matt: You guys, prepared with your bag.
Mary: Hello! Prepared people!
Travis: Oh, I looted the giant.
Matt: All right, you looted the giant.
Mary: Now can we get some scales?
Laura: Just her? All of us?
Matt: All of you working together to get scales.
Felicia: All of us? Free for all?
Matt: Well, this is the roll they're making for it.
Laura: 20 for scales.
Matt: 20 for scales, okay. So all of you working together, you manage to pull off what amounts to about 25 pounds of dragon scales. Mind you, the scales are heavy and they're about that big each. It would be enough if you were to bring it to a master craftsman, to possibly construct a set of armor from them.
Laura: That's why we have so many pounds of dragon scales from the previous dragons! We could make three sets of armor right now.
Felicia: I'm going to look around and just see if there's a stash or a hoard that he was gathering.
Matt: All right, there are individual gold pieces embedded all through. It would take you weeks to chisel it all from the walls.
Mary: Are there any giant gems that we can see?
Matt: Everyone make a perception check.
Laura: I want to get my diamond back, too, from earlier.
Travis: Can I loot the bloody giant?
Laura: Natural 20 for perception! Ooh! Sparklies!
Matt: All right. So Grog. You go over to the giant that's not frozen. Looking at it, most of its armor itself is made for a giant's form, much larger than anything else, and a lot of it has been shredded by the dragon, or frozen and broken from the impact and you, cutting it apart with its axe. For the most part, all you're able to find off of its body are approximately 120 gold pieces, which isn't bad. Giants don't really carry a lot of money on them, usually what they carry on them is just trophies from battles they fought previously. At least, these ones here. What did you roll for perception?
Taliesin: 16.
Felicia: 18.
Sam: 11.
Mary: 13.
Laura: Natural 20.
Matt: So as you guys are looking around, the cavern seems to be fairly barren. You, however, Vex, as you walk to the back of the cavern, you see there are other pieces of partially eaten frozen bodies. And you, using a little bit of torchlight you can pull out, and glancing underneath, you see a little bit of shining, more of a cluster of shining about seven or eight inches beneath the ice surface. And you look down and you can see, there appears to be quite a hoard of something frozen beneath the surface of this cavern.
Felicia: Oh I can help! (blasting sounds) I throw a Fire Bolt.
Matt: (laughs) You start carving, you're like, (yelps). Dodge out of the way just in time as firebolts begin blasting the ice.
Felicia: 14. 14 points of damage.
Matt: (boom boom) A large chunk of the ice is blasted out from the Fire Bolt, and you catch your breath for a second. It's not enough to get all the way down, but it does manage to blast away a large portion of the ice.
Laura: I still have like two points of health, FYI.
Felicia: Oh! I'm sorry! You do look so lovely, though.
Matt: And so between the two of you guys, you take a dagger, you take your staff and you begin jamming into the ice. You manage to break it apart, and you do find beneath there, frozen, quite a hoard. You find over the next hour or so, 4,244 gold pieces--
Travis: Whoa!
Taliesin: Whoa!
Laura: How much?
Matt: 4,244 gold pieces. A cluster of gems worth around 850 gold. A singular diamond. It's about that large. It's actually a little bit smaller than the other one you have, but it's worth anywhere in the neighborhood of 1,200 gold pieces. You also manage to find a pair of leather gloves with almost gold trim around each one of the joints. You find what looks like a small leather cap that you pull over the head, that a peasant would wear, and what looks to be one glass vial containing an indeterminate liquid.
Laura: What is the color of the liquid?
Matt: From what you can look at the color, it's like a purplish-blue.
Mary: Can anybody do a perception check on magical liquid?
Travis: I would like to perception check the leather hat.
Matt: Make a perception check.
Laura: Can anybody do an arcana check on the leather hat?
Matt: Oh. Do you have Detect Magic?
Travis: 16!
Matt: Or Identify spell?
Felicia: No. I thought about them.
Matt: Okay. Make an arcana check. Well, you guys have a brief rest here; it should be fine, actually. Okay. Looking at it, this is a very fancy leather hat.
Travis: It's a fancy leather hat. It's mine. Dibs!
Taliesin: I'm curious about the gloves, myself.
Matt: You take some time with each one of these items that you pull out from the ice, and each one emanates a magical aura from them. You take the gloves first and you look at them, and you eventually come to realize, oh, you've heard about this, you read about this in your books. These are Gloves of Missile Snaring. They're gloves that when worn, you have an opportunity to possibly snatch a missile out of the air. These gloves seem to almost meld into your hands when you don them. When a ranged weapon attack hits you while you're wearing them, you can use your reaction to reduce the damage by a certain amount, provided you have a free hand. If you reduce the damage to zero, you can catch the missile, midair, (whoosh) stop it from hitting you.
Taliesin: That might be good for you, though.
Laura: For anybody with ranged, probably.
Matt: Anybody who's hit by ranged.
Taliesin: I have a two-handed ranged weapon, though, which you do not.
Matt: Looking at the hat itself, while not a very impressive hat, the magical energy on it does give you the idea that it is used as an illusion-based magic. It is a Hat of Disguise. While wearing this hat you can use an action to cast the Disguise Self spell at will. It ends if the hat is removed.
Sam: May I have that one, please?
Taliesin: No, Scanlan.
Travis: What? He can already disappear.
Felicia: You'll abuse it. You've already abused that privilege already.
Sam: I'm sorry. By the way, your lips taste like bubblegum.
Matt: The potion is a Potion of Climbing. You can actually climb your walking speed for one hour.
Mary: Like Spider Climb?
Felicia: Spider Pig.
Mary: What's it called?
Matt: Climbing or scaling cliffs, you can go at the speed-- normally, you're very slow when you climb. You can just parkour up super fast. While this is happening, because you rolled a 20, you look over at the corpses that are frozen on the ground. You see one of the corpses is wielding a sword, and another one of the corpses appears to have a shattered bow in one hand. You go over and see the sword itself is not affected by the ice. It actually seems to be resisting the ice. You (cracking) break it out of the hand. The person who's holding the bow, currently, the upper torso is bitten off and shattered. Part of the body is ruined. The bow is broken and destroyed, but there is a quiver on its back. Within the quiver, you see most of the arrows are frozen solid within the quiver, but there is one that seems unaffected by the ice.
Laura: Can I tell what it is?
Matt: You pull out the arrow. It appears to be a deep forest green, and the actual shaft of the arrow has a texture to it, almost a rough metallic texture.
Sam: Take it!
Mary: Take it!
Travis: Take it!
Laura: I'm taking it! Are you kidding me?
Matt: If you wish to bring those over to Lyra. Lyra, make an arcana check.
Felicia: This is a very interesting arrow. I haven't seen one of these like this. Oh, wait, maybe I have. 27.
Matt: Good to know. You take the time with it. You immediately recognize, there is a similar enchantment on both of these weapons, and whoever came in here earlier had the intent of slaying this dragon and failed to do so. What you find is a Dragon-Slayer Longsword. Which is a plus-one weapon, normally, but against dragons or people of the dragon subtype, it deals an additional 3d6 damage with every hit.
Felicia: It's too bad it didn't work for them.
Matt: And an Arrow of Dragon-Slaying. It's a singular arrow, a one-use arrow, but if it hits a dragon of the dragon race, type, or group, it has to make a constitution saving throw or take an additional 6d10 piercing damage. It's a one-use, "fuck you, dragon" arrow.
Sam: 6d10?
Felicia: That's very pleasant.
Laura: Yeah, right? What is the saving throw?
Sam: You'll see. You're going to get the paper.
Matt: So at this point, you guys have taken probably a good hour and a half or so in this cavern. You start seeing water drip.
Laura: Oh, we should get out.
Matt: It's beginning to thaw in the absence of Rimefang.
Mary: Well, what's good is, I believe we're within the three days of the contract, yes?
Matt: Possibly.
Felicia: Well, we got the contract. We completed it within three days. Now, we have to get back.
Mary: Yes, we've killed it, so let's go home.
Matt: Percy, you go and you pull out the contract real fast to inspect it, and you can see that the arcane sigils that were built into it are faded, and where it looks like each piece of the dragon that you harvested correctly, has seemingly had a strange, glimmering gold shimmer from the actual text on the contract.
Laura: Lyra, they're going to love you.
Felicia: It's so exciting. I can't wait to go to the mess hall and tell everybody, many times, over and over, how this happened together. And you guys, this has been an amazing journey. Thank you.
Mary: I would like to take just one gold coin right at the base of the head of what was formerly Rimefang for myself. I'll put it in a necklace when we all go back to town.
Matt: All right. You take that one gold piece, pocket it. Take a moment to remember your final death blow against the dragon. You guys trek back through the caverns you arose, back through the ruined frost giant village, back into the Vesper Timberland, find where your horses were currently tied up, make your way back towards the city of Vasselheim. About a day and a half's worth of travel later, you notice that the blizzard that encompassed the six-mile radius of this mountain range has faded into a soft fog, and the actual weather in this area seems to have been connected to the presence of the dragon and is slowly dissipating. You eventually take yourself to the base of Vasselheim's main wall. You shout at the top of the wall, and noticing the group arriving, they let the doors open. You can see the giant, dragon-headed ballistae that line the city walls are armed and ready, and upon approval, they move them away. You enter the city, make your way through the Braving Grounds to the Quadroads to the outside of the Slayer's Take guildhall. As you enter the main room, you see Mertin is standing there. Looks like he's playing a game of solitaire with a deck of cards. He looks up. "Well, I'll be damned. Are you serious? You killed him?"
Felicia: Mertin, we did it.
Matt: "Show me your contract. Show me this contract."
Felicia: I don't know why you'd doubt us. Really, it's right here.
Matt: "Well done." And he puts his hand out to shake your hand.
Felicia: Oh my gosh. I start crying. This is the most proud moment of my life, Mertin. I've admired you for so long and the fact (cries) thank you. And then I just hug him.
Matt: Okay. He hugs you. "I appreciate it very much. You lost me 200 gold pieces, but well done. You've proven to be more than I expected. Let me get the Huntmistress. She will be very happy to see that you've arrived. Aye, my wife. Yes." And he gets up and leaves. A few moments later, the headmaster Vanessa Cyndrial comes in, her tiefling self with her horns curled behind her head. Walks in with this smooth glare. "I must say. Some of these contracts we put out as a test of your power and will, and to be perfectly honest, I was pulling for you." She puts out her hand and her husband takes a pouch of coin and puts it in her hand. She takes it and puts it on the side of her belt. "I'm impressed by all of you, and by this token, and by the completed contract. First off, you have definitely proven your worth to the Slayer's Take."
Felicia: Oh my god, that is so sweet, Vanessa.
Matt: "Keep the emotions in check. We have to put up a face here. No one wants to see a member of the guild cry. Now, for the rest of you, I would like to humbly ask if you wish to join the Slayer's Take guild."
Sam: Yeah, sure, that'll work. The bear, too?
Matt: "The bear, as well. Best not show him the back room. We have a few trophies back there that might freak him out."
Travis: Do we get to work with another leader next time?
Sam: What? Because if the answer is yes, we refuse. This is our leader from now on.
Felicia: Thank you so much.
Matt: "You are able to choose what your group is at any time. Whatever the contract requires."
Felicia: I really appreciate it, but given the kiss that we had, I realized why Aldor doesn't love me is that I don't have enough experience. Sexually. So I'm going to stay in town to spread my wings in that area. And then he'll love me. Won't he, Vanessa?
Matt: Vanessa goes, "Lyra, I would recommend this course of action to not be taken. I would think that would reflect poorly-- I mean, your personal time is your own, but nevertheless, my dear, this is a very pious house--"
Sam: I think this is a great idea.
Felicia: Oh, no. Not you. You're such a friend to me. I can't ruin that.
Sam: You're right.
Matt: Vanessa walks up and puts her hand on your shoulder and goes, "We're going to have a talk, woman to woman."
Felicia: (whispers) Oh my god, you guys, I'm in!
Mary: Be straight with her, will you? Please.
Matt: "I'm going to make sure she doesn't embarrass the rest of us. So with the contract completed, provide what you've harvested from your quarry, and payment will be delivered."
Laura: I put the bag down that's got all the stuff in it. And then we take out a couple from the white dragon, and put out the other stuff. And we've got this giant heart right here.
Matt: The heart, which Grog has been carrying on his back as you guys travel. (impact sound) It hits the table and the wood cracks a little bit beneath it from the impact. And you can see, the ice is starting to melt a bit on the exterior.
Laura: Careful, it needs to be preserved.
Matt: She gives a nod. "Very well. Mertin, please, provide these for transport to the contract client."
Mary: Can we ask who actually contracted it?
Matt: "It's written on the contract itself."
Mary: Oh, that's right. I'm so sorry.
Matt: Percy has the contract, currently.
Taliesin: I do. Ozwyn Grud?
Travis: Grundle?
Felicia: Alchemist Ozwyn Grud.
Matt: Make a history check, by the way.
Taliesin: May I, as well?
Felicia: 21.
Taliesin: 25.
Travis: Oh, a history check? Four. He's a person.
Mary: I had four, as well. We are so getting shots later. Like, now.
Laura: Nine.
Matt: All right. The two of you immediately go, "Huh," and it hits you: you've heard the name before. You've heard the name and you're trying to figure out where it is. You pick it up and say, "He's a member of the Arcana Pansophical." It's a really exclusive group of archmages across the entire globe that essentially work together to keep the peace on a global scale. Of which, you know that Arcanist Allura Vysoren is a member of the Arcana Pansophical.
Taliesin: Yes, of course.
Matt: This is another member of that team, who ordered this.
Taliesin: This is most likely going to good use, at the very least.
Sam: So do we collect our money?
Matt: "Indeed. What is the total on that contract, if you don't mind repeating?"
Taliesin: I was just working that out.
Laura: Lots of gold.
Taliesin: Lots of gold. It's 1,800 for the dragon eyes, 1,200 for the dragon tongue. 3,500 for the heart. 1,500 for the claws, and then how much for the dragon teeth?
Laura: Per dragon's tooth? Or for all six dragon teeth?
Taliesin: For all 20 dragon teeth.
Matt: Yeah. Essentially, considering the dragon teeth that you had already stored, those are used in this transaction, as well as the claws. So you no longer have dragon's teeth and dragon claws stored in your bag. However, you've fulfilled the contract and get full payment for those.
Travis: We have 12 teeth left.
Sam: So it's 9,000 total?
Taliesin: 9,000 total.
Matt: "9,000 gold pieces." She reaches beneath, pulls out a small chest. You see her do something beneath the table you don't recognize, and all of a sudden you hear a clicking sound and she pulls up three large sacks of gold (heavy impacts) on the table. "Divide as you see fit. On top of this, as you have now been accepted to this, when your other team members arrive, which should be any moment now, in the next day or so, you'll be inducted, you'll be absolved of your breach of the laws of Vasselheim, and you will also acquire a small payment in conjunction with the hydra contract. So we will discuss this as soon as your friends arrive. Until then, feel free to rest, divide the gold, and be on your way."
Laura: That's 1,500 each.
Sam: Thank you.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Felicia: Oh, I don't need any. (laughs)
Laura: What about you, Zahra?
Mary: Oh, I need. I'll take, definitely. Thank you.
Matt: "You do not need your money? Well, that will go back to the guild, thank you."
Travis: No, she misspoke.
Mary: She misspoke. I'm so sorry. She completely misspoke.
Matt: (chuckles) "Very well." Tosses the coins.
Laura: 1,800 each.
Matt: "Well done. Congratulations, and I look forward to a very fruitful and profitable future together here at the Slayer's Take."
Travis: Aye. Scanlan, should we go and make sure that your wounds are completely healed?
Laura: Can we insight check Vanessa really fast?
Matt: You may. What are you trying to gather?
Laura: Just to see what kind of person she is.
Matt: All right, go for an insight check.
Laura: 24.
Matt: Okay. You know you have a very strong sense of being able to read a person, and yet she is still an enigma to you. She seems earnest. She seems definitely a shrewd businesswoman, and there's a reason this guild has been successful for as long as she's been at the helm of it. But as far as reading her intent? She seems very guarded and hard to read. You're unable to really catch a bead on her.
Felicia: Vanessa, I want to thank you for trusting me with this very difficult task. I know that you sent some other people after this dragon, and your confidence in our abilities over theirs, who were defeated? It's just fantastic. I mean, what were you thinking?
Travis: What were you thinking?
Taliesin: What were you thinking, really?
Matt: "Well, to be perfectly honest, this dragon had been a thorn in our side, with previous contracts failed on its side, and you all seemed so confident in your skills. I figured it would be a good excuse for you to either flee from this thing and come back with your tail between your legs, or be foolish and get yourself killed, in which case, you're not a problem of ours anymore and everything's fine. Or, best case scenario, what you've shown to me today."
Laura: Which is that we're amazing.
Travis: Vox Machina does not flee.
Mary: Never. Although I'm not a part of it.
Sam: We'll make you an honorary member.
Matt: "Anyway, I have business to attend to. Enjoy your night. Celebrate. And return here when you wish to see your friends hopefully return as successful as you were."
Sam: Thank you.
Mary: Thank you.
Travis: We are sure they will.
Matt: "Mertin!" "Yes, I know, my dear. I'm taking it." And he takes the heart and (grunts) lifts it over his back and the halfling, as thick as he is, (grunts) is bringing it to the back room. She turns around, gathers the rest of the materials into a sack, and exits the room. And with that, we will conclude tonight's session. Well done!
Sam: We did it!
Mary: We survived!
Laura: Good job, Mary!
Matt: By the way, these are your magical items. You want to go ahead and take those?
Sam: I have to split.
Taliesin: Yes, you're moving.
Felicia: Tonight?
Taliesin: Tomorrow.
Felicia: Oh my goodness.
Matt: First off, guys, a big round of applause and appreciation for our guests. Mary, Felicia. You guys were fantastic.
Taliesin: Guest dragon kill.
Felicia: That was very fun. Thank you for letting me guest and be on the Twitch channel. You guys are a joy to have. I'm so proud to be part of the Geek and Sundry family.
Mary: I would like to say thank you so much to the community, to the Critters out there. I've never felt so much love overnight and through this last week. You inspired me today, and all of us, so thank you so much.
Zac: Speaking of Critters, #CriticalRole is officially trending on Twitter right now on the front page. You guys should all keep that trend going and go tell us what you think about the show and your favorite moments from tonight with #CriticalRole, @GeekandSundry. A couple of other quick announcements. Thank you, Felicia, for coming out. She's about to leave for a month, right?
Felicia: I'm going on a book tour, so please, if you haven't, preorder my book. feliciadaybook.com. I'm going to 12 cities, then DragonCon. I'm pretty excited about it. I'm going all over. I'm sorry, Midwest. It'll be fun.
Zac: Speaking of her book, guys, we are 60 subscribers away, roughly, from doing another signed book giveaway. Subs are what keep this channel alive. We wouldn't be able to bring you this content without subscribers, so let's try to get that 60 before we're done reading all our donations and prizes and everything else. But actually, I think we're going to play that video of Felicia one more time really quick to support her book tour.
Felicia: That's very sweet.
Zac: We'll be right back, really quick, with our donations and everything.
Matt: Yes. [end captions]

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello, and welcome this evening to Critical Role, everyone. A show where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors play Dungeons and Dragons and have a good time. Guess we can go ahead and-- we forgot to do the format this time and start with the intro. We trying to do that going forward because it makes more sense. But for now, let's go ahead and jump to the intro and we'll be right back to describe what we have going on. [dramatic music]
Matt: Welcome back. So first and foremost, we got a couple quick announcements to get into for this week. For every 100 subs we get to the channel this evening we'll be doing giveaways. The giveaways this week will include a signed photo of the cast of Critical Role, as well as, for the first time offering, a large print poster of one of the classic moments within our campaign drawn by our illustrious Kit Buss, our official artist for Critical Role. I think Zac should be showing you that photo that we'll be giving away, a really nice, high-quality print of that signed by the cast. And we'll send that out to whoever wins the wonderful prize for the chat room. I think we're 50 away from our first giveaway. So, you got to get that climbing so we can give that out shortly. Also, as we've previously, the past two weeks, had some great guests joining our first half of the Vox Machina group on their adventure, this week we have two new guests joining us for this and next week. If I can have a big, warm welcome to our players this week: Wil Wheaton and Will Friedle. Thank you guys so much for joining us. Excited to have you.
Marisha: So awesome.
Will: Slightly nervous.
Wil: You're going to be great, don't worry about it. I want to apologize in advance to Liam for having to share a table with me. I'm sorry for what's going to happen to your dice on account of how close we are to each other. I hope you're not too attached to anything with your character at all. (laughter)
Wil: I know. I'm just telling you, if there's dice you really love, you might want to put them away.
Liam: I'll just kiester this one.
Matt: That's the most comfortable way to do that. Well, awesome guys. Thank you so much for joining us in this. Before we jump in, let's see if we have any announcements that anyone wants to make, anything coming up, anything you want to talk about. I'll start. I'll say that as of flying out this evening, I should say, I have a flight at 12:15 from LAX. I'll be flying out to Columbus, Ohio for Matsuricon this weekend. So, any of you guys out there in the Ohio area want to come and visit me for the weekend, I'll be doing signings, panels, and general hanging out with fans and stuff. So if you're in the vicinity, come say hi. That's my announcement. Anyone else have anything they want to mention?
Orion: Yeah. I recently started my own Twitch stream. So you can follow me and watch. I play a lot of video games, guys. It's horrible addiction that's amazing. But it's @orionacaba on Twitch.
Matt: You keep streaming Thursdays at 7 00, which I think is really counterproductive.
Orion: It's weird.
Wil: When you've mastered being in two places at once, it's silly not to take advantage of it.
Orion: I am actually hosting Geek and Sundry on my channel right now.
Matt: Oh, look at you.
Liam: Are you simultaneously brewing at home right now?
Wil: I am. And I am also running this game in an alternate universe.
Liam: Oh. Wow.
Wil: It's pretty great. Yeah. And Matt rolls so bad in that game. It's really great. I am having dinner with my wife tomorrow so I'm looking forward to that. We're probably going to put a whole chicken in the smoker in the afternoon and then I think we're going to play some games. I'm introducing her to a game that I got at Gen Con called Lanterns.
Marisha: Lanterns?
Wil: Yeah, really fun Dom Lux game. Really like it a lot.
Marisha: We'll have to check that out.
Will: I, after four lovely years, popped the question last week.
Matt: Yes, you did.
Will: And I am engaged to be married. Yes. (cheering)
Will: Thank you very much.
Matt: I would say Susan's a very lucky girl, but really, it's the other way around.
Will: No, I'm the lucky one. I lucked out. I really was the one who lucked out.
Liam: Does she know or is this the proposal?
Will: I was going to propose like this, but we live in the woods and we don't get this show there. We have no internet whatsoever. No, she knows. She knows. She stupidly said yes, so we'll see what happens next.
Wil: If you need an entree into the Society of Men Who Married Way Above Their Stations, I can provide you an introduction.
Will: Thank you. (laughs) That's awesome. Yes, that is absolutely what happened here, so I will need that.
Wil: Yeah, they're members-only jackets.
Marisha: Members-only jackets.
Wil: The sleeves are little too short on all of the jackets, so we remember.
Will: That's perfect. I like that.
Matt: A lot of suede.
Will: Yeah. (laughter)
Wil: Yeah. (laughter)
Wil: And a nylon hood zipped into the neck, for some reason.
Matt: Which no one ever uses, and you forget it's there until you're like, "What's that? Oh, right." Congratulations.
Will: Thank you. You are the first to know that that's happened.
Matt: There you go. Exclusive. Critical Role exclusive. Well, fantastic. Let's go ahead and jump into where we left off.
Wil: I thought I just heard you say you need a pencil.
Orion: Yeah, I do.
Will: That's what happens when you're in multiple places at once. The realities start blending.
Will: I'll share, if you'd like.
Orion: Thank you.
Matt: Anyone else need a pencil? Everyone good?
Will: That was a good throw and catch.
Wil: I have a mechanical pencil that looks like a pencil pencil.
Will: I think I have the same kind of pencil.
Wil: Yeah, it's nice.
Marisha: We do the hand-eye coordination thing.
Matt: All righty, guys. As it currently stands, Vox Machina throughout its ventures found itself in the city of Vasselheim, as of late. They came to seal away the Horn of Orcus they had tore from the head of the beholder K'Varn deep in the Underdark. Once they had completed this journey, they spent some time in the city trying to figure out what can be done there, preparation for possibly Keyleth making a venture out to one of her Ashari tribes. During which, Grog entered a fight ring and lost. And the party decided to go ahead and--
Marisha: Never forget.
Matt: I have a feeling Kern and Grog are going to have a round two in the near future, depending on how Grog's feeling about that. Then the party saw that there was some sort of hydra-like being that had been harrying the walls of the outskirts of the city of Vasselheim. Being the adventurers they are, they took it upon themselves to leap out into the jungles and the forests of the Vesper Timberland. Found and hunted down this hydra, fought it, and upon slaying it, discovered there was another group also hunting this hydra. An actually sanctioned group. And that hunting this hydra is considered illegal in Vasselheim unless you had actually been contracted to do so. So in breaking the laws of Vasselheim, they could have been tried for it, but instead chose to return to the city with this group of hunters and be brought before their guildmaster, the Huntmaster known as Huntmaster Vanessa Cyndrial. Basically, they were given the choice: they could go to trial or they could undergo their own personal trial to join the guild, the Slayer's Take, which is essentially a guild that takes on contracts to hunt various requested creatures down, harvest elements of their physical bodies to then be sold or returned to these individuals and be paid for it. If they manage to complete these trials, they will be absolved of breaking the law because they will now be within the confines of it and will be members of the guild. So choosing that, they were then also notified that they would be splitting up into two different groups, much to the chagrin of Vex and Vax, our twins.
Will: Split apart.
Liam: Separation anxiety is a real thing.
Matt: So this group, the second adventuring group, has gathered itself back to the Bellows' Respite inn. Vax, you were asked to go the bar, to join your sister, Vex, for a shot of the hardest liquor they had available to deal with the coming separation. You shared a brief breakfast, shared your bitter, spiteful, alcoholic imbibement, and then went your separate ways. The first group went initially, and it's been about an hour or so of you guys waiting in the tavern for them to, as far as you know, take care of their business before you were to go to the guild yourselves. So, we have Tiberius, Keyleth, and Vax all sitting around the Bellows' Respite tavern lamenting what's going to come next.
Orion: Oh, cheer up, Vax. She'll be back soon. I've never seen you quite so down.
Marisha: I've been separated from my parents for a really long time. You get used to it. It's not too bad.
Liam: It took you years to do that. I'm two minutes in, so I'll grieve a little bit longer.
Marisha: Don't say the word grieve. That's strong.
Orion: Yes, it's implying that someone has died. And no one has. So, you know.
Marisha: It's only a few days. It'll be good. Separation makes the heart grow fonder and all that stuff.
Liam: It's fine. I just have a low tolerance for bullshit, and I'd like to get past this little piece of shit that we're being made to swallow.
Orion: I agree. Stormwinds should not be meddling around with these peasants. Are we in a tavern?
Matt: You are currently in the Bellows' Respite Tavern.
Orion: Barkeep, bring me your finest ale for my friend here and for the lady. I'll take a water.
Matt: The relatively jovial, ginger-bearded, rotund human gentleman who runs the establishment comes over to you. Looks like himself is a little bleary-eyed and hasn't quite adjusted to the morning light itself. "Oh okay. Certainly, I'll go ahead and retrieve that for you. It's three? Three is what I'm looking at?"
Marisha: What time is it?
Matt: Right now, I'd say it's roughly 9 00 to 10:00 in the morning.
Marisha: Oh sure. Let's start early. Why not?
Orion: And I flip him a couple of gold coins.
Matt: He tries to catch it, fumbles. Goes and pick it up.
Marisha: Don't throw. That's rude.
Matt: Five minutes go by. Your food and drink are brought to your table, and you continue to lament about the coming time. Is there anything else you guys wish to take care of before you make your way to the Slayer's Take Guildhall?
Marisha: Well, since we're getting separated, Grog is taking the Bag of Holding.
Orion: I have one; don't forget that.
Marisha: Right, but we had a lot of stuff in that Bag of Holding. I kept most of the stuff that I needed on me, but how many healing potions do we have?
Liam: Not a lot. That's what I'm concerned about. We lost our meat shield and we don't have Pike. So I think we probably need to go and get some potions.
Marisha: I can go ahead and brush up on healing spells, as well. Make sure I come a little bit more well-equipped, just in case.
Orion: I'm good on potions, but we should restock our supply.
Liam: How many have you got?
Orion: I have, let me see here, three potions of greater healing, and three regular potions of healing.
Liam: Can I have one?
Orion: I suppose. If we're just going to buy more, it doesn't matter. But just in case something happens along the way.
Liam: Thank you.
Marisha: I only have one greater healing potion right now.
Orion: Yes, so we'll go buy more. And then we'll see what else they have. I would like to see if we can procure a couple of items, like a couple of empty vials. I've used a lot of mine. Maybe find some acid or whatnot at these item shops. So let's look around and get the stuff.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and make an investigation check.
Marisha: Apparently we have the flying carpet?
Liam: Do we have the flying carpet?
Matt: The flying carpet is, for the most part, kept wrapped up in Grog's Bag of Holding.
Marisha: Because I think Grog was checking out. He's breaking up a little bit. But I feel like he just told me that we took the flying carpet.
Liam: (imitating Grog) We took the flying carpet. Sorry.
Marisha: He's very far away, but I feel it's reaching its limits.
Liam: (imitating Grog) I would like to bogart the flying carpet and everything in the fucking Bag.
Marisha: He apparently left us with the flying carpet?
Orion: He's saying he left with the flying carpet, Keyleth. He left with it. We don't have it.
Marisha: He said, remember, you took the flying carpet. To break RP for a second.
Liam: (imitating Grog) Am I texting you that right now?
Marisha: Yeah. I can't. You're cutting out. You're cutting out, Grog.
Orion: I held it for a time, but I only have my Wheel of Mending in mine, as far as I know. Hold on, let me check.
Matt: As you reach into your Bag of Holding--
Orion: I'm thinking really hard.
Matt: Through the luck of the draw, it seems to be that the last resting place of the flying carpet was within your Bag of Holding.
Orion: Hold on. Oh here it is.
Marisha: Oh, look at that. We have it.
Orion: Shut my mouth. I guess I was wrong.
Marisha: Found it. We're good.
Liam: All right, let's go to the store. I don't really want to drag this out any longer than we have to. And I walk out the door and start going.
Matt: Okay. What did you roll for your investigation check, Tiberius?
Orion: 16.
Matt: 16? Okay. As you guys take the next 20 minutes wandering the Quad Roads district of Vasselheim, asking around. A lot of the shops here offer general supplies. There are a few that are focused on the mining supplies as there is a large market mining cobalt out of the center of the mountain the city is built around. You find places that provide clockwork for large grandfather clocks that are starting to be distributed in this part of the city. You also find that there is a large bazaar-type market in the center of the Quad Roads that you passed by when you first came to town. Amongst many of these barkers, you do catch one small tent, Tiberius, that catches your eye because it resembles the same purple color as one tent you guys entered in Emon about a year or so ago, in which you encountered a fortune teller.
Marisha: Oh shit! It's the Witch's Fortune. What are you looking for?
Liam: Look at those fingers fly.
Orion: I approach.
Marisha: Do you know her name? Remember her name? I can probably find it. It would take a minute of digging, through. Hang on. I've got to go back to my old notes. I've got to go back to my old D&D notes. Keep doing stuff.
Matt: So as you enter the tent, you pull the curtains apart. There is one other individual who seems to be just perusing the interior. But the smell that hits you immediately is very heavy sage, ceremonial burning of various spices, giving the area a mystical scent. The light itself is very low, just a few flickering candles and a hooded lantern in the far corner directed outward give a bit of ambiance to the interior of the tent. The series of small ropes and cords made of hemp and silk carry trinkets and bones and various enchanted accoutrements. And in the far back corner, amongst the table there is indeed a very beautiful elven woman dressed in a fine silk gown with a metallic headband, her dirty blonde hair behind her ears. And she looks to be in the middle of shuffling a deck of tarot cards. As you enter, she looks up and gives you a look of surprise and then a curious look of remembrance.
Marisha: Am I with him?
Matt: You're behind him and outside of the tent. He entered. Did you guys want to go in with him?
Liam: Yes.
Marisha: Yes.
Matt: All right, you enter and are greeted by this same atmosphere.
Marisha: (gasps) Trista!
Matt: She gives you a cross look.
Marisha: It's been so long! Fancy meeting you here.
Matt: She puts her finger up for a second, turns over to the noblewoman who is currently perusing this small shelf of books and tomes. "I'm terribly sorry. Would you mind just giving us a moment? I've some personal business to attend to." The noble woman is like, "Oh, fine. I didn't want to purchase anything anyway." And stomps out of the tent. The door closes behind her. At which point the elven woman immediately turns. "Trista's my sister."
Marisha: You're Forsythia?
Matt: "It's good to see you again, young half-elf." You can see now with the current atmosphere, the light seems to dim the interior of the tent. And the elven woman's visage shimmers and then fades and there sitting behind the table you see a large, hunched forward, gnarled humanoid. This woman, who is definitively referred to as a hag, is currently lording over the table, long, twisted fingers holding that same deck of cards. Looking up at you with a crooked nose and pointed chin. There's a grin on her face. And looks to you and, "It has been some time, dragonborn. I can still see there is a fraction of you still missing."
Orion: Yes. I still don't know what that means. But I am actually happy to see you, milady.
Matt: Still shuffling her cards. "So was there anything I can help you with?"
Orion: Yes. Yes, there is. You mentioned before, when I asked you last, of the Boros Ring. You revealed that it was in the Fey, the Wild Fen. I am also in search of the item that I did not get to ask you about called the Pale Stone. I wish to know the location of that, as well.
Matt: She gives you a keen look. "I think for the time being, one quest is enough. Return when you've procured this ring you so graciously seek, then perhaps the rest of this will be revealed. Grow greedy with fate and I fear the timeline will swallow you up, young dragonblood." She pulls the cards down and just starts going over her own reading. Each card she slams down with a heavy thud. The room seems to almost cloud, the air growing thicker. And there's a hint of frustration that she's currently being bothered and strung out. After she takes a few moments to herself, she looks back you. "Is there business you seek, aside from asking me these questions? Perhaps a bauble or two. I make fine baubles."
Orion: Since you're not in the business of information, then we are in the business of procuring some specific items. Potions. I'm looking for a few empty glass vials. Perhaps some acid, if you have it.
Matt: She stands up. And as she stands up, you can now see the hag, which hunched forward, sits at a solid five feet tall. At full height, even with the hunch, she's now cresting the top of the tent at seven feet. Long, stringy, gray-black hair framing the shoulders. The same nice goldish silk outfit the elf appearance was wearing is there. It looks much more world-tattered and matches the one currently wearing it. She reaches behind her, still staring you intently in the face, and grabs a small case off the wall. Sets it down before her. Pulls back the wooden lid and inside, you can see there are three small glass vials. "These are what I have to offer. Two of them will right your physical form, perhaps take care of some of those wounds someone as foolish and careless as you eventually deal with. The third one is caustic in its nature. Its application is up to you. They are sold as a set, though. 300 gold pieces. Take it or leave."
Orion: You don't have to be all nasty about it. I have the money. Here you go.
Matt: She reaches over and as you hold the small bag of coin out, her hand completely engulfs yours. The fingers wrap around, and for a second you feel a tug. And you are awkwardly pulled forward a few inches. You get closer to her face. The breath catches your nostrils, the scent of swamp water and old fish. It's a moment of intensity where you forget your surroundings for a brief moment. And it's just you and this entity. And you realize, she's far older than you ever gave her credit for. She pulls the bag of coin from your hand and withdraws. The light seems to return from the peripheral of your vision. Keyleth and Vax are there at your side. She reaches forward and pushes the box forward toward you on the table. "Be safe, and may fortune smile upon most of you."
Orion: Yes, I know something bad is going to happen. I show them the box. I take it and pick it up. This is all she had to offer. She's not taking questions.
Marisha: You're not taking any questions right now?
Matt: "Not today."
Marisha: Not today?
Matt: "As you know, my dealings with fate take a lot out of me. I'm not quite ready for another round of tellings. You see, this city, as most bits of civilization, are very eager to hear what the future has in store for them. So I'm a bit tapped out at the moment." And you can see a bit of dried blood around one of her nostrils. And if you recall last time, the process was very physically taxing on her. "Perhaps return in a week or so. And if I'm not here, I'm around."
Liam: Old one, are you still willing to trade today?
Matt: "Trade?"
Liam: I'm wondering if you have any poisons beyond the run-of-the-mill nightshades this afternoon or morning?
Matt: She stands up and reaches over, and there's a small alchemical glassware set up on the side. And you see it's cracked and old and it's been brutalized. And she pulls a very small vial of some dark, black, almost umbra-type liquid where you can't even see shine in the light. It absorbs all the light. She puts it forward. "This would be very unfortunate to find its way into the bloodstream of an enemy, yes?"
Liam: What do you want for it?
Matt: "A favor. Not now, but perhaps down the road."
Orion: She does that, Vax. A lot.
Liam: Why not?
Matt: She pushes it forward with her long, crooked fingernail, shoves the vial forward. It screeches across the top of the table. She withdraws her hand. "So it is done." At that moment, there's a very a cold shiver down the back of your neck that then fades. She just grins with this nasty, toothy grin. "Now, be on your way. I have cards to shuffle."
Liam: Yoink.
Marisha: It was so nice to see a familiar face in such a strange place. She's lovely.
Orion: Yes. Good day, madam.
Matt: As you step out, she raises her hand in front of her and her form once again shimmers and shifts down to that beautiful elven maiden that greeted you as you entered. The lights tend to blossom a little bit and you close the tent behind you.
Liam: As we're leaving, I say, that's a good look.
Matt: Gives a slight breathy chuckle that starts beautiful. (chuckle turns into a cackle)
Orion: What did we actually get?
Matt: You acquired two potions of greater healing, and a vial of caustic liquid. You are uncertain as to what its properties are.
Marisha: Caustic liquid.
Matt: You also don't quite know the properties of yours, but you gather, the assurance from a creature of this power, that she speaks in riddles, but not in untruths.
Orion: I'm going to give you another one of the greater potions. So mark that down.
Liam: Thank you. We're right in the middle of the bazaar. Do we want to take a quick jog around? I grab someone passing by and say, you, potions? Where? Here?
Matt: The person looks down at your arm, brushes it off, and the middle-aged gentleman goes, "Sir, you do realize that most of the potion trade is controlled by the clergy?"
Marisha: They're all like no magic and stuff here.
Liam: I did not know that. Thank you. Well, shit.
Marisha: Wait. Did he say that it was controlled by the clergy?
Orion: So we should go there.
Marisha: Hang on. Just because it is controlled by the clergy doesn't mean that it's legal. Doesn't mean that if we go knocking on their door requesting potions that they're going to take kindly to that. Kind of like getting your concealed deadly weapons license in certain places.
Liam: I grab another weirdo passing by and say, excuse me. There's probably a temple around here. Can you point us in the right direction?
Matt: The individual looks at you awkwardly and points over. And you can see just past the outskirts of this bazaar, there are a number of buildings that line the outer area of this central portion. You can see where he is pointing, there is a large cathedral made of almost, from this distance, a warbling, warped obsidian, and it is far more ominous and obelisk-like in appearance than the other temples. In a district of the city that you haven't been to yet. But it is the closest temple.
Wil: Warbling Obsidian is my Black Crowes cover band.
Liam: I'm getting itchy. Can we just go to the Take please?
Marisha: I turn and I lean into Tiberius and I say, he's going to be cranky the entire time we're on this field trip, isn't he?
Orion: Yes, and usually I'm the cranky one.
Marisha: I know.
Orion: So let's head to the temple. Right? Yes?
Marisha: I guess.
Orion: Can you turn into a horse?
Marisha: Yes, but that's a little forward, don't you think?
Orion: I'm just asking.
Liam: Are we going to the temple or the Take?
Orion: Oh, the Take? What would make you feel better?
Liam: Let's get on with it, shall we? Jesus, whoever that is.
Orion: That was that one carpenter we met in in Vasselheim.
Liam: Oh, he was sweet. He had some good herb.
Orion: Yes, he did. He sure knew how to-- it was dank.
Matt: "Dank," which is arcane terms for "thaumaturgical." Anyway. You make your way to the southern outskirts of this portion of the bazaar, which leads its way into the central building cluster portion of the Quad Roads district to the outside of the Slayer's Take Guildhall. You walk up to the main doorway which has the inscription in front. And pushing the door open, you enter into the main foyer area, where you see the same cast-iron chandeliers hanging from the ceiling, the dark wood rafters frame the entire internal area. And there sitting at the central desk is Mertin, the scarred-up halfling with the relatively joyful disposition. He looks up from his books. "Okay, it appears to me that we have the other half of this adventuring group to deal with. Let us hope that perhaps you have better luck than your previous friends in what has been chosen for you, eh?"
Liam: They already headed out?
Matt: "Yes, they left not more than an hour ago, I imagine."
Marisha: And what were they contracted with?
Matt: "Oh, nothing. They're going to kill a dragon. Would you like me to go get the mistress for you?"
Liam: Excuse me?
Matt: "I'll take that as a yes. I'll be right back." And he gets up from his table and wanders off.
Orion: They'll be fine. I'm sure of it. Scanlan makes good decisions all the time.
Matt: As you wait a few moments, eventually Mertin returns. But he seems, his head down, a little humbly, and gestures out with his hands. And you hear the familiar footsteps of the Huntmaster, Vanessa Cyndrial. Her tiefling appearance both very striking in her chiseled bone structure in her face, her dark leather armor itself creaking slightly with each footstep. And she has that very commanding yet welcoming appearance, which you know hides a very hard-to-read interior. She steps forward. "Well, are you ready to take on the other half of this mission? Your friends were eager. And they traveled with some of our finer warriors. Are you confident in your capabilities today?"
Orion: Listen, don't be smug with me. None of us what to be here or cooperate with this stupid event just to abide your laws.
Marisha: Tiberius, we could be on trial.
Orion: The answer is yes. Let's get on with it.
Matt: "You see, it is very simple. I like it, direct and to the point. I respect that."
Orion: Oh. Well, thank you.
Matt: "The angry, flowery part in the middle, not so much a fan of. All right. So," she reaches behind and pulls out what looks like a small, rolled-up piece of parchment. Looks at it for a second. "Well, you have one other hopeful for this guild that will be joining you for this, and a leader will be assigned to you on this excursion to keep an eye on you and make sure you stay within the rules and not go absconding to some other country and we have to hunt you down."
Liam: Fantastic.
Orion: Can we use the word liaison?
Matt: "A liaison, if you will. Mertin, would you get the other hopeful for this?" Mertin says, "Of course, my lady." He gets up, and walks over, and knocks on a door. As you hear the door knock on the opposite side of the room, opens it up. And the red, tousled hair, halfling. "Kashaw, your group has arrived."
Will: Well, it's about time. I'm sick of waiting. (sighs) He walks out and meets everybody.
Matt: As you guys look, the door opens, and a human male steps out into the light. If you wish to describe yourself.
Will: I am Kashaw Vesh, an acolyte. Here I am, waiting for you for so long now. Do I have to travel with them the entire time?
Matt: "For the remainder of this contract at least. But once you have joined the Guild, perhaps other groups will be assigned to you."
Marisha: I'm sorry. I'm sorry, were we late? We didn't mean to keep you waiting. Or do you mean like, you've been waiting for us for a long time in the destiny, "we're here and where have you been my whole life" kind of way?
Will: Is she always like this?
Orion: Yes, she is.
Liam: Not good at reading emotions.
Will: This is going to be fun. Yes. No, I meant you're late.
Marisha: Wait. Is that what people say about me?
Liam: I don't.
Marisha: We'll talk later.
Will: Who are you?
Liam: Vax'ildan.
Orion: I am Tiberius Stormwind.
Will: A dragonborn.
Liam: What's your thing? What do you do?
Will: What I do is not really important. What I want to get done, I think, is what matters. What I want to do is start this quest. Is that what you called it? Quest?
Matt: "It is a contract."
Will: A contract, a job. Can we just get out there, please, and do what we have to do?
Matt: "Very well."
Liam: I agree. Let's hurry it up, Merkin. Shall we?
Will: That wasn't your name, was it?
Matt: "It's Mertin. Mertin is the name. But it's okay."
Liam: I'm not from these parts. It's my accent. Sorry.
Matt: "I can hear accent from upbringing. It's Syngornian use. It's fine. Mertin. Never mind." By the way, the human that has walked out, you can see has shoulder-length brown hair, a leather cord that is tied around the center of the forehead. Eyes two different colors. One I believe is a light blue?
Will: It's a light blue. One is a bright yellow. And his right arm, all the way up from where you can see where it disappears below the armor is covered in one-inch cuts, with scars all the way up.
Orion: Ah, a religious man.
Will: Maybe.
Matt: Mertin goes over and knocks on a door, opens it up. This individual is easy to hear from a distance. The heavy footfalls and the grumbling echoes through the hallways before he even appears. Mertin leads you into the light of the main foyer area. "This will be the group of which you will be guiding on this. I appreciate you doing this for us. I know it's not really usually what you do. But here is your team for this contract."
Wil: I'm sorry, where is the team?
Matt: "This is your team." And Vanessa chuckles to herself. "I'm sorry. This is what you'll be dealing with today."
Marisha: Hi.
Orion: Hello, I'm Tiberius Stormwind.
Matt: "Now Thorbir, play nice."
Marisha: What was that?
Matt: "Thorbir. Thorbir, play nice."
Wil: So he's a dwarf. He's a really stout dwarf. He's got really a long, red beard that's singed off in the lower right corner. The bottom of the top part of his beard is braided and clamped off with all these ornate things. He's got these big, thick, ropey, white braids that come down on either side of his face and frame his face. And these have these really big Dwarven runes on them. Do any of you speak Dwarven?
Orion: Yes.
Marisha: No.
Will: Yes.
Wil: All right, so for those of you who speak Dwarven, this is a really offensive curse word in Dwarven. And this one is an even more offensive curse word in Dwarven. You don't say these in friendly company. He's got a scar that runs down across his face. And the eye that it runs through is black. And his other eye is blue. And you can see that he's got Dwarven script written in tattoos all the way down his right arm.
Matt: "So please, if you would not mind making sure that they see their contract to fruition, taking them on this as you will, showing them the ropes of the guild, and try not get them killed."
Wil: And for me?
Matt: "Well, you will be rewarded as per the contract. You will have done the guild a great favor, which you know favors can go a very long way in the guild."
Wil: I certainly do. You don't have to tell me about repaying favors.
Matt: "Fair enough. Well, perhaps now would be a good time for this jovial lot of adventurers to know what it is they are to hunt down."
Wil: Is it an actual group?
Matt: "Well, we'll see how well you can make it into one. Perhaps this is a test for you as well, fair dwarf."
Marisha: I think is going to be an excellent bonding experience.
Will: Seriously, the whole time she is like this?
Orion: Yes, she is. It grows on you, though.
Will: I'm sure it does. So does the plague.
Marisha: Everyone has such a problem with optimism.
Matt: She unravels it. Looks at it. "I think this will do well for what is required. We will bind this contract to you now. Feel free to take over. If you wouldn't mind reading, half-elf."
Marisha: You know, public speaking is not really my strong suit. Okay. Ordered and paid in advance by anonymous.
Orion: Oh, they're a fun group.
Marisha: This contract, binding in honor and the elements, sets upon the agreed members of the Slayer's Take Guildhall, and the task of locating and slaying the below-mentioned entity, and the recovery of the below-listed harvested anatomy items. And any anatomy items not recovered or not in functional condition will be deducted from the final payment and refunded to the client. Oh. This contract is good for three days and should the contract not be fulfilled within that time period, all payments are null and void, this contract is null and void, and membership of the Slayer's Take is revoked-- outside of the Huntmaster's willful forgiveness.
Liam: Skip to the punchline.
Marisha: The quarry has been approved for hunting by the Holy Paramours of the Crown of Erathis. The quarry of one rakshasa. What's a rakshasa?
Liam: Tiger man.
Marisha: Tiger man?
Liam: Essentially.
Will: How do you know that?
Liam: Storybooks in Syngorn.
Marisha: We need two rakshasa eyes, one rakshasa tongue, one rakshasa heart, two rakshasa claws, and two rakshasa canine teeth. So canine.
Orion: Would this be an arcana or this be a history check?
Matt: This would be more of an arcana check.
Orion: I'm going to do an arcana check. 18.
Matt: 18? Rakshasas were entities that originally stemmed from the realm of the Nine Hells. They are devils. They are deceptive, and usually embed themselves in elements of society where they can grasp and take power. They love having servitude beneath them, and they are notoriously difficult and slippery to find, let alone nail down and destroy. Appearance-wise, they look like a normal humanoid man, but have the face of a tiger, and the other curious element is both of their hands are reversed. That's as much as you can glean from your formal training and understanding.
Liam: Does this cat have a name?
Matt: "Why does it matter? All we know is we can confirm that there is one within the vicinity, or huntable at the very least. The rest is up to you to find."
Marisha: The quarry is where it's been last located? Oh, okay. Yeah, you double-check it. I might have missed something.
Will: Why can't we know who the client is?
Matt: "The client has decided they wish to remain anonymous for this contract."
Orion: This seems to be bothering you, Kashaw.
Will: Everything's been bothering me lately. She's not helping. Do you want to read this?
Orion: It's going to say the same thing. Which part?
Will: Give me this. How far to the quarry?
Matt: "Your quarry is the creature."
Will: You said it was in the vicinity. What are we talking "in the vicinity?" Are we talking a day's hike? We talking an hour from here?
Matt: "Meaning, we've been able to confirm that there is one that is within a huntable distance within the three days of the contract. However, part of this trial is to see just how good you are at finding and destroying such creatures, so that information is for you to find, unless you do not feel your skills are up to par for the Slayer's Take, in which case, you are more than welcome to go for the door, human."
Liam: And you have no further information? Are there any grumpkins you want us to find? Do you expect us to go out with no information at all to find a man with a tiger's head?
Matt: "Well, you seem like a well-traveled unit. You seem to have done well enough to find and destroy great things you spoke of as you walked into these halls. Prove to me that you are more than just sell-swords. Show to me that you have the intellect, that you have the skill sets, that you have the cleverness to find the creature that does not wish to be found."
Liam: Is this how things normally go around here?
Wil: Normally, I don't waste my time with the likes of you. Man with a tiger's head is going to stand out. No problem finding him. Let's stand here and talk about this forever, or let's head out and get this over with.
Orion: Well, dwarf, why don't you do your title and lead then? And I should warn you, you are walking with a Stormwind. You may not know my name, but I can assure you, I alone am an army, so we are well protected. So, lead us to find this tiger-man, please.
Wil: Dragonborn is a lot of talk.
Will: If he's an army, why not just send him out?
Marisha: That was probably the ballsiest thing you've ever said.
Wil: All right, Storm?
Orion: Wind. People call me Tibsy.
Wil: Let's see how good you are at following. And he heads out.
Liam: He's not very good. Oh, he's gone.
Matt: As the dwarf exits, and you guys follow. Outside of the Slayer's Take into the center of the main Quad Roads thoroughfare, on the outskirts of the bazaar to seek a rakshasa, wherever one may be found.
Marisha: I thought this was going to be a fun field trip.
Orion: Well, I mean "rakshasa" does sound fun. Rakshasa!
Marisha: It does. It is a tiger person, so maybe we can relate.
Will: I want to switch teams.
Orion: No, it gets better.
Liam: What's your name again? I'm sorry.
Will: I am Kashaw Vesh. Call me Brother Kash. Everyone else does.
Liam: Kash. Brother Kash, are you new to the Guild, as well?
Will: I'm not a member of the Guild yet. I had something happen with someone who did something and now I'm here. Why don't we leave it at that, for now?
Liam: That's how we got here.
Will: Apparently, I only have to be here for another three days, which will be good.
Liam: All right.
Wil: I'm impatient. Perception 20. Is there anything around that indicates where, which of these four directions is the best direction to go?
Matt: Knowing the city for the while that you've been here, you know there are places of open business that have a lot of traffic are also good places to ask for if anyone has seen anything that might match a certain description, or an individual that you are seeking, any strange behavior. And so you know that the center of the Quad Roads where that bazaar is, is a good place to start requesting information as you have currently none at your disposal.
Marisha: Just to get this clear, a rakshasa's not a beast?
Matt: It's like a man.
Will: It's a demon.
Orion: It's a demon.
Matt: It's a demon creature that looks like a man.
Marisha: But it's not a beast, by definition?
Matt: No.
Liam: I'm sorry. I'd like to make an insight check on the dwarf, not to see if he is lying, but he could be. Can I get a gut instinct into what his deal is?
Matt: Go ahead and make an insight check.
Liam: Three, but I'm going to use my Luck to try that again. 18 plus two is 20.
Matt: Would you like to go ahead and roll a 20?
Wil: Yeah, that's a two. All right. (laughter)
Liam: Just reinforce the myth, man.
Wil: That's one better than I usually roll. I'd say it's twice as good as I usually do.
Matt: Gruff exterior. There is definitely a toughened past to him. He seems driven. Not necessarily untrustworthy, per se, but definitely a man of little patience and currently does not seem to be too pleased with the fact that he's essentially babysitting, in his mind.
Liam: Is there a marshmallow center?
Matt: You may find out in due time. Yet that is too hard to read at this moment.
Will: If you're in the bazaar, do I have to be out of the city to cast Locate Creature?
Matt: You can cast that anywhere you want to. Your magic is divine. This is your city.
Liam: And that's not just a descriptor, either.
Will: Thank you. It's normally fabulous, but not in this city. So then how do I go about casting Locate Creature?
Matt: You can just tell me.
Will: I'd like to go ahead and cast Locate Creature.
Matt: All right, so as you guys are having this discussion, you're having this weird stare-off and considering where to go in the bazaar. You stop in the nearby alley two buildings down from where the Slayer's Take Guildhall is. And you begin just taking a small dagger from your side and carving a circle in the ground. Throw some runes down that are specific to your patron. Take a moment and concentrate on the description of this rakshasa. Looking at the specifics of the spell to make sure that I don't give you misinformation... Locate Creature. Beautiful.
Will: You guys have jazz hands.
Orion: Rakshasa.
Will: Rakshasa.
Matt: You focus your mind for a second, and your holy symbol begins to drift up from underneath your armor. You instinctively take and slap it down underneath, and then refocus your vision, your eyes closed. And you can see what looks like a pulsing energy, like a very dark flame. Something that itself, you can already smell the sulfur. You can smell the lineage, the devil lineage that this entity is. And there is indeed one not too terribly far from where you currently are. It's faint, which means that it is on the outskirts. And you know this lasts for a good thousand feet or so. But it does give you a northeastern direction. And the spell fades.
Marisha: Northeastern direction.
Will: We should go northeast. It is also unfortunately, or fortunately, depending on how you look at it, closer than we thought.
Liam: In the walls of the city?
Will: Not in the walls, but very close to them.
Marisha: Do we have any type of plan of attack? Does anyone know how to fight these things? Any earthly clue?
Will: Leader boy?
Marisha: Leader boy?
Wil: I'm sorry, are you talking to me?
Orion: Thorbir is what they meant to say.
Will: Listen to Stormfather over here.
Marisha: I take my social cues from other people. I'm sorry.
Wil: In my experience, there has not been a problem invented that can't be solved with an axe.
Orion: That's true. We've seen that.
Will: Wonderfully helpful. Thank you.
Wil: You're welcome.
Liam: Follow the axe.
Wil: Now what I want you to do is imagine an hourglass. You got that? Good picture of an hourglass in your heads? See all that sand draining out? Let's get a move on.
Orion: Okay. What am I doing with this sand?
Marisha: I agree with that. Are we supposed to do something with the sand?
Wil: Yeah, count it.
Marisha: Oh, that would take so long. Can we tag-team this?
Wil: She always like this?
Orion: Yes.
Will: Stormcloud's counting sand. I don't know what she's doing over here. Northeast. How about let's start walking that way and see what happens? Can we give that a shot?
Orion: I agree. You did the fancy spell.
Will: It's not as fancy as you might think.
Wil: I've pulled my axe out and I'm sort of holding it like a walking stick. And just very deliberately, very demonstratively walking ahead in that direction.
Matt: With each footfall, you know that what was once, probably hundreds of years ago, a nice cobblestone roadway in the center of the city has been slowly hit with mud, dirt, snow, sleet, and so each step is a slight moisture with each footfall.
Orion: I'm assuming there's no stables around.
Matt: Not immediately, those are usually to the very outside of the city.
Liam: Why are you jonesing for a horse?
Orion: So I don't get all dirty.
Matt: Thorbir, leading forward in the northeastern direction that was given by Brother Kash, eventually brings you around the side of the bazaar. And you can now see why it's called the Quad Roads, there are two main roads that meet right where the bazaar occurs and then they spread off into the other sections of the city. To the northeastern section, from your guys' perspective, the district begins to drift into another district that you have not previously visited. This district is, you've heard it mentioned before, known as the Duskmeadow. Now, previous sections you've been in have been worshipers of Bahamut, the Platinum Dragon. There was the Braving Grounds, which worships Kord, the god of strength and warfare and honor. The Quad Roads, which is under Erathis, the deity of civilization and invention. The Duskmeadow falls under the watchful eye of the Raven Queen, the goddess of death. That large obsidian-type structure that you were led to earlier is the temple that resides in the center of this district. And you've heard mention before of a few of the things that exist here. That being probably Raven's Crest, which is the main temple to the Raven Queen. This is also where the Amaranthine Oubliette is located, which is essentially the prison of the entire city of Vasselheim.
Marisha: The what?
Matt: The Amaranthine Oubliette.
Orion: Hammertime oubliette.
Marisha: Oh, there it is.
Matt: This is also where most of the dead of the city are interred into a series of catacombs that are built deep beneath this section of the city. Far enough away from the oubliette to the point where isn't crossover and is enough of an escape, because that apparently has happened in the past history of the city. As you begin pushing towards the edge of where the two districts meet, you can see that there is an area of the town that, for lack of better term, it's a more jovial than expected area. There are a series of stands put up along the side of the road. There's a lot of beggars sitting on the side of the street that are currently panhandling to those who walk by. There are a number of taverns. You can hear music coming from various establishments. And it seems almost the closer you get to the death-oriented district on the border of the Quad Roads, the more and more it pushes into a shadier Mardi Gras-type experience. So you make your way towards that dividing line there. What you would like to do?
Orion: What say you, Thorbir?
Wil: Let's ask around and see if anything has been a little out the ordinary, or maybe, in the ordinary.
Orion: Yes, I like that phrasing.
Will: Have to imagine anywhere this thing goes, there's going to be strange deaths associated with it. We might as well look there.
Orion: That's actually a good idea, as well.
Liam: And where we're walking, are there shops and stands, as well, or is it residential?
Matt: There are many that sell jewelry, many that sell very well-made clothing, some of them party attire, there are some that sell exotic fruits that have been imported in various states of ripeness.
Marisha: Is anyone selling any masks?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Marisha: Passive or active?
Matt: That would be an active perception check as you're seeking it.
Marisha: 21.
Matt: 21. You do glance around and there is one cart that carries costume, party attire supplies. It doesn't seem to have too many customers right now, but they do have a couple of masks that are on display.
Marisha: Are there any masks that look like tiger masks?
Matt: Looking at it, there are none that are tiger-specific, no. They seem to be molded leather and some more impish, goblin-y in appearance.
Marisha: Is there someone working the stand?
Matt: There is, yes. You see a woman in her forties or so, thin, with a big toothy smile. Her hair is pulled back into tight bun. You can see there's little bit of her blondish hair turning to gray on the sides around her ears, Reed Richard-style.
Orion: Did you say this was the Bahamut part of town, too?
Matt: The Bahamut section is far away. That's another section of the city. You are now on the line between the Duskmeadow and the Quad Roads, so it's Erathis and the Raven Queen.
Liam: I'm pulling a mask off the wall. This is a beautiful piece. Do you make them yourself?
Matt: "I do. I do, I make them myself by hand, hence the price."
Liam: They are quite beautiful. We're travelers here. I've never seen a neighborhood like this. Is there a festival going on here, or is this pretty much the basic fare of the day here?
Matt: "This is the localized festival of the city. If you've been around Vasselheim long enough you've seen there is little interest in celebration depending on some places. But, at least on this line, some people can appreciate the fleetness that is life and grasp it by the roots and make it its own before it's snuffed out."
Liam: Here particularly, there seems to be electricity in the air almost. It's very bustling. This is the norm around here?
Matt: "Consistently. That's why I come and bring my business here. I wouldn't do very well up north, I'll tell you that. All them dragon types--" Looks to you. "No offense. All them silver dragon lovers have an issue with things as celebratory."
Liam: And I pull out ten gold, and I spread them on her desk.
Matt: "How many masks?"
Liam: Oh, none.
Marisha: Oh, I would like one.
Matt: "Take your pick."
Liam: I slide one coin away from the other nine, and then dragging my finger across those say, is there anything out of the ordinary these days?
Matt: Go ahead and make a persuasion roll.
Liam: 15.
Matt: 15? She gives you a look like she's trying to read you, looks about left and right. Glances at you and looks a little ugh. Glances at you and looks really taken aback, and then comes back to you with a escape of comfort.
Liam: Watching her, I pull out another five and spread them in front of the first nine.
Matt: "Well, I mean, some businesses here are a bit shady, I won't lie. And there are some long-standing businesses that have quarrels. Usually, they end in small scuffles, or one purchases the other and ousts them from the city. This is one of the few areas in which the more adult pleasures can be found, so there's a lot of money to be had. But recently, there's been, at least from what I've heard, a series of bodies have turned up. There were a few found, fished out by the Bastions in the water trough on the outskirts of the Duskmeadow."
Liam: The Bastions  what are they?
Matt: "Bastions who are the guardians of the city. From what I hear, they had been mauled by some sort of strange beast."
Liam: Mauled?
Matt: "Now, beasts on the outside of the city, that I can see. But on the inside, that is the stuff of nightmares. Is it not?"
Orion: Yes, I would agree.
Marisha: Have you had invaders like this before?
Matt: "I mean, death is not an uncommon occurrence for certain areas of the city." And she gestures off to the distant temple. "Some people invite it, even. But such violent death like this is usually kept to the outside of the city, at least with some sort of cause. This seems to be a murderous rampage that, me personally, I don't want to go out at night without protection."
Marisha: Is there is any indication of the cause of death on these corpses? How do they find them?
Matt: "I don't know. I've not investigated. Perhaps you have to ask the Bastions yourself that. Or anyone who was in the vicinity."
Liam: And can you point us in the right direction?
Matt: She looks around, and points off. And you can see, there isn't a whole lot of Bastion presence in this portion of the city, especially since the Bastions are more of a voluntary guard. People from the different clergies, the different temples, train to become Bastions, and fit themselves with whatever their deity's armor is. You do see there are two Bastions armored in a very dark, dark brown leather that carry a symbol of what looks like a silver raven that is embroidered on one shoulder of a cloak that is tossed to one side.
Liam: These guys are right here, essentially?
Matt: Yeah. Oh. They're across the road about maybe a block up. "I believe they're Bastions from the Duskmeadow. Perhaps you could ask them."
Marisha: Does she have any masks that look like a raven? A raven mask?
Matt: She does actually have one that looks like a raven.
Marisha: I want that one.
Matt: "Very well. A good choice. It doesn't quite match the color of your attire, but perhaps I have an outfit that could match for you?"
Marisha: Oh!
Will: Oh my god, we're going clothes shopping.
Marisha: Do you have a little cloak as well? A little cape?
Matt: "Cloaks I don't, but there but there is a cloakery about four blocks that way on your left. They can probably help you there."
Marisha: Thank you so much.
Matt: "Of course."
Liam: I notice a serpent-shaped mask on the wall. I just pick it up and put it on and say, thank you, madam. Much obliged. And walk off and clap Thorbir on the shoulder and keep walking.
Wil: Thorbir hangs back a little bit and waits for them to get to the door. And he looks at the shop keep and, do you have any masks that might fit a little girl?
Matt: "Yes, of course, friend dwarf." And she goes and rummages through a small bag and pulls out a mask. This little purple mask that seems to have small fake gems forming the outside, with a couple of ribbons that dangle where it would tie around the head. It's simple, but it's pretty. "Unfortunately, not many people bring children to this side of the district. They don't sell very well. But if you would like one, I would be happy to part with for two gold?"
Wil: One gold.
Matt: Make a persuasion roll.
Wil: 18.
Matt: "One gold. Guess it is better to sell it than not at all. Here you are. I must say, I won't tell anyone, but purple is a pretty color on you."
Wil: Yes, it is. He walks out.
Matt: All right. A few moments pass as you wonder where your dwarven leader has vanished to, he steps out through the front of the establishment.
Wil: Let's go.
Orion: Great. Do you have potions? Are you all potioned up? Are you good on items, Thorbir?
Wil: I'm all right. Are you all right?
Orion: I'm just fine.
Liam: Well, we're in a rush, but if it's easy. How do you come by potions in this town?
Wil: Do I know the answer to that?
Matt: You do. They're either provided, from some of your experience, by the Slayer's Take, but those are usually offered at the start of a contract. The fact that they weren't offered on this means either they don't have any currently at their disposal, or they felt that this contract probably wouldn't require it with the construct of this group being set out. Other than that, they are a little hard to come by. A lot of them are controlled by the main temples and are pretty much given straight to the Bastions. There aren't a lot of individuals that are in need of them within the city, and those that travel out are either members of the Slayer's Take or members of the Bastion forces. So they are little hard to come by.
Wil: I think that if we're going to find them anywhere, it might be around here. Might be we can take some through trade. Maybe some might fall off a Bastion or two.
Orion: Well, let's go talk to one then, shall we?
Will: Thought that's what we were doing. Are going to the two Bastions over there or what?
Orion: Yes, Kashaw.
Will: Good. One other thing you need to know about them: they're horribly paid, so money talks with these people.
Orion: Very well.
Marisha: As he goes ahead, I keep up my pace until I trail behind him a little bit.
Will: Wonderful.
Liam: My hood goes up, and I'm gone.
Matt: All right. As you guys step across the way. It's about a block up. One of them is partially inside the alley between two of the buildings. You can see he has one hand up on the wall and the other down. One of them is relieving himself on the side of the building, while the other is keeping watch, arms crossed, looking out across the road. The one that's immediately present, or before you, you can see is human, a scruffy brown beard around the edge of the chin. The hair itself is cut very short. A little heavier in appearance. A little muscle, a little layer of winter padding, but the black leather armor definitely gives you the appearance of somebody who is a Bastion of the Raven Queen. As you approach, the hooded half-elf, the dwarf walking with the giant axe, and the bumbling dragonborn, the human cleric with a very angry disposition, and the awkward half-elf druid stepping in pace with him. Gives you all a cursory look and immediately puts a hand to his side where you can see that there is a rapier currently sheathed. "Aye, you walk with purpose."
Wil: We walk for the Guild.
Matt: "Slayer's Take it is?"
Wil: It is.
Matt: "What business have you on this side of town, then? Aren't you supposed to be out past the walls killing creatures and such?"
Wil: Our business takes us where our business takes us. Our business brings us here today.
Matt: "All right, then what's your business?"
Wil: You might be having some trouble?
Matt: "Aye."
Wil: What's causing you trouble and what's going to get us out of here might be the same thing.
Matt: The gentleman to the left of him finishes shaking off the rest of his alleyway journey.
Will: Any more than twice and you're just playing with it, pal.
Matt: He turns around and throws his tunic over. "Excuse me, it's official Bastion business. Anyway." And he nods over to the bearded gentleman who's standing there. "There are certain bits of business that are official in this town. I don't know how honestly right it is to be talking with common folk, or even the Guild who does what it likes."
Wil: I'm sorry, you're not talking to common folk.
Will: He wants money.
Wil: I know what he wants.
Will: Well, then give to him so we can get out of here.
Liam: I'm circling around.
Matt: Make a stealth check.
Liam: 31.
Matt: I'm not even going to roll. I'm going to ask you to go ahead and you can choose if you want persuasion or intimidation on this. You're riding that line.
Wil: I'm equally bad at both of them. But I think that Thorbir wants to go intimidation. I'll give that a try. There it is!
Orion: 20?
Wil: What's the exact opposite of that? (laughter)
Matt: You know, I've heard about it for so long.
Wil: I know, right? You can't believe that it's a real thing until you're actually there.
Liam: Everybody talks about spontaneous combustion, but I'd never believed it.
Wil: It's silly. It's so silly to do this.
Marisha: Dice shame.
Liam: Naughty.
Matt: I don't know what ancient Aztec deity's temple you defaced when you were a child, but man. All right, so as you lean forward--
Wil: Please, just let me step into a bucket. (laughter)
Matt: We'll get to that. As you lean forward, forcing your presence on this Bastion, his hand's still holding the edge of his rapier. He steps forward into you, to the point where you're almost forehead to forehead. "Sorry, I have to lean down to reach your level. But if you're going to go about asking questions and not offering proper compensation for information, well, then. I think we have no business here."
Wil: If it's compensation you're looking for, let's just speak plain. And I pull out four gold.
Liam: And while he has their attention, I'm going to check out his pockets.
Matt: Go ahead and make a perception check.
Liam: Ew, that's not good. I'm going to use Luck. That's better. That's all right. Perception, you said? 28.
Matt: 28? Taking a moment as you sneak up behind the one he's talking to-- the two guys are shoulder to shoulder, squaring off with the rest of this group. The one that had been relieving himself in the alleyway is a little bit closer to you. You can see as he put his tunic right and everything, he jostled around and revealed a couple of small pouches on his side. One of which, you heard a clinking of glass on the inside. Go ahead and make a sleight-of-hand check.
Marisha: Go rogue, go.
Liam: Because I'm wearing a Cloak of Elvenkind, which I know affects stealth checks but not--
Matt: Not sleight of hand, no.
Liam: That's all right. 20.
Matt: 20. All right. You reach over and find the edge of the leather loop that attaches itself to the side of this Bastion's belt. You tug ever so gently to the side and the loop releases and you pull it off, seemingly without any noticing. As you pull out the four gold from inside, the Bastion looks out and scoffs and goes, "Clearly, pittance fee for this. What's to let me think that you aren't actually part of this murder scheme? You just walk up and try and start asking questions like this. First off, where did you hear about it? Second, you look like the kind that would go ahead and be mauling folks in the street, do you not, sir dwarf? You got the eyes of one who's probably done a few dark deeds."
Wil: Oh, I have. More than you can imagine.
Matt: "Then explain to me why we shouldn't take you in for questioning right now." And he pulls his rapier out.
Orion: Hold on. Everybody calm down. Hi, I'm Tiberius Stormwind. My friend Thorbir here didn't mean to offend, of course.
Matt: The blade up toward your face. And he says, "Look, dragon man, I was talking to the dwarf. You, I have no business with at the moment. So. You've got ten seconds before we take you in."
Wil: I reach into my pocket and rattle my coins around a little bit. Maybe I could buy us some time. And I drop ten gold out into my other hand.
Matt: Make a persuasion roll.
Will: One! No, it isn't.
Matt: Three.
Wil: That's funny. I rolled a three on this die. So that's going to be a six. Guys, I think we're fighting the Bastions. I feel like maybe it's going that way.
Marisha: You rolled a one?
Matt: I rolled one.
Marisha: You all have really low self-confidence.
Matt: As you push forward the coins, in a semi-awkward forceful manner, the Bastion himself also seems to be caught off-guard, and looks down, and looks about. Realizing that now it looks like you are visibly out in the open, paying money to the Bastions. He looks back. "People don't stand out in public and do it!" And he pulls you all off into the alleyway to the side of the complex. Out of the middle of the area into the shade between the buildings. He reaches over and takes the coins from your hand and hurries them into a pocket. "All right, look. I'll tell you what we know. But if you're going to be messing around with this investigation, I ask that you don't let anyone know that you spoke with us. This is all on your own. And if you do say anything, we'll deny it and we'll make sure to put you in the Oubliette yourself for this. All right?"
Orion: Fair enough.
Wil: All right.
Will: All right.
Matt: "Now, we have found a series of bodies over the past few years, scattered about. A few months at a time between. All with a similar pattern of death to them. We found large portions, the meaty portions of the body had been torn away, some of them apparently eaten. There are marks that are indicative of some sort of beast ravaging the corpses, but no signs of a beast coming or going. And we've had many of our finest trackers looking for any sort of sign of a creature that may have found its way into the city. They've been in the rooftops, the gutters, perhaps even the sewers. No sign of any such creature traveling amongst any of these scenes. Now, all of the bodies have been found wrapped up and discarded in the canals. A lot of them surrounding the Abundant Terrace." Looks at the rest of you. "That's where Melora's eye is watchful. What's really got us confused of late is, the most recent murder that we found was a very powerful merchant lord from Ank'harel, one that's been in this city for no more than a month. He's well-known in these parts as bringing in a lot of business. His caravans come through via various skyships. And he brings with himself an influx of much-needed mercantile in the city."
Marisha: What's his name?
Matt: "I'm not allowed to say."
Will: You're not allowed to say?
Matt: "The merchant's name is Tyrell."
Marisha: What?
Matt: "Tyrell. Lord Tyrell. If you say any of this to any of our people, I swear I'll make your life the hardest it's been in months. And from the looks of you, you've had a very hard few months. Lord Tyrell's body was found, but apparently during the murder. We have one beggar that apparently caught sight of this the murderer. As best as we can tell, it was some sort of lycanthrope. The beggar was babbling, but it seemed there was some sort of wolf-like creature. It was seen bipedal walking a man, but tore this man right through the throat, most of his chest. But when spotted, didn't run, just vanished. Disappeared. No longer in his sight. No tracks left behind. Just gone. Didn't know if it was angry poltergeist, ghost. But the last place he was staying is at a recent establishment, only been here a couple of years. Referred to as the Velvet Cabaret. The Velvet Cabaret is a very high-end place."
Will: I know it well.
Matt: "You do?" He gives you a look of--
Will: I've heard about it from somewhere else.
Orion: Scanlan? Have you been talking to Scanlan?
Will: Don't know who that is, Stormshadow.
Orion: He likes whores. Okay. It's weird.
Matt: "The fact that that the lord had been staying at the Velvet Cabaret for some time, and we were feeling pretty close to possibly finding the source of these murders. Our bastion force from the Duskmeadow worked with the Quadroads and we actually raided it. Found nothing. Nothing but the patrons, no sign of any sort of foul play. We were forced to leave empty handed. That's all we've got."
Will: I have a question about the bodies. Have you seen them?
Matt: "I've only seen the most recent. The rest, I've just heard of."
Will: Anything similar with them? Are they all men? Are they all women? Are they children?
Matt: "No children. Most of them seem to be well off to do folk. Dressed well."
Will: Wealthy men and women? And you say you've searched everywhere, including the catacombs?
Matt: "Most. Catacombs themselves are sealed off. We've asked around, and there's been no sign of movement in or out. And gods forbid, anyone stays in those places. That's a nasty place to be staying."
Will: It is, indeed.
Orion: Is there a way that the bastions could organize some kind of gathering of sorts? Perhaps a mandatory town meeting, where all would have to gather for maybe an announcement or something official?
Matt: "All the bastions? That's near impossible. The city's scattered politically enough as it is. People can be rallying whenever there's some sort of force coming against the city. But when it comes to nothing for any particular reason, just the investigators take care of it themselves."
Wil: He serves the Raven Queen, right? He's got the Raven Queen patch on him?
Matt: Yeah.
Wil: This part of town, death isn't the worst thing in the world. Lots of planes other than ours, might be you're a little bit closer than some of the rest of us are; we're underneath the mountain. You wouldn't happen to know about anyone performing any rituals or maybe opening up lines of communication that may have been made and disturbed?
Matt: "I certainly hope not. These sort of communion rituals are sanctified and held within the actual temple to the Raven Queen itself. If anyone is doing any sort of business, there is a very watchful eye over the city. Anything that is unsanctioned, I can guarantee we'll know about it."
Orion: May we seek audience with this Raven Queen?
Marisha: I mean, she's a goddess.
Orion: Oh. She's not here?
Marisha: She's not a queen. She's a goddess.
Matt: You can see the two the two bastions are looking at each other with expression of "Really?"
Orion: We're new around here.
Matt: "Listen, we've talked long enough. We got to get back to our posts."
Marisha: Oh, wait. You mentioned investigators?
Matt: "There are different people assigned to investigate. We were part of the team that was sent as part of the investigation raid on the Velvet Cabaret."
Marisha: It's not a group of people. It's just, "you're an investigator today" kind of thing?
Matt: "That's part of what we do as Bastions, aye."
Marisha: Gotcha. Is there anyone else that is part of the investigation team that you think would be good to talk to?
Matt: "They wouldn't have any more information than we do, no."
Marisha: Can I do an insight check on him?
Matt: Yeah, go for it.
Marisha: 23.
Matt: He seems forthright enough. He seems impatient and a little flustered with the fact that you've been pushing these questions to him. But he doesn't seem to be covering anything necessarily.
Wil: Did he tell us where they found the-- I didn't write this down.
Liam: And Lord Tyrell factored in how?
Wil: Can you tell us where you found the body of the merchant lord?
Matt: "The body was found in the side alley to the Velvet Cabaret."
Will: You said wrapped up? Or just the ones in the river were wrapped up?
Matt: "The ones that were found in the river, they were wrapped up in blankets. Whatever put them aside was not some beast. There was some intelligence to this. And they were placed deliberately, which means, I don't think there's just one thing doing this."
Will: Were the blankets the same, or were they all different?
Matt: "They seemed to be different. Some were just scattered cloths. Some were tattered sheets. Some were bolts of fine material. Really varied. There was no pattern to it."
Will: Was anything missing from Lord Tyrell?
Matt: "Nothing more than his throat, his trachea."
Liam: We've pumped these guys for all they've got.
Wil: You're all right. Sorry about that.
Matt: "It's all right, just offer more coin up front next time. Be well. And if you hear anything, find any information, come straight to us. Don't be getting into official business. You're sanctified as a Slayer, but don't make us look bad." They step around you guys, back out into the main street.
Wil: Velvet Cabaret?
Marisha: Velvet Cabaret.
Will: It's close.
Marisha: So we know that this guy-- while we walk there, I was talking. We know that this guy is a demon from the Nine Hells. So, he seems to be targeting wealthy people. Do you think these are people that tried to get under his control, under his servitude, and it didn't go his way, so he ended up killing them?
Wil: Folk don't go into the Velvet Cabaret unless they got a lot of coin. Someone like Lord Tyrell. Do we know anything about him? Does his name ring any bells for us at all?
Matt: Roll a history check.
Wil: Oh boy. (laughs) It happened again!
Matt: This is unprecedented. You are the nega-Percy right now.
Wil: Just telling you. I'm just telling you.
Matt: This is impressive.
Wil: You think it isn't real. You think it's a thing I make jokes about.
Matt: You take a moment to conjecture where you may have heard the name. What was the name again?
Wil: Oh, the guy from Battlestar Galactica. Oh, what was his name? Adama?
Matt: You want to roll a history check?
Will: d20?
Matt: d20 and add your history modifier.
Will: Add my history. 20. Total of 20.
Matt: Total is 20? All right. You've heard of the city of Ank'Harel. It's a desert city from a long ways away. But you aren't specifically aware of this individual. You however, Kashaw, you know that Lord Tyrell has come through this city a few times in the past year or so. You've only been here a short time yourself, but in the time that you've been here, you've heard tales of this large caravan that comes through. And it is a parade. He usually brings with him a good 13 different carts that contain all sorts of jewels and materials and tapestries and fine silks, and it's almost a small party whenever this is this long walking caravan is brought into the city. So you are aware of this individual. You're surprised that the death has be kept so hush-hush.
Will: And are there rumors of about him bring in anything else? Anything illicit? Or is it kind of "what you see is what you get?"
Matt: As far as you know? No information that has caught your ear per se, but the fact that he's staying in this district, who knows?
Wil: Folks tend to stay-- Let me try that again. Folk tend to stay with their own class. These victims are all wealthy folk. And they seem to have the Velvet Cabaret in common. It's very likely that we're dealing with somebody who is rich and powerful.
Will: What does a demon need money for?
Wil: Who says he's after money?
Marisha: Seems to be after power.
Liam: Tyrell was passing through. I wonder how many people would notice him gone here in Vasselheim.
Orion: I'm sure quite a few.
Marisha: And it seems like it's no secret when he comes to town.
Will: It was a party every time he showed up.
Marisha: And according to the guards, these murders have been going on for the past few years, so it seems like whatever we're dealing with might have time to plan ahead. If he's been aware of the past few times that Tyrell has come through the town and could possibly know the next time he's coming through.
Orion: And if we could pinpoint when it actually started, we know years, but actually when, then we can actually narrow it down to the establishments and other things that were established then.
Wil: Would there be a place where we could inquire as to some sort of ledger like that when this guy comes in and with the intention of trying to correlate it with when different murders have happened? Actually, I take that back. Thorbir doesn't think that deeply. That's not the thing that he wants to do. That sounds like a lot of thinking and not a lot of hitting things.
Liam: This killer could be hiding in plain sight at the Cabaret. Could be an employee there.
Orion: Or the owner himself.
Marisha: How long ago did the bastions say that they raided the Velvet Cabaret?
Will: It was a month ago, wasn't it?
Matt: It was a few weeks back when the murder occurred, yeah.
Marisha: So here's my question  do you think he would stick around after it was raided? Or do you think he'd move on?
Liam: The thing is vanishing upon sight.
Will: And gotten away with it for the last two or three years. I don't think he cares much anymore.
Liam: My question is  we have three days, Cabaret's the only lead we have. How do we draw this person, he or she, out?
Marisha: I believe it is three days.
Liam: We have three days to collar it.
Matt: You have three days to complete the contract, meaning slaying the entity you're contracted to.
Will: I was going to say that you look like a man who knows wealth.
Orion: Yes.
Liam: I've spent time with wealth.
Will: Well, I never have, so I would think maybe if you were a merchant coming into town, very wealthy, looking for some adult entertainment, might be a way to bring him out the forefront.
Orion: Oh, I agree. I cast Alter Self on myself and turn myself into an elf. You're half-elf right?
Liam: Half-elves.
Orion: I'll turn into a half-elf, akin to a high-born half elf.
Matt: All right, fair enough. Even in comparison to Vax, your attire is very nice.
Marisha: Does this mean that I should go change clothes?
Will: You were going to go shopping.
Marisha: I was.
Orion: You look okay.
Marisha: Thank you.
Liam: Let's go. I jingle what gold I have in a pouch in front of Keyleth's face and say, let's go shopping. Come on.
Wil: Shopping montage.
Matt: As you guys go out shopping for better looking, well-to-do attire, we'll go ahead and take a quick five-minute break and we'll return here and as you guys continue to the next step of your hunt for the rakshasa.
Wil: Oh, Tyrell! I just remembered. (laughter)
Wil: What a silly thing to forget.
Liam: As the rakshasa bears down on your head.
Matt: Last thing engraved on your tombstone. Yeah, quick five-minute break. First off, before we get to that, guys: A big thank you to Negihama once again, our patron saint of ridiculous gifts, who purchased these sconces to put on the wall.
Liam: They're legit.
Marisha: Aren't the sconces awesome?
Matt: They are amazing.
Marisha: The LEDs change colors.
Matt: Reminder  every hundred subs we're giving away a signed picture and signed full-scale poster of Kit's art. And for the break, the five-minute break we're going to take real fast, we have an awesome video that was presented to us by some of the Critters that I think you'll also appreciate as well. So we'll go ahead roll that and use the potty and we'll see you guys in a few minutes. [break]
Matt: Welcome back. I assume we'll have a Liam here in just a moment.
Orion: He's just stealthing.
Will: He's stealthing. He rolled a 28 and disappeared.
Wil: I was talking Liam's ear off during the break about how much I love the dynamic among the three of you, and commiserating about how you feel really naked and exposed when your whole party isn't together. How weird that feels to not have everybody together at the same time. I think I kept him from the bathroom.
Matt: Oh, gotcha. That's okay. He'll arrive. When he comes, we'll all awkwardly stare. Yeah. When he does. When he arrives we'll all just-- But in the meantime, you managed to go back and--
Liam: Stealth. Disadvantage on my next five attacks. (laughter)
Will: I love the awkward stare. It was great.
Wil: He's actually a very generous DM if he does that. I actually make my players roll damage when they upset me.
Matt: Oh, that's good to know.
Wil: Yeah, dude, d6 damage if you annoy the GM.
Matt: Wrath of the gods comes down upon you. All right, so you guys taken a few minutes to acquire outfits that seem a little more fitting as to the establishment you're planning to go and enter.
Marisha: Guys, we should have aliases. Can we have aliases?
Wil: Yeah, I'll be Thorbir.
Will: I like it. It's easy to remember.
Marisha: Very easy. Oh, you know what, maybe I could-- would it be weird if I'm Vex? That's weird, isn't it?
Liam: That's really weird.
Marisha: Okay. What's a good elven name? What's something common in Elven? You were around this stuff. All of my people have weird tribal names. What's good?
Liam: Elivr is nice. Coralin.
Marisha: Oh, Coralin. Do I look like a Coralin?
Will: What does a Coralin look like?
Orion: She does that. Just agree.
Liam: I will be Scanlan Shorthalt.
Marisha: (stutters) What, you can be Scanlan, but I couldn't be Vex?
Liam: No, you can't do that. I'm just saying it's weird.
Marisha: That's double standard, Vax. I'm just saying.
Orion: I think it's maybe because you're not his sister and it would be weird because that's his sister's name.
Will: You have a sister?
Liam: I have a twin, yes.
Will: What does she look like? Oh.
Orion: But she's a female.
Will: She sounds lovely.
Wil: Humans, am I right?
Marisha: She's very nice.
Will: That's what they say about all the ugly girls. "She's very nice."
Marisha: I feel like I'm learning so much from you. Is that what they say?
Orion: Life lessons, yes.
Will: Velvet Cabaret?
Liam: To the Cabaret.
Wil: I presume that I'll play the role of your guard.
Liam: Bodyguard, yes.
Will: What does that make me? How about your valet? You'll need one if you're wealthy. Would you have a human, though?
Liam: Of course. Of course I'll have a human, being elven.
Orion: Are we on our way there now?
Liam: Yeah, we're walking and talking. And you're changed into a gnome.
Orion: Now I change. I change, because it only lasts a certain amount of time.
Liam: Boy or girl?
Orion: I'm a boy.
Will: So are you Lord Vax?
Liam: Lord Scanlan of the Shorthalts.
Will: Lord Scanlan, okay. Lord Scanlan of the-- I'm sorry, of the what?
Liam: Of the Shorthalts.
Will: Of the Shorthalts. Okay.
Liam: We have a cobbling empire. Shoes.
Will: The Shorthalts. Okay. Lord Scanlan of the Shorthalts.
Liam: We cater mostly to halflings and gnomes. Everyone, but specifically because they're so underserved.
Will: You have a gnome shoe empire?
Liam: Rolling in it, baby.
Wil: Where's your empire, human?
Will: I have no empire. I'm his valet.
Liam: We're wonderful partners, dear.
Marisha: Am I your wife?
Liam: Do you want to be? Is that weird?
Marisha: No.
Orion: I say it's equally-- no, it's fine.
Marisha: No, it's fine. Yeah, I can be your wife. I can RP this. I mean I can pretend to be. Yeah. So Coralin Shorthalt.
Wil: Thorbir is pulling on his beard and breathing deeply.
Orion: Now I cast Alter Self.
Matt: All right. Cast and a flash of light. You guys all pick up the very, very heavy smell of breakfast ale emanating from the deeply breathing, angry dwarf.
Orion: Wait, Vax. What was my role in this?
Liam: You're an advisor. A financial advisor.
Orion: Financial advisor. Excellent.
Matt: All right. You guys make your way to a little bit further north this of this route, five or six blocks until you get the outskirts of the Velvet Cabaret, which based on the description you've gotten from a few individuals you asked around, very easy to find. The fancy house of entertainment. It is a two-story building of dark cherry wood with strips of what looks to be black suede bolted in a pattern along the outside of it. It stands out like a sore thumb against the rest of the architecture, but it looks a night club. It looks very, very gaudy, but in a way that the garishness looks expensive, and so you can't really fault it for looking the way it does.
Wil: It looks like cruise ship goth club.
Matt: I like that. I'll take that.
Will: Cruise ship goth club.
Wil: That's a thing that exists.
Will: Really?!
Matt: When are we going to this?
Wil: Every year on the Jonathan Coulton Cruise, we gather in the cruise ship goth club.
Will: Wow.
Matt: JoCo Cruise.
Will: Too many jokes.
Matt: I know. As you approach the front, you can see that there are two bouncers established at the very front. To the left, you see a meaty male dragonborn, bronze scale with painted face scars. He has a very, very intense look about him. He's thicker. He's built like a barrel. He sits with his arms crossed, looking angrily out amongst the rest of the folks outside. To the other side, you recognize a burly-looking female with short hair and some facial tattoos. The Siren, who you saw battle in the Cauldron, apparently works as one of the bouncers of the Velvet Cabaret.
Orion: I approach right next to Vax, as we move up. Scanlan. In Draconic I go, greetings and salutations, friend.
Matt: He gives you a look of confusion for a second and leans forward and the dragonborn looks very intently at you and says back in Draconic, "Are you a member?"
Orion: Not yet. We are new to this place. My master here is seeking audience with his kind. We were guided to this place. This establishment has a high reputation. We wish to inquire how to get inside.
Matt: Looks over to the Siren. Siren glances back and, "What's he saying?" And the dragonborn glances over. And he says out loud in Common now, at this point, "He's saying that they're looking to come in here and talk to other elvish guys, I guess."
Orion: Oh, not elvish, but more people of high society. High society here.
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Orion: 21.
Matt: 21. He gives a glance over. "Well, if you're not a member, you can acquire membership, but it has to approved first by the owner."
Orion: May we seek audience with him to ask or apply, or however that goes about.
Matt: "Let me get his assistant. Hold on just a second. Siren." She gives a look. "I'll be right back." She rolls up her sleeves and steps inside as the door opens.
Marisha: As I see her, I turn and face outward.
Will: You know her?
Marisha: No.
Will: Okay.
Matt: As the door opens, you can already hear what sounds like soft harp music coming from the interior. And it's hard to actually look inside because as you can see there are silks draped crossed over and in front of the entryway, as soon as you step in. A few moments pass, eventually the Siren returns and you are greeted at the doorway by a dwarf with very well-groomed facial hair. A beard that comes to a fine point, has a little gold ring at the very bottom that kinks it at the bottom, this little poof. With makeup on. Very rosy cheeks, and you can see there is eyeliner around his eyes. Smile to his face. Wearing these long white robes, lots of jewelry. And the rest of his dark brown hair is pulled into a dual ponytail that runs down to the middle of the back. Comes to door and immediately says, "Gracious welcome to all of you. I've been told that you're seeking possible membership to our establishment."
Orion: In Dwarvish I say, that's correct.
Matt: "Well, fantastic, then. Don't leave possible patrons outside." And looks off to the two bouncers and they grumble and step off to the side. "Come in. Come in. Follow me." And he steps inside. As you guys walk in behind him, immediately you're hit with the strong smell of exotic incense and the cooking of meat mingling with that. It has this smell of everything good you've ever smelled mixed into one location.
Will: Love the smell of these places.
Matt: The interior is fairly low-lit with what looks like a series of faerie-fire lamps dangling in small lattice cages. So it has this light purplish-pink glow to the general interior. There are no stools or chairs. There are tables that low set and the floor is nearly covered with very, very expensive looking pillows. All the patrons are currently sitting cross-legged or laying around the tables. And you can see the clientele is very well dressed and very wealthy. There is laughter and conversation. There's definitely has a very, very different air. It's like stepping into a whole different world from what you're used to seeing in Vasselheim. And you get the feeling that whoever created this establishment definitely created it to provide a very different experience for most people who work here, which means one, it probably makes a really good killing to the small number of clientele, number two, it probably isn't very well liked by the people who have been living here most their life. As you look around, too, there are dice games being played, there are many gold pieces being stacked up on tables. It appears that there's definitely a lively-- what's the word I'm looking for? My brain isn't working-- gambling arrangement in this place. You notice that all the guards in the inside, the bouncers, are common sell-swords. There's no unification to their adornments or any of their armor and stuff. There are a few folks that are looking around, keeping the peace, arms crossed. They all definitely have weapons visible. And they're just sitting there, guarding just like the bouncers were at front of the place.
Will: How many dwarves?
Matt: Just the one that let you inside.
Marisha: I reach over and I grab Vax's hand.
Liam: I fold her arm in and walk forward.
Matt: All right.
Will: I think, as they move forward, I would like to pull Thorbir aside and say, maybe since we're trying to get membership here, you should cover your runes.
Wil: Noted.
Will: Thank you.
Wil: I'd like to make a perception check to size up the guards around. Ten.
Matt: Well, that's a step in the right direction.
Wil: I rolled four times as good as I usually roll.
Matt: Looking about, they look armored. It's hard to tell their skill level, based on the low light in here. They seem definitely keeping an eye out, but you can tell they've been working here a while and they've grown comfortable. What you do notice, though, is a lot of the servers that are walking around are young men and women dressed in very fine silk robes or gowns. All have these iron bands around their neck, collars, that aren't chained to anything. But it immediately gives you this mental image of slavery or some sort of servitude. It does not appear that they are actually in some sort of servitude, but the adornment they wear is almost trying to get across that atmosphere, as if that's part of what you're paying for. It sickens you a little.
Wil: I'm going to carry myself and I'm going to do what I can to give off that I'm keeping an eye on this guy, that I'm the guy. That's how I'm trying to carry myself.
Matt: Okay. As you guys you have walked to the center of this room now, the dwarf individual who let you in turns around and with a bit of a bow. "I would to introduce myself. My name is Hosin. I am the manager of this fine establishment, the Velvet Cabaret. I'd like to welcome you..."
Liam: Scanlan of the Shorthalts.
Matt: "Scanlan of the Shorthalts? Where do you hail from? I've not heard of them."
Liam: We come from Emon. I sell shoes. We sell shoes.
Marisha: Yes, Coralin Shorthalt.
Matt: "Coralin Shorthalt."
Marisha: Yes, pleasure.
Matt: "Very well. Well, you have interest in membership you say?"
Liam: We do. We're hoping to sample the atmosphere here. Is there entertainment? We heard there was great entertainment.
Matt: "Oh yes, quite entertainment here at certain hours, if you like. For now, we have more an atmospheric presentation." And he looks over, and you can you see that there is small stage off to the corner. There sits a very beautiful elven woman, dressed in a gold gown that is sleeveless and hugs to her form very well. You can see that it shimmers and little bit of purple fairy light that is hanging above her. And she just this gorgeous-looking silver harp in front of her. She's just plucking away. Her eyes are closed, like she's just caught in the moment. And there's group of people that are sitting around her chatting softly, not to be overbearing to the music, but to just be around that atmosphere.
Orion: Your wonderful employees mentioned membership. We'd like to acquire that as well, I assume, as well.
Matt: You're saying this to Hosin?
Liam: This is Thorlaxalux, my financial advisor.
Orion: Thorlaxalux, at your service. I bow gracefully.
Matt: Make a persuasion roll. No, deception roll. Deception roll.
Orion: What is that? 16?
Matt: 16? All right. "The pleasure is mine. And it's not often that come across elves that have taken the time to learn the tongue of my folk."
Orion: I know many languages.
Marisha: He's very well traveled. Very well cultured. That's part why we hired him.
Orion: I was a bit of a shut-in as a child. All I had were books on languages to read and whatnot, and adventures and what have you.
Matt: "Well, if you are seeking membership, you should probably speak with our patron, the owner of this establishment. He's currently in a meeting, I believe, but step with me for a moment." And he leads you to go to the other side of the room. And you know, all these draped orange and gold silks that are constantly getting in your way as you push through. Leads you into a doorway that is covered in these silks. You push into the hallway to the right and left. There's a door across the way, and two doors down the left. And the door at the very end is a really ornate-looking door with a series of locks that currently unlocked. Hosin walks up to it and knocks gently onto it, takes a listen. "Ah, it appears that he will be available in just a moment, if you'd like to sit tight, and you're more than welcome to speak."
Marisha: Question, Hosin. While we wait, do you happen to have any wine or ale? Just while we wait. It's been such a long travel.
Matt: "But of course."
Marisha: Thank you. You're so kind.
Matt: He claps his hands, and you can see one of the servants that you saw walking with a small tray enters from the side of the hallway. "Yes?" Hosin turns. "The finest wine we have available for the elven lass right here." The servant immediately darts off, averting the eyes. A moment passes. Returns with three glasses of wine, looking over you two. Hands one to each of you. And the servant, still averting his gaze from the guests, smiles, gives a little curtsy, and then darts back into the main room.
Marisha: Cheers. Cling.
Liam: I cling and hand my glass to Thorbir.
Marisha: I take a sip of mine. It's very good.
Wil: All right. I'm sipping to keep up the charade, but I'm not happy about it.
Matt: It's definitely an elvish blend, which is generally too sweet for your tastes, but for what you were expecting, it's not too bad. Its serviceable. Nowhere near strong enough to really do anything, but it's not water.
Wil: So as I hand it back to you, I sort of mutter, wine. (laughter)
Wil: Giant dwarven air quotes.
Matt: The doorway at the end of the hallway opens up suddenly, and as it does, a servant walks out holding a tray that contains a bunch of partially-eaten fruits and what looks the outer gristle of some sort of cooked meat, and looks at you all awkwardly and steps past and disappears into the other room. You hear a voice come down the hallway. "Enter! I ask you all to enter. You are to meet me. Please, come, sit, be comfortable. Welcome to the Velvet Cabaret."
Liam: Look to Thorbir and then look in the room.
Wil: I step into the room.
Matt: As you enter, Hosin lowers his head and offers his arms at the rest of you to acquiesce. Stepping into the room, you see-- once again, a room that has a square or rectangular table in the center that has a series of small platters on it with bits of previously devoured meal, and there are three small cushions on the ground that you see would act as some sort of sitting arrangement. The opposite side of the room has three large purple cushions on which there are two women, also servants, that are just lying back comfortably, just resting, and in the center, you see a man, very dark complexion, ratty looking, crimped dark hair, very well-trimmed beard and mustache ensemble, and long black and gold robes. Very, very long sleeves and jewelry adorning every ounce of his hands, his fingers, you can barely see the actual skin beneath, there is just so much jewelry adorning him. He looks up smiling with his elbows near the edge of the table. "Have a seat. We are to talk, yes? Introduce yourselves. Guests are always welcome, but I wish to know who it is that I am guesting for."
Liam: I seat Coralin and have a seat myself. And pretending to check out the women in the room, I make a perception check. And that is a 16.
Matt: All right, what are trying to see?
Liam: Oh, if anything sets off my alarm bells.
Matt: They seem to be lounging. And there isn't like fear in their eyes or that they are being mistreated per se. Almost like they're here for atmosphere.
Liam: And the room itself?
Matt: The room itself-- Most of the walls have like a velvety texture to them. All the wood has been covered with some sort of material that has a comfortable almost-- Everything feels like it's a lounging bedroom. And that's the aesthetic of a lot of the interior of this location. You cannot quite see the source of the light in the room. It almost feels like there's an indirect lighting accoutrement across the ceiling. Whatever the source of lighting is, it's being spread across the top. It gives this sort of dark intimate feel to this current room at least. As he gestures out to the rest of you to sit. "I fear there are only three seats, but I assume that your accompaniment are accustomed to standing, anyway. So do not worry. Very good. Now you say you come for membership. Membership does not come cheap. Membership does not come to anyone. We have a certain level of clientele we wish to keep, because in keeping this it is easy enough for us to consider it very-- how do I say?-- exquisite."
Marisha: I'm sorry, before we go on, what was your name? I don't believe I caught it.
Matt: "I did not catch your name either."
Marisha: Oh, I'm sorry, I am Coralin. Coralin Shorthalt.
Matt: "Coralin Shorthalt."
Marisha: Of the Emon Shorthalts.
Matt: Takes your hand and leans forward, and gives you this ginger kiss to edge of your fingers. Yeah, there is a slimy-ish presence, but not too aggressive. Just a very well-trained type of dealing with guests.
Marisha: I subversively wipe it on my robes.
Matt: "My name is Vince Cyinnor. And I am the owner of this house of joy and pleasure."
Liam: I'm the lucky man who married her. My name is Scanlan of the Shorthalts. We're in from Emon, and reputation of this establishment is well known within all parts of the walls. We're looking to possibly become members here. We hear the entertainment is top-notch, and we hear that business happens within these walls. But I'm not convinced. I'm hoping to stay for an hour to see what you have to offer. When I find I like a place, I stay for a long time and leave a lot of money. I'd just like a little taste.
Matt: Make a deception check.
Liam: Using my last Luck of the day. That's better. 15.
Matt: 15. "Hosin, if you don't mind." And the door closes behind you guys. "Well, Scanlan Shorthalt. What, may I ask, business do you run that gives you the liquid assets to think that you can walk and rub shoulders among such astute clientele? You are well-dressed, I see, and well-versed in conversation. But have not heard of you before and I have very acute ears for people of such heritage in this city."
Liam: We hail from Emon. We're not very flashy. We certainly don't do much in public in Emon. I prefer to make my money and enjoy my money and I don't believe in ostentation.
Matt: "Why have you come to this establishment? I am made of ostentation, for I do not fear what people judge or think here. Do what you like."
Liam: Don't get me wrong. I enjoy the form of a beautiful woman as much as the next man.
Matt: "Why limit yourself?"
Liam: Who said I do?
Matt: "Even this one here, while his appearance may be rough, I'm certain that under certain circumstances he could be persuaded to prove his weight in more than gold and weaponry."
Marisha: Mr. Cyinnor, I think it is best that you do not make presumptions on our relationship and dealings.
Liam: My wife and I are businessmen. And what we hear is that this is where business happens.
Matt: "Business does happen here, yes. Quite a bit of interesting business."
Marisha: And we are very interested in all of those interesting businesses.
Matt: "From what I hear, as my assistant has told me, your business is shoes. Tell me, why would the business of shoes require such an ostentatious location for business?"
Liam: The shoes are the public face, but the well runs deep.
Matt: "We get to the meat of the matter, eh? So, shoes is but an appearance. What is your business aside from cobbling, Mr. Shorthalt?"
Liam: I know my way around poison, and I hear you have the rarest of breeds here. I have come to spend some money to satisfy my clients.
Matt: Make a deception check.
Liam: 15 again.
Matt: What was it?
Liam: 15 again.
Matt: "Poisons? So you supply to what? King-killers? Supply to sell-swords? You apply them to your own weapons? You realize this city is very, very tight-knit when it comes to these sorts of industries. Although I know you would think possibly to find it here, I guarantee you what we deal with here has nothing to do with slitting of throats."
Liam: I'm not looking to sell. I'm looking to buy.
Matt: "I will tell you one thing that I am interested in buying. I'm interested in buying information. I'm interested in buying loyalty. I'm interested in buying trust. Since you've walked into this room, there has been an air of something not right about you. And through this conversation, I have come to believe that perhaps you're not telling me the truth. Now, I will ask of you this moment, whoever you may be, Shorthalt or not, but this entire facility is very well paid to make sure that should you try anything funny, you won't get but two steps before the heads leave your shoulders. So let's be frank here. Who are you? Why are you here?"
Marisha: Mr. Vince, let's not play coy. I am sure you have dealt with many a powerful client in your day. And I am sure that it is not unfamiliar to you that many powerful clients have many deep secrets.
Orion: As she finishes that, I dispel Alter Self.
Matt: Okay. As your actual dragonborn appearance restores itself, he sits back.
Orion: My apologies. I am Tiberius Stormwind-- yes, wind.
Will: I can never get it right.
Orion: I merely dispelled this to show you that earning your trust is in our best interests. I do not wish to deceive.
Matt: "Then perhaps you should have walked in this form when you first arrived."
Orion: Many people don't take kindly to a red dragonborn by the way. I just thought it was best. We're in a new town and it was standard protocol whenever we visit a new town. My apologies.
Matt: "Well, one person has come clean. What about this one? What is your business here?"
Will: My business here is the same as theirs. We're here, in the long run, to help you.
Matt: "What is to help me? You have not told me what your business is."
Liam: We're here to stop a murderer.
Matt: "Explain."
Liam: Bodies have been showing up outside this building. Multiple bodies. We're not going to get into the details, but we've been sent here to stop that from happening any further.
Orion: We're fairly sure you know of this.
Liam: Look at this guy. Does he look like he's fucking around?
Wil: He winks at him.
Matt: The force of the wink itself is intense enough to the point where he physically shudders and leans back a few inches.
Liam: Now, you must be aware of this problem. Can't be a surprise to you. People are starting to take notice in this city. This was inevitable.
Will: Do you still have Lord Tyrell's possessions?
Matt: "This is about Lord Tyrell? We do have his possessions. They have been investigated. Our establishment has already been investigated. The Bastions were very thorough, and we have been found absolved of any sort of involvement."
Marisha: We are not Bastions. And we are not here to accuse. And we are not here to investigate your establishment.
Matt: "Interesting. You come in here and lie. It seems to me exactly what you're doing. Now, are you coming to ask questions? To see what involvement we have? Answers? We've already told everything to anyone else. We have no involvement. I don't know what you're talking about. This is ridiculous. And I may have to ask you to leave."
Marisha: He's shutting down. Someone do something quick.
Liam: Insight check, insight check. Balls.
Wil: I will also make an insight check.
Marisha: Can I do that, as well? (laughter)
Matt: What did you get?
Marisha: We're all going to die.
Liam: That makes my ten look titanic.
Wil: I'm trying to make you look good. It's what Thorbir does.
Marisha: 19.
Wil: I rolled a two.
Will: You're going up.
Matt: It's not impressive. That's mythic.
Wil: Statistically unlikely.
Will: That's the thing. You're beating math.
Wil: I've been beating math for 20 years. I'm very good.
Matt: Yeah. You're the singularity that ruins the universe.
Wil: Somewhere in the world there's a person who never rolls under 17. And I was placed on this planet to balance the math to save you all. To prevent the center of the planet from collapsing and taking us all with it. You're welcome.
Liam: She's in New Zealand. The other side of the Earth.
Matt: All right. So, as you're all taking this moment to yourself. It's hard to read. It seems like he's very thorough and offended by this circumstance. You glean that there is a nervousness, and there are droplets of sweat across his brow. And his brusqeness does show a bit of fear in his eyes.
Marisha: About this time, I go (fwoosh) and I cast my wind spell. And I slam the doors behind us. And I slam the shutters. And turn out all the lights. Did you say there was candlelight? Or did you say there was weird indirect lighting.
Matt: Yeah, indirect lighting. You don't quite know where the source is coming from. The door was already closed behind you. Hosin closed it. But as the wind comes out, all the silks blow against the wall. Pillows are lobbed to the sides. Both of the women in there (yelps) and pull back against walls, trying to keep out of the circumstance. And you can see Vince has begun to stand up and his hair blown back. "What is the meaning of this?"
Marisha: Now. I'm sorry. I didn't mean to do that. I sometimes get a little out of control. But remain calm! All right?! Jesus! Remain calm!
Orion: You calm down.
Marisha: I'm sorry! I'm trying to remain calm, too!
Will: Doing a great job.
Marisha: Thank you! Okay.
Matt: Persuasion check.
Marisha: Damn it.
Liam: Who's in this room? It's the women--
Matt: It's the women and Vince. Hosin closed the door and left in the hallway.
Liam: Vince is the--
Matt: Owner.
Liam: But is he human?
Matt: He's human.
Orion: I'm going to approach him and I'm going to cast Mage Hand. I'm going to have it float right up in front of me. I'm like, now, you better start cooperating, because it seems to me that you're getting very nervous. And we don't want to do anything. Nor do we want to leave. All we want is information. I guess we want to know what you want to know, too. We want a lot of information. So start talking and stop acting like a fool.
Matt: Make an intimidation check.
Liam: He's sometimes hard to follow, but you don't want to fuck with him.
Orion: 15.
Matt: 15? As you do this, between you standing, he's in the process of standing up, and he was reaching for something under one of the cushions. As you do that, he glances about the room, looks over to you specifically, and back to the dragonborn, the dwarf.
Marisha: And I say, and whatever weapon you were about to brandish, you'd best wise to leave it be.
Matt: "You realize, you may have just alerted pretty much the entirety of my guard to this establishment. They'll be descending on this room soon."
Marisha: And you realize that this is only because of your doing?
Matt: He sits down on the cushion again.
Wil: And Thorbir looks at him and goes, okay. And pulls his greataxe out and leans on his greataxe.
Orion: I disperse the magic hand.
Marisha: I say, now. Our quarrel is not with you. We are not with the guard. We are not with the Bastions.
Orion: More calm.
Will: Yes, still doing a great job with the calm, there.
Marisha: I'm trying. I'm sorry. I get emotional. I'm trying to remain calm, here. Okay?
Matt: "What do you wish to know?"
Will: Once again, do you still have Lord Tyrell's possessions?
Matt: "His possessions are not under my keeping, no."
Orion: There we go. Thank you. Where are they?
Matt: "I have no idea."
Will: I want to do a perception check.
Matt: This would be insight, yeah.
Will: Insight check. Nice, where are we? Ooh, wow. 26.
Matt: 26.
Wil: What's that like?
Will: That's 29 of your rolls, strangely enough. (laughter)
Matt: Looking at you tense. He's fumbling lie after lie right now.
Will: It's just, you could easily tell.
Matt: Yeah. For you especially, all the signs are there, the quivering to his voice, his eyes darting from person to person. He's still covering.
Will: Okay, you're sitting in a room now with a whole bunch of people that want to hurt you. So it's obvious that you're lying. What do you know, or this guy and this guy are going to dragon and axe you.
Matt: "Look, what happened was unfortunate. There are things beyond your understanding or control involved here."
Wil: Oh, I don't know, we can understand a lot.
Orion: We fought a beholder before.
Marisha: Do not take us for fools who just walked in here without a clue.
Liam: I walk forward, I pull out Dagger of Venom and I drop a little bead of black down the blade and I hold it just about a centimeter under his neck. I've all run out of patience, friend. We're here to help this city and you're going to help us. Talk.
Matt: Make an intimidation check with advantage because of this whole setup here.
Marisha: Dear god, so many. Come on.
Liam: 20.
Matt: "They'll kill me if I say anything."
Will: We're going to kill you now.
Liam: Now or later, friend.
Orion: And we could protect you from them. Or it.
Matt: "This establishment. I am not the owner. I am a figurehead. Something else currently pulls the strings from behind."
Marisha: Something else?
Orion: As we said, it.
Matt: And he looks off, past you, just over your shoulder.
Liam: Perception check.
Marisha: Oh, son of a bitch.
Liam: 23.
Matt: You glance over your shoulder briefly and at this point you can see the door is partially ajar, and you can see in what little light there is a dwarven face staring through the passage that then slams the door shut quickly and you hear footsteps.
Marisha: Was that Hosin?
Will: Was that Hosin?
Matt: That was Hosin, yeah.
Marisha: Fucking Hosin.
Will: Thanks a lot, hoser!
Matt: He's shaking his head now, the blade there, as you hear the feet running off now.
Marisha: I'm going-- something tiny and fast. What's tiny and fast?
Liam: Mouse, rat.
Marisha: I'm going rat, and I'm going after Hosin.
Matt: All right. You guys watch as Keyleth all of a sudden grasps the side of her armor and then her form shrinks down to a tiny rat, then darts underneath.
Liam: I'm going to bap this guy in the head. I'm going to just flip the blade and strike him across the forehead.
Orion: As I see her do this, I open the scroll of Polymorph. I do Polymorph on myself, and I turn myself into a gadfly. And follow.
Matt: Okay. The scroll is consumed and gone. You turn into a fly and follow, as well. Two of your party members just shrunk and vanished and went off as creatures. You, go ahead and roll for an attack.
Liam: Okay, so on a surprise, it's advantage. So 19's pretty good. I'll take the 19 over the two. So that's 19 plus-- 30.
Matt: That hits, go ahead and roll sneak attack damage on that.
Liam: Okay, sneak attack damage. Is this a surprise because he didn't know it was coming?
Matt: Yes, it is.
Liam: It is? So because of my assassinate feat, then this is a critical hit. So just the sneak attack damage? Okay, four, eight, ten, 12, 15, 21, 42.
Matt: With 42? Yeah, you (whack). He's out like a light. Lights off, face on a pillow. The two women squeal in reaction. You guys, as you rush under the door, what are you guys doing?
Wil: I've been leaning over to see what he was reaching for.
Matt: As you glance over you can see what appears to be a small jeweled blade that is hidden underneath one of the cushions there. It's a curved dagger that comes to a gradual point.
Wil: I'm going to take that.
Matt: Okay. So mark down jeweled dagger in your equipment.
Will: I want to search him. I want to see if he has anything on him, in his pockets, anything.
Matt: Okay. As you are beginning to go through his body, you guys have rushed beneath, and as you can see, the dwarf, Hosin, is walking down the hallway really quickly with his robes open.
Orion: As a gadfly, can I really quickly buzz in front of him?
Matt: You pull underneath, because you had to go underneath the door to make it into the hallway. You see him, he's about 15 feet away, and as he's walking, he's looking about very nervously. He's seen one of the guards is approaching, and he looks back over and sees the rat scurrying down the hallway.
Orion: How far away is he from me?
Matt: He's about 20 feet.
Orion: How far away is the guard in front of him?
Matt: You know what, let me go ahead and pull this up. It'll give a good indicator of the circumstance here.
Marisha: He does what?
Orion: Oh god, we have a map.
Liam: Gentlemen, we need to move.
Orion: Okay, so he's right there.
Liam: Mama Cass, what have you found?
Matt: All right, you guys are currently inspecting him at the moment, as you guys are rushing through.
Orion: Oh! So I'm within 20 feet of him, whatever?
Matt: Actually no, he'd be back here. He's just rushing past. So he's 20 to 25 feet from you.
Orion: Okay. Ah. I'm going to dispel Polymorph, and I'm going to cast Silence in front of him. I'm going to silence him.
Matt: Okay. All right, so you're using him as the source?
Orion: Yes.
Matt: Okay. So as you un-Polymorph, he looks over his shoulder and sees you take this form, you go ahead and cast Silence, which has an opposition. What level spell is that? 2nd-level?
Orion: Yes. I believe so.
Matt: Okay, cool. So that creates a sphere of a 20-foot radius of silence here. So he goes and he does like a hand motion. Nothing happens. Frustrated, he continues to run. I'm going to have you guys roll initiative.
Marisha: Fucking shit. 17.
Matt: 17?
Orion: Sorry. What is that? 17.
Matt: 17 and 17. All right. So you guys will both be going first, but before we finish that, as you guys are searching the body you hear all of a sudden the sound of some sort of scuffle, a flash of some sort of energy in the hallway that's muffled between the doorway, and footsteps also happening. As you're just starting to get through his pockets you start hearing some sort of a scuffle outside of the room.
Wil: I'm gone.
Will: Me, too.
Matt: So I'll have you guys roll initiative, as well.
Wil: Four.
Matt: All right.
Liam: Not great. Nine.
Will: 11.
Wil: There's 20 faces on this. So. I mean, look right? It can happen. I know that it's possible. I've done it in my life.
Matt: All right, so as you guys are turning, we'll get to your turn in a moment. Tiberius and Keyleth, you're up first.
Marisha: Are we at the same time? I guess I'll go ahead and cast out of my beast shape as well and cast Hold Person on him as he's running away.
Matt: Okay. Cool. Just staying where you are? Are you going to stay there or are you going to move?
Marisha: Well, he's right there, right?
Matt: Right there, yeah.
Marisha: So I'm just going to try and hold him.
Matt: Okay, so you go ahead and cast Hold Person. As the spell releases, you can see the mystical shimmering cage that seems to encapsulate, seems to shrug it off.
Marisha: Because he's not a person! He's not a person. I should've fucking done Grasping Vine. Goddamn it. All right.
Matt: Do you want to move or are you staying where you are?
Marisha: Yeah, I'll follow after his ass.
Matt: All right, you can get up to pretty much right adjacent to him if you want. All right. Tiberius?
Orion: I'm going to cast Telekinesis and grab him that way.
Matt: Okay. So from where you are you go ahead and you create your telekinetic force, you rush out, and the telekinetic force seems to have no effect on the dwarf's form.
Orion: It's the rakshasa! That's him!
Matt: Do you move?
Orion: No. I yell at you, don't chase him!
Marisha: And I go, what?
Matt: Which you don't hear, because she goes [no audio].
Marisha: Yeah, I'm in the silent bubble.
Matt: Yeah, there is currently no sound coming from the center of that area.
Orion: But she can hear me.
Matt: She can hear you.
Orion: And I'm not that far. You heard me, the other way! The other way! And I move in the room with these guys.
Matt: Okay. As you guys turn, you see Tiberius come rushing into the room.
Orion: The rakshasa! Nothing works on him! And I think that's not normal!
Liam: You're speaking Draconian!
Orion: Yes, sorry! Rakshasa. I believe the dwarf is the rakshasa. I cast many things, and Keyleth is in there, nothing hit him.
Liam: You left her with him? I shove past him and go straight through the door.
Wil: You ran away from the target? Ugh. I stomp past him in my dwarfy stomps.
Matt: Hosin gets just out of the sphere of silence and then angrily does a motion with a hand and then-- (shouting)
Marisha: I knew it was going to happen!
Matt: That'll bring us next to Brother Kash. Kashaw. What do you want to do?
Will: I want to go back eight moves and catch the thing. I think what we're going to have to do now is find out where he is. Let's Locate Creature again, if we can.
Matt: Okay, this is during your turn. Is there anything you want to do?
Will: Can we locate creature, see how close he is?
Matt: How long does it take to cast Locate Creature?
Will: I believe it is one action.
Matt: Okay, so you can do that, so you mark that off as another casting of that spell.
Will: Okay.
Matt: As you rush out into the hallway and see that it's vanishing, you cast the spell for a second, you can see the direction of the creature is roughly ahead of you and you also see a door on the opposite side, this right-hand door open and close.
Marisha: He goes invisible? He's not teleporting, he's just invisible. That's a big thing.
Will: Yeah, he's here. He's still here. We can't see him.
Matt: You still have 15 feet of movement, if you want to move forward.
Will: Yeah, I would like to move forward.
Matt: Okay. So you'll get up to that point with your turn. And you gather that that's the direction of him, and that you know that's where it's going.
Will: I know where it's going, okay. So we saw the door shut. That's where he is, let's go.
Liam: Don't run blindly in there, hold on.
Matt: Vax, you're up.
Liam: I'm going to run just up past Keyleth, I'm going to look at her as I pass. Not bad. Keep going, stop there, and now I'm going to try to sense traps.
Matt: At this point, there? Okay, so you can get up to here if you're going to use an action as well to dash.
Liam: If I use, that's fine, yeah.
Matt: Okay, as you go to talk to her no words come out.
Orion: Can I see what's going on?
Matt: No, you're in the other room, still. Everyone darted out and you're making your way out. So go ahead and make a perception check.
Liam: Okay. 21.
Matt: 21. Glancing about the room, there doesn't appear to be anything that catches you as a trap. This hallway is fairly often-traversed by the clientele of this establishment, and nothing seems dangerous. That would be difficult to put in the middle of a place and still run a business.
Liam: Okay. I look at Kash and Keyleth and say-- Are we out of initiative? We're still in initiative.
Matt: We're still in initiative. Currently, for the moment, just for the sake of the pacing on this.
Wil: I'm going as far as I can down the hall toward the direction of the bad guy.
Matt: Okay. That gets you to about there. Cool, that ends that turn, at which point three of the bouncers then start pushing through the silks. One of them pushes his way here, this one pushes aside, and they come out, weapons drawn, seeing all of you there, and one of them goes [no audio]. That's their turn, but it looks like they're ready to jump into some sort of combat circumstance. That brings us to the top of the round, Tiberius, you're up.
Orion: Where'd you say the guards came from?
Matt: They came from the main room, where the silks are that separate the hallway from the main area. And you start hearing people shouting and some slight yelps and screams from the other room.People who seem freaked out by the sudden rise in energy.
Orion: What was that guy's name? Lohan?
Wil: Hosin?
Orion: Hosin?
Wil: The dwarf is Hosin. The other guy is Vince.
Orion: I just disperse Silence, and before I go out, I turn into Hosin. Alter Self.
Matt: Okay, so you use your action to cast Alter Self. You take Hosin's form, step out, closing the door behind you.
Orion: How did he sound, again?
Matt: How did he sound?
Orion: I don't remember.
Marisha: He's a dwarf.
Will: He was Scottish, but fancy Scottish.
Liam: He's glam rock. Glam rock.
Orion: Oh, right, right. What's all this noise out here? What are you bothering my friends for? Guards!
Matt: The guards look over confused and, "We heard there was a--"
Orion: Everything's fine. These are friends. Get on with your business. Get back on patrol. Make sure nothing happens or I'll have your heads.
Matt: Make a deception check.
Marisha: Oh, come on, Tiberius.
Orion: 28.
Matt: The guards look at each other. "All right, but if anything happens again, there's a problem, let us know. We'll be at the ready." They sheathe their weapons and look untrustingly to the rest of your group with your weapons currently drawn and step back--
Orion: Go on, get out.
Matt: They disappear back into the main room and they start calming down some of the other patrons who are starting to peek around them, trying to see what's going on, the action. Some look smiling and curious to see what's happening, and they're, "Go back to your tables. It's fine; there's no problem." And they disperse the energy.
Liam: Not bad, Tiberius.
Marisha: With that, I continue with the charade and loop my arm around Vax and say, shall we go into that room?
Liam: Just a moment, dear. Pull out the same poisoned blade and start walking down that hall a little further, and I want to see if I sense any traps further ahead.
Matt: Okay, to about there? Make a perception check.
Liam: Natural 20.
Wil: And balance was restored to the universe. Oh god, don't do that! Come on!
Matt: Put it away. Watch as the dice just like turns to dust.
Wil: It's the end of Raiders.
Matt: Exactly. You glance about the room as you're walking forward carefully, looking at the floorboards, looking at the tapestries on the walls, looking for anything that would be out of sorts, and your eyes very keen to find anything out of the ordinary. The room thankfully does not appear to have anything specifically trapped. It seems fairly safe.
Liam: Oh. Okay. And those are doors up there?
Matt: Yeah. Door to the right, door to the left.
Liam: Would that check include the doors themselves?
Matt: I would say with a natural 20, yes. The doors both also seem to be functional doors, not designed with any sort of trap attached.
Liam: All right. Pressing my ear to the door on my left.
Matt: Okay. Listen to it. Perception roll.
Liam: So many. Six.
Matt: Seems fairly quiet.
Orion: If we've stopped pursuing, does that take us out of initiative?
Matt: You guys are not, you guys are not currently in initiative because you're not in the thick of battle. You managed to disperse the conflict.
Liam: I want to do it at the other door as well.
Matt: All right, you step to the other door. You guys want to do anything else while you're waiting on him?
Wil: I'm just going to come, I want to get as close to him as I can and I'm ready for a fight.
Marisha: Yeah, I follow.
Orion: Thorbir. Do you have an extra sword or arm on you? Perhaps a shortsword?
Wil: I give him the jeweled dagger.
Liam: That one's a 19.
Matt: 19? Listening, you hear what sounds like a slight (creak) sound, some sort of a scooting of wood on wood, and then silence.
Liam: Kick in the door. Hard as I can.
Matt: Okay. Make a strength roll. This would be straight strength.
Liam: Wait, that's the wrong guy. 12. 14.
Orion: As he's doing that, I'm going to drink a potion of frost giant strength.
Matt: Okay. You slam your foot into the door. Oh, that was the foot that you just got healed. Oh, that's going to bruise. That's really going to bruise.
Liam: Keyleth-- Coralin, darling, could you come up here please?
Marisha: Yes? Did you stub your toe, darling?
Liam: Yeah. I think I want to get this door open quickly, please.
Wil: I'm going to hit the door with my axe.
Matt: Okay. Go for it and roll. What did you roll?
Liam: A one!
Marisha: No way! It's a lie. If it wasn't live, no one would believe it.
Wil: I rolled a one. Because it is what I do.
Matt: I'm going to test this theory. I'm going to trade you, for now, and I'm going to leave you with that dice and see if it has any impact whatsoever.
Liam: You have to throw it into the fire, Mr. Frodo!
Wil: The curse doesn't care about which die is rolled.
Matt: Which is very possible, but there needs to be--
Liam: This is like science class.
Marisha: Maybe it's because that dice was in the vicinity of Matt's hair, you'll be good.
Matt: All right.
Wil: So how much damage do I take for some reason?
Matt: So as you pull back the axe, you actually swing wildly backward, nearly hitting Vax in the process. You have to dodge out of the way as the axe embeds itself into the wood behind you.
Wil: Ugh. Again.
Matt: Axe is stuck.
Liam: I slap myself on the forehead and go ugh. Pull out thieves' pick and start on the lock.
Matt: Okay, you unclasp. As you do, you feel your throat seize suddenly as the cold liquid tends to freeze up what is normally a very warm and very fire-breeding interior to your throat. And it thaws slowly, and as you exhale you can see the mist, and suddenly your muscles pulse with energy and you feel like your physical form is embodied strength far more than you've ever felt in your body before.
Orion: With his jeweled dagger, I take out my dagger. I feel great.
Liam: The freshmaker.
Matt: There's now the angriest dwarf right now clutching two daggers as you get down with your thieves' tools.
Liam: Yeah, let's try to leave the room. That's better. That's a 24.
Matt: All right. The door swings open without issue. It's one of the easier jobs you've had.
Liam: I should've done that in the first place.
Marisha: Yeah! Should've beat it down and then.
Matt: You push open the door and find your way into what looks like a very well-adorned bedroom. There is a small table on the side where there are some books stacked up. There's a dresser on the far end that's closed. There is a canopy bed set up. There is a small end-table on the side. And the rest of the room has a nice circular rug that's thrown across the center, and there are no windows currently to this room.
Liam: I turn my head to everyone and just mouth the words-- and perception check the room.
Marisha: Can I perception check, as well?
Liam: 24.
Marisha: Can I just look to see, I want to just meditate and-- what did you just roll? 24?
Liam: 24.
Marisha: I want to see if I see any movements or brushes of cloth or anything like that.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: 19. Not as good as Vax.
Matt: All right.
Wil: How long does it take me to pull the axe out of the wall, and how far into Yakety Sax does the soundtrack get while I'm up there and with the foot and then I'm jumping on it and trying to pull it down.
Matt: We're currently hitting the one minute 15 second mark. Haven't quite pulled it out of the wood yet.
Wil: Okay, good. And my little legs are kicking underneath me while I pull it down, cursing in Dwarven.
Liam: They call me Benny. Benny Hill.
Matt: Do you wish to enter the room?
Will: I don't, actually. Because of all the sound, I wish to turn my back to the room and guard the hallway while everybody else is inside checking out the room.
Matt: Okay, you're keeping an eye out, and you do see that there's one of the guards just to the side who's just keeping an eye looking over carefully. You guys make a perception check, looking around the room, you see there is no movement, there are no curtains on the walls. There is the rug, and most everything else in here seems to be perfectly still. You catch what looks like a little bit of movement of the canopy bed, the material that's on top. There's a slight sway to it that comes to stillness you just barely catch with your keen half-elven eye.
Liam: I would like to run up the bed and stab up. Both hands. Clicking the Boots of Haste.
Matt: Okay. (bam) Click the Boots of Haste, you run and charge up into the bed and stab upward into the canopy. The material is torn asunder, this very fine, probably imported silk is carved into three separate ribbons and falls gently onto the cushion of the bed proper, revealing the hardwood ceiling above you.
Liam: I'm going to check the ceiling. There's a lot of perception. I'm all out of Luck. That's no good. That's a 14.
Matt: 14, looking about, it's solid wood, you can move your fingers along and you're standing on the bed, you can just get it within reach, and feeling along the board, it's all pretty solid.
Marisha: I want to make myself soccer field goalie this stuff with the door, in the door frame, just really trying to see if I can see any brush of dust or movement.
Matt: Okay. Keeping an eye out. You pull your axe free. Into the hallway door in front of you. Not a lot of strength. You pull it out and try the best you can to save some grace.
Will: Well done. Yeah, that was graceful.
Liam: I motion Tiberius over.
Orion: Should I do a perception on that? Nope.
Matt: That ceiling looks pretty solid.
Will: Can I turn, saving my back to the door, I turn over. I do a perception check.
Matt: Go for it. You step over, you glance past Keyleth.
Will: Oh my god, one.
Wil: Stop trying to steal my thing, you guys.
Matt: You glance over and you're more distracted by the fact that Keyleth is doing this awkward field goal thing in the door to you for no reason, and you forget what you were in the middle of doing.
Marisha: I'm trying to make myself big.
Matt: There appears to be no exit from the ceiling.
Wil: Can I enter the room?
Matt: You may. You push past the confused cleric.
Wil: Okay, so I look around. I look at the rug. I sigh heavily. And I pull the rug.
Matt: You pull the rug, revealing a wooden floor. Plain slats.
Marisha: You thought that was going to be good!
Will: With a point, too!
Matt: You were never a fan of elves or half-elves before, but this one's really starting to dig into you a little.
Wil: I'll make a perception check because we could total up all my rolls and I'd have five.
Liam: Come on. Hey!
Wil: Look at that. That's actually better. 20.
Matt: 20. You pull the rug back. There's nothing there, and you look about at the rest of the folks with a heavy sigh. But the rug was on the right track. Everyone was keeping high. Looking beneath the bed, you can see what looks to be, in the shadow, some little bit of elevated wood that catches your attention.
Wil: I just, under the bed!
Orion: Oh! I'll motion over there.
Liam: We're not silenced, right? So I'm yanking off any fancy clothes I have on and I'm pulling my Cloak of Elvenkind out. I'm putting it over. And I spider under the bed and check it for traps.
Marisha: I pick up his clothes and I put them in the Bag of Holding.
Will: Oh my god, she's folding the clothes. We're in the middle of this, and she's folding the clothes.
Marisha: They might come in handy later.
Liam: 25 for looking for traps.
Matt: Okay. Well, it's a good thing you rolled high enough perception, because as you spider underneath, your first hand goes underneath and you nearly tumble and you catch yourself. There is a five-foot-wide hole in the ground right beneath this bed. And as you catch yourself, you can feel a little bit of wind slowly drifting up from underneath. There's some sort of airflow coming up from underneath this bed where this hole is, and you feel over and you can see that little bit of wood that you saw looking forward is the top of a makeshift ladder that is currently fastened to the side of this tunnel that disappears beneath the room.
Liam: Is there dim light down there?
Matt: It is pitch black. You can see with the dim light from your low-light vision a little ways into it, about 20 or so feet from the angle you're at, because you're not looking directly in. And even just glancing over the side it continues down for quite a while.
Will: And it's big enough to fit all of us if we wanted to go.
Matt: Independently, yes. One person would go down. It would be single file, of course, because it's a tight tunnel.
Will: Only one way to go, right?
Liam: You can see in pitch black, right?
Wil: I have darkvision, 60 feet.
Liam: Is that dim or dark?
Wil: Dark.
Matt: Darkvision, you can see within a short distance of pitch black and then a larger distance at low light, so yeah.
Wil: I'll go.
Matt: All right. So we'll put in order here, who's going down next? All right. And after Vax?
Marisha: I'll follow my husband.
Matt: Keyleth. That's weird. Tiberius?
Orion: Before we go down, I'm going to take off my outer-- no, I can't take off anything because that's all my gear. Never mind. I don't do that, but before we go down I cast Stoneskin on myself. I cast that right now.
Matt: Okay. As your form shimmers for a second and you see-- you notice this too, Kashaw-- his scales almost seem to protrude into earthy spikes and then form and solidify, almost like his body becomes its own suit of armor.
Will: Okay, that's cool.
Orion: Even though I'm still a dwarf, though.
Will: I'm going to go, but I'm going to cast Freedom of Movement on myself before I go down there.
Matt: Okay. As you do, even with the encumbrance of the armor you're wearing, you feel like your form is a little more agile and you're ready for anything that might try and stop your passage. You guys begin making your way down, with Thorbir leading the way. You descend for a good three to four minutes, you gather probably a hundred feet or more down, rung by rung, and there are a few that you reach that are a little rickety. About a hundred feet down, one hits your foot and snaps, but you manage to catch yourself on it, but you get the feeling this ladder is probably not meant to hold someone of your heavy physical form.
Wil: Largesse?
Matt: Largesse, you could use, yes. One by one, you make your way down until eventually you're, you begin to see towards the edge of your darkvision, floor finally begins to appear and rise towards you. You step off the ladder into what appears to be a small circular area that leads into another ten-foot-by-ten-foot tunnel, ten by 15 foot up, and continues forward. This is very natural carved earth, it's not smoothed stone, it just looks like a tunnel that was mined out of the floor.
Will: Is it still dark?
Matt: It is still dark, there is no light source currently. And you all eventually make your way down.
Will: Is there anything loose down there that I can grab a hold of?
Matt: You can't see anything. Mr. Human, you are in pitch-black darkness.
Will: Well, that's why I'm wondering if I feel around underneath me to try to find some kind-- do I find a loose stone? Do I find a pebble? Can I find anything to grab?
Matt: Reach down, yeah, you manage to find a couple of small stones.
Orion: As he's milling about, Light.
Will: That's what I was going to do, but he beat me to it. Thank you.
Matt: So you reach down and you find a stone, you pick it up, you begrudgingly grab your holy symbol, and as you begin to recite your cantrip incantation, a flash of white light comes gleaming off the top of the dragonborn sorcerer's staff.
Orion: Dagger. Because I have two daggers in my hands.
Matt: That's true. One of the daggers is now glowing. The jeweled one, twice as pretty when it's emanating torchlight.
Will: Nice. Thanks for the warning, by the way.
Orion: Sorry, I usually just do it when it's dark.
Wil: This tunnel goes in just one direction?
Matt: One direction.
Wil: I'm walking down the tunnel.
Matt: Okay. So we'll say for the sake of marching order, who all is going in after Thorbir? In what order?
Will: I'll go next.
Matt: All right. Following Thorbir.
Liam: I'll go behind Kash.
Will: I don't need this at all, but I just wanted to play with it. That's me right there.
Orion: I'll follow. I'll keep on Thorbir's six.
Matt: Okay.
Orion: I'll stay 15 feet behind him.
Matt: 15 feet behind? All right. And Keyleth, you continue up that way. All right, so that'll be the marching order.
Wil: So I've got my axe out. And may I make a perception check to see what I see? To just see if I can pick up footprints or motion or whatever?
Matt: This would be more tracking, if you're looking for footprints, so that'd be wisdom.
Wil: Okay. Just a straight wisdom?
Matt: Survival.
Wil: Survival, hang on. Not my system. Eight.
Matt: Eight? Okay. It's hard to tell. It looks like this area is not heavily traversed, and what little sign of footprints there are scattered enough that it's hard to make out a specific print. But I mean, they have been traveled before.
Liam: I'm looking over Thorbir's head and looking for traps as he walks from behind. 22.
Matt: 22? All right. As you guys are walking forward and going through this, you get about 40 feet forward before you catch that there is a slight divot, a small drop in the dirt, and one looks like a section of intentionally placed plate of some kind.
Liam: Wait a tick. I'm going to go up to the edge of it and try to inspect it and see if I can find a trigger or see how it works. Six. And that is, what is that, perception?
Matt: Are you checking to see how it works?
Liam: I want to see if I can disarm.
Matt: To disarm it. Okay, that would be with your thieves' tools. So this would be a dexterity plus your thieves' tools, so plus seven.
Liam: That's a 19.
Matt: 19? Okay. As you go to the plate, you stop and look up at the walls to the side, and to each side of the wall you can see these tiny little holes, these little quarter-sized, gold-piece-sized tunnels bored multiple places on both sides of this wall. And you take the plate, you realize this is a pressure plate-based trap, and taking one dagger, you slightly lift it. The second one, you eventually find beneath where the trigger apparatus is, and you gingerly cut each part of these spring-loaded triggers until eventually the plate rises more and more and more and you remove the last bit, the plate tips over, and the trap itself is disarmed.
Will: Nice work.
Orion: I mean, well done, rogue.
Wil: So I keep going down. I want to hit a thing.
Matt: All righty.
Wil: That's not a wall.
Matt: There is that. All right. Pushing forward, continuing for another 30-40 feet, do you want to check traps again?
Liam: Again. 12.
Matt: 12? Okay. Pushing forward for a period of time, there doesn't appear to be any change. There are no more divots. You're keeping a very close eye for the traps. And as you're walking forward with your axe. As you're stepping forward you get this weird tickle across your nose, like a spider web of some kind that catches you, and you instinctively reach up and brush it away from your nose. As your finger presses against it, it's much sturdier than a spider web. It's a metallic wire, and as you push away (tink). You hear that slight noise. Tiberius, behind you, you hear a grinding of stone, and a loud slam sounds, like something extremely heavy just dropped behind you.
Marisha: Run!
Matt: You guys glance over your shoulder and you see what looks to be a fairly rounded boulder--
Orion: I dispel Alter Self immediately so I have longer-ass legs.
Matt: Well, Alter Self is gone if you're casting Stoneskin, because that's a concentration spell. Oh, that. But that only carries it for a few rounds. It's been a longer time than that.
Orion: It's been 15 minutes. Time has passed. Never mind. I don't do shit.
Matt: But yeah, don't worry about that. But the stone boulder just--
Marisha: Indiana Jones, motherfuckers!
Matt: Picking up speed with the slow decline of this room. All of you guys, what are you doing?
All: Run!
Matt: You're bolting forward.
Orion: I cast Fly on myself and fly.
Matt: You cast Fly, pushing forward, and you guys get a little speed, but you've noticed the boulder's started to gather steam as it continues down, and the pathway you guys are running is going at a heavier and heavier decline as you push forward.
Orion: Oh! As I'm flying, I turn around with my ring and I cast Slow on the boulder.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and make a-- actually, no. This is interesting. Let me see if Slow would have a direct effect on this boulder. That's something that happens right now that I didn't consider. I love when that happens. Unfortunately, it is not a creature and actually it affects the physical metabolism and muscle use of an individual. This is just a solid structured object. As you release the spell, you see the air around it poof, and drift a little slower, and the boulder seems to stutter for a moment, but continues to push forward. That was your action.
Orion: Damn it.
Liam: I would like to cast all of my spells in succession for the next ten minutes.
Matt: I assume you're going full sprint? Okay, so pushing forward, you all push forward, Tiberius who has stopped to turn around and cast the spell is not at a full dash, so he trails behind. The boulder is currently gaining on Tiberius.
Orion: I Gandalf it.
Matt: So you turn around. You're continuing to fly forward. So you guys just turn to push forward. Tiberius, the boulder is nearly upon you now. What are you going to do?
Orion: Oh! Awesome. Is it at least ten to 15 feet away from me?
Matt: It is about ten to five feet away from you, you can see it cresting--
Orion: Sweet. As I'm now frustrated, I cast a 5th-level spell, and I will cast my Obelisk of Iron, three in a row behind me.
Matt: Okay. All right. You burned that spell. All of a sudden, the room behind you, out of the stone, pockets of iron ore or whatever material is beneath the earth behind you is brought together into a liquid mass and then shoots up in the center of the hallway behind you. With each one of these pillars slamming into the wall, you guys hear these three multiple explosions behind you, and for a brief second you fear the worst for Tiberius' current status. Immediately following that, you hear the impact of stone against iron, and you see the obelisks bend with this horrible creaking sound.
Marisha: Keep running!
Orion: That should stop it right there.
Marisha: I don't know.
Matt: The sound of the rolling has stopped.
Marisha: I still don't trust it. Let's just all get out of this hole.
Orion: I keep Gandalfing.
Marisha: It could give way at any moment.
Liam: Let's walk. Shall we walk? I think we should walk.
Wil: I like to walk.
Matt: Okay. You guys continue moving forward, the decline getting a little more difficult to traverse as your feel yourselves now having to feel your arms across the wall or use it for balance to make sure you don't just fall. Also, the moisture in the air begins to grow more and more thick. Some source of liquid some point down in the future has permeated what was originally dusty, dry air with liquid of some kind, and the air itself grows more and more rancid in scent. It smells like refuse or rot. It's hard to describe, and it's old. It's musky, it's terrible, and it grows stronger the farther you go. As you continue pushing forward, you also feel that the dusty ground is becoming more and more mud-like.
Wil: Is it making my hair poof out and look stupid?
Matt: A little bit, yeah. You spent all morning treating it and it's undoing everything you did.
Wil: This is why I lived in the mountains.
Will: Is there any light? Any light source? There's no natural light? We're not walking towards any type of light?
Matt: It's just a tunnel into darkness right now.
Marisha: Does there appear to be any type of plant life?
Matt: From what you can tell, there is no plant life at all whatsoever. The moisture gathered on the walls you can now see are dripping. The condensation has given this tunnel more of a mineral-pocketed look, and the ground is getting more sludgy with each step.
Wil: I want to make a-- I'm sorry, you're not done.
Marisha: I was just going to ask  are the walls stone or chiseled-out rock?
Matt: It feels like it's chiseled-out, hard earth that has been packed and supported with either small wooden things that are inset to make sure it doesn't collapse at some point, a lot of that has either fallen through.
Will: So it could collapse at any time.
Matt: Well, if you do any severe damage to its structure. It would probably be a bad idea.
Marisha: Right, like drop a boulder down it.
Matt: It's not a mine shaft.
Marisha: What were you going to say?
Wil: I would like to make a-- you tell me what check it is. What I want to do is to look down into this thick mud stuff. What I'm looking for are tracks, and if I do well enough, I want to see if I can get a sense of how fast the thing was going. Has it slowed down because it's comfortable, or is it still running?
Matt: Okay, make another survival check.
Wil: So I'm underground.
Matt: Actually, as a dwarf I'll give you advantage on that, so roll again. That makes sense, this is your place.
Liam: Well, the higher one was four. The lower one was a one.
Will: The higher one was a four?
Wil: Remember what I told you about the Wheaton dice curse? I'm sorry. Because no one will believe me. No one ever believes me.
Marisha: He's been taking pictures of all his fails so everyone believes it.
Will: At this point, I'd be amazed that he hasn't helped us in any way, shape, or form, and cast a perception check of my own.
Matt: Sure.
Will: There we go. So let's see, we are at 21.
Matt: 21, okay.
Will: You are useless. For the love of god.
Matt: As a pre-existing member of the Slayer's Take and the man who was currently set to be the leader of your group, you're beginning to wonder if this guild is the kind of thing you really want to be joining, at this point.
Wil: I haven't been in a fight yet.
Matt: True. But looking down you can see there are no tracks, actually. This line has not been traversed in quite some time, and the smoothness of it says that whatever came through here did not leave any footprints.
Will: At all?
Matt: No. Also, as you guys continue, you reach a point where, especially with your heavy armor-- go ahead and make a dexterity saving throw.
Marisha: Oh no.
Liam: You got this.
Will: Ten. So wait. 13.
Matt: 13? Okay. You're stepping forward, keeping an eye out, and you look back at the group and take a step and your foot slips out from under you. (smack) You hit the slime and begin to slide down the tunnel as part of the decline. You guys watch as your cleric Goonies-style slide vanishes into the darkness.
Will: It's our time. It's our time down here.
Wil: Hey, you guys!
Matt: Kashaw has vanished into the darkness and you hear, (screams).
Will: (screams)
Orion: As I see this happening, I run over and go like, this looks like a lot of fun!
Matt: As you lunge through the air, because you're flying, still.
Orion: Oh. Has ten minutes passed? I thought ten minutes? It only lasts for like ten minutes.
Matt: Oh, then yeah, it's faded. So you just slide after?
Orion: Yeah, I go, this looks like a lot of fun. And I go and I slide.
Matt: Tiberius slides after, body first across the slime.
Marisha: And then I see Tiberius go and I go, (whoops). And I go, too.
Matt: All right. Three of your party have just vanished into the darkness, hoping that fate will take them to some place of pillows and feathers.
Liam: I think I'd rather walk as long as I can.
Wil: I think I'm with you.
Matt: All right. You guys both make dexterity saving throws.
Wil: 16.
Liam: 16.
Matt: Wow. You manage to slowly make your way down this tunnel, almost-- what's that?
Orion: My dex was 18, by the way.
Matt: It doesn't matter; you jumped into this. You intentionally fell.
Liam: We can't even hear you anymore. You're miles away.
Matt: Yeah. You guys slowly begin to make your way down the tunnel, as you can't even hear them anymore. You guys, one after another, sliding down the slide and grime going past you. You smell in the air what smells like vegetable matter that's been long, long falling in compost, along with what smells like rancid feces mixed with mold. It's this terrible continuously growing scent.
Orion: I put up my nose scales.
Matt: Until eventually, out of the darkness, because you're ahead of everyone, you're outside of the range of his Light spell, the slime stops and there's just air.
Liam: Hey, you guys!
Matt: And a few moments of this air rushing past you as you're immediately stopped with a wet sound as you impact hard into some sort of heavy spongy matter. Thankfully, because it's spongy, you only suffer four points of damage, so you can mark that somewhere on the sheet. Mainly just from the way you landed and your armor sticks into where the plates are and just the impact was bad for your body. But you're now in darkness, looking up, sitting on what feels like you're on some sort of strange compost heap. Looking up, you see in the darkness this small light begin to appear, and you see this dragonborn--
Orion: I'm laughing, by the way.
Will: Can I try to move, since I hear him laughing, can I try to move out of the way?
Matt: You roll out of the way as the two of you scream down. With the light that now shines you can see this is a cylindrical cistern of some kind. It is a tunnel that is very tall, and you both impact into the same heap.
Liam: Shitter's full!
Orion: As we land, I look around. Oh, that was a lot of fun. I cast Prestidigitation three times in a row and clean us all up.
Matt: You try and clean what you can, but you guys are like knee to nearly waist deep as you get up and move around--
Orion: Or at least our faces.
Matt: Your faces are clean.
Will: What a wonderful smell you've discovered.
Matt: And it's a terrible smell. This room is quite honestly a mixture of long-rotting food, of dried vegetation that has been discarded here for whatever reason, a lot of it's hay and thatch that has been just rotting and molding for god knows how many years, and quite honestly, feces from some indeterminate entity.
Marisha: I use my Druidcraft to take out some of my sage and light it and spread some of my sage around.
Orion: You're making it worse. Now it's smoky and smells. Prestidigitate it out of my face.
Matt: As you guys are doing this, you guys are making your way down the tunnel. And you have a ways to catch up to them, you do hear (squeaking). You hear this, and as you look around with the light you can see little bits of movement leaping through this heap.
Liam: Rat horde.
Will: Rats are going to be wonderful.
Matt: Then suddenly, thrusting out of some of this heap, you see a large arm or tendril, brownish-tan in color just slams onto the side of it.
Orion: Oh shit. I go invisible.
Will: You've got to help-- where the hell did he go?
Matt: At which point you now see emerging from it two of these giant tendrils, which at the end are covered in these long, teeth-like spines, grasping the sides of this stone cylinder, pulling itself out of the refuse, shaking as it pulls itself forward. You now see the body that contains it with one third central tendril that rises up, what looks like creepy eyes or nose-holes that are looking around and glancing at both of you, and you see emerging beneath that the body, this large, eight- to ten-foot-thick, wide, covered-in-slime body that is this gargantuan toothy maw that opens up with a tongue that lolls out. And that's where we're going to go ahead and end today's session. We'll pick it up next week right where we left off. You guys slowly making your way down the tunnel. We'll pick up with that next time.
Will: Toothy maw is where we end it!
Matt: Yep. Toothy maw.
Marisha: Tentacley, brown, twitchy eyeball, toothy maw. That's all we know?
Matt: That's all you know. And some sort of strange sound and other small things moving.
Wil: Do you give out prizes for the most ones rolled in a night, because I'm pretty sure I won that.
Matt: I do, and for that prize I give you a fancy yellow d20.
Wil: Oh! Thank you. That's great. Does it have all ones on it?
Matt: Shit. Yeah. How did that happen?
Marisha: Oh, that's been your problem the whole time.
Liam: Congratulations, you've won imploding self-esteem.
Wil: That stacks, right? I already have that. I mean, it would be silly if I couldn't-- is that an ongoing? Because that's a feat I took when I started.
Matt: Yeah, yeah, I tried to tell you not to take that but, you know, character flavor is important.
Wil: Listen, it's a class feature. It's an actor's class feature.
Liam: After enough time, you can suck people into it.
Matt: Well, guys, thank you so much!
Wil: Thanks, Matt. That was amazing.
Matt: That was a fun first round. Got one more session with you guys.
Marisha: Yes, and what did you think of your first game?
Will: It was incredible, nothing should be this fun. Seriously, it was so much fun. Yeah. Awesome.
Matt: Well guys, thank you, I'm so glad you could join us and I'm excited for next week. And thank you guys for tuning in, hope you're enjoying it as much as we are. We can't stay too long, unfortunately, I have a flight to catch very soon to fly out to a convention in Columbus, Ohio. Zac, I think, is around here with whatever we got in business we've got to get down to with all you awesome people. Thank-yous.
Zac: We'll save gifts for next week.
Matt: We'll have to save gifts for next week when we're not quite in such a huge rush, so for those of you who sent stuff, we'll get into those next week. Thank you so much. So for people who donated, by the way, once again donated to 826LA, which is our charity, which is a fantastic charity that takes young children and young adults and teaches them creative writing and writing skills and they do wonderful work. And you guys have been fantastic and donations go to help that charity. Let's see, we got here--
Zac: Start 813.
Matt: 813, all right. Lonsolo, donated $25, thank you so much, Lon. Descendfromgrace donated $25, thank you so much Descend. Gelatinousdude, oh. Makes me happy. Donated $20. Thank you so much, that's amazing. Undim1 donated $31, thank you so much Undim. Wheelyfactoids donated $50. That's amazing, Wheelie. Once again, good to see you. That's amazing that you keep donating, I really appreciate that. Dafeedthedargenzeen--
Zac: There might be more there.
Matt: Dot-dot-dot-dot-dot, take the ellipses, it makes it sound cool. Donated $100, thank you so much, that's an incredible donation. Escherbacon donated $25, thank you so much Escherbacon. Bacon. Moonsol37 donated $20. Thank you, Moonsol. That's incredible. Norkelad donated $75. Thank you, Norkelad. Markinthepark donated $50. Thank you, Mark. That's amazing. Freelander20 donated $15. That's incredible. JDI35 donated $25. You're amazing! Missbeezus donated $25. Missbeezus, that's amazing. Heart goes out to you. Shepardson donated $20. Shepardson, thank you so much, Shepardson. Turdle, 1337turdle, donated $50. It's got leet-speech, threes. Thank you so much. T-threefrulthree. Williantw, t-w, donated $25. Thank you Willian. Salazarjack donated $82.60, keeping with the 826 theme. That's awesome. Clever. Nightraver01 donated $100. Thank you, Nightraver. Keep raving. NZV5005 donated $20. Thank you so much, NZV5005. That's incredible. Okay. Got a flight to catch. Wakedonorpg donated $43.21. Descending numbers, I like it. Thank you so much. Nausicaa451 donated $10. Thank you so much for that. Killerpenguin donated $25. Thank you, Killerpenguin. Damienopyro donated $30. Thank you, Pyro. Bryancantlogintotwitch-- I'm sorry, Bryan, that's pretty rough-- donated $30. That's fantastic. Gatorcane donated $100. Thank you, Gatorcane. It's got a nice texture to that cane. Magnusrogar donated $40. Kill things, Tiberius. Get it done. Foxyforce has donated $60.39. Thank you, Foxy. Atherrex donated $50. Thank you so much, Atherrex. Monos20 donated $20. Thank you so much. UncleAni donated $15. It's appreciated. Gargantran1-- eyes aren't working, but that's your new name-- donated $50. Thank you so much. PFWscott donated $12. Thank you. Jarmund donated $100. That's incredible. Joker396 donated $55.55. Thank you so much for all your donations.
Orion: Yeah, all this and again, thank you for doing this because portions of this goes to an amazing charity and we love all the people at 826.
Marisha: We're going to be doing a video very soon going to 826 and telling you guys all about it. But yes, they're a great charity, so yes.
Matt: Give to them the hefty amount that you guys have contributed over this time towards their charity. It's fascinating.
Will: You guys have incredible fans. This whole week leading up to this on Twitter and everything, you guys have amazing fans.
Marisha: Now you guys get the fanart!
Will: Sorry about what?
Matt: Sorry about the DDOS attack. That's how we say hi.
Will: No, seriously, it's amazing.
Zac: Don't even mention things like that. Don't mention those things.
Wil: It's more of a hug.
Zac: Thank you everybody for helping us get to 6k. They've already started a stupid e-mail chain talking about what musical songs they're going to sing.
Marisha: That's amazing. Oh, and guys, Mary Elizabeth came back to visit and watch. So she did return.
Mary: Hi!
Marisha: She's back!
Mary: And a special guest.
Steve: I'm just going to troll. Hi.
Marisha: Steven Blum, everybody.
Will: Starscream himself is here.
Marisha: Yes, he is.
Matt: Thank you so much for coming to watch, I hope you enjoyed yourselves. Yeah, it's an incredible time, looking forward to the session next week. Are there any other closing comments you guys want to bust out tonight?
Marisha: I don't want to wait a week.
Wil: Really fun and really weird to be on this side of that screen. So odd for me, and just to play a character who's so different from the characters I used to play before I DMed all the time. It's weird to be a guy who just doesn't think about stuff and like is not particularly charismatic and anyway, people who have thought about playing or want to play RPGs, when we were rolling up this guy, I was so excited when I got-- what did I roll for him? Anyway he's got a minus one. I rolled an eight for his charisma, and I was so excited because I was like, well now I know exactly who this guy is. I know exactly who he is and it's going to be really fun to be him. It was really great, it was really fun to come and I found out about your game because Liam directed me in a voice session. I want to be on your show so much.
Matt: Well, now it is done. Dreams do come true. Then we smash them.
Will: Now roll a one and get us out of here.
Wil: I'll try, but since it's not going to count, I don't know.
Liam: It'll be a 20. 19. (laughter)
Matt: Thanks so much. We'll see you next week, 7PM on the Twitch stream. Have a wonderful week.
Marisha: Bye!

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello and good evening, everyone, and welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, a show where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors play D&D, Dungeons & Dragons. Roll dice and kill monsters and sometimes maybe get killed themselves. I don't know. (yelling)
Matt: Because it's fun to set the tone. It's fun. But yeah, so anyway. Thank you guys for joining us, old and new, welcome to our chaos. We have a few announcements to get through before we start tonight's game. First and foremost, for those who haven't seen, we've been putting up Spotify playlists compiled by our different players here. And this week we had Vex, Laura, put up her playlist. Which is awesome. If you want to say something about your playlist and some cool stuff they can look forward to?
Laura: Just that it's the coolest. No, it's actually weirdly personal to put it together and put it up. It feels like you're baring your soul. So I hope you guys enjoy my soul. And also, song three, which is like... everything.
Marisha: That one might have made me cry a little bit.
Laura: Right?
Marisha: Yeah, just a little.
Laura: I may or may not have been thinking of the Critters while I was picking that song. Just so you guys know.
Taliesin: I'm so excited. I haven't heard yours yet.
Sam: Are we on?
Matt: We are on. Hi. Welcome, Sam.
Sam: Hi, guys.
Liam: You're so early tonight.
Sam: (breathless) Oh yeah, sorry. (laughter)
Marisha: We're the beginning of the announcements. It's great. We were talking about the playlists.
Sam: Oh, I've got to finish mine.
Marisha: Yeah! You're almost done. I will say, for those who have not gone and checked out any of the playlists, we have Vax and Percy up as well. Definitely go do it, because all that little extra content that we put out is always kind of a litmus test, to see if people are going to be interested in it. And if you guys go and actually visit the webpage at Geek & Sundry, then we get more content. So the more you go visit it--
Matt: Make more stuff for you guys, yeah.
Marisha: Yeah, the more that we can show the people upstairs that people do like our stuff and our content, the more you will get. So please go check it out if you have not yet. It helps.
Taliesin: Here, actually, do this with me. Let's make a double rainbow gif, for later. (laughter)
Laura: That's beautiful.
Matt: That's on you, CritRoleSource.
Taliesin: That's on you, internet.
Marisha: You're welcome.
Matt: Cool. So that's awesome. Next announcement, for those who haven't had a chance to see it. A little over a year ago I Kickstarted a web series with a bunch of other really talented people. Sean Becker, who is director of The Guild, directed it. It's called Muzzled the Musical. Ashly Burch, a bunch of great talented people from The Lizzie Bennet Diaries and a bunch of other web series, Juliet Landau is in it. It's a great fun web series and it went live last week right before Halloween. So we have our three-episode arc up on YouTube. If you like musicals and you like fun silly dark, Doctor Horrible-style performances, then you're going to like this. Check it out, see if you like it. Let's see. Oh yeah, tomorrow is BlizzCon. BlizzCon, for all you crazy guys who are going or those who are watching on the digital online pass. A bunch of us Critters will be wandering the halls, doing panels and all kinds of fun stuff. Like, for me personally, I'll be there tomorrow at 4:30. I think, Liam, you are on that as well?
Liam: Yeah, same panel.
Matt: Yeah, The World of Warcraft Live panel. We'll be there doing that. And then doing a signing afterward. What else you guys got going on at BlizzCon?
Liam: I'm on three, so I think it's two on Friday and one on Saturday. I tweeted out the times. Don't remember them now, so just go check my feed if you want. I'll see you there.
Matt: Awesome.
Zac: I'm going to have to do my job really quick and jump in on that. And say that tomorrow at 4:30PM PST here, we will be doing a live trailer watch and reveal with special guests. Laura and Travis are coming by. Alison Haislip and Ify Nwadiwe are going to be our hosts for that. And then we are going to have interviews with Duncan Jones the director and some of the cast and crew. It's going to be really cool, so tune in tomorrow, 4:30, for that.
Taliesin: And then if you're at BlizzCon, I think we're going to be wandering around a little bit.
Marisha: Yes, I'll be there.
Taliesin: Yeah, I'll be there.
Marisha: We'll be there. Probably watching his panels.
Matt: Rock that out. Cool. Also, tonight is Critmas. So for those who want to hang around. (voice cracking) We have quite a cavalcade of presents.
Laura: There's a lot of presents, you guys.
Liam: Taliesin and I got here early and with Ryan we opened everything and it's an embarrassment of riches.
Laura: They had to open it so that we wouldn't be opening the boxes.
Taliesin: We tried not to peek.
Liam: Some of the stuff I didn't see, some of the stuff Taliesin didn't see. So we're not completely spoiled, we're a little spoiled.
Laura: We got a little spoiled. I got a little spoiled early, though.
Matt: Because of that.
Laura: Somebody sent a new Trinket! Look at that, you guys!
Matt: Giant bear.
Laura: Look at him. He's so cute.
Liam: And please. I mean, we thought it was a corpse, at first, when we got it. Then, when we opened it up we got really excited and I had this, which I used to open it. We got really excited and took a bear out, and then it was a bear and we forgot about all the wrappings and the paper. So if you sent us the bear, please contact us now.
Sam: Wait, we don't know who sent it?!
Liam: Just contact us now. You're watching. Somebody is watching who knows that person, so just let us know.
Matt: Find them, post it in the chat room.
Taliesin: Somewhere they're saying, "That's my bear".
Laura: Please! I have just been hugging it non-stop.
Matt: It was pretty amazing when it was wrapped up. It looked like a body. Like, straight up, season two Dexter. It was pretty fantastic.
Marisha: Which leads us to our next point. Please don't send us bodies.
Matt: Please don't. No bodies.
Taliesin: Address it to me, if you do.
Matt: (laughs) He'll know what to do.
Liam: I think if it had been the only package, we would have been able to focus better, but there were about a hundred packages, so it was difficult for us to focus. We were opening stuff for an hour and a half, so thanks in advance.
Matt: So thanks in advance for that. Also, you will recognize a couple of new songs tonight. We had the wonderful pleasure of having Bethesda approve us using Elder Scrolls music in our on-channel playlists. So I have been able to go back and re-incorporate all of my old Elder Scrolls music that I used when we originally played off stream. So that's really cool. Thank you, Bethesda. Thank you guys very much.
Taliesin: Now ten percent more realistic  Critical Role.
Matt: Exactly. Imagine that. Really stoked about that.
Taliesin: More authentic. Homebrew.
Matt: Just a reminder. The "How do you want to do this?" shirts are up. I still have to get one for myself. I think I should. And we have the Critical Role necklace and awesome keychain, which I have not seen in person until tonight.
Laura: They're really cool.
Matt: So we'll pass them around and we can each give it our blessing. Each individual one is blessed by me. That's not true, but you will still roll well while wearing one. So that's exciting, and let's see what else we got. Do you want to do the quick Wyrmwood thing? Reminder from Wyrmwood?
Liam: Yeah. We are friends with Wyrmwood Gaming, and you can still use the code CritRole to get free shipping on an order for your wood. Its beautiful wood. I have some black wood, but there's many different colors.
Laura: I got this wood.
Liam: They are really, really beautiful. So just share the nerd connections, everybody.
Marisha: Pretty sexy.
Laura: These are the Kickstarter boxes, though. These are what's being done now, or are those for sale right now?
Liam: The Kickstarter boxes are not. The CritRole code will not work for these, but they'll work for these bad mama-jamas right here.
Sam: Which is really what you want.
Laura: And these, too. These are deck boxes.
Matt: Yeah. Thank you, Wyrmwood, for being so awesome and for putting that code together for our community.
Liam: I have one personal thing.
Matt: Yes, please.
Liam: I have a pilot on Amazon Prime called Everstar, where I play a little robot.
Sam: Is that true?!
Liam: And he's really uptight. Yeah, that's a pilot.
Sam: Oh, did the Amazon pilots launch today?
Liam: They all launched, and I'm in a cute adventure cartoon for young girls and boys. And I'm up against bloody, gritty live-action dramas and political satire and other cartoons, as well. Roger Craig Smith is playing Mouse Cookies. But if you like Everstar, which is this young action/adventure space-pirate story, give it a watch. If you like it, vote it through. If it gets voted through, I will continue to be a robot.
Sam: I directed one, too, called Yoyotoki Happy Ears. So that's on there too.
Matt: How's that go, again?
Sam: Yoyotoki Happy Ears. It's really weird and funny, and it's actually really awesome.
Travis: Also, Halo 5 is out this week, which Laura and I are in. It's amazing.
Liam: I'm not familiar with that. What is that?
Travis: It's some game. Takes place in outer space.
Liam: Is that a match three? Like Bejeweled?
Travis: It's like Candy Crush, but with more death.
Taliesin: That's available on Android.
Matt: The last announcement is that they announced that The Witcher is coming to theaters in a couple of years, and that has nothing to do with us, other than the fact that I'm probably going to be at full mast for the next week, thinking of that possibility.
Travis: Said so casually.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: I'm so excited. Please don't fuck it up.
Travis: They will. It'll be Mark Wahlberg.
Matt: No, no, no!
Marisha: Channing Tatum.
Liam: Will Ferrell.
Matt: I will... I would not!
Marisha: Channing Tatum is Geralt of Rivia.
Laura: Done! Let's make this happen.
Matt: Don't. Guys, I will stop this show. Your DM is out! If Channing Tatum becomes Geralt, I will be so furious. He's great at certain roles. I loved him in... I absolutely adored him in the 21 Jump Street movies.
Sam: I guess he's not coming on our show, jeez.
Matt: That's enough of our silly talk. Let's go ahead and dive into the chaos that is the current circumstance. Keep in mind, the culmination of leading into Halloween with this story arc and now going and starting a rebellion in Whitestone on the Fifth of November has been a very delightful, unintentional coordination here.
Taliesin: I almost wore my special spider belt, too, but it felt too weird.
Matt: So that's pretty cool. So to get you guys up to speed with the circumstance that has happened, those especially that are tuning in for the first time. A couple known as the Briarwoods that took over the city of Whitestone five years before, murdering most of the ruling family of Percy-- other than himself, escaping-- have recently been doing political discussions with the home city of Emon. Vox Machina, our troop of intrepid adventurers, upon discovering this, battled them at Emon. They fled to Whitestone, and the party has then gone after to seek to destroy them and free the town, the once-home to Percival. In the process, it appears that there have been a number of warnings set, and the entire town has been long held under this dark, ominous rule that they have kept at bay. Apparently, they have found notes of previous, failed rebellions, and things that die here don't seem to stay dead. A number of zombified giants are wandering the city as these giant lurching sentinels. And apparently, a number of the cutthroats that helped the Briarwoods come to power in this town have now been given titles and land here and are now called the new nobles by the locals. During this process, you guys managed to sneak into the town, began setting out word of coming rebellion and that Percival de Rolo has returned and the Briarwoods' time is numbered. Upon meeting the previous chancellor to your father of the town, Archibald, you guys came to an understanding, and he was going to reach out to all of his contacts and let them know that the rebellion is happening. You guys then set out to set a two-pronged attack against two of the remaining new nobles in the town. Most of the party going to seek the outside of Count-- what's his name?
Travis: Count Dooku.
Laura: Count Dooku.
Marisha: Count Duke.
Matt: Duke Vedmeyer was the one that Scanlan went to, and then Tylieri is the one that the rest of you wandered outside. Now, as the rain pours down into the city, midday. Scanlan decided to open from a Polymorph spell, as a fly, to the top of the front doorstep of Vedmeyer's home. Then, proceeding to un-Polymorph and re-Polymorph into a triceratops. Of which, I have your statistics here for your triceratops form, if you want to come get that.
Marisha: Go get them stats, boy!
Taliesin: (chanting) Stats, stats, stats!
Marisha: (chanting) Stats, stats, stats!
Matt: So that's your triceratops form. After becoming a triceratops, you squashed the front guard that was there, you slammed through the front of the building, destroying the front door, and we cut to the other group who is stealthing through the rain. At which point, the okay was given to Grog, whether intentionally or not. Grog then charged to the front door of Tylieri's estate, and the rest of you prepared for impact. And that was where we left off, in the center of this chaos.
Liam: Let's do this!
Laura: Oh, god.
Matt: So without further ado. Sam.
Sam: But I was just handed this.
Matt: I know, take a look.
Travis: Sucks to be first!
Liam: He's got the maps out already. Get your shit together, man.
Sam: I've never been a triceratops before.
Liam: That's not what I heard.
Sam: All right, you're right. Think like a triceratops. So, I need shelter. I don't know. How do triceratopses think?
Taliesin: Probably like punk rock hippopotamuses.
Sam: Hip-hop-ipotimi.
Matt: Say, for the sake of this, for now, we'll go through your circumstance, as they are separate. So Scanlan, you are-- I did not have a triceratops, but I did have a stegosaurus. It's the same size. I'm sorry, bloodspike behemoth.
Taliesin: That's kind of racist.
Matt: I'm sorry. You know what? They're not around to argue.
Travis: That you know of.
Taliesin: We are going to get a bunch of angry tweets from stegosauruses and triceratops.
Matt: I'm sure. Please, bring them my way. As you slam your way into the front of Duke Vedmeyer's estate. Pieces of wood blasting outward, scattering among the center of the foyer. You see before you a rising staircase that divides into two separate staircases that curl around to the second level.
Sam: Lovely decor.
Matt: You also notice that the entire interior is currently filled with guards. All seemingly prepared and almost expecting your arrival.
Sam: I think I can take them, guys. I think I can take them.
Matt: You also see, at the top, Duke Vedmeyer himself. A large, hairless, grey-skinned goliath, wielding a giant two-handed sword, armored with a breastplate.
Marisha: Vecmeyer?
Matt: Vedmeyer.
Laura: He's a goliath?
Matt: He's a goliath, yeah.
Marisha: Vedmeyer is a goliath?
Sam: Wow, that's going to be fun later, but not right now. Okay, do I know? So, let's assess my knowledge real quick. I know about him a little bit. He is one of the thugs that came into the city.
Matt: Correct.
Sam: He is not a magic-wielder, as far as I know.
Matt: As far as you know, no. And at first glance, based on the fact that he is wearing heavy breastplate and is wielding a giant two-handed sword, you get the feeling he is probably not as heavily inclined towards the arcane arts as others you have encountered.
Sam: As I quickly survey the room, do I see anyone else who is a threat greater than a heavily armed guard? Anything that is a creepy wizard or a weird old mage?
Matt: Currently, no. Currently, all you see are a series of Whitestone guards in uniform armor, all with heavy crossbows, currently nocked. And as you come blasting through the door, they are already arranged in what appears to be a waiting pattern, should anything try and charge its way into the house.
Sam: So they'll probably all shoot me, won't they?
Matt: In fact, roll initiative.
Sam: So directly in front of me, there's a staircase going up?
Matt: Yep.
Sam: Any other doors or exits?
Matt: There are doors on each side that are currently locked, and other than that, no.
Sam: Those are locked doors?
Matt: They are closed currently, and they appear to be-- There's a giant wooden beam crossed over the front of each. Then there's the outside which leads to the exterior, to the raining outside of the household, and the stairs that go up.
Sam: Oh, man.
Matt: Roll initiative.
Sam: Initiative? Don't I get a surprise round? Doesn't matter. 21.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: I don't get a surprise round because I sprung in there?
Matt: Apparently not.
Sam: Damn it.
Matt: You made a very loud noise when you turned into a triceratops and tore through the front of the household. All right, so Scanlan is up first.
Sam: So here's the thing. Here's the thing. I should probably leave.
Travis: Yeah, come on.
Sam: But come on. I'm a triceratops! I've got to have some fun first, right?
Travis: You can take a couple of hit points, right?
Sam: Right?!
Taliesin: I think you revert back to normal.
Marisha: Does Polymorph carry over?
Matt: If you go to zero hit points in animal form, you go back to your regular full health and any damage that carries over just goes to your regular health, at that point.
Laura: That's a lot of people.
Marisha: You have 115 hit points.
Matt: You guys aren't there. Scanlan, what are you doing?
Travis: (sings Jurassic Park theme) (others join in)
Matt: What are you doing?
Sam: Wait, it's my turn first?
Matt: Yeah, you have initiative, man.
Sam: I beat them with initiative?
Matt: You did.
Sam: They are more than my charging distance as a triceratops, right?
Matt: He's the only one that's within, technically. What's your speed?
Sam: 40.
Matt: 40. You would get right up to Vedmeyer if you were to charge.
Sam: I would be dead.
Travis: No, you wouldn't. You got it. Go stick him!
Matt: What do you want to do?
Sam: I'm going to go-- How far away are the doors on the sides?
Matt: Over here? It's about 35 feet.
Sam: I'm going to turn right and blast through that door. (laughter)
Matt: Okay!
Sam: Oh shit, it could be trapped. Well, we'll find out.
Liam: Expect the unexpected with Scanlan Shorthalt.
Matt: He goes blasting through the doors.
Sam: Do I have to roll to blast through the doors?
Matt: We are going to find out. Yeah, go ahead and roll a strength check. Roll a d20 and add your strength modifier of the triceratops form.
Sam: Okay, strength modifier says plus five. So that's only a 17.
Laura: For a door!
Sam: Me and doors don't get along too well.
Matt: You, running, slam your head in, through, the horns protruding and tearing through the wood. The doors break inward, but the doors don't fully blast inward.
Sam: The door beat me!
Matt: The door is in bad shape. It won't take much more power to blast through.
Sam: These fucking doors.
Matt: It's now your worst nemesis.
Sam: So now I am stuck in a door?
Matt: You could try and pull back out. You manage to pull out without an issue. The doors are mostly beaten inward. It will take but a small impact to blast through next turn, if you wanted to.
Sam: Next turn? Do I still have an action after this?
Matt: That would have been your action.
Travis: You're great! You're money. You're good.
Laura: Every single one of those guys can attack you now.
Sam: Yeah, but it probably won't happen.
Travis: Maybe they didn't see you.
Laura: Run away.
Sam: It's not my turn anymore, right? That's it.
Matt: That's your turn.
Laura: No!
Sam: My triceratops ass is sticking out.
Matt: Just right there.
Travis: Look, they're all dummies. They're just mannequins.
Matt: This guy moves up over the railing with his heavy crossbow and aims this way. These guys all shift to this side with their crossbows.
Sam: I'm going to die.
Matt: Over here, this guy's going to move to this point so he can get a view of you. And Vedmeyer is going to move down here and get his sword ready, grinning. As he holds his sword up, he puts his hand up and goes, "Aim, fire!" A bunch of crossbow bolts get loosed at once (shh, shh) through the middle of the room. What's your armor class as the triceratops?
Sam: I have no idea. 14?!
Matt: 11, that misses. That's a 13, misses.
Sam: Wow, these guys suck.
Taliesin: They are like stormtroopers.
Matt: Natural one.
Taliesin: They are! You are being attacked by stormtroopers.
Matt: That's going to be a 14, hits. 18, hits. 24, hits. That was six?
Sam: That was six.
Travis: Three hits.
Matt: One more, that's a 22. So I have four that actually hit you with the crossbow bolts.
Taliesin: You're fine.
Sam: Yeah.
Travis: You're now a porcupine triceratops.
Laura: You have 115 hit points.
Sam: I have 115 hit points?!
Taliesin: And when those go out, you are back to human hit points.
Matt: That's eight piercing damage. 13 piercing damage. 21.
Laura: Are you immune to any kind of damage?
Matt: 25. 34 points of piercing damage from this volley.
Liam: Is there resistance to anything on there?
Matt: Nope.
Sam: What does that take me down to? 81? Is that right? 115 minus 34, 81?
Taliesin: Sounds about right.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: All right. That brings us back to the top of the initiative round, and you're up.
Sam: Well, shit, then I've got to get some retribution.
Travis: Totally. Turn around and give it to them.
Sam: Am I considered flanked?
Matt: You are not.
Sam: Damn it.
Travis: You do have a tail.
Sam: I do have a tail.
Marisha: You are like a drunk guy at a craps table.
Sam: I don't know how to hit things. I've never hit things before.
Liam: There's the door you mangled in front of you.
Sam: Okay, I'm going to gore that guy to my left.
Matt: He is above you on the railing.
Sam: Oh, that's a balcony. I thought that was a stairway down.
Matt: I'm sorry, this is a balcony up top. So he's actually aiming down and firing at you.
Laura: Then just go through the door.
Sam: I'm going through the door.
Matt: All right, then roll another strength check.
Sam: Yeah, because I'm not tangling with Duke Vedmeyer or whatever. 23.
Matt: 23, not a problem. You burst through.
Taliesin: We're going off the map.
Liam: Hey, you guys!
Marisha: He's taking them off the grid.
Taliesin: He doesn't have a social security number!
Marisha: He doesn't have a social security number!
Matt: So what you see in here, as you blast through. It's a dining room with a central dining room table, two small tables in the far corners. There is a ten-foot window across the way. It appears to be a normal dining room set.
Sam: Is that my action?
Matt: That is your movement.
Sam: That's my movement?
Matt: Yeah, I'd say at this point it is so damaged that it doesn't take much effort to push through, so you can manage to push through as part of your movement.
Sam: Okay.
Taliesin: You could pick 'em off as they run through. I'm not helping. I'm sorry.
Matt: Nope, you guys aren't there.
Taliesin: Not there. Shutting up.
Sam: (whispers) I should get out of there. But it's so fun.
Matt: What do you want to do, Scanlan?
Sam: So, I am in the room. No one is in there with me.
Matt: Correct.
Sam: So where's this laser pointer?
Taliesin: You can also hold your action. Just as an option. Not to help, but you can hold your action.
Sam: So, yeah. I'll just position myself right next to the the door there, and I will hold my attack until anyone runs through the door. They get an insta-gore.
Matt: Okay, good to know. Holding an action. The next turn will be Vedmeyer.
Sam: Oh shit, here he comes. Here he comes. It's me and the big guy.
Matt: Holds up there. He is going to wait there. He's actually going to dash and just get up right next to where the doors are burst open. He can hear you right around the corner. The rest of these guys are going to dash in.
Sam: Oh god. I think I can take them, guys.
Matt: There, there, there. This guy is going to just try and jump down. Let's see if he makes his acrobatics. He does not, with his armor. He leaps off the edge and manages to damage his ankle and is currently prone on the ground. That ends their turn. Back at the top. Are you still holding your action on your turn now? It's back to you.
Sam: Okay. Tell me this, did I hear a bunch of footsteps? Can I hear?
Matt: You heard a bunch of footsteps coming in, yeah.
Sam: (sighs) All right, I'm not good at fighting. I will--
Laura: Can you set a blaze?
Sam: I don't have any fire. I don't know why I was sent into this mission. I don't do fire things. I will drop my form. Is that an action?
Laura: You have a lantern!
Matt: You can drop it in a moment.
Marisha: Don't you have a torch?
Matt: The triceratops shrinks down to gnomish form now, in this partially destroyed dining room area. What are you doing?
Sam: I'm going to-- hold on.
Marisha: How did this plan happen, then?
Travis: Because we're a bunch of slap-dicks, that's why!
Marisha: Why didn't you say I don't have fire?! I said, "Hey Scanlan, I should come with you," and you said, "I can take care of myself. How many times do I have to tell you guys? I don't need your help."
Matt: The echoing voice you hear, in the back of your mind, as you imagine this is what Keyleth would be saying right now.
Marisha: Dorito's a failure, you guys.
Sam: Yeah, okay. I peek around the corner a little bit. Just make sure they're all there, and I will Stinking Cloud all of them.
Matt: Okay!
Liam: Why are you not Dimension Door-ing out of there?
Sam: I've got to have some fun first. How often am I going to take on a whole house by myself?
Travis: I like it. I'm so in love with you right now.
Taliesin: I approve of this plan.
Matt: All right. 20-foot radius sphere. I'd say you could affect all of them, yeah. All of them in this big ol' Stinking Cloud radius. Not a worry. This whole area fills up with gas. All right. All of a sudden, the entire foyer just fills up with this greenish, noxious cloud of poisonous gas. Let's see. They have to make a constitution save.
Liam: Get the goliath. Get that goliath.
Matt: What's the DC? Is this through your hand cone?
Sam: Oh, for sure it is. So 19.
Matt: (laughing) 19? Jesus Christ. Okay. Nope. Nope. Nope. Nope. Natural 20, he's fine. 19, he's fine. 18, nope. Nope. Double nope, because he's on the ground. Fuck that guy. Vedmeyer rolls a one. (cheering)
Matt: All right, so these two guys immediately cover their mouths and pull up this little bit of material they have around their chest plate armor to cover their mouth. The rest of them start (coughs) hacking up. One of them starts vomiting all over the ground, and he has a helmet on, so it's straining through. It's awful. (groaning)
Matt: Vedmeyer himself kind of backs against the wall and (groans) just tries to get it to leave the area, but it's just this thick cloud. It's slowly moving away. Yeah, they are in a bad place right now. Okay, and you still have movement. You have only moved five feet so far.
Travis: Is Stinking Cloud methane-based?
Sam: (laughs) It is the way I do it. I can still move?
Matt: Yeah, you only moved five feet so far, so you still have 20 feet of movement.
Sam: Okay, I'll do a Dukes of Hazzard over the table.
Matt: All right.
Travis: Unnecessarily.
Sam: Do I have to make an athletics check or anything for that?
Matt: Do an acrobatics to see how cool it was.
Marisha: See how cool it was!
Sam: Acrobatics?
Matt: Yes.
Sam: What do I do for that?
Liam: You got a number.
Sam: I know, but I don't do these things. 11.
Matt: 11. You (grunts) you slide, only because you partially destroyed it as a triceratops, (ssss) but in your head it looked pretty cool. Thank god none of your allies were around to actually witness it, but you heard the theme music.
Sam: Okay, yes. So I'm near the window now, right?
Matt: Yeah, you're right by the window.
Sam: Okay, and that's, I guess, everything. Right?
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: Okay. Your turn ends. Vedmeyer is just-- you can see his eyes are filling up with liquid. He does make his saving throw. He coughs. (coughs) Manages to clear the air around him. You can see the cloud slowly moving back this way, away from where it was cast. That finishes his turn. However, he is no longer affected by the Stinking Cloud. You can see as the cloud slowly moves past him, and his face comes through, his pupil-less, angry goliath eyes are staring at you from across the room to where the doors are open. You see him grit his teeth and (growls). You can hear his teeth scratching across themselves in anger and fury.
Sam: I'm shaking.
Matt: The rest of them are going to go. These two guys are going to move forward. They both come running in, putting another bolt into their crossbows, (clicking) pulling it back real fast, pulling up their heavy crossbows, and firing at you. That is going to be a 24.
Sam: Well, that hits. Of course it does.
Matt: And an 18.
Sam: Against what?
Laura: Your AC!
Sam: Oh yeah, that hits.
Matt: So you take 12 points of piercing damage from the first bolt and five points of piercing damage from the second. As both (zoomf, zoomf) bolts, one hits you in the shoulder and ricochets off, not doing much damage. The other one slams and actually embeds itself into your thigh, about an inch into it. It's piercing and sticking out the other side. Mostly caught armor, but you can feel it definitely got a chunk of flesh in the process.
Laura: Oh no.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: That ends their turn. The rest of these guys, now, are going to try and make their saving throw. Fail. Fail. Fail. No, success on him, actually. He rolled a 19. A success on a natural 19. Fail. Fail. Well, no, actually these three succeed. The rest of them are still down. So I'll say that these guys here are all down. And he's still up. These two are still down. Okay. That ends their turn, you're up.
Sam: I so want to get some payback, but I shouldn't, right?
Liam: G-T-F-O!
Sam: I think I can take these guys.
Matt: That is a hell of a Lightning Bolt line, right there.
Sam: How big is that diameter?
Matt: It's about six feet across.
Sam: Oh, I can't lift that thing.
Matt: No, it's a big, long table. You have a very wide line of individuals, right there. All ready to snatch you.
Sam: All right, one more round. What do you say, guys?
Travis: We're not here.
Liam: We're not here.
Sam: One more round. I am going to-- fuck. Do I have line-of-sight on the door?
Matt: The door is right here. So you're by the window. So if you wanted to move over here, then you would have line of sight on pretty much everybody.
Sam: Yeah, that would be so fun.
Taliesin: You could move and then move back. I'm only helping with gameplay strategy.
Sam: He could brain me.
Travis: He could.
Sam: He could brain me in one shot. Okay. I will duck under the table so they think that's where I went, and then Dimension Door to the roof.
Matt: Okay! You duck under the table. I'm going to say make a deception roll to try and successfully feint them.
Sam: Oh, okay.
Liam: Can they see the top of his head behind the table?
Matt: From their direction it's kind of hard. Especially because there's a table and chairs up against it, and part of it has been crushed by a triceratops that was previously here.
Liam: "Oh, I'm going under the table."
Taliesin: Sentences you never expect to hear in your D&D game.
Sam: 31.
Matt: So you grab your head. Oh no! Do a very elaborate dive under the table.
Sam: Here I go under the table!
Matt: A little strange dull thud of arcane energy as you bamf up to the ceiling.
Sam: Okay, great.
Taliesin: He is reaching under the table, ladies and gentlemen.
Laura: I know, what does this mean? Oh, okay.
Matt: All right, is that your turn? You are now up on the rooftop. There's rain pouring down. You are immediately soaked from the heavy storm that's now coming into Whitestone.
Sam: Yeah. It's just me up here?
Matt: Just you up there, yeah.
Sam: Okay. I will go invisible and just hang and just see what happens.
Matt: Okay. Easy enough to do, because it will take a round for anyone to recover from that, anyway, because you have to use your action both turns. So as you are waiting up there, you cast Invisibility on yourself and wait.
Sam: And then I start digging through my pockets, if I have any flint or fire-making apparatus at all.
Matt: Check your equipment.
Sam: I will. I will look.
Marisha: Do you have an adventurer's kit?
Sam: Nope. I have some poison.
Matt: Poison the house. There you go. That'll work.
Travis: We are the best planners. Ever.
Matt: I know, you guys are rocking it.
Sam: Oh wait, I do have something.
Laura: Yeah? You do?!
Sam: I have a Potion of Fire Breath.
Matt: You do.
Marisha: Okay!
Laura: It's raining up there.
Sam: Well, but it's a potion. I don't know how it works!
Matt: You're checking your pockets. You find the potion. You look down and you notice, even through the storm, you can see in the distance, there's the dark shape of a giant lumbering zombie guard making its way down to this part of the town. What are you doing?
Sam: So I'm on a roof that's all soaking wet, right?
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: There's no crawl space access? No attic I can get to?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Sam: Okay. Whoa, nothing. Two.
Matt: Two? This is a pretty solid roof with apparently no entry point at any points. The craftsmanship is flawless.
Sam: Okay. You know what? I'll just try it. I will Fire Breath Potion myself.
Matt: Okay, you pull up (boink), pull the cork off, (glug glug).
Sam: I don't know what this thing does. I've just got this.
Matt: As you feel the fluid find its way down your esophagus, it warms it like a fine whiskey would, but the warmth just grows and grows to the point where it's almost too hot, but it never quite reaches a point where it's painful, but you feel as if this need to belch is burbling within your stomach, and at any given point in time, you could let that belch fly forward.
Sam: Okay. And am I close to the entry point roof? The roof of the entry point?
Matt: Where you came in?
Sam: Can I get over there?
Matt: Yeah, you just come running across the rooftop. It's a little bit of up and down as the topography happens, and as you're running, you start hearing voices shouting out in the street. You make your way over to the top of the roof above.
Sam: Okay, so I'm just going to lean over the side and scorch the whole front entrance as much as I can from where I am.
Matt: Okay. As you (grunts) let the belch out, it comes out in a large spray of orange, yellow, and red flames that immediately burst beneath the overhang, which--
Sam: By the way, I'm also invisible, right?
Matt: You are no longer, unfortunately. When you do an attack of some kind, the invisibility is released. So this gnome appears, soaking wet, over the edge of the roof and then releases this gout of fire that blankets the front of the building, catching flames on all the portions of the front part of the second, and parts of the first story, including the top of the entryway that you had already smashed through as a triceratops, which exposed a lot of dried wood. It immediately bursts into flame. As you complete that breath and you inhale for a second, you hear voices now starting to shout from the inside of the house. (muffled shouting) You can't really make out the noises, but it sounds like there's panic now starting to hit from the inside, and you see a few guards start rushing out into the street to try and look at where the source of the flames came from. They both look up and see you.
Sam: Oh, great! Wait, these are guards who are outside, yeah?
Matt: These are guards who were inside the house that as soon as the fire came shooting down and burned the house, they rush out, look up, grab their crossbows, and aim them up towards you.
Travis: Just your hands and head are sticking over.
Matt: That's a 17?
Sam: That hits.
Matt: And a 13.
Taliesin: Doesn't he have at least half-cover from the roof?
Matt: He does, actually.
Sam: That does not hit.
Matt: 17 does not hit.
Sam: Oh, no, the 17 does-- well, it would have.
Matt: That's a good point. You would have half- cover from looking over the rooftop; you only have a little bit of your hands and your face showing. So both go (pshew pshew), firing off into the rainstorm.
Sam: Because I'm a gnome, do I always have half- cover? (laughter)
Matt: No. But it's easier for you to find it. It's a lot less to cover.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: So both bolts (shoosh) streak past you into the sky. They angrily reach down and duck back inside the building with the rest of their movement to get out of the range of now what appears to be a flame-throwing gnome. So that's their go. What are you going to do?
Sam: Do I know enough about this potion to know if it gives me any other breaths, or is that it?
Matt: It does progressively give you a breath for a short time.
Sam: So I can breathe again?
Matt: Yeah. Specifically-- oh no! (laughter)
Matt: And that was the end of Scanlan.
Liam: It's the giant! It's the undead giant!
Sam: I have no idea what I'm doing.
Taliesin: You're doing so well. It's so great.
Matt: You have three different exhales of this. It lasts for an hour or until you exhale three times. It's a bonus action to do it, so you could also do something else and breathe fire.
Sam: It's a bonus action?!
Matt: Yep.
Sam: Okay. Well, then.
Travis: I don't know if that house is cooked enough, man.
Laura: I know, maybe you should just keep burning it.
Sam: (laughs) Yeah. So I'll run over to the back side of the house and do the same thing.
Matt: Okay. So you run over. Your full movement will get you about halfway across. At a dash, we'll get your other action there, and you'll have your bonus action left over. You manage to slide across the roof, grab the edge, reach over and (blows air). Just unleash on the opposite side. This side, because the angle the rain is coming at, is getting a little bit of water, but there is still a number of dry wood exposed by the immediate overhang that it does manage to catch, and the flames are beginning to burn up and collect on the sides because it is superheated flame. Both sides of the house now appear to be on fire. Looking over your shoulder, you can see now there is a pillar of black smoke rising up from the front of the building. You do see on the opposite side a hatch (click, bam) slam open and you see a giant, meaty goliath hand (boof)--
Laura: Oh no!
Matt: Now stepping out into the rain, you see the goliath Duke Vedmeyer step up (doosh) with his two-handed sword.
Sam: Shit. (shouting) Lovely home you've got here!
Travis: It's like Duel of the Fates. On a burning rooftop in the rain. (laughing) Giant goliath and a gnome who spits fire.
Matt: All right, it's your turn.
Sam: Okay. How close is his hatch to the edge?
Matt: The hatch is actually halfway. It's in the middle of the roof. It's actually met from the second story, from one of the rooms or one of the closets, so it's about 25 feet from either the front or the back side. It's right in the center of the house.
Sam: (frantic breathing) Okay.
Matt: Whatcha got, Scanlan? Whatcha got?
Sam: (muffled) I'm trying. I'm just seeing range here.
Marisha: It looks like a Frank Miller comic right now. It's what I see in my head.
Matt: Scanlan showing down in the rain.
Sam: Five times your Spellcasting ability modifier. My Spellcasting ability modifier is-- what?
Matt: It's charisma.
Sam: It's charisma. It's five. Five times five, that's 25. That's 25 feet. Okay. (sings) Bigby's Hand! So I call forth Bigby's Hand and I will force him off the roof. (cheering)
Matt: Okay. All right.
Taliesin: The roof is wet.
Matt: The roof is indeed wet. I'm aware. (laughs) Oh, this will be interesting.
Sam: (sings) I want to fly away.
Taliesin: (sing) Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Marisha: (sing) Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Sam: (sing) Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Matt: Okay. So you create the hand next to him, and as he starts stepping forward towards you with his sword at the ready, there's a shimmer in the air as a giant kind of vaguely purplish arcane hand all of a sudden appears. He looks confused for a second and rears back to try and attack it. As the hand pulls back, comes rushing forward towards him, I want you to go ahead and make a strength check with the hand.
Sam: Oh shit, he's strong.
Matt: The strength is plus eight, so add eight to this roll.
Sam: 17 plus eight...
Matt: (laughs) Natural one. (cheering)
Sam: I'm going to kill everyone in this motherfucking house! (laughter)
Matt: I've rolled so many ones today. This is ridiculous.
Marisha: You have, and we're just getting started.
Matt: All right. The hand pushes him five feet plus the number of feet equal to five times your spellcasting modifier. Yeah. Okay. As the hand shoves him, he goes pushed off to this side. Seems to be holding against it, but the hand eventually scoops him up and actually gets him off of his feet and shot-puts him off the roof. He plummets backward off the side of the roof, and you wait a second to hear a (boof) across the way. That's full damage there. (mutters) Okay, he takes 34 points of falling damage and is knocked prone.
Liam: You can't get this on network television, ladies and gentlemen.
Matt: So you're now standing alone on the rooftop, your Bigby Hand there next to you, a little trickle of fire curling at the corner of your mouth from your final dragon's breath when you decide to use it. What are you going to do?
Sam: Oh. I've got to get out of here. (laughs)
Travis: Just burn it.
Laura: Burn in the hatch and then get out.
Sam: Okay. Am I close to the hatch?
Matt: Yeah, you're about 25 feet from it. It's where you got him.
Sam: I'll hoof it over there and just look around and punch myself in the gut, (belch).
Matt: Okay. As you reach over, you look down, and there is a ladder that leads up to the front, and there are two guards that are currently making their way up to the roof. They look up and see you, and their eyes go wide within their helmets, and as you release the flames, all you see is their faces go, "Ah!" Just engulfing the entire tunnel. Roll 4d6.
Marisha: 4d6?
Sam: 4d6?
Matt: Yes.
Sam: I don't have any d6.
Matt: There you go. They both fail their DC 13 dexterity saving throws because I can't roll tonight.
Sam: 15.
Matt: 15? Okay. They both take 15 points of fire damage and the entirety of that space has now burst into flames. You pull back because the heat is intense, backdraft-style, as you're at the top.
Sam: Do my eyebrows burn off?
Matt: They don't burn off, but you feel they might be a little singed. You'd have to give it a few days to recover. And you hear screaming down inside the tunnel and both of them are currently dealing with the fact that they're on fire. So that's your movement, that's your bonus action. You still have an action.
Sam: Okay. I've got to get the hell out of here, guys. Okay, tell me this, Dungeon Master.
Matt: Yes?
Sam: Dimension Door. Can it be used at higher levels?
Matt: Let me double-check on that, actually. I don't know if it can, but we'll find out.
Laura: Can you Bigby's-Hand slam down onto the Count?
Matt: Dimension Door, no. Dimension Door cannot.
Sam: Okay. How about Polymorph?
Matt: Polymorph... nope.
Sam: I'm fucked. (laughs)
Laura: You've used all your spell slots?
Taliesin: You can use Bigby's Hand to--
Sam: I don't know if Bigby's Hand can catch me. It's not like Feather Fall.
Marisha: Can it carry you?
Laura: Can you float?
Travis: Maybe it's like a slide.
Laura: Maybe you can slide down Bigby's Hand.
Taliesin: Fly it like the carpet.
Matt: Do you want to try?
Travis: You're welcome to try.
Liam: Yeah, you've lifted people with it. You've grabbed people.
Travis: I mean, ultimately, on foot sucks for him right now.
Marisha: Just surf on the giant floating hand.
Taliesin: Through the sky.
Marisha: Through the sky.
Liam: Is what your friends would say if they were there.
Marisha: Yeah.
Travis: All you've got to do is get away for this to be amazing.
Laura: Otherwise, you'll burn alive on a roof.
Marisha: All you have to do is live.
Liam: Comically tragic.
Matt: What are you doing?
Sam: Okay. Does Unseen Servant have any mass?
Matt: Not really, no. Unseen Servant is like a barely-there small-level air elemental.
Sam: Okay. So I'm just going to (hums a bit, then sings) I'm jumping in the rain. I'm jump-- so I'm going to jump off the-- can I go away from the Goliath?
Matt: That would be this way, this way, or this way, because he fell off that side.
Sam: So not the two sides that are on fire.
Matt: The flames are now licking up both sides of the house, so you have to go this way.
Travis: Where's the zombie stone giant now?
Sam: It's going to take a couple of turns to get over there.
Matt: Yeah, the full length of it. At full dash it will get you there and there, and you still have about a good 20 more feet to get, so that's your turn, there.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: The two guards that were back that way are now no longer on fire. They have gotten to the roof and put themselves out. They both look very, very angry at the current circumstance. They step out of the hatch both places.
Liam: Different hatch or the same hatch?
Travis: The hatch is on fire?
Matt: The hatch is still on fire, there are still flames, but they got out (panting). They're out in the rain now. The rain's putting out and dousing the flame that's on them. They both look over and see you running away. They pull their hand crossbows at the ready. They were already ready to fire. That's a 24? And a 26.
Sam: For the second guy, I-- no, I'll just take it. Okay.
Matt: Okay, they both hit. They had 24 and 26. That is seven points of piercing damage and 12 points of piercing damage. So 19 total.
Sam: Okay, got it.
Matt: All righty. They both reach over and grab bolts out of their sides and start preparing for another series of shots. Both catch you in the side. One you can feel a few inches into your shoulder and it's making the joint stick, and the pain is starting to really burn on the left side of your body, but you're okay. Now it's your turn.
Sam: Okay. I look back at them and I do that thing where you just kind of do this. (laughter)
Marisha: Trust fall?
Sam: And I trust fall off the back of it.
Liam: Do you have the earring in?
Sam: Oh, I do. (laughs) But I'm going to simultaneously make Bigby's Hand try to catch me at the bottom of it.
Matt: Go ahead and roll a d20 and add your charisma modifier to it.
Sam: Charisma?
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: That's 20.
Matt: 20? You trust-fall off, your eyes somewhat closed and letting it happen.
Sam: Come on, Bigby. Catch me.
Matt: And in the moment that you expect ground to meet you with a heavy, hard smack of reality, a soft cushion of arcane energy catches you as these spiritual purplish fingers curl around and gently bring you to the ground.
Travis: Beymaxed it.
Sam: Oh! Don't get handsy, Bigby. (laughter)
Laura: Austin Powers.
Sam: All right. Is that my turn?
Matt: Oh, that was just the fall, and you land there. He's way over this way. So you're outside of the house now. You're in a small alley between-- well, not an alley. You're on the side of the house and there's a big grassy area around it, and there's the fence that surrounds the whole...
Liam: Run, Forrest.
Sam: So I'm going to-- do I get an action? No, Bigby's is a bonus action.
Matt: It's an action to use its ability, so it was your action to catch you as part of it.
Sam: It's an action?
Matt: To do anything with Bigby's Hand.
Sam: It says, "and as a bonus action on subsequent turns."
Matt: Oh, it's a bonus action?
Sam: Oh, wait. No, that's for moving it. The bonus action is moving it. I got it.
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: So you've been moving it along with you as you go.
Sam: Yeah, but the act of catching me was the action.
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: Got it. Okay. So I'll just start running. (laughs)
Matt: Okay. So you're going to start running over this way.
Sam: On my tiny little nubby legs.
Matt: All right. As you run, you get over to the front of the gate that is closed off. It's a little bit too tight for you to squeeze through. How do you plan to get over the gate?
Sam: I'm planning to climb over the gate.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: (laughs) I've got nothing left.
Matt: Make an athletics or acrobatics check to try and get over the gate.
Liam: Whatever the better number is. Whatever's better: athletics or acrobatics.
Sam: They're both pretty terrible. 16.
Matt: 16. Okay. Is that acrobatics or athletics?
Sam: That's athletics.
Matt: Athletics. So you run, you jump up (ching), grab onto the metal bars to start just pulling yourself up over the top, land on your feet, and you're now right near where the street is, and you can see to your right it's open, towards the direction of where the rest of the party is. To the left, you can see now, coming through the rain about a hundred feet from you, a giant hulking zombie giant that's stomping towards you. As you notice that, you see a number of figures come swarming out of the two buildings to the side of it, and immediately start attacking the zombie giant.
Travis: Go, go, get out.
Liam: Go, go, get out.
Marisha: They're attacking the--
Laura: They're attacking the zombie giant. That's good.
Liam: You have inspired people. G-T-F-O, man.
Sam: Yeah. I'm useless to you guys. Yeah, I'm going to go invisible and watch from the shadows.
Matt: Okay. So you just cloak yourself and watch from the shadows off to the side. As you are there for a little bit, keeping your eye out for the next couple of minutes, you can see the house is now completely engulfed in flames. The rain, try as it might-- the roof itself is not catching yet, but you can see now, fire is licking out of every single window and glass is steadily breaking over time. (crash, crash) The guards have all escaped out, and you can see the guards and Vedmeyer are now storming across the entire grounds. He's giving orders left and right, and they're all out searching for you in the nearby vicinity of the home. Looking across the way, you can see the zombie giant is now currently reaching down and swapping down. You can get a closer view. They look like some of the normal inhabitants here, are wearing makeshift armor, weapons that they have, and they are now rising up and attempting to take down this zombie giant. You watch as it reaches out. It slams and smashes one to the ground, leaving him lifeless, while another two leap up on the back of the zombie giant and are stabbing it with spears, and you see it (moaning), it gives out this roar. It's hard to tell from this distance which side is getting any ground, but it is currently held up by this group of about ten individuals that are attacking it at once.
Sam: It's cool.
Marisha: That's so cool.
Matt: You just going to stay there and wait it out?
Sam: I think I'll wait it out if I'm in a relatively safe place, because I can't really do anything for you guys, anyway. You're on your own.
Matt: Okay. We'll use that to hop over to the other party.
Sam: Oh, I'm taking a short rest.
Laura: Oh, that's good! Yes.
Matt: A short rest is about half an hour to 40 minutes of waiting, so you might want to find a place that isn't quite so intense to do this. You can try and sneak into one of the nearby homes and do it, maybe.
Sam: Well, I still want to see where this giant thing goes, so I'm still watching it.
Matt: Okay, so you would not be able to rest, unfortunately. It's not a very restful situation right now, to gather yourself. Okay.
Sam: Whew! I lived.
Laura: I like that Scanlan takes out an entire house, and we're all probably going to die.
Travis: Dude, you were fucking Rambo just then. You were Scanlan Rambo.
Laura: You're a legend.
Travis: Do you have any red cloth you can tear off and tie around your forehead?
Liam: Is your beret still on?
Sam: (laughs) I never got a beret. Did I get a beret?
Taliesin: You did get a beret. I thought you got a beret.
Sam: Yeah, I wanted a beret.
Travis: That was outstanding. (laughter)
Matt: I approve of this greatly. All righty. The rest of you guys who have all been slinking out the back. You just knocked a guard out. Trinket came with you?
Laura: Trinket went with Grog.
Matt: Grog. Right, that's right!
Laura: You can do it, buddy!
Matt: Percy, Vex, you guys are all back this way. The back of the building. You can see what looks to be one door to a back room. Grog, as you come slamming up with Trinket behind you (thudding footsteps) up to the front of the building, you see the front doors are there before you.
Travis: Oh, they're in front of us?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: I'm already raging?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: I just fucking bust through, apeshit-style.
Matt: Okay. Make a strength check.
Travis: Okay.
Laura: Can I ask you, really fast?
Matt: Yes.
Laura: I never leveled up Trinket's hit points when I leveled up.
Matt: You didn't. All right.
Laura: That's important at this moment.
Matt: It is very important at this moment.
Taliesin: Ugh, why do you have to do that, man?
Matt: Trinket's hit points right now are what?
Laura: 56.
Matt: 56.
Marisha: This Elder Scrolls music is pretty dope.
Liam: Bringing it home.
Matt: Trinket should have four more hit points.
Laura: Four?
Matt: Yeah. All righty.
Liam: Zac, adjusting the microphones.
Zac: Nobody knows. Nobody knew, until you said something!
Travis: I got advantage on the strength check, so it was a 26.
Matt: 26?
Travis: Yes.
Matt: You rush forward. With your foot, (boom) it's Sparta, the front of that door as it just (crash) cracks open, Trinket coming up behind you. The doors open. You can see now before you, there is a single staircase that curves up to a second floor. There is a large vase right at the base of it, right there. There's a couple of tables by it, and it goes to the right and left. Do you enter the premises, or are you staying right at the door? It's up to you.
Travis: Yeah, I go in.
Matt: All right. Grog, you push your way in, Trinket following behind you right there. Immediately, you see the upper banister, right over the railing also, similar to what Scanlan encountered, has guards completely within this area, at the ready, crossbows pulled. In wait.
Laura: Oh, god. He just keeps adding them!
Liam: Just 12 more.
Marisha: Cool.
Matt: There is Tylieri. All waiting, crossbows at the ready. The doors slam open, you guys rush in. For a second, there's nothing immediately within your range, and you look up and see an entire array of guards all trained upon you and Trinket. A voice behind them goes, "Loose!" (fshh)
Travis: At least Trinket's behind me.
Matt: (chuckles) What's your armor class?
Travis: 19.
Liam: You're going to tell us when we can do something in the back, right?
Matt: Yep. This is just-- because of the speed everything goes, he gets there before anybody.
Liam: Yeah. Just curious.
Matt: No worries. All right, that is-- ooh. That is 27 to hit?
Travis: Yep.
Matt: That is 15 to hit? No. Third one, that is 16 to hit? Nope. That is a 21 to hit?
Travis: Yep.
Matt: 26 to hit.
Travis: Yes.
Matt: That's a 22 to hit?
Travis: Yep.
Laura: All the shitty guards were over at the other house.
Matt: 14 to hit?
Travis: No.
Matt: 20 to hit?
Travis: Yep.
Matt: Then three more.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: 22 to hit?
Travis: Yep, that hits.
Matt: 12 to hit?
Travis: No. Last one?
Matt: And ten to hit. Yeah.
Matt: Six.
Travis: Six.
Matt: Six crossbow bolts come at you. That's eight points of piercing damage. Don't halve them yet. We'll add them all up and then we'll halve that.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: So, eight plus 13. 21. Plus eight again, 29. Plus another nine.
Travis: 38.
Matt: 38, plus another 11.
Travis: 49.
Matt: So 49, and then another 12.
Laura: 61.
Matt: So 61. So you take half that, which would be 31 points of piercing damage on you in one volley of crossbow bolts at you. (shoosh) You protected Trinket, and the rage did descend it a little bit. The pain, as all these bolts are now sticking out of your chest. You look like this front-quilled porcupine. You just take the pain and grin for a second. You have that iron-y taste of blood reach the back of your throat from the immediate impact and it just further intensifies your rage. I'm going to have everyone here roll initiative because you're all acting simultaneously at this point.
Marisha: Which dice? Green dice.
Laura: I know, I'm like, "Which ones?"
Marisha: That was-- nope. Not good.
Matt: All righty. 25 to 20?
Laura: Oh, should I roll for Trinket, too? Oh, he goes when I go.
Matt: Trinket goes when you go.
Liam: 23.
Matt: 23? All right. We have Vax at the top. 20 to 15?
Travis: 18.
Laura: 17.
Matt: All right.
Travis: Thanks to the Feral Instinct.
Matt: All right. 15 to ten? Ten to five?
Travis: Oh, shit.
Marisha: Five.
Matt: What did you get?
Sam: I'm not there.
Matt: Oh, no. Sorry, you're not.
Taliesin: I totally forgot. I'm so sorry. I'm at 26. I got distracted because I have a new--
Travis: Distracted by what?
Matt: To be fair, I asked 25 to 20. (laughs) That's my own fault.
Taliesin: I'm using my new sheet and I'm just confused, so yeah.
Matt: That's okay.
Laura: You're cheating?!
Taliesin: New sheet. I leveled up, so I had to do a thing.
Matt: By the way, guys, both Scanlan and Percy leveled up this last time.
Travis: If only Rambo Scanlan was here. (laughter)
Laura: It's insane.
Matt: So. We have at the top of this combat round, Percy.
Taliesin: Oh boy. Okay, is there a way in?
Sam: Are you getting a FaceTime?
Matt: Am I?
Taliesin: Are you FaceTiming somebody?
Matt: I'd better not be. That was weird. I don't know what happened there. Anyway. Battle's still up.
Taliesin: So is there a way in, at this point?
Matt: There is a door right here at the back of the building that you can see, but the door is currently closed.
Taliesin: I'm running over to the door and opening it. I can hear the commotion from inside, and I'm running in the door.
Matt: Okay. You rush to the door. You go to try it, (clicking). The door is locked.
Liam: Hold your turn, dude.
Taliesin: I'm holding my turn.
Matt: You're going to hold your action.
Taliesin: I'm holding my action.
Matt: Okay. That's fine.
Liam: All right, I'm up.
Matt: Next up is Vax.
Liam: Yeah. I'm going to try to unlock the door.
Matt: All right. You go ahead and you rush over (whoosh), pull out your lockpicks.
Liam: So that's a ten. 23.
Matt: Rain's still pouring down, you have your hood up, the water's dripping past your face as you're trying to concentrate. You get the tools in. It's not a very complicated lock. (click, creak) You push it open, leading you guys into the interior of what looks like a kitchen.
Liam: Perception check. Which is a 25.
Matt: 25. As you look inside, it's a cold kitchen. It hasn't been in use for a while. The fire's up, there's a little bit of a slab in the corner where most of the preparations are done, there's a few cabinets that are up. It's dark. There's no lantern.
Liam: And what are the other doors?
Matt: There's a door immediately to your left, and there's, across the way, is an archway opening. There's no actual door there. It's just a walkway that leads into the next room.
Liam: So it's open straight ahead?
Matt: Yes.
Liam: I haven't used any movement. If I go to the archway right across, right?
Matt: Yep.
Liam: I'm clicking my boots as I walk forward. Do I perception check again at the arch, or does the same one hold?
Matt: As you glance through, you can see what appears to be...
Liam: I unlocked the door and I've walked ten feet.
Matt: There appears to be a hallway. There's a hallway that goes across the way. There's a door at the end of the hallway, and two doors to the right and left of this hallway.
Liam: All right, I'm going to juke to the left. I'm going to go to that door and try the knob.
Matt: Right here?
Liam: Nope, no, the other door in the room I'm in.
Matt: Oh, over here?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: You go over there and you try it. (click) It opens up.
Liam: (singing) Perception!
Matt: Opens up into what appears to be a storage room.
Liam: Nothing.
Matt: Series of barrels, small grain sacks in the far corner. It appears that most of the dry storage for the kitchen is kept in this room.
Liam: All right, so I look straight at Percival.
Taliesin: I'm going to go straight through the hallway and try the door on the left.
Matt: Okay. Move you forward to do that, you move in.
Liam: I'd like to use the last of my movement just to stay-- because I've got the boots on, I've got a lot of movement left; I can stay ten feet behind him.
Matt: You do. Okay. You stay behind him as you move in. The door, this one here?
Taliesin: Yeah, move the one to the right. Yeah, sure, that one.
Matt: (shhh) You slide that one open. It appears to be a bathtub in there. It's a rather nice powder room and bathroom.
Taliesin: There's no way to just quickly push the other door open, too, is there?
Matt: You can try. I'll say for this round, you can go ahead and open that, look inside for a second, go for this, just really quick checking back and forth. This one, this door actually, it does not appear to open at a push.
Taliesin: And I signal.
Liam: Can I, at this point?
Matt: No, you've already done your move.
Liam: And we're on the first floor, right?
Matt: Yes, you guys are on the base floor.
Travis: And they're all up on the second floor, right?
Matt: Right, that's your go. So. Bringing us to Count Tylieri's turn. Count Tylieri, who is currently looking over the banister. He kind of steps forward here for a second. Grog, this works for you because you look up and see all the guards there. Tylieri walks up. This rotund-looking, slimy individual, thinning hair, very pale skin, a little bit of facial hair that has never really seemed to grow fully in, but he tries to groom the best he can.
Laura: Grog's beard is better than that.
Matt: Oh, much better. He's wearing fine clothing. He's got rings encrusting his fingers, but he walks with a deftness to the edge of this stairway and looks over and says, "Interesting. I figured there'd be more of you."
Travis: Interesting. There's a lot of dead men up there.
Matt: (laughs) Of which, you see him leap up onto the ceiling, (pshh) stick to it. And begin to (skittering noise) scatter across.
Laura: The one with the shitty beard?
Matt: Yep.
Marisha: Tylieri?
Matt: Yep.
Sam: He's Spider-man?
Matt: He jumps up and spider-crawls across the ceiling, and then drops down. Yeah. With deft acrobatic feats, he leaps across, drops and lands right in front of you. You can see now in his face, as slovenly as it is, there is a look of deathly hunger in his eyes, and fangs bared from under his lips.
Travis: That's a neat trick.
Matt: He is now going to make two melee attacks against you. That's a natural 20 with the claw, and the other one's going to be a 15? I don't think it's going to hit.
Travis: No.
Matt: So he now has these long claws in his hand. The first one (whoosh). It catches you off guard from the sheer weird assault that he's brought to you.
Travis: What's wrong with you?
Matt: (laughs) You take 16 points of slashing damage (whoosh) from the first arc, and he goes up with the second hand and this time you (grunt) pull out of the way. His hand manages to knock some of the bolts free that were jammed in your chest.
Travis: Half the 16, right?
Matt: Half of 16, correct.
Travis: So, eight.
Matt: Because you're raging, so eight on that one. That's his go. And he just grins at you with this hissing sound, licking his fanged lips. That ends his turn. That brings us to Grog. You're up.
Travis: (growls) I go into a frenzied rage and I use reckless attack, along with my great weapon master, and I turn that thing into a piece of goo with my war hammer. (laughter)
Matt: Okay. War hammer (fwoosh) bursts into flames. Your eyes all of a sudden go into an intense glare as you rear up and go into your frenzied rage. Make your attacks. Do it.
Travis: Advantage on them. That's much better. That's 24?
Matt: 24 hits on the first strike. You only have advantage on the first attack.
Travis: Oh, gotcha. Okay. Just the first one.
Matt: Yeah, the first one's a reckless strike.
Travis: Okay. 21?
Matt: Hits, as well.
Travis: And 20.
Matt: All three hit.
Travis: Yes. Okay.
Matt: That's with the minus five, right?
Marisha: Great weapon master?
Matt: Because of great weapon master, it would be minus five to each attack.
Travis: No.
Matt: All right, so the last one was 15?
Travis: Yes.
Matt: Last one misses.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: But the first two do hit.
Travis: Okay. I forgot that part. Know your rules, kids.
Laura: Then you add a ten to all of them?
Travis: 21 for the first one.
Matt: 21 points of damage.
Travis: And 20 for the second one, and the third one misses, right?
Matt: That's with the fire, right?
Travis: That's with the fire.
Matt: Yeah. Third one misses, so 41 points of damage to him with the first two, (whack, whack), the impacts slamming into him. You can see his body get pushed back with each impact. He's still taking it and grinning at you, but he's also seemingly surprised by the ferocity of the strikes. Is that your turn? Are you going to move?
Travis: That's it. No, I'm not going to move.
Matt: Okay. He's going to use one of his legendary actions to, at the end of your turn, reach out and attack you again. That's going to be a 23 to hit?
Travis: Yep.
Matt: Instead of attacking, he's going to grapple you.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: So his claw goes up and actually (fwoosh) reaches into your throat, and you can feel the claws digging into the flesh. It's a very, very firm grip and he has you right where he wants you.
Travis: Work that hand out a lot, do you?
Matt: That's that action there. All right, that brings us to the guards. The guards all reload their crossbow bolts, move in. These three now see the bear in the back and they're going to fire on Trinket. These seven are all going to fire on Grog, now that he's held there. So the three against Trinket. That's going to be a 16?
Laura: Doesn't hit!
Matt: That's going to be a 20?
Laura: Hits.
Matt: And a 22.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: So Trinket takes six points of piercing damage and 11 points of piercing damage. Total of 17 points of damage to Trinket as two bolts (shink, shink). One of them bounces off the armor. One actually sticks and Trinket, (growls) but it's not enough to really cause much of a worry.
Laura: Yeah, he doesn't care.
Matt: The other seven against you, Grog. Natural 20. Natural one. That's not going to hit, that's a natural five. 18?
Travis: Misses.
Matt: Natural one. That's a 19, that hits. A 19 naturally, so it's 27. One more. That's 18 to hit.
Travis: Misses.
Matt: Oh, these all have advantage on you because you did a reckless attack.
Travis: That's right, I did.
Matt: So the one that would have missed is a natural 20.
Travis: Nay!
Matt: That does hit. Natural 20 again.
Marisha: What?
Matt: I'm rolling for all the ones that would have missed.
Sam: Why do they have advantage on you?
Travis: Because I had advantage on mine.
Matt: Yeah. Reckless attack.
Sam: That's reckless!
Travis: (laughs) It is very reckless.
Matt: They all hit you, three of which are crits.
Travis: (sarcastically) Yay!
Marisha: Son of a bitch.
Matt: First crit is 19 points of piercing damage.
Liam: (flatly) Merry Critmas.
Laura: We're all going to die.
Matt: The second crit is going to be nine points of piercing damage.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: Last one is going to be another nine points of piercing damage.
Travis: Okay, 37 halved.
Matt: Actually, that would be 15 total because that was a crit. So the three crits are out of the way.
Travis: Okay. 37. So, 15 total?
Matt: 15 on the last one, yeah.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: And so those are the three crits.
Travis: 33. What's half of 33?
Laura: 16.
Liam: 16 or 17. 16.
Matt: There you go, so that's that. And the next ones are 11. Another 11.
Taliesin: We're going to have to thin these ranks out quickly.
Matt: Ten. And seven. So you take another 39 points of piercing damage after that.
Travis: Okay, I'm going to use my stone's endurance to get rid of that stank.
Matt: One of them, yeah.
Travis: Roll, plus my constitution. 16.
Matt: Okay, so we'll say you reduce one of the crits from 16. The first one, take 15 points off that because I think one of the crits was 15. We'll say you used it on that one. That's 39 points of piercing damage, reduced by half. That will put you at 18.
Travis: 18? Okay.
Matt: We'll say you take 18 points of piercing damage from those four non-crits.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: So yeah. That ends the guards' volley. That brings us to Vex. You're up.
Laura: Me? And Trinket.
Matt: Yes. And Trinket. Both.
Laura: Okay, so I run in after Percy and my brother.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: And Trinket--
Matt: Are you going to dash? Because you can move, you can double move, using your action to move, if you want.
Laura: Oh, I can?
Matt: Yeah. Unless you want to use your action to yell out for Trinket to attack, in which case, you can give Trinket a round of combat.
Laura: Oh, I do want to give Trinket a round of combat, so yes.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: And he gets a couple of attacks if I don't attack at all, right?
Matt: Correct. Yep.
Laura: So that's good. (screams) Okay, Trinket gets two attacks because of bestial fury.
Matt: Correct.
Liam: He hears your voice!
Laura: Because he hears my voice. So he's going to run around and he's going to try to knock over-- he's going to cannonball into the vampire guy.
Matt: Okay, so he's going to move this way and then cannonball forward?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. Trinket moves off to the side. (thudding footsteps) Gets a couple of running starts, and then rolls into a roly-poly style forward. All right, so make one attack against him.
Laura: Okay. Okay. What do I add to that?
Matt: Your attack bonus for Trinket.
Liam: I don't know, for your bear. AC, HP, bite attack, claw attack, plus eight.
Matt: Yes, plus eight just for the attack.
Laura: Okay, 15?
Matt: 15 does not hit, unfortunately. So Trinket rolls past. He dodges out of the way, gets an attack of opportunity on him because he wasn't hit as part of the attack. That's a 27 to hit. Trinket takes seven plus three, ten points of slashing damage as he streaks by. Seeing the bear coming at him too soon and managing to both pull out of the way and use that to his advantage.
Taliesin: I'm going to be playing rule Nazi tonight. Is that attack of opportunity possible since he's grappling somebody?
Matt: Technically, yes. He's just grappling with one hand and just dodges out of the way, moves over and slashes with the other hand.
Taliesin: Trying everything I can to save this bear.
Matt: I know you, man. It's okay. (laughter)
Laura: Trinket then comes out of cannonball and tries to bite the back of the vampire's neck.
Matt: Okay. I'll let you do that because this is your full round to do that. Usually you would choose to cannonball--
Laura: Or I do my two attacks?
Matt: But because you aren't part of this combat fray and you're giving all of your round to him, I'll let you do it, sure.
Laura: Okay. Thank you.
Matt: Trinket comes out of the roll, turns around (roars) and strikes with the claw, swiping--
Laura: He's trying to bite his neck like a vampire!
Matt: Oh, bite him? Okay.
Laura: Oh, shit. Ooh! That's good. 27.
Matt: That hits.
Liam: Split his head like a gourd.
Laura: 11.
Matt: 11 points of damage as Trinket latches onto the back of his shoulder (growls) and pulls and tugs at him, trying to get him loose from Grog's grip. Not strong enough to do so, but he nevertheless takes the damage and (snarls) hisses back at the bear clutched onto his shoulder. Cool. That ends your turn. Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: Okay, can I see the smoke from the fire rising up from what Scanlan did on the other house?
Matt: At this point? Make a perception check. It's a heavy storm.
Marisha: That's not great. 12?
Matt: 12? Currently, in the storm, you're just not able to really make up any visual in the distance right now, no. You do not know if there is any fire going on or any signal, at this point.
Marisha: Okay. Shit. Are there any other windows along the back side of the house?
Matt: Over here? Yeah, there's a window there, window there, window there.
Marisha: Through the side.
Matt: Oh, back here? This side, there are no other windows. It is completely closed off.
Marisha: No other windows?
Matt: Nope, there's just the one entry there that everyone else went in through.
Marisha: Shit. Okay, I'll go inside.
Sam: Hello, is there anyone in here?
Marisha: Is there anything in this direction? This way? Can we not get this way?
Matt: This is a storage closet that was already checked by Vax, who walked past it.
Marisha: Do we know if there are any outside doors over here on this side?
Matt: You don't, no. No one's moved all the way in to see, and it's not very well-lit in there, currently.
Marisha: Could I have gone around the edge here to see? Would we have known, going on this side, if there were any doors?
Matt: No, because you guys approached from that side. You saw windows, but it was fairly dark. You saw a little bit of light moving through some of the windows on the second story, but nothing down here that really caught your attention.
Marisha: And we still have no way into this main room, either, yet?
Matt: Not yet. There is a door at the end of this hallway, but nobody's gotten to try it yet.
Travis: Could you get to a second-floor window?
Matt: You could push past your party and continue to move down the hallway, if you want.
Laura: Second floor's better than first floor, anyway.
Marisha: Okay. I'm sorry. I'm an asshole.
Sam: You turn into an asshole.
Marisha: (giggling) I turn into an asshole. Were there any-- fuck, I really don't want to have to blow-- okay, so I'm going to---
Matt: What are you going to do?
Marisha: Yeah, you know what? I didn't go inside. I'm outside.
Matt: You came inside. Not going to retcon it.
Marisha: Dick. All right.
Matt: I'm just saying! You can't get halfway in there and be like, "Wait, this didn't happen."
Marisha: Okay.
Liam: Technically, none of this happened.
Taliesin: Thank you for coming with me on that journey.
Marisha: Fine, I'll just see if this fucking door is open. That's all I can do right now.
Matt: The one across the way?
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Sorry, guys, excuse me. Sorry, excuse me.
Matt: You push past everyone. You push on the door. It opens up and reveals a long dining room, a big, thick dining room table, a double window across the way. This is the house's dining room. There are two double doors across the way that lead into what you think is the foyer, in which Grog and Trinket currently stormed through. And you can hear, muffled through the door in the distance, the sound of combat and impact and people shouting to each other.
Marisha: Okay, can I cross over to that window and look out the front window? The window over here?
Matt: I'll say you can get that far, and you can just crest and look out the window if you want to.
Marisha: Do I see any fire from Scanlan?
Matt: From this point, you've already checked once. You're just getting in there. You won't be able to really see from here.
Marisha: That's my turn.
Matt: That brings us to the top. Percy, you're up.
Marisha: Oh, yeah. Can I call him? Can I, (whispering) "Scanlan. Scanlan!"
Matt: You make a little bit of a calling noise. You hear nothing back. You fear you might be just out of range for it.
Marisha: Son of a bitch. All right.
Taliesin: I'm going to make a run for the door.
Matt: Okay. You can get to there. You're just at the edge of it. Do you want to try and knock it open?
Taliesin: Is it open? Can I open the door?
Matt: You can try to. You reach out. (creak) It opens up and you can see now, a light comes pouring through from the foyer, and you can hear much louder now, the sound of combat, and Grog chuckling, and swings and impacts. You can see a couple of crossbow bolts go (boof) and scatter across the ground.
Taliesin: I would have to use my action to move?
Matt: Correct.
Taliesin: You know... (sighs) Yeah, this is going to be worthwhile. I'm going to-- well... (laughter)
Matt: What are you doing?
Taliesin: I hate you.
Matt: What are you doing?
Sam: Kill things.
Marisha: Shoot out the window.
Taliesin: Shoot out the window?
Laura: Just act on the fly like Scanlan did. It turned out okay.
Matt: Do your thing, Percy. Do your thing. What are you doing?
Taliesin: Okay, I'm going to be helpful. I'm going to burn my action to get into the room.
Matt: Okay. Where do you want to get on this side?
Taliesin: Right there.
Matt: Right there?
Taliesin: Yeah, I want to stand right there.
Matt: Okay, so you just swing around (fwwwt) to the inside. You look up and immediately you see this curved banister and a whole row of guards up top with heavy crossbows. In the center, you can see some blur as Grog, Trinket, and some individual are in the middle of this tussle. The individual currently has Grog grasped by the throat.
Taliesin: How crazy-- I don't know if I can do Minor Illusion that way right now. So I'm going to call Hex on that first guard there.
Matt: Which one? Right there?
Taliesin: Yep.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: I'm going to burn my action surge, and I'm going to start taking my shots, and I'm just going to work my way up.
Matt: Okay, so you swing around the corner and look up at the one guard. As you concentrate for a second, bringing your gun up, your eyes begin to go black again, the smoke pouring out from the corner of it. Smoke begins to pour out of the midsection of the guard, who looks confused for a second, and it swirls around him as part of the Hex that has him marked, as you release your next three blasts.
Taliesin: Okay. This is with sharpshooter.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: That sucks. Ten?
Matt: Ten misses. First shot just (ricochet noise) goes wide, blasting a chunk out of the upstairs hallway.
Taliesin: 11.
Matt: 11 also goes wide. This time (ricochet noise) blasting part of the banister in front. The guard dodges out of the way as the wood splinters past him.
Taliesin: Natural 20.
Marisha: That's better!
Matt: That's the Percy we know. (laughs)
Taliesin: And so since that was a third shot, it was also a bonus shot, so that's got an extra-- okay! Does that mean that everything gets doubled?
Matt: All dice gets doubled, and then you add the modifier.
Taliesin: Not the modifier, though?
Matt: Not the modifier, no.
Taliesin: Modifier stays the same.
Matt: Correct.
Taliesin: Roll twice, or just double my die?
Matt: Double the die. It's faster.
Taliesin: Okay, so that's-- I should have just used my--
Sam: What device?
Taliesin: I know! I should have just used it.
Marisha: That's not bad, though.
Taliesin: Nine, 13, 26. 42 points of damage.
Matt: 42 points of damage?
Taliesin: And four of that was fire damage.
Matt: And four of that was fire damage? Okay. As you look up, (doosh) the first two shots fire and go wide. The third one, (explosion noise) just explodes and in a blast of black smoke, the guard's head is no longer across his shoulders. (cheering)
Taliesin: Okay, I move the black cloud to the next guard. He also gains disadvantage on all-- let's make it dexterity saving throws.
Matt: Ability checks.
Taliesin: Ability checks, yeah, so all dex checks.
Matt: So the smoke (whoosh) pours off the body and coalesces around the next guard to his right. All right, that ends your turn.
Taliesin: That's the end of my turn.
Matt: Vax.
Liam: All right, I've got double speed. I go right towards the table, make an acrobatics check to slide my ass across it--
Sam: Are you doing what I did?
Matt: Do an acrobatics check.
Marisha: Yes! Dukes of Hazzard!
Liam: Yeah. That is a 23?
Matt: You (shhht) slide to there.
Sam: You did it so much cooler than me! (laughter)
Liam: I want to slide into a crouch right behind-- I don't want to go that far. Right by Percy, because I can't go much further, I don't think.
Matt: At double movement?
Liam: Would I be able to make it to Grog and his friend? If I can't make it to Grog, I want to stay at the door. If I can make it to Grog, I want to go to Grog.
Matt: Slide will give you movement. Yeah, you can get next to him.
Liam: I don't want to go next to him, I want to go and eviscerate the bowels of the fucker who's fucking with him.
Matt: Okay, so right there?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Okay. Yeah, you can get up there.
Liam: Sneak attack because he's engaged with Grog.
Matt: Correct.
Liam: So here comes the total.
Marisha: As he slides over the table in front of me, I go, "That was pretty awesome. Bye. Good luck."
Liam: All right, so...
Sam: You need some daggers?
Liam: No.
Matt: More daggers!
Liam: Wait. So. I'm alive! Rogue rules--
Matt: Whatcha doing?
Laura: What are you doing?
Liam: Oh, I'm stabbing the guy three times! I'm doing my catchphrase, man. Dagger, dagger, dagger! Oh, he's already taken a turn in combat, okay. So. I'm going to use luck on that first attack and go again-- ooh, and I'll use the first one. So the first one was an 8 plus... 19 on the first?
Matt: 19 hits.
Liam: All right. Second is a 19?
Matt: Hits.
Liam: Third is 23.
Matt: All three hit. Go ahead and roll damage. Sneak attack on the first one.
Liam: All right, first one, I'm going to use my Flametongue. It's two plus... nine. And here comes the juice. Nine, 13, 17, 18, 20, 23, 25? That's the first one, and then second attack is three. This is the keen dagger, that's a ten. And the third attack is the Flametongue again for seven.
Matt: Seven. Okay, gotcha. So you (fwoosh) dart in a blur of darkness. You come swinging up. You can see Tylieri is currently grasping Grog. Out of the corner of his eye, just sees the movement and looks over curiously as the blade is immediately in his side. (pained scream) And now you can see the jowls shake from the impact of the dagger blow, and he looks down angrily at you, fangs bared as the two other attacks hit his side.
Liam: Yeah, I'm looking him right in the eye as I do that, too.
Matt: At the end of your turn, he uses two of his legendary actions--
Liam: I'm wearing my helmet, my shiny helmet.
Matt: I know. To look at you, reach up with the throat that he's grasped, and sink his fangs directly into your throat, Grog.
Travis: (angry noise) I have a little collar. Does that help at all?
Matt: Not in this moment. You have a big neck. Very big neck, and a very tiny collar. (laughs) That will be a 20 to hit?
Travis: Yep.
Matt: All righty. So you take nine points of piercing damage.
Travis: Is that halved?
Matt: That is halved. Yeah. So say five, round up.
Travis: Sure.
Matt: However, you do take 14 points of necrotic damage. That is not reduced. But your maximum hit points are now reduced by 14.
Travis: Got it.
Matt: As you feel that same similar cold feeling as the life blood's being drained out of your body and you see his eyes cresting at you with this wild glare. That ends your turn, Vax?
Liam: Yeah, that's it.
Matt: It is now his turn.
Sam: Spider-man?
Matt: Yeah, now he's taking his turn. He's now going to go ahead and make another bite attack on you again. As he pulls back and reaches his forearm and grabs the other side of your throat, going for the other side of the jugular.
Travis: Isn't this a Grog buffet?
Matt: That's a natural one, though. (cheering)
Sam: Oh, because you've got your necklace on.
Matt: However, he does have advantage on you because you used your reckless strike.
Sam: Never use reckless strike again.
Liam: Doesn't it cancel out after one roll? Advantage versus disadvantage is one roll, right?
Travis: It ended on the first attack, right?
Matt: It was a one on the first attack, yeah. It's until your next turn. Attacks against you get advantage.
Travis: Oh, I thought his first bite was the first one.
Sam: Wait, so all attacks, even follow-up attacks get advantage, even though he only gets advantage on the first one?
Matt: I'll read it for you right now. It's a cool ability when you're not the only tank in the room.
Sam: No, it is not! It's the worst ability ever.
Laura: It's a good ability if you're only fighting one person.
Matt: Yeah, but attack rolls against you have advantage until your next turn.
Liam: Because he's out of it. He's going cuckoo.
Sam: Wait, did you not have-- Jesus, never use that thing again.
Travis: I'm using it every time. (laughter)
Matt: Doing so gives you advantage on melee weapon attack rolls using strength during this turn. So yes, I apologize. It does give you advantage on all of your attacks. I misread that.
Travis: (quietly) Oh, shitfuck. (louder) That's okay. That's okay!
Liam: Stuff happens. Give him a bonus 15 HP or something.
Matt: That's okay. Yeah, it's fine. But going forward, good to know. So it does give you advantage on all of your attacks.
Travis: Copy that.
Matt: It's the first attack is the one that confused me on the way it was worded. Sorry, folks. I know better now. But for that, I say the one stands as retribution for me forgetting the rule. (cheering)
Matt: So he goes in to strike for the bite. This time, however, he does manage to catch the chainmail coif that Scanlan had made you. His fangs get caught on the chain. (grunts)
Travis: Like making out with braces.
Matt: He pulls away, releases you-- no, doesn't release you. As he's holding you there, he's going to go ahead and make a claw strike across your face. Two and, oh. That'll be a 19.
Travis: That does hit.
Matt: He does hit? Okay. You take eight points of slashing damage, reduced to four because of your rage. That ends his turn. Grog, you're up now.
Travis: Am I still grappled?
Matt: You're still grappled, yeah.
Travis: I'd like to try and break the grapple.
Matt: Okay, so you use your action to try and break the grapple. So athletics roll of?
Travis: 22.
Matt: Yeah, you (boof) just shove him off without a problem.
Travis: Awesome.
Matt: You still have your bonus action to strike, if you like.
Travis: Can I use my bonus action to try and grapple him back?
Matt: Not as a bonus action, unfortunately. It's an action to do that.
Travis: I will attack, yeah. Just one, right? (whoosh)
Matt: One strike, yeah.
Travis: Okay. Fuck yes! 21?
Matt: 21 does hit, yeah.
Travis: Awesome! And that is badass. Nine, 17. 22. 22 with the fire damage.
Matt: 22 damage. All right. (whack) And you're watching, as he does all these actions, you see his body begin to reform and the wounds beginning to heal themselves in the vampiric manner. But as soon as that wound begins to sew up, you take your hammer and (boof) slam it into him again, reopening, and you can see now parts of his muscles are exposed, a deep purplish color, this very unnatural interior to his flesh. You can see it burn as the flames cauterize the edges of the wound. Awesome. Does that finish your turn? Do you want to move at all?
Travis: I'm staying. Is Trinket still behind me?
Matt: Trinket is currently flanking the guy.
Travis: Yeah, no. I'll stay.
Matt: Okay, that brings us to the guards' turn. They all reload their crossbows. These four are now going to make shots at you, Percy. These three are going to take shots-- all five of these guys are going to take shots at Grog now. They're trying to take you down so they can move onto the next target. So four shots on you, Percy. That is 20?
Taliesin: That hits.
Matt: 18?
Taliesin: That hits.
Matt: 20?
Taliesin: That hits.
Matt: And 11.
Taliesin: That does not hit.
Matt: Okay, so you take from three heavy crossbow bolts at you. Seven, 19, 32 points of piercing damage. All three bolts stick into your chest. They're big, long, thick, heavy crossbow bolts. One of them gleans off your shoulder and catches the edge of the wall, but the other two have actually sunk into your torso and are sticking out of you. The other five against you, Grog.
Travis: Yep.
Matt: Since you did not do reckless strike last time, they are not with advantage. That is 19?
Travis: Hits.
Matt: 12?
Travis: Misses.
Matt: Oh, that's a 25.
Travis: Hits.
Matt: That is a 19?
Travis: Hits.
Matt: Last one is a 24.
Travis: Yep, so four out of the five.
Matt: Yep. That's 11 plus seven. 18.
Travis: 18.
Matt: Plus eight. 25.
Travis: 26.
Matt: Plus 13. So 39.
Travis: 39. Half.
Matt: 18.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: 18 points of piercing damage again. Bolts are sticking out of your body all over. You almost have additional armor from the number of bolts that are on your body, but you're still standing there, frothing at the mouth, angry, just like, "Come at me!" That ends the guards' turn. They all reload their bolts and pull their crossbows up. Vex, you're up.
Laura: Yay! Can I get up to the doorway? Tell me that I can.
Matt: With a dash, you can, yeah.
Laura: But I don't get any action, then.
Matt: Unfortunately, no.
Laura: Damn it!
Travis: Janet.
Laura: Damn it, Janet! All right, Trinket's just going to try to claw him.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead. Two attacks from Trinket.
Laura: Yep.
Liam: Make it good.
Sam: Come on, you're my favorite bear, Trinkie.
Laura: That hits him. That definitely hits him.
Liam: 16 plus a lot.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Oh, yeah, that hits him.
Laura: A natural 20! (cheering)
Liam: A natural 20! (cheering)
Travis: (laughs) Trinket got a natural 20?
Matt: All right, so damage on the first strike?
Sam: That was a critical "rawrl."
Laura: 11 for the first, and then--
Travis: So sour it was sweet.
Liam: Three plus seven is ten. 20? Which part doubles?
Laura: Just the dice doubles?
Matt: The dice doubles, yeah.
Laura: 13 for the second attack.
Matt: So a total of 23 damage? All right.
Laura: 24 damage.
Matt: 24 damage. How does Trinket want to do this? (cheering)
Laura: He really just killed a vampire?
Liam: Is this a first?!
Taliesin: This is a first.
Travis: I think it's Trinket's first kill.
Marisha: Trinket!
Laura: Trinket claws crosswise and takes off his head with a bite.
Matt: Okay. So as Trinket reaches down, (whoosh) arcing both claws across his back, Tylieri is dropped to his hands and knees, looks up as Trinket then puts his jaws down over the head and lifts up. As you see the flesh begin to tear on his body, he screams out in pain as the body (fluttering sound) turns to mist.
Laura: Damn it! He's a vampire!
Liam: Wait, is the mist there?
Matt: The mist is there, yeah. There's a clump of mist where he once was.
Liam: Somebody light a match!
Marisha: I'm coming!
Laura: So the head disappears from his mouth, or did he still get a big taste?
Matt: There's still some thick, purplish, congealed blood in his mouth, but the vampire's form has been forced to mist at zero hit points. All right, that brings us to Keyleth.
Marisha: Okay! So seeing Vax go over the table and being like, "That was cool," I'm also going to be like (grunts) over the table. I'm going to join the Dukes of Hazzard train.
Matt: Acrobatics check.
Marisha: Damn it. That's not bad!
Matt: It's not a huge difficulty.
Marisha: Acrobatics? 17?
Matt: 17, yeah. You jump up (shh) slide across, land across. The bonus there is that it takes only one block of movement to get across. That's five foot there.
Marisha: So I'm going to come in and I see a headless dude with mist swirling around him?
Matt: No, you just see Grog, Vax, and Trinket in the center of this foyer, with a big cloud of mist near Trinket and Grog, and an entire array of guards with heavy crossbows trained down on the three of them in this ambush pit.
Sam: Would she know what it was?
Laura: Yeah, you would! We've learned about vampires. We know they turn into mist.
Liam: Yeah, the vampires down by the tree did this. They misted in.
Travis: Sunlight that shit.
Laura: Sunbeam!
Marisha: Someone could yell at me to do it.
Taliesin: (shouts) Sunlight!
Matt: I would say... make an intelligence check.
Marisha: Okay. This one.
Sam: Ooh, that's the intelligent dice.
Taliesin: Yes, it is.
Marisha: Yes, it is. Just with my modifier?
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: Wait, is this a saving throw? Just my modifier, so 17.
Matt: 17. Okay. I'd say, given the circumstance right now, just rushing in and seeing mist there and people with things, you have no idea that's a vampire, you have no reason to believe that's a vampire, you just know that right now there is-- I'm just being honest here! You walk in the room and there's a little bit of mist on the ground and there's a bunch of guards up there. It looks like there's a threat of a bunch of guards in the room.
Travis: Identify it. It's a vampire.
Laura: You know it now.
Matt: (laughs) Grog, in the middle of a frenzied rage, would not have that--
Taliesin: I would have enough to point and say-- oh, for the love of god. Okay, fine.
Matt: Keyleth, take your turn.
Laura: Oh, man.
Matt: No more metagaming. Take your turn. What do you want to do?
Travis: What are you doing?
Marisha: Well, I know what I want to do, but I can't do it without feeling guilty! I was going to Sunbeam this bitch.
Matt: It only makes sense. I'm just saying.
Marisha: What makes sense? That I wouldn't know?
Matt: That you wouldn't know that that little bit of mist on the ground there is a vampire. There's no way that Keyleth would know that based on the way you--
Liam: Just missed it.
Matt: Yeah, you just missed it.
Marisha: I would just see a black mist?
Matt: It's just a mist.
Travis: We've got a ton of other people in the room, though.
Matt: And there's black smoke around one of the guards up there.
Marisha: Well, if I saw a black mist, what I would probably do, realistically, is think it was some sort of poison shit and I would Wind Wall it. So I'm going to (goosh) Wind Wall that mist.
Matt: Okay. All righty. Let's see. (laughs) This should actually be pretty interesting.
Marisha: (weakly) It's what I would assume it was, but I might be aiding it in getting away.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: This is bullshit.
Matt: All right, so. You put a Wind Wall up (fwoosh) in this area. You can see the mist dissipates for a second and holds its place. However, this Wind Wall is now currently held up in this area. That's your action.
Marisha: I Wind Wall it to keep, essentially do the Wind Wall--
Matt: Here?
Marisha: Yeah, around Grog.
Matt: Right at this area?
Marisha: Yeah, I'd want to protect him from the crossbows.
Matt: Okay. So there's just wind rushing up around. You can see the tapestries on the walls are flickering around.
Marisha: And then I once again go, "Scanlan! Scanlan!"
Matt: There's a little bit of crackling through. You're right at the cusp of the distance on these communicators. Scanlan, you hear bits and pieces. At this point in time right now, you're--
Sam: I'm on the roof?
Matt: You're hearing crackling in your ear, but you're still on the roof doing the chaos, so you haven't heard anything really coming through, at this point.
Laura: "Doing the chaos."
Matt: You're going to stay right there?
Sam: I'm doing this thing.
Matt: Yeah, you're trust-falling off the roof.
Marisha: Yeah, I'm going to back into the corner and keep this Wind Wall up.
Matt: Okay, just concentrating on the Wind Wall. That brings us up to Percy.
Taliesin: I take my next shot at the next crossbow bugger.
Matt: Go for it.
Taliesin: That's 15?
Matt: 15? Just misses.
Taliesin: God damn it.
Matt: It hits the armor and it (ricochet noise) ricochets off.
Marisha: So am I encapsulating the mist in my Wind Wall? I'm kind of trapping the mist in?
Matt: The Wind Wall itself is not a full circle, it's just a semi-circle.
Marisha: A half-circle, yeah, but is it stuck in the wall?
Matt: It's currently overlapped with it, yeah.
Marisha: Okay.
Taliesin: That's 22.
Matt: 22 to hit?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: Hits.
Taliesin: It hit. That's 18 points of damage.
Matt: All righty. And you have your third attack.
Taliesin: My third attack, also on him, is also 22.
Matt: That hits, as well.
Taliesin: And that's-- ooh, that sucks. Two points of ice damage plus 11 points of normal damage.
Matt: 13 total. Okay. So (doosh) the last two blasts hit him, and you can see, he almost gets thrown off his feet from the impact. There's now blood trickling out from under his helmet from where one of the blasts got his chin. One into his chest. He's still standing up, barely, and he's still confused by this smoke that's swirling around him. Are you going to stay where you are?
Taliesin: I'm going to take a step forward.
Matt: Right there?
Taliesin: Up the stairs.
Matt: Up the stairs. Okay.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: Just ominously stepping up the stairway. I like it. That brings us to Vax.
Liam: Right, so I'm going to start rushing up the stairs. Before I do, I'm going to spank Grog as hard as I can on the ass and say, "Kill!" And run up the stairs at the first guy who's enveloped in Percy's smoke and start stabbing him.
Matt: Okay. He's up above the banister, so you probably have to--
Liam: There's no balcony?
Matt: No, the idea is the banister rides up and there's a wall along it, and then they're all up on the second floor here looking down at this.
Liam: So there's no way up there?
Matt: You could leap up. Make an acrobatics check to leap up and over the banister.
Liam: That's what I'll do. Yeah, that's good. That's 30.
Matt: Yeah, you jump, grab it, flip over, land on the balcony next to the guy enveloped in smoke.
Liam: And I stab him.
Matt: Go for it.
Liam: Okay. Did the leaping take any of my actions? It's movement?
Matt: No, it's part of your movement.
Liam: Okay, so that's 22.
Matt: 22 hits.
Liam: And a 16. And a one.
Matt: First two hit.
Liam: Yeah, okay. The first one is the Flametongue dagger. That is four plus six is ten. And the second one is the keen dagger, and that is two plus seven is nine.
Matt: All right. As you rush up, the guard looking at you, confused, the smoke swirling around him. (stabbing sounds) As the first two daggers stab in, the second one actually finds between his ribs up to where his heart is, and you see him gasp for a second as he crumples beneath your grip, and you slide the blade out as he crumples to the ground.
Liam: That's the button.
Matt: (laughs) That is the dead button. All right. That ends your turn. Tylieri--
Sam: Wait, he's still alive?
Laura: He's a mist.
Matt: All right, the mist pushes past. He's going to use some action to move.
Laura: He pushes past the Wind Wall? But it says that figures caught in a gaseous form can't pass through the Wind Wall. In the spell.
Marisha: That it does.
Laura: I just read it.
Marisha: That's my motherfucking Wind Wall!
Laura: So it's going to screw up my arrows, so I was checking in. But yeah, it also says, "creatures in gaseous form can't pass through it."
Sam: Why would they even have a hypothetical for that?
Liam: Because of this!
Marisha: Because of this!
Taliesin: Because of this!
Taliesin: Because of the things right here.
Marisha: It's coming in handy.
Liam: Thanks, Mike Mearls!
Matt: However, as part of that, then Trinket is also in the Wind Wall, as well, just as a note. So Trinket will be taking bludgeoning damage for being within it. So just as a heads-up. In fact, right now, have Trinket make a strength saving throw.
Marisha: Sorry.
Laura: It's okay.
Sam: Is it like a hurricane or something?
Marisha: It's a wall of wind.
Laura: Eight?
Matt: Okay. Trinket takes 3d8 bludgeoning damage.
Marisha: How much?
Matt: Go ahead and roll 3d8.
Liam: 3d8. Up to 24.
Sam: Whoa.
Matt: Yeah. I thought you were capturing him inside. I didn't realize you had it actually on him, and so having the Wind Wall on him to prevent him from moving would also have Trinket in it, yeah.
Marisha: It could be worse. That's six plus four, so ten.
Liam: He's had worse. He'll be fine.
Laura: Yeah. Okay.
Matt: All right, so that will make it actually more here. So Tylieri cannot break through. Tylieri stays there in mist form, being caught in the whirlwind. Grog, you're up.
Travis: I'm up?
Matt: Yep.
Travis: Well, I can't get through the-- I mean, I don't know what the fuck--
Marisha: You can get through the Wind Wall.
Travis: What am I going to do to gas? Hit it? Can I start running up the motherfucking stairs and jump up like Vax did? He said to kill!
Matt: All right, yeah. You can get up to there, and you're just within reach to get one guy over the banister, probably.
Travis: Yeah! I'd like to do that. That's a 23.
Matt: That hits. More attacks?
Travis: Yes. Oh, how many attacks do I get?
Matt: All of them. That was just your movement.
Travis: Yay, I get all of them?! That's amazing.
Matt: Your barbarian 40 feet of crazy movement.
Travis: Yay! 22!
Matt: Yep.
Travis: Shit! 12.
Matt: 12 does not hit.
Travis: (laughing) Okay.
Matt: (laughs) The first two hit.
Travis: 13. 17 for the first one.
Matt: All right, 17 damage.
Travis: 15, and 17 again. Two plus two.
Matt: Nice. All right, so (whack) the hammer comes streaking down, slamming into the guard there. His crossbow shatters from the impact and the flames begin to lick up the front of his body. The second slam smacks him again. This time, you hear the armor ring out from the metal-on-metal impact. He kind of shakes from it. The third time you're just in the middle of this series of swinging and he backs up, and you end up smashing the banister instead of him, the hammer cracking part of the ground on the second floor. He looks pretty messed up from that series of attacks. All right, that ends your turn, Grog. It's now the guards' turn.
Travis: Come at me, bro.
Matt: This guard's going to move over here. They're all like, "Oh god." These three here are going to attempt to fire on Trinket through the Wind Wall. These two are going to fire at you, Grog, and these two are going to longsword you. They pull out their longswords. This one's going to turn with his crossbow and fire at you, Vax. So first is the attack at you with the crossbow. That is a 20?
Liam: Oh, yeah, that hits.
Matt: You take-- ooh, that's a ten-- 13 points of piercing damage as the bolt strikes you right in the chest, cracking your sternum a little bit. You're like, (groans) that's going to suck. You feel the scraping of the bone as it impacts. The two with the longswords against you, Grog.
Travis: Yep.
Matt: That is 18?
Travis: Misses.
Matt: That is a 12.
Travis: Misses!
Matt: Both of the blades come at you. One of them actually hits your shoulder, but it just sticks an inch into the flesh, and you just flex and the blade pops out. The second one swings out and you duck your head out of the way and it (whoosh) goes long and you just grin through the anger. That's awesome. Then these two are going to fire crossbows at you, Grog. That is going to be a 15?
Travis: Misses.
Matt: And a 23.
Travis: Damn, I was almost Neo, just dodging all sorts of shit.
Matt: Another ten. 13 points of piercing damage.
Travis: Halved to seven?
Matt: Half that to seven, yeah. And then now the three aiming at Trinket. They all have disadvantage, I believe?
Laura: Nothing can shoot through the Wind Wall.
Matt: Nothing can shoot through it at all?
Laura: Arrows can't go through it, it said.
Matt: At all?!
Travis: She said begrudgingly.
Laura: Which fucking sucks.
Marisha: Well, I mean, it's going to save a bear, right? After I punched him with the wind.
Sam: Yeah, and also kill the bear.
Matt: Yeah, they automatically miss. They all three fire through. All bolts just (shhh) get scattered across the room.
Laura: Yeah, it goes straight up to the roof, it says.
Matt: Wind Wall. That's awesome.
Laura: Does the Wind Wall go all the way up to the ceiling, or does it go to a certain height?
Marisha: 15 foot high.
Matt: 50 feet long, 15 feet high. So it doesn't go all the way to the ceiling. In fact, it gets just a little bit past the second floor, so it's about the height of the guys on the second platform. That ends their turn. Vex, you're up.
Laura: Okay. I'm going to tell Trinket to get out of the Wind Wall.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: The Wind Wall gets an attack of opportunity. (laughter)
Laura: Well, he's going to move.
Matt: He goes to the front door.
Laura: And he's going to be very happy to see me come around the corner of that door.
Matt: All right.
Laura: Where I will see a bunch of dudes up high, and I want to try to do Conjure Barrage up and over the Wind Wall and in an arc downward on everybody on the other side of it.
Matt: Interesting. Okay.
Laura: It's like a (whoo, boom).
Travis: A half-pull.
Matt: Yeah, which at this short distance, is not a lot of strength to get the lob.
Laura: I'm a really skilled archer. I'm kind of like Legolas.
Matt: But if you're shooting up this way? The Wind Wall itself only really encompasses the bottom of the foyer, so if you go up the stairs a little bit, you will be able to get these guys here.
Laura: Can I get up there?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: Oh, yeah! Fuck yeah, I'll do it and try to get everybody in that cone. Sorry, guys.
Travis: Nope. Make it rain.
Matt: Yeah, you're going to hit all of them.
Travis: Just go for it. I'm a fan of one-dollar bills.
Liam: I can take it.
Laura: Okay. Wait, I've got to see how this works. I just throw it in the air and it turns into a cone.
Matt: Yep.
Laura: So I don't have to attack?
Matt: They should have a saving throw, I believe, right?
Laura: Yeah, they have a dexterity saving throw.
Matt: Everyone make a dexterity saving throw. Or at least you two.
Liam: Yeah.
Travis: Do I have advantage-- I don't know.
Laura: I'm casting this as a 3rd-level.
Matt: One guy makes the saving throw.
Liam: 25.
Travis: 20.
Matt: You all succeed. One of the villains makes it, and they both make it. Is it half-damage, right?
Laura: What about all those guys up at the top?
Matt: That's what I'm saying. This guy made it, these two didn't.
Laura: What about the other ones?
Matt: Are you doing it from this perspective? These will go through the Wind Wall, so the Wind Wall itself will prevent it from getting to either. This guy will probably be hit, actually.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: He fails. So yeah, these guys are unaffected because the Wind Wall prevents the barrage from that point. So just go ahead and roll damage.
Laura: So I can't get a critical hit on this because I don't have to roll?
Matt: Correct.
Travis: That's good.
Laura: 16, am I right? 16. Okay.
Matt: 16 damage?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: All right, so it's half that for saves, right?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: All right, so eight damage, four damage.
Liam: Oh, uncanny dodge.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Half that. So what did you give me for damage?
Taliesin: You had eight.
Liam: Eight? That's four.
Laura: And then as a bonus action, I'm going to Hunter's Mark. Who looks the strongest?
Travis: Me.
Laura: Not you.
Matt: (laughs) They're all pretty standard. There's one dude over here that appears to be commanding them.
Laura: Yeah, I want to hit him!
Matt: Okay, you Hunter's Mark him. All righty. He is Hunter's Marked. All righty. By the way, the guy that Grog had slammed? The barrage (arrow impact) riddles him with arrows and he falls over and is like (gasps) and crumples to the ground. The last bit of health that he had.
Travis: You took away my playmate!
Matt: Vex, that's the end of your turn. Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: Okay. So I'm going to keep maintaining this Wind Wall and wrap it up around the mist to double-enforce it, and I'm going to scream, "What is this?"
Laura: I don't know!
Matt: All right, and then what are you doing?
Taliesin: "It's a vampire!" I'm putting my gun away, anyway.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Does that count?
Liam: It's a vampire. We just killed him. Sort of.
Matt: Be warned  treading thin ice with metagaming with your DM going forward, but yes. You have now heard it from Percy.
Marisha: I'm not metagaming! I'm legitimately asking whether this counts!
Matt: I know. That's fine. This counts, it's fine. You heard Percy say, "Vampire!"
Taliesin: Vampire!
Laura: Vampire!
Marisha: (weakly) Oh! Great!
Taliesin: What's that charisma score, again? Where is it?
Sam: And we fade to black.
Laura: Drop your fucking Wind Wall so I can hit something!
Marisha: I'll drop the Wind Wall and cast Sunbeam and, eyes flashing, light just (goom), right in the concentrated beam where I have this mist there.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: And stuff.
Marisha: And stuff.
Matt: Okay. Yeah, that will be considered direct sunlight. As you release the Wind Wall, the mist immediately begins to push its way this way out of the room. However, you catch it, your eyes glow, and as you release your hand forward, a blast of pure sun energy shoots forth from your hands. You see it burning the back wall like a big, thick laser, and as the mist tries to escape, you catch up to it, and you hear this faint, echoing, screeching cry as the mist immediately is evaporated on impact. (explosion noise)
Laura: Can we loot the mist?
Travis: (laughs) "Can we loot the mist?"
Matt: You can fill a pocket with ash, if you like.
Travis: Come on, at least some coins falling?
Laura: (ding ding ding) Like Scott Pilgrim? Oh, look! Coins. (laughs)
Marisha: That's my turn.
Matt: All righty.
Sam: Wait, can you use your bonus action to wink at Matt to ask for forgiveness?
Marisha: Why do I have to ask for forgiveness?!
Matt: Percy, you're up.
Marisha: I can use my bonus action to heal somebody, if someone wants it. Actually, how about this? I used my bonus action to ask what the shit was this.
Matt: There you go.
Marisha: Does that make you feel better?
Matt: Sure.
Taliesin: What's the damage on my rapier, again? Was it 1d10 plus--
Matt: 1d8. It's a plus-one rapier, so it's 1d8 plus your dexterity modifier, plus one, so it would be plus seven for you.
Taliesin: Okay. Then in that case, I'm going to bring my Hex up to the very next--
Matt: Right there?
Taliesin: And I'm going to put my gun away, walk up to him, and begin stabbing.
Matt: All right. One, two, three, four, five. At that height you're going to have to leap up onto the second floor to get to him.
Taliesin: Oh, that's right.
Matt: Yeah, so go ahead and make an acrobatics check, if you want.
Taliesin: I'm just going to walk up, not quite that close, but one step back.
Matt: Okay, so there?
Taliesin: Take my next three shots.
Matt: Walk up the stairs. Go for it.
Taliesin: That's 21.
Matt: Hits.
Taliesin: That's 23.
Matt: Hits.
Taliesin: I'm going to stop there in case that kills him.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and roll damage.
Taliesin: Actually, I had to reload anyway.
Matt: So there you go. So your third attack is to reload.
Taliesin: All three was reload, attack, attack.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: So that's 16.
Matt: 16. All righty.
Taliesin: 14.
Matt: (gunshot) He is blasted out of place. You can see there's a gaping hole across where one of his lungs was located, and he (groans) crumples to the ground into a pile.
Taliesin: Okay, I move the mist to the next guy.
Matt: All righty. You use a bonus action to re-curse him, by the way.
Taliesin: I had a bonus action, so I just used it.
Matt: That's right, you do. Technically, you used the bonus action this turn to put it onto him from the last turn.
Taliesin: Did I? You're technically correct, so go ahead.
Matt: You're probably going to do it on your next turn, anyway, so we'll just leave it there. It's fine. But keep that in mind, as this is a new ability.
Liam: (sneezes)
Matt: Gesundheit.
Laura: Bless you.
Marisha: Bless you.
Matt: All right. Vax, you're up.
Liam: Is that fellow who's enveloped in schmutz right next to Grog?
Matt: Yep.
Liam: Yeah, I'm going to stab him. (laughter)
Sam: Your answer for everything.
Liam: First one is not that great. It's a 14.
Matt: 14 misses.
Liam: Second one is a 26.
Matt: You are flanking him, though. You have advantage on the attack.
Liam: Oh, well let's do that again, then. We'll call that a 27 instead.
Matt: That hits.
Liam: And then the second one is now a 20, and the third one is a 26. (shunk, shunk, shunk) Two plus seven is nine for the keen dagger, and then for the life-stealing dagger is a seven, and then back to the keen dagger, that is an 11.
Laura: Don't you get sneak attack damage?
Liam: Oh, right. Yeah, I'll put that in. Thank you.
Matt: I was like, "Where's that? That's the whole point of this."
Sam: All those?! Holy crap.
Liam: Eight, nine, ten, 11, 17, 19.
Matt: (explosion noise)
Laura: Oh, no, Grog!
Marisha: Oh god, you killed Grog!
Matt: Yeah, the daggers cut through his midsection, and you see where the armor plating itself was exposed from the first strike. The last one you just jam up into his torso, taking out any major organs.
Liam: I would also like to boot him over the side as I do this.
Matt: (groans) He falls over (thudding) down the stairs, past you, Percy. You let him tumble by as he slides to a stop at the very bottom of the stairs.
Laura: I put my foot on him to stop him.
Matt: Okay, Vex stops him in place, face-down. There's a smear of his blood across the steps. This once-nice, fine wood is now completely coated in crimson. (laughs) Okay. Grog, you're up.
Travis: Is it me? (stuttering) Is it just a row of guys in front of me?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: I would like to hold my turn. Because if I stand in front of them, nobody can do anything to them.
Sam: You can.
Laura: That's nice of you. You could just go (whoosh) and cross them off.
Marisha: How many's left?
Matt: There are five nervous-looking guards right now.
Marisha: They were trying to haul ass out?
Travis: Nah, I'll hold. Whoever's next can go.
Sam: So polite.
Laura: That is really kind of you, Grog.
Matt: That ends your turn. It is now the guards' turn. They all...
Laura: Run away.
Marisha: They're going to try and flee, aren't they?
Matt: They look to each other, and their one leader goes like, "Men, run!" They all rush and leap off the balcony, try and catch themselves there.
Liam: See those acrobatics checks...
Laura: I want them all to fall, please.
Marisha: Eat it. Make them all eat it.
Matt: Okay. Three of them land fine and begin bolting forward. Two of them fall. One of them (cracking noise) breaks his ankle and falls to the ground going (scream). The other one slams into his hip on the ground and falls prone. These guys are prone. These three continue to move forward to there. They're going for a full dash.
Laura: Does Trinket get an attack of opportunity?
Matt: Against one of them. He can only take one reaction per turn. They all rush out.
Laura: That definitely hits him, though.
Matt: All righty.
Laura: 27.
Matt: 27 hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
Laura: 11.
Matt: 11 points of damage. Across that guy. Okay. Trinket reaches out and strikes across one of the guys, the guy you Hunter's Marked, who takes the claw across the side of his head, and you hear him yell out in pain, (scream) as he makes it out into the rain. Hurt, but not taken down. He continues to run past, and they all dart outside into the rainstorm.
Travis: I'll take my turn now.
Matt: (laughs) Okay, Grog.
Travis: I leap over the banister with my war hammer high and jump down on the guy that's closest to me, bringing it down with a reckless attack and great weapon master.
Matt: Okay, make an athletics check for the jump.
Travis: Okay.
Sam: Oh no, don't fall on your ass.
Travis: Okay, that's true. 13.
Matt: I'll give you advantage on this because you're raging and it's reckless and it's just funnier.
Travis: That's better!
Laura: That's better!
Travis: 24.
Matt: 24, yeah. You leap in the air (whoosh) like slow-motion (whoosh, explosion) down on top. Go ahead and roll three attacks on him.
Travis: Amazing, that's 27. That's 26.
Matt: Roll damage on those.
Travis: Okay, not a problem. Ten, 19, 29 on the first one.
Matt: 29 on the first one? Okay.
Travis: (laughing) And 28 on the second one.
Matt: So as you come down, the hammer blow slams into his torso, his actual metal armor crinks inward, and he goes, (screams) gasping in pain, as you've now jammed his own ribs into his internal organs. As you pull the hammer up with a sludgy, sucking sound you see him look at you with this look of, "No!" and the hammer comes down again. This time on top of his head, which, Gallagher watermelon, just (boosh) across the floor of this. Done, you look over at his friend, who is like, (gasps) trying to back up with his broken ankle. With your third attack, he's within your range.
Laura: Oh god.
Travis: (inarticulate war cry)
Matt: With advantage.
Travis: Oh, I don't need it. That's 27.
Matt: Roll advantage just in case it's a critical.
Travis: Oh, it's the same thing. It's 27.
Matt: Okay, there you go. That hits.
Travis: I know. I haven't critted in forever.
Matt: Even if you don't need the advantage, it's nice to roll a second time in case because there's a chance of a natural 20.
Travis: That's 20, 30.
Matt: 30 points of damage on him. (whack) This one you actually bring down onto his other leg. That leg snaps.
Travis: Is he on his back?
Matt: He's on his back and he's trying to pull away from you.
Travis: Right on the knee.
Matt: Right on the knee? (crack) It snaps underneath and he screams out in pain as the hammer pulls back. You can see where the bone is jutting out. You've actually taken off the lower half of his leg from the sheer bludgeoning force, and he's now bleeding out onto the ground a little bit. Not as much as he would be, because the flame cauterized the impact from the hammer.
Sam: (pained) So detailed.
Matt: He is in a really, really bad place. All righty. Vex, you're up.
Laura: Well, I'm going to-- should I shoot at the guys running away?
Travis: Yes.
Laura: Yeah. Are they close by?
Matt: They're just out the front of the doors.
Laura: I'm going to come down and get in range.
Sam: Don't forget to tell them about Gilmore's Glorious Goods first. (laughter)
Sam: We're supposed to advertise!
Matt: (giggles) Timing is everything.
Laura: I'm going to lightning arrow because everything within ten feet is affected.
Matt: Yeah, that would hit all three. All right, you pull out your arrow. You aim it close. You can see the rain pouring down and they're all running out into the storm. You're like, "Storm, that's interesting." And you release.
Laura: 27? No, that's a lie. 19.
Matt: Against the guy you've Hunter's Marked?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Yeah, that'll hit.
Laura: And then get the rest of them?
Matt: Yep.
Laura: So they have to make a dexterity saving throw.
Matt: Okay. This guy fails. What's the DC on it?
Laura: That's a good question.
Matt: It should be at the top of your spell sheet.
Laura: 15?
Matt: 15? Okay, second guy fails. Guy who's Hunter's Marked does succeed, so he takes half damage on it.
Laura: Okay, I'm hitting him initially, so he takes 2d8. They all take 2d8. 17, 19, plus Hunter's Mark on the first guy. They all take 19, and then the extra guy takes an extra five.
Matt: Okay. The guy that Trinket swiped just screams (pained scream) as you can see the electricity charging through him, and the wet rain that hit him has caused it to even give more--
Laura: I thought Trinket swiped the Hunter's Marked guy, though.
Matt: Did he?
Laura: He did.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: I remember you saying that.
Matt: Then I'll give you that. So the guy who is Hunter's Marked ends up destroyed, the electricity bouncing through his armor. He goes, (moan) and falls to the ground and crumples over. The other two guys get jolted and almost knocked off their feet. They're both looking really, really rough, and they both look at each other (panting) and just keep running with what little strength they have left. You still have a second attack, don't you?
Laura: I do.
Matt: Go for it.
Laura: Okay. Oh, gosh. I'm going to shoot--
Sam: You're going to shoot people in the back.
Laura: No, I'm not going to shoot them in the back. The guy on the ground, he looks like he's in a lot of pain, doesn't he?
Matt: Oh, he's not going anywhere.
Laura: I'm going to put him out of his misery.
Taliesin: We don't want people running to report we're here, though.
Laura: Oh, really? So I should get the guys?
Liam: Get them, yeah!
Taliesin: No witnesses.
Travis: They might be vampires.
Taliesin: They might call vampires.
Laura: Okay. I can't lightning arrow them again, though.
Matt: No, it's a bonus action to cast it.
Laura: So I'll just regular old attack and I can only get one of them.
Liam: I yell out from the top, "Vex, no survivors!"
Laura: All right, all right!
Matt: (zoomf) Next arrow nocked.
Laura: That's a 19 again.
Matt: 19 hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
Laura: Okay. 13.
Matt: 13 points of damage. (zoomf) That guy is, through the back of the head, (zoomf, groan) and just slides through the mud for another two feet.
Laura: And I act like I have another, that I can attack him again. I say, "Stop!"
Matt: Make an intimidation check.
Liam: Come on, girl.
Sam: Come on, girl.
Laura: Natural 20! (cheering)
Travis: It is. It is.
Matt: Watching his friend fall and slide in the mud, he stops where he stands and looks over his shoulder, slowly turning around, shaking.
Laura: And I say, "Get inside now."
Matt: Okay. Next up is Keyleth. Are you going to do anything?
Marisha: Do I kill him or do we keep him?
Sam: You have to make that decision yourself.
Marisha: Is he coming back inside?
Laura: He's standing there now.
Matt: He's currently standing about ten feet outside in the rain, just (shaky breathing).
Marisha: Is that a window I'm up against, behind me?
Matt: Actually, no. There is no window to the front here. It's just a wall.
Marisha: I'm just going to go, "Excuse me. Excuse me, Trinket. Sorry." And I'm going to peek around the door and go (shkoof) and Sunbeam him.
Matt: You're going to Sunbeam?
Marisha: That guy. That scared-shitless guy.
Matt: (laughs) Okay. What level is Sunbeam?
Marisha: It's what I just did.
Matt: What level is Sunbeam?
Marisha: Six.
Matt: How many 6th-level spells per day can you cast?
Marisha: It's a concentration spell.
Matt: Oh, that's right! You can do it for up to a minute. Good call.
Sam: You can do that?
Marisha: It's a concentration spell. I can keep doing it for a minute.
Laura: That's so freaking cool!
Marisha: Yeah, it's pretty dope.
Sam: I can do that, too? I didn't know that. Well, not that spell, but with anything.
Matt: All right, so constitution save on him. (laughs) No. Do damage. 12.
Marisha: 16. That's 23 plus... 30 damage. Radiant damage. (lightning noise)
Matt: As he's standing in the rain, shaking, and looking at his friend, and looking at you, Keyleth steps into frame and goes, (boom). And before he can go, "Wait!" and there's just this scattering of ash that was once was his body. His armor is left intact and just tumbles to the ground in this pile. You see smoke sizzling off the now-heated armor. There's no sign of his physical body anymore, just a smattering of mud that the ash has now mixed with in the rain outside. Melt with prejudice, okay.
Travis: Got one guy left.
Matt: Now as you guys are all gathering around, we'll say from a roleplaying standpoint, as there is no real immediate threat to you; there is one guard left, who has currently one broken ankle and one missing lower half of his left leg, on the ground, looking at you all, hyperventilating and trying to back away, like (panting).
Travis: Time to call the Sandman.
Marisha: Since I'm outside on the threshold of the house, can I see where Scanlan might have lit up the other house yet?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Marisha: 17?
Matt: 17? You can see a little bit of a dark stream in the distance. You can't tell if it's a nearby chimney or if it is the symbol of Scanlan. The rainstorm does make it a little hard to see, at this point, and through the adrenaline pumping in your system, and the fact that you just disintegrated two individuals in a short period of time. You're also wrestling with the morality of that and dealing with what you just did, so your concentration doesn't enable you to notice anything yet.
Marisha: Okay.
Travis: Who's got questions for Peg-Leg over here?
Liam: I do. I hop down off the balcony and walk up by Grog.
Taliesin: I'm going to start exploring the upstairs.
Marisha: I stay standing outside just staring out into the distance, waiting for Scanlan's cue.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: When you see my cue, attack. (laughter)
Marisha: Yeah, I know. Which is what we were technically supposed to do.
Laura: No, we said we were waiting 30 seconds and then going in.
Sam: That was a terrible plan.
Travis: Greatest plan we've ever had. You were amazing.
Laura: You know what? You were amazing, we killed them, it was great.
Travis: I hold my hammer over his other knee and I go, "Look, we can work on you one limb at a time, or you can be very truthful and my friend can end it all very, very quickly."
Matt: (panting) "What do you want?"
Liam: There's no question, this is a bad situation you're in right now. We're not looking for you at all. I'm happy to knock you out and leave you in a closet here and lock it. If you want to help me find the Briarwoods, I really want to know where the Briarwoods are. Not you. Just the people you work for.
Matt: He looks around at the rest of the group, sees you walk up the stairs. (panting) "They're in the bloody castle, where else would they be?"
Travis: In? Or under?
Liam: That's a good question.
Matt: "I don't know. I don't know. They spend equal parts in both, as far as I know."
Laura: I peek around my brother and go, "Isn't there anyone else in the house?"
Matt: "No."
Laura: If you're lying, you'll pay.
Matt: "All of us who were here, we were waiting for you."
Laura: "Got it." I go upstairs with Percy.
Taliesin: That mist is probably following me around at this point, isn't it?
Matt: The black smoke, you mean?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: Oh, yeah. The black smoke is slowly trailing behind you. With each step you take, it licks the back of your boots.
Taliesin: Oh, boy. Okay.
Liam: Is there anything else you can tell me in regards to back doors or secrets that your bosses don't want us to know? I mean, really, this is the time to talk, right now.
Travis: Anything you use to identify each other?
Matt: Go ahead and make an intimidation check. With advantage because he has--
Sam: One leg?
Marisha: One leg?
Matt: He's bleeding out right now. Wait, no, he's not bleeding out. He's bleeding, but it's a trickle because of the cauterization.
Liam: 21.
Matt: 21. He gives you a look and says, "Look. We've all been working for the Briarwoods. They mean well. They have big plans, I know that. I don't know the details of it. They don't tell us. But we're keeping guard on them. We were supposed to stop this insurrection. These people. We rounded up folks. We were given basic descriptions and we hung people against the Sun Tree as a warning. We hoped it wouldn't come to any sort of conflict, that you would take that as a means that you weren't supposed to be here. But then we all saw what happened. What happened to Sir Kerrion and his house, and that meant that you were here and that you meant business, so Tylieri and Vedmeyer, we waited for a signal. And we heard that you were planning an attack, so we set up guards here and prepared, and sure enough, you showed up. Which let us know that our contacts are good, and we thought that would be enough. We didn't realize you'd be walking in with whatever the fuck this thing is. I don't even know what you are." And he looks genuinely frightened at the fact that you, with all of these bolts sticking out of your body, are still grinning above him. "Nothing should have survived that ambush."
Liam: Let's back this up a little bit. You hung people from the Sun Tree?
Matt: "Yeah, as a warning."
Liam: "Where I saw that child?" I slit his throat.
Matt: (extended choking sounds) With a wet gurgle, the life expires from his body, a pool beginning to form on the tile below him.
Travis: Nicely done, Vax.
Liam: Piece of shit.
Laura: So Percy and I are upstairs alone?
Matt: Yes.
Travis: Can I check his body?
Matt: (laughs) You begin rummaging through the body. You're keeping an eye out. Make another perception check.
Laura: I go upstairs, and I get Percy up against a wall. I turn around and slam him against a wall.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: This is sexy.
Marisha: 27.
Laura: And I look him straight in the eye--
Sam: And kiss him.
Laura: And I say, "Are you all right?"
Taliesin: I think so.
Laura: Look me in the eye, Percy.
Taliesin: I feel cruel, but in control. This is controllable, at the moment.
Laura: "All right." I'm insight-checking him.
Matt: Go for it. Roll insight.
Laura: Shit, just shit. Ten.
Matt: Ten?
Marisha: Fuck.
Matt: What's your charisma modifier?
Taliesin: My charisma modifier is two.
Matt: Okay. He's hard to read right now. His focus is divided amongst your intensity and trying to answer your question. The pause in his throat isn't because he's thinking, it's because he grasps the words to describe it, but there is a quiver to it, and you can see his hands are still shaking a little bit. And as you look down at his hands, you can also see the smoke is still slowly swirling his ankle.
Taliesin: I'm fine, for now. I'll let you know. You'll know if I'm not.
Laura: I will.
Taliesin: Yes.
Laura: I follow behind him closely.
Taliesin: Let's keep looking.
Matt: Okay. You start seeing, now, the dark plume of smoke in the distance. Scanlan has apparently and effectively set the signal. You also do notice, as you're looking out, other people have left their homes now--
Marisha: And I cast my Skywrite spell-- ew, I just spit-- and I use the smoke in the distance and as it's rising up into the sky, start drawing out the de Rolo family crest in the smoke.
Matt: Okay. You begin to take the plume of smoke and filter into the dark rain clouds and you make the smoke go to a thicker, thicker black and take the next few moments to begin sculpting in the air until eventually we have a very well-defined de Rolo crest now staring down at the entire city of Whitestone.
Sam: Oh! Something's happening! Something's happening in the sky!
Marisha: That's me.
Sam: I think it's a magic wielder of some sort. Something-- I must flee! (laughter)
Matt: All right. Investigation checks from both of you.
Laura: Okay.
Travis: Did I find anything on Smash-Face?
Liam: (sighs) That's what you rolled the last time.
Laura: I know!
Taliesin: 16.
Laura: I've got to put this one away for a while.
Matt: What did you roll?
Laura: I rolled a nine.
Matt: Okay. The two of you take a while upstairs looking about the rooms. You manage to acquire from just some of the local bits of cabinets and dust, you gather about 230 gold pieces.
Laura: 230?
Matt: Just loose gold pieces that are around. There is a nice jewelry box that seems to contain most of the jewels and gems that this individual likes.
Laura: I'm going to take the whole jewelry box and sort through it later.
Matt: Okay. So say a box of Tylieri's jewelry would be what you've marked down.
Taliesin: Tylieri family jewels. (laughter)
Taliesin: That won't be confusing at all.
Matt: There you go. You do notice, however, that's all you're able to find for the most part, other than some few bits of clothing and outfit. The master bedroom has no bed.
Laura: Does he sleep in a coffin?
Taliesin: We're going to finish searching downstairs and then find the entrance to the--
Matt: Okay.
Liam: I'd like to wind my way up there, as well.
Matt: Okay, as you make your way up there you notice them stepping out.
Liam: Yeah. I'm still curious. I want to go have a look as well.
Matt: Go for it. Investigation.
Laura: That's better, thank you.
Liam: 16.
Matt: 16? You look through the room. Most everything of interest has already been picked clean. This room also doesn't seem to see much use other than the clothing that's in there. This room is used for dressing and presentational purposes but other than that, as a bedroom, it's pretty useless. As you guys go downstairs, we'll say for the sake of brevity you take a little bit of time to start looking through. You know you're a little pressed for time because you can feel the energy in the town begin to rise and you start hearing noises. You keeping an eye out?
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: The people that rush into the rooms are now rushing back out, some of them wearing leather tunics and small bits of armor, their weapons gathered, and they're forming small bands.
Marisha: I come over the speakers once again, the ear pieces. "I think it's time to go. Whenever you guys are ready, I want to light this bitch up."
Travis: We need to check all the rooms that go downstairs first.
Marisha: All right, quick.
Travis: "Got an empty house." I run out to the door to the left. To the uncovered areas.
Matt: Okay. You go over to this hallway. You eventually smash the door, doesn't take too long. It leads into what looks like a small study or some sort of an office room. A big blue rug, a desk with a chair, some papers strewn about.
Travis: Can I grab the rug and yank it?
Matt: Yeah, pull the rug off, reveals a hatch.
Travis: (excited shouting) I found a hatch!
Laura: (cries out in pain) No need to yell!
Travis: Oh sorry. (quieter) I found a hatch.
Taliesin: Quick, I just want to do a quick round of the downstairs room before going to the hatch.
Matt: Okay. Glancing about, you find what looks to be a general sitting area, a music room, or a place where you would host guests. Also in fair disuse. And then beyond that, you find a room that's pretty bland, with a staircase that leads down into what was once servants' quarters that has been converted into a torture room.
Laura: Oh, lovely.
Matt: It's a little nicer in its presentation and tools than the duergar torture room that you encountered in the Underdark, but this looks to be like Tylieri had a definite interest in entertaining unwanted guests.
Taliesin: Okay.
Travis: Vax or Vex, will you come check this hatch for boobies? (laughter)
Liam: I jog on down.
Matt: All right, make a perception check.
Liam: Yeah. That's a 23.
Matt: Yeah, it does not appear to be trapped.
Travis: No boobies.
Liam: Okay. You want to open that, big guy?
Travis: Yeah! (growls)
Matt: (vroom) The hatch comes up. There is no ladder; it's just a ten-foot drop down into a basement.
Travis: Okay, I jump.
Matt: Land down there. A 20 foot by 20 foot room. It's very musty. However, you do see in the far corner there is a pad of fresh earth set up, and there is a dark box.
Travis: Um.
Matt: About eight feet long.
Liam: I hear him say "Um," and I jump down, too. With the Flametongue dagger out for light.
Matt: Okay. The room lights up a little bit and you can see across the way there is a not super-detailed, but a fairly well-crafted coffin on the opposite side of the room.
Travis: Ooh! I bet there's treasure in there!
Liam: You might be right. Yeah, let's go have a look.
Laura: Is there treasure? Did you find treasure?
Liam: "Hold, please." Perception check the coffin. That's a 20.
Matt: Okay. The coffin does not appear to be trapped?
Travis: Can I open it?
Marisha: He said that with a question mark.
Matt: It's always fun to do that.
Travis: Well, should I just smash it?
Liam: I really feel like this could be--
Laura: Smash it!
Travis: Three, two. Grog smashes.
Liam: I kick it off with the end of my foot. Little bit. Or try to.
Matt: Okay. (boof) The lid flies off and then slams on the ground. A smell hits you that's just like musty old mildewed earth. The inside of the coffin is, it's lined with like a fine purplish velvet material, the smell quickly fades. It looks like there are some small baubles in there, keepsakes. There is what looks to be a cape or a cloak that is laid across the bottom of this for comfort.
Liam: Roll it up. Put it into my satchel. I'm going to take a dagger out and I want to cut all the way up through that purple velvet. Just see, just in case.
Matt: Okay. You cut through the purple velvet. Rummage through underneath. It appears to be the back of the box.
Taliesin: I'm going to check his desk upstairs for anything interesting.
Matt: Okay. Want to make an investigation check?
Taliesin: Natural 20.
Matt: As you're rummaging through the notes in the desk, a lot of them are ledgers involving the trade in and out of the city. He has his hands dabbling in elements of the timber trade, elements of the actual trade of whitestone. He talks about the-- and you understand, the reason that Whitestone itself is-- the stone that's mined here is so popular for construction and architecture and other elements is the stone that these mountains are made of, when properly prepared, there is a faint bit of residuum that is naturally ingrained in the rock here. No one really knows how it came about, but whatever it is, while it is not inherently magical, it makes it a little bit easier, faster, and cheaper to enchant the stone. So when it comes to, you know, enchanting a teleportation circle permanently somewhere or for traps or things-- not actual objects but actually enchanting anything made of stonework. It's easier to enchant, and that's why the whitestone of this area is sought after and a good trade element. So there's notes about that. But the stone trade has been halted, all stone has continued to be mined, but it's not being transported.
Travis: Is the desk made out of the stone?
Matt: No, there's just notes about it. So all the whitestone that is being mined is not being exported. It's being kept here, somewhere.
Laura: They're making something big.
Taliesin: They're making something big.
Liam: I think we need to get out of here.
Travis: I was going to ask, are you good with the coffin?
Liam: Yeah.
Travis: Okay. I smash the shit out of it, in an effort to see what's underneath.
Matt: Okay. You take about 30 seconds of extreme violence against the wooden coffin, killing it into chunks and blocks. You get the feeling that this may have been the place the mist was trying to get to. But it did not make its journey. It got scattered by druid Sunbeam and destroyed, and the coffin is left in ruins. You do-- even you, Grog-- absorb the fact that when a vampire goes to mist form, you get the feeling that this is the home it needs to come to, to try and survive.
Travis: Not anymore.
Matt: Not anymore. Not that one.
Marisha: Do I see anyone coming?
Matt: Oh. You see another zombie giant coming up the way. You can see people attacking it, it's just thrashing them about, but this one seems less bothered by the group and is now moving towards a specific area, moving towards the fiery plume in the distance. They're all gathering in that direction.
Marisha: But no one seems to be rushing towards this house?
Matt: Not at the moment, no.
Travis: This one's not on fire. Yet.
Matt: All right, you all gather, you can hear the rainstorm itself is coming down in sheets. What do you want to do?
Travis: Light this candle!
Laura: Should we light this on fire, too?
Taliesin: Burn it to the ground.
Marisha: "Everyone out." And I start casting a Flaming Sphere.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: We're out by now.
Marisha: Everyone out.
Matt: You guys all step out into the rain (whooshes) pouring down. What bits of guard blood that have been pressed against you washes off.
Travis: Aw.
Marisha: I peek in this foyer. And just (boof), right in the middle, and take a minute to move it all around.
Matt: A Flaming Sphere begins to corkscrew around this room, up over the banister, up to the upper area, and like an artist, you paint this entire room with flame until the entire interior of this main foyer is just an inferno. You can hear the flames licking and the light is very bright. You end up backing up and you can see people, unarmored folk in nearby homes that are pressed up against their windows watching this happen and whispering to each other. The children, those that are kept guarded and are not part of this rebellion, they are watching this with smiles.
Marisha: Okay, I think that's good enough. Let's go.
Taliesin: Head back to the curiosity shop.
Laura: Yeah, sneaky, stealthing.
Matt: Okay. As you guys run off into the alley behind--
Laura: Pass Without a Trace I cast on all of us.
Matt: Okay. How many more spells do you have at that level? Because you used it several times today.
Laura: Yeah, I'm fine with Pass Without a Trace. That's a 1st-level. 2nd-level, but I'm fine.
Taliesin: Back to the alcove, then?
Matt: You guys all dart off into the alley under the cover of the shadows of the storm and the rainfall, to head towards the alcove, and we'll go ahead and take a quick break. (cheering)
Matt: A quick break, I know I always say that, I'm not going to say five minutes, but.
Sam: This one's a real quick break.
Matt: We'll take it real quick because we want to try and get through as much of the story before we get to Critmas.
Laura: Critmas!
Liam: Critmas! Crimmas.
Taliesin: Oh dear god.
Travis: It's going to be a thing.
Matt: Which is going to, which is going to take some time tonight. Be back here in a few minutes guys, we'll see you in a sec.
Travis: Pizza! [break]
Matt: Welcome back. So. Jumping back into the chaos, the party has scattered back into the rainstorm. I would like everyone to make a stealth check.
Laura: Oh, right. Plus ten for everybody.
Matt: Plus ten.
Liam: I did all right.
Taliesin: I rolled my disadvantage.
Travis: Does it matter on a one?
Matt: All right.
Travis: Ten?
Matt: Total ten?
Travis: Total ten. 11.
Laura: 11, technically.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: 29.
Liam: 43.
Sam: I'm not there.
Travis: 43?
Matt: Well, you're making your own stealth, though. You're invisible, so just roll twice.
Sam: Natural 20.
Marisha: 28.
Taliesin: 30.
Matt: Okay. So making up for the bounding chaos that is Grog throughout the city, you manage to still make your way largely as a group stealthed to-- are you heading to the alcove, you said?
Taliesin: That's where we had our little crash-base set up, right?
Matt: Correct. All right. You make your way to the alcove. As you're darting through, you can see in the distance small pocketed sounds of yells and the occasional sound of some sort of large-scale crumbling or crashing of wood and stone. Occasionally, darting past the streets, you see militant occupants of Whitestone: armored, rushing through, shouting orders to each other, some coming back wounded and helping their friends back. The midday rebellion has definitely started, and you get the sense that the initial surprise has been effective, but the longer this runs, the longer this wears on, the more and more of a body count this will be.
Travis: Seeing the chaos, can I get the Dust of Tracelessness and start trying to sprinkle it behind us?
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: Guys, we should do something.
Laura: I know, we really should.
Sam: Am I with these guys yet?
Matt: You have not, but you all meet up back at the alcove, communicating over your earpieces. You make your way to the front of the building. The doors are closed and locked.
Liam: The alcove?
Travis: Closed and locked?
Liam: I'll see about that. I'm going to check the door.
Matt: Go for it.
Liam: That is ten. 23.
Matt: Okay. Seems to be a fairly simple lock.
Liam: All right.
Travis: Look for an ambush around. Can we look around?
Laura: Yeah, perceive it?
Travis: Rooftops? Sides of the building?
Matt: Make a perception check, guys.
Marisha: All of us?
Sam: Me too?
Matt: Not you, you haven't gotten there yet.
Liam: 20.
Travis: I actually rolled a 17.
Marisha: 12.
Taliesin: 24.
Laura: 26.
Matt: Okay. Looking about, there doesn't appear to be any set ambush or anybody else here. You do hear the soft sound of pacing footsteps in the interior.
Laura: Should we knock on the door?
Travis: Canvass the building.
Liam: I can get in there and see who that is. I can go in, yeah.
Laura: They're right on the inside.
Liam: I thought it was upstairs, or you said right on the other side of the door?
Laura: Right on the other side of the door.
Marisha: Oh, for crying out loud. I push past them I just go, Jordana! Jordana, it's us!
Matt: Okay, there's a pause and a voice goes, "Who's us?"
Laura: Oh. Crazy grandma!
Marisha: And Vox Machina. (quietly) Does she know we're called that?
Laura: No. I don't know. (louder) Crazy grandma was staying with you. Crazy peasants.
Marisha: Allies.
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Marisha: Son of a-- nine?
Laura: Can I help?
Laura: Crazy grandma!
Marisha: Crazy grandma!
Marisha: Crazy grandma can help!
Matt: I'll say since you're backing her failure up, go ahead and make it with disadvantage.
Marisha: Hey, you don't have to call it-- that sounds so sad when you say it like that.
Laura: 18.
Matt: 18. There's a pause. "Crazy grandma? Come in." You hear the sound of a locking sound and the door opens up ever-so-slightly. A very, very dimly lit interior, there's a small lantern, a hooded lantern across the room. Other than that, you see the shadow of Jordana as she ushers you all in out of the rain.
Laura: So, hey guess what? It's started.
Matt: "Yeah, apparently." She closes the door behind you, looks out the window that has the curtains closed and goes, "Okay. So. It's underway. It's not safe to be here right now."
Laura: No.
Matt: "Did anyone see you come in?"
Laura: No, no.
Matt: "Good. Who are you?"
Laura: "Oh. Well." How about Seeming? This whole time, have we looked like crazy peasants during the battle?
Matt: No.
Travis: No.
Travis: We dropped it.
Laura: We dropped it?
Matt: You dropped Seeming before all of this.
Laura: Okay, just making sure Trinket wasn't a donkey that killed the--
Matt: No.
Taliesin: That would've been intense and awesome.
Matt: That would've been amazing. Donkey eating a vampire head? Aw, man.
Liam: This is hard to believe, but this is crazy grandma.
Laura: "I'm crazy grandma." I do a crazy eye thing just to show her.
Sam: Am I there, Matt?
Matt: You've just now gotten to that point, you see the door closing as you get there.
Sam: Hello. Hi. How'd it go?
Marisha: Good work, by the way! That was awesome! I mean, I saw the fire, I don't know what you did.
Laura: So it went well?
Sam: I set fire to the place, some shit went down, dinosaurs were harmed, but I know you got the smoke signal and used that to attack.
Marisha: The de Rolos have dinosaurs?
Sam: No, it was me. It's all good, though. I caused a ruckus, that's all I was supposed to do.
Travis: That's it, yeah.
Matt: "What is going on?"
Travis: Right.
Taliesin: We may have just started a revolution.
Marisha: Does he look familiar to you?
Liam: You don't recognize us, it's not safe to walk these streets for outsiders, so we were using a little bit of trickery. This is us. We're the same people you were dealing with before.
Travis: Vox Machina.
Laura: We just need to rest.
Matt: "Okay. You can rest here, but how long?"
Laura: Until we're healed, and then we'll go.
Liam: Overnight.
Matt: "All right."
Laura: I feel like we should get word out to somebody, though, because--
Sam: To what? To hold the revolution?
Laura: I feel like everybody's going to die before we even get to the castle!
Marisha: That's the thing. I don't know if this is the time to rest.
Laura: But we don't have any spells.
Marisha: I'm okay. We can maybe make do.
Laura: I can't make do.
Travis: You might be cool, but we're fucked.
Taliesin: How about we stay here until 4 00, 5 00 in the morning--
Marisha: What time is it now?
Matt: Right now, I'd say you're close to three in the afternoon.
Laura: How do we tell the people to like hold off?
Sam: We need to briefly quell the rebellion?
Marisha: We started something. We can't stop it now.
Taliesin: We're going to be indoors. It doesn't matter what time we go to attack the castle.
Sam: Let's spread word. We can spread word. Let's find a few--
Laura: Can we send off a message?
Marisha: We sparked a hope in people. We now have innocent peasants, people who are not fighters--
Sam: Can you Skywrite something like "attack tomorrow" or "hold"?
Laura: What if we all take off in separate directions and we tell all the peasants we find that are fighting the time that we're going to attack?
Travis: Aren't there a bunch of zombie stone giants walking around?
Laura: Well yeah, we'll have to be sneaky about it, but we'll spread the rumors around. I look at Jordana. Joanna?
Matt: Jordana.
Laura: Jordana. And I say, can you get word out to people?
Matt: "To a few, maybe. I don't want to go outside right now."
Laura: I don't blame you, dear.
Taliesin: Let's let her stay. I say we just rest up and we attack tonight.
Travis: Tonight?
Marisha: What if there isn't a town to defend tonight?
Travis: Aren't they stronger then?
Taliesin: It's going to be indoors, anyway.
Sam: First of all, it's raining outside. It's daytime. There's no vampires out there right now, right? They don't like water, do they?
Laura: No, they don't like running water, in fact they hate running water! I didn't think about that.
Marisha: It's a lot of running water, though. I think they're all right with rain.
Travis: Yeah, they said a river is what the... right?
Sam: I'm sure they don't like it. In any case, the only thing that our rebels are rebelling against right now are six zombie giants, one of whom I'm pretty sure they killed already. Did I see them?
Matt: Best you could see, that group was doing pretty well and was hacking it down. Lost a few of their number in the process.
Marisha: Did we ever get a count of how many zombie giants there were?
Sam: There were six.
Matt: There were six that you saw while you were doing your overall flight.
Laura: What, so we go out and fight zombie giants?
Sam: No, but maybe we could--
Marisha: Why not? We are the most capable people in this town right now.
Laura: Well. We could go fight zombie giants and then tell everybody to wait.
Travis: Nah, it's going to fuck us. We've got to rest.
Marisha: Why don't we take a short rest, heal up a bit, get back out there, take down some giants. What do you guys say?
Sam: I admire this fire in your eyes, but it's so stupid.
Laura: What if we run out and tell people to stop fucking fighting and wait until tomorrow?
Liam: They won't. The giants are going to keep smashing them.
Sam: What time did he say it was?
Taliesin: It's about three. We could just do a round of the front courtyard and see what's going on.
Laura: Fuck! Fine.
Taliesin: Try and sleep through the night.
Laura: All right. We fight until we absolutely can't fight anymore.
Travis: What about the people who absolutely need a short rest at the minimum stay.
Liam: We stay for an hour.
Taliesin: We're short-resting right now.
Liam: Rest for an hour.
Marisha: This is going to go on for a while, but the longer we wait indoors, the more people are going to die, and if we're killing people to try and save the masses-- which is how I'm justifying this whole thing, by the way-- I feel like we can't leave the masses to their own devices.
Sam: Wait a second, what about that, what about that cleric, the religious man that you've talked to. Could he get a message out to everybody? What's his name?
Laura: At this point, though, it's chaos.
Travis: Yeah.
Marisha: We literally lit the fire and we can't stop it now.
Sam: Archibald? Is that his name?
Travis: Yeah, they're standing up for themselves.
Taliesin: We also, somebody-- there's the point that somebody is informing on us.
Marisha: Someone is informing on us.
Sam: What are you talking about, why?
Taliesin: They were ready for us. They knew we were coming.
Sam: Of course they knew we were coming, we killed one of their--
Laura: They said there was an informant. They said that there was an informant when we were there.
Travis: Who did?
Laura: That guard. He said our contacts were right. Our informant was correct. Somebody is informing on us. It could be you.
Liam: I insight-check this woman.
Matt: Go ahead and roll insight.
Liam: 14.
Laura: Can I say it? Because I just said, "It could be you." Can I do the same thing?
Matt: Sure, go ahead.
Laura: All right. That's terrible. Okay. So.
Sam: What do you want to know?
Matt: Best that you can tell, she just looks genuinely scared and is uncomfortable with your presence right now but is letting it happen. She's still getting over the fact that you guys look entirely different than when you first talked to her about staying here.
Laura: Well, short rest and then we head out? We do some attacks and--
Liam: I've never fought a zombie giant before.
Laura: No, but everybody else is doing it. Those peasants are doing it.
Liam: That's what I'm saying. Let's see what we're up against. Let's take a breather and let's go pick one off.
Marisha: Jordana, do you have any books here on zombie giants?
Matt: "For the most part, necromancy is not studied in this town. At least, we never had to deal with it until recently, and we haven't had the opportunity to really study since."
Marisha: Well, I mean, zombie combined with giants. We've fought zombies and we've fought giants, so I'm assuming it with a vague--
Travis: What?
Laura: We keep our distance.
Taliesin: How long does it take to recharge Hex, by the way?
Matt: You need a long rest.
Travis: How many Sunbeam hadoukens do you have left, Keyleth?
Marisha: How many hadoukens? As in Sunbeams? I'm done on Sunbeams.
Sam: We need to rest.
Travis: If we get a short rest, how many do you get?
Marisha: I'm done. None.
Laura: We need a long rest to get spells.
Marisha: However, if I short rest, I actually haven't burnt any of my animal forms here recently and I can water elemental up, which would also permanently kill them. So I have other defenses that could still take down vampires if we encounter another one. I'm more concerned about these giants right now.
Travis: That's what I'm talking about. They're vampires.
Marisha: No, they're zombies. They're undead.
Laura: They're zombies.
Liam: They're undead.
Travis: Those are two different things, huh?
Matt: They are two very different things.
Travis: Grog learns. (laughter)
Matt: All right. So what's the plan?
Laura: We short rest and get back out.
Liam: We take a short rest and then exterminate.
Sam: Wait, join the rebellion or ride around town telling everyone, "quell?"
Marisha: We're taking down these damn giants. These giants are killing people left and right; we watched them crush people on our way here.
Taliesin: We tell them that they take cover during the night.
Travis: I'm going to roll four hit dice.
Matt: Yeah, you guys go ahead, use your hit dice to heal up while you're taking your short rest for those who've taken damage.
Laura: Oh, Trinket. Can you heal Trinket?
Marisha: I can.
Laura: Heal him so much. Does Trinket get... oh, he does get hit dice.
Matt: Trinket technically does not. Trinket requires--
Laura: It says he does. It's written down.
Matt: Hit dice?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: Also, another strange question  what creates initiative? Initiative is your dexterity modifier?
Matt: Correct.
Taliesin: So with me, it's my dexterity modifier. Plus two.
Matt: Correct.
Taliesin: I'm also currently wearing a Headband of Initiative, which I'd forgotten about.
Matt: Which...?
Taliesin: Gives me plus two to my initiative.
Matt: Correct.
Taliesin: Oh, dear god almighty. Okay. Thank you.
Matt: Percy, Percy, Percy.
Taliesin: I don't mean to be doing this.
Matt: No, it's great. Just glad you didn't take the Alertness feat. Then things would have gotten stupid.
Laura: Are you healing Trinket?
Marisha: How much more does he need?
Laura: He's at 36. He needs 24 more.
Taliesin: Actually, I'm going to be using the Hat of Disguise just because it's probably safe. Does anybody want a Headband of Initiative?
Laura: Yeah. Do you not need it?
Taliesin: I can't wear two things on my head.
Laura: I don't have anything on my head.
Taliesin: So you've got plus two to your initiative, and I'm losing plus two to my initiative. It's called a Headband of Initiative.
Marisha: You already have an eight to your initiative.
Liam: It's very mystical.
Travis: How much time do we have before the sun that is being blocked by the rainclouds goes down?
Matt: Well, you guys are taking a short rest, about 30 minutes to an hour, so you have about two and a half, three hours before it goes down entirely.
Taliesin: That should give us enough time to do a quick tour. We already know their walking route, and I'm sure that the people are putting up a fight.
Marisha: I'm going to give him a level two Cure Wounds.
Laura: Okay.
Marisha: So do 2d8 plus ten.
Laura: Me?
Marisha: Sure. Me or you. Whoever feels more comfortable.
Laura: I'll do it. It was good.
Matt: During this rest, if you wanted to spend some time with that cape--
Liam: I do. I'm going to sniff it and shake it out.
Matt: For the most part, it doesn't appear to be enchanted.
Sam: No, I can sing a Song of Rest for all of us.
Marisha: Oh, yeah. Do that.
Laura: Oh, yeah. Do that.
Sam: It gives us all 1d6. That's pretty weak.
Marisha: No, but that's...
Laura: No, it's fine. He's got extra hit points; don't worry about it.
Marisha: Well, Song of Rest just happens, right? Do you get that for free? You might as well, if you don't burn anything.
Sam: Okay. (sings) Health! We need some now. Health! Not just anybody. Health! You know you need someone.
All: (sings) Health!
Matt: That's not trademarked at all. I love it. All right, so you guys have rested up. Through the rest, you occasionally hear voices run by, yelling. As you guys get toward the end of your rest, you hear the (stomping) large heavy footfalls heading nearby. (groaning, crash) A loud, heavy impact, and you hear some short cheers outside.
Travis: Yes!
Laura: Yay!
Sam: Oh, he died. That's two down. Splash two.
Travis: Right out front, we hear it?
Matt: Out front, a little ways off. Not immediately.
Sam: Do we have horses? We don't have any horses, do we?
Laura: No.
Liam: They died.
Matt: Yeah, they got eaten by harpies.
Travis: Should we go outside and see how they're doing?
Taliesin: Yeah, let's check it out.
Travis: We go out front.
Liam: Time to kill some giant undead.
Matt: Okay. Jordana lets you guys out, locks behind her.
Marisha: Do we want to split up?
Taliesin: No, let's keep together.
Laura: Actually, before we go, I ask, do you have any holy symbols at all in here?
Matt: "I'm sorry, no."
Laura: Nothing?
Matt: "No. All those were kept in either of the two temples here."
Laura: Do you have anything magic that could help me?
Matt: "I already gave you everything of magic that I had here."
Laura: Oh, right. I forgot we took it.
Matt: "Sorry."
Laura: Shit. All right, thank you.
Travis: Once we're outside, how far away is that giant that was felled?
Matt: As you step outside and look, it's about 60 feet off, near one of the big crossroads near this area. And a zombie giant has been completely felled down, and there are three people now that are currently in the process of hacking its head off just to make sure. It's a group of about seven people that live here. They're all looking pretty messed up, but they're all eager and adrenaline-driven, they're all hacking away, then stopping and taking a breath (breathes heavily). You hear in the distance, (thunder crack) bolt of lightning coming down from the storm, and as it echoes, everyone shakes for a second, look at each other, (cheers) give a cheer of victory. They all hop off the body of the zombie giant and begin darting further in towards the center of the city.
Marisha: I look up. Is my de Rolo symbol still in the sky?
Matt: It's there. It's dissipating slowly, but it's still there. It's moved a little bit off-axis with the storm.
Travis: So that's it for the big houses, right? Just the castle.
Taliesin: Just the castle.
Sam: Except we haven't killed the members of one of the houses. By the way, my Song of Rest is a d8.
Laura: Awesome.
Sam: But we haven't killed the last one. Now, the one that you guys killed. What's his name again, Tylieri?
Matt: Tylieri.
Sam: He was a vampire.
All: Yes.
Sam: Because Sylas killed him. Right?
Taliesin: Yes.
Sam: And then made him a vampire.
Taliesin: One would assume.
Sam: Didn't he hang him on the Sun Tree?
Laura: What? No. What? What are you talking about?
Sam: I don't know. Didn't that guy that we meet...
Matt: You do recall, actually, when you were interrogating the driver of the Briarwoods. Tylieri was the master of the driver Desmond, who beat him and subjugated him to various forms of torture and abuse before Lord Briarwood took Desmond and, to try and show extension of faith, revealed to Desmond Tylieri hanging from the Sun Tree. That was true.
Travis: Wow.
Sam: And then he became a vampire. Is that where they're spawning?
Laura: No. Maybe he was already a vampire and he hung him from the tree just to show--
Sam: That doesn't seem right.
Taliesin: Let's head to the Sun Tree, why don't we?
Laura: Let's head that direction.
Travis: Let's go.
Marisha: Something to us about how when people die in this town. The guy you talked to at the bar?
Sam: Yes, we talked to a guy at the bar. What about him?
Marisha: He said when people die here they don't die.
Sam: Well, yes, we know that, yes.
Laura: They come back.
Liam: They could be-- yes, that could apply, too.
Marisha: I think this whole damn town-- I think the whole land is cursed. Is what I think.
Travis: I think that's--
Laura: Probably pretty fair.
Travis: Should we go to the tree?
Laura: Sure.
Marisha: Why?
Taliesin: Just to see--
Laura: We'll make our way through the town and look for giants as we make our way to the tree.
Marisha: Let's look for giants. Let's go giant-hunting.
Matt: Okay. All right, so from the Alcove, you guys head in a southwestern motion, keeping off the main paths best you can. The main chaos seems to have died down a little bit in this area of the town. You come across another body of a zombie giant, surrounded by what looks like eight bodies of civilians of the town.
Laura: Are they all dead, or are they injured?
Matt: No, they are all very dead. Two of which are torn in half and just tossed to different sides, one appears to be half-eaten, and the rest are just smashed. But whatever troop was with them managed to take the zombie giant down. Eventually, you make your way to the center of the town square where the Sun Tree is and there is, across the way on the opposite side, what appears to be, in mid-struggle, one zombie giant that has a series of spears or javelins sticking out of its torso. It's currently swatting at a group of individuals that have torches in the rain, still trying to get up towards it and push it backward. The Sun Tree, at a glance-- roll a perception check.
Marisha: All of us?
Matt: Yes.
Taliesin: One. There's a tree!
Sam: Four.
Marisha: I rolled a 19, so 29?
Matt: Okay.
Liam: 23.
Laura: If my passive perception's higher than my roll--
Matt: Active perception and passive perception-- passive is more something to keep track when you're not actively perceiving. So. Grog?
Travis: Seven.
Matt: Okay. Keyleth, you pick this out in the rain, and it's hard to see, but from this angle, you see what looks to be eight ropes, currently, just dangling free from the Sun Tree.
Taliesin: Damn it.
Laura: Shit.
Sam: The tree is the spawning spot.
Laura: Really?
Sam: Or maybe one of them.
Travis: Or maybe they cut them down.
Sam: We've got to cut down this tree.
Laura: Does it look like the ropes have been cut?
Matt: You can go closer to inspect it if you want.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: You're hearing in the distance the (roars) the battle's still raging about 65, 70 feet from you. You get up behind the tree and you take the ropes and inspect it. All the ropes are very finely cut.
Laura: Oh. They were cut. They cut them down.
Travis: They cut their dead down.
Marisha: Okay, so the nooses are gone.
Matt: Yeah. And you do see, there are a number. This close, you can see there are loops of rope all over the tree: some very old and weathered and aged, some of them are torn, some of them are cut, but the fresh ones that are the longest currently and that are placed closest to where the bodies were originally there are all very cleanly cut.
Laura: Can we spin around and look and see if there's anything around that looks like-- or look at tracking and see if it looks like somebody cut them down or if they fell on their own?
Matt: You glance around real fast and you can see to the south there is still the battle raging between the zombie giant and the crew of individuals, but you look back where you guys were from, and you see a large series of shapes stepping through the rain, coming from the direction you guys were.
Liam: I think they cut them down just like Tylieri. I think that this is where they hang them to ripen, and then when they're ready they pluck them off the tree and set them on their way.
Matt: As you're having this conversation, you, keeping your eyes forward as he's saying this in your ear, you can see, as the light of the town is slowly beginning to vanish into a sunset--
Marisha: Is it still raining?
Matt: It is still raining. You see ahead of you, coming from the central roadway into the square of the town, what you can only surmise to be anywhere from 30 to 50 armored skeletal entities that are pouring from the north.
Marisha: Okay. I climb the Sun Tree.
Sam: Wait, what? We've got to get out of here!
Marisha: I'm climbing the Sun Tree.
Matt: Climbing the Sun Tree. All right. You guys see Keyleth scurry up the Sun Tree.
Sam: I blow my Horn of Fog to create a smokescreen. I don't know what the fuck she's doing.
Matt: Okay. (foghorn sound) The slow horn-blow comes out, and this fog begins to fill the area between this marching skeletal army and the Sun Tree where you guys currently are. Looking over your shoulder, you can see the zombie giant finishes smashing the last individual in that crew, picks it up and jams it into its jagged giant teeth.
Marisha: So there's a big army coming down, filtering down a street.
Matt: Down the street towards you.
Marisha: How far away?
Matt: You can't tell now. There's just fog along the way.
Marisha: I can't tell how far away they are right now?
Matt: No, you can't see them.
Marisha: I can't see them?
Matt: No, because Scanlan just created a whole bunch of fog between the two of you. The moment you saw, they may be about a hundred or so feet from you.
Liam: Keyleth, tell us what you're thinking, because the rest of us are taking this time to go.
Travis: You engage, they'll follow, we go, we fight another day, we sleep in the rafters and wait until daybreak.
Liam: Who are you?
Marisha: I might be able to do something.
Laura: What is it? Say it!
Marisha: I can do a big ice storm or do something to take all these fuckers out at once.
Travis: All 30 to 50 of them? Kill them all?
Marisha: It's a big range.
Liam: No. Keyleth, we've got to go.
Taliesin: I say we let her hit them, and we run.
Marisha: Scanlan, can you drop the fog just a bit?
Sam: Nope, not by magic.
Matt: He can't control it.
Laura: It's on the ground. You can probably see above it. Fog is low.
Matt: Well, the fog this creates is a magical fog that obscures an entire area. If you climbed to the very top of the tree, you might be able to get a little bit of a visual.
Marisha: All right, I'm going to climb as high as I can.
Matt: Okay, make an athletics check.
Laura: I'm going to climb up after her.
Sam: Oh my god.
Marisha: 11. Acrobatics or athletics?
Matt: Athletics.
Marisha: Oh, that's better. 15.
Matt: 15. Okay. You make your way up to the very precarious top of the branches. You can feel the brittleness of it as the tree itself, its life force is withered over time and some of it cracks and some of the actual bark of the tree twists off in your grip as you get to the very top. You can look just over the bank of fog that Scanlan has created and you can see beyond that. The number of undead from this angle, what was initially like 30 probably pushes closer to about a hundred.
Marisha: Okay. And they're like a hundred feet away?
Matt: Starting about a hundred feet away, slowly marching towards you.
Marisha: Right where they are, I'm going to start a little ahead of where they originate, I'm going to start making an ice storm. I'm pushing all the way back to where-- just right down these fuckers.
Liam: I'm also just trying to stay underneath her as best I can.
Laura: Stop looking up her skirt, brother.
Liam: Is she in a skirt?
Sam: She's been wearing a dress this whole time?
Liam: I thought she was covered in leaves.
Taliesin: Stop looking up her fig leaf.
Matt: All right. What's the damage on that? Is it 2d8 bludgeoning and 2d8--
Marisha: They take 2d8 bludgeoning damage and 4d6 cold damage.
Matt: Okay, go ahead and roll for both. And it's a save for half, right?
Taliesin: Inspiration?
Sam: Oh. Well. I didn't do it.
Marisha: 2d8 bludgeoning, that's seven bludgeoning... 4d6. Not great at all. Four, five, six, seven, eight.
Matt: Total of eight. Eight plus... what was the other one?
Marisha: Seven.
Matt: Seven, okay.
Marisha: And it's difficult terrain.
Matt: Okay. So the first area. Suddenly you see some of the clouds above you begin to funnel downward, and a few bolts of electricity (crackle) through it. As the funnel hits, it grows dark, and then all of a sudden this cold wind begins to swirl around it. And with that, the cloud almost seems to tear open within itself and a sheet of jagged ice and sleet begins to pour downward into the center of this undead horde. As it does, you can see probably a good 25, 30 of these are just blown apart, bone shards scattered around and you can see bits of rusted metal weapons and armor thrown left and right. The ice then coalesces over the floor of this area and some of the skeletons just slip, but they keep marching forward. It definitely took a chunk, but as it continues pushing forward--
Marisha: Now we can run.
Laura: Good job. I grab the back of her shirt and yank her towards me.
Matt: You guys make your way down the tree. As you get to the bottom of the tree, the zombie giant has taken notice of the sudden flashing of light and the movement in the tree and is bounding towards the tree after you guys.
Laura: Are we running?
Travis: Are we going to the Alcove or going to the treeline?
Taliesin: I say we go to the treeline, and I say that you take a couple shots as we're heading--
Laura: I'm definitely doing that, yes. I'm going to shoot at the giant as we're running. Hunter's Mark him.
Matt: Okay, you Hunter's Mark, turning around, looking at the giant.
Marisha: As she says that, I'm going to go ahead and start casting my Call Lightning spell.
Matt: Okay. So you land and you cast Call Lightning. The fog that you created, Scanlan?
Sam: Yes.
Matt: Has formed up. You start seeing shapes; these terrifying skeletal faces begin to appear through the fog as the rest of the army begins to push through. The clouds coalescing above Keyleth as you get your Call Lightning ready, you marking the zombie giant, you guys begin bolting out of the way. Trinket comes running up behind you, Vex, and picks you up onto his back, and you guys begin rushing off toward the treeline-- to the west or the east?
Laura: Can I shoot him?
Marisha: Yeah, as I turn around, I Call Lightning on the giant.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and roll damage on that.
Marisha: And it's cloudy, so I get how much more?
Matt: I don't know, how much do you get more on that? Call Lightning would be...
Sam: While you decide, which way are we going, Percy? West or east?
Matt: 3d10. It does an additional d10. It does 4d10.
Laura: And I'm going to shoot him through my Longbow of the Sky Sentinel as we're going away, too.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: So the passage to the castle I'm aware of is to the west, and then the one that Stonefell mentioned is to the east?
Travis: Do we go to the treeline by the castle?
Matt: No, the one Stonefell mentioned was the same.
Taliesin: Was the same?
Matt: It wasn't Stonefell, it was Vouk.
Taliesin: Yeah, thank you.
Matt: But yeah. He was referring to the same one.
Taliesin: Treeline to the west so that we can attack first thing.
Laura: 22. Twice.
Matt: 22 hits.
Laura: And then three on the last one.
Matt: Okay, yeah.
Laura: Well, it's technically 14 on the last one.
Matt: For him? Still hits.
Laura: Oh, sweet!
Matt: It's a big target. Big target, lot of hit points.
Marisha: And as she's brewing up her bow, I'm behind her and just bring down the bolt for 32 damage.
Matt: Damn. (lightning sound) You can see the bolt strikes the front of the zombie giant right as it starts swinging after you guys. The bolt hits its shoulder and blasts a chunk of its shoulder blade off. You see bone shards fire behind, and there's a giant piece of its torso now missing where the bolt hit. (groans) Stumbles back onto its back foot and catches itself, almost toppling over.
Marisha: Just start backing up. "Vex?"
Matt: It starts lumbering forward again as Vex releases her arrow, which splits into three.
Marisha: Vex?
Laura: 54 points of damage.
Marisha: Kill it!
Matt: Nice! (impact sounds) All the arrows blasting into its body, you can see they sink in and burst on the inside. There's a little, a dull glow as this burst of electrical energy hits from underneath its sickly zombified flesh. At which point, there's a slight delay before it (explosion sound) bubbles forth and a bit of its internal liquid just spews out like a boil. You can see it's definitely taking damage, and it keeps pushing forward. Yeah, it's still moving towards you guys.
Liam: How far away is it?
Taliesin: For gods' sakes!
Matt: It's about ten feet from you guys right now.
Taliesin: I pull out Bad News. I'm shooting it with Bad News, and I'm going for an aimed shot to the legs.
Matt: Okay. The moment it would take for you to stop and pull out Bad News, by the way, the moment you guys are turning around to attack it, it has gotten within range to hit, so this is all happening simultaneously, so it's going to get two strikes as you guys get your attacks, as well.
Marisha: What are you doing?
Matt: So. Go ahead and roll your attack.
Liam: I did.
Matt: What did you get?
Liam: 27 and an 18.
Matt: Both hit.
Taliesin: I got 28.
Matt: Okay. And against Percy, that is a 17 and a 20.
Taliesin: 17 misses. The 20 hits.
Matt: Okay. You take 16 points of bludgeoning damage as its fist comes down and (whack) slams into your side just as Bad News fires off and your daggers go (dagger sounds) towards it.
Liam: Keen Dagger, Flametongue, combined 20 hit points.
Matt: Okay. Good to know.
Marisha: And as soon as I'm able, I'm backing up and bringing down another lightning bolt.
Laura: Well, I've got another attack. That was just one attack that I did.
Marisha: Oh yeah.
Sam: You need your spells. We need to hide. We need to run.
Marisha: It's okay, this is a concentration spell. I can keep doing it. I'm not blowing spells on it.
Taliesin: 22 points of damage, plus he's knocked prone.
Matt: Okay. Easy enough. Through the daggers--
Taliesin: Oh, he can make a con saving throw, though.
Matt: It doesn't matter. It still manages to keep its zombie form, though it seems like every single hit you're taking chunks off its body, but it continues to push through the damage until eventually it swings at you with the hit, Bad News goes off as it blasts through the center of its torso and takes out the back of its spine. It can't keep its physical form together, and as its body lunges forward, you throw both of your daggers, which go (thoonk thoonk) into each of its eyes. It falls forward. The torso seems to roll on impact and come after you like a slow-moving boulder for a few feet, but since you're all moving forward, you manage to outrun it, just barely keeping out of the way. The legs walk on their own for two more steps before it just falls forward into the mud, relieving all its intestines into the rain-soaked ground.
Sam: Let's get out of here!
Marisha: Go, go, go. Run!
Laura: Pass Without a Trace!
Travis: Aggressive flower girl.
Marisha: Do I see any other-- as we're running through--
Laura: Just run, Keyleth!
Liam: I grab Keyleth by the arm and I just pull and run.
Matt: You guys go running back and as you're looking over your shoulder you can see the skeletal army swarming the center of the square and pouring into the streets. It seems that the Briarwoods had their own reserve anti-riot campaign at the ready.
Laura: Oh, are they going to take out everybody?
Marisha: We can't go, we can't go!
Sam: We have to go. We have nothing left.
Matt: And with that, we're going to conclude tonight's session. (groaning)
Matt: We'll be returning next week on that note.
Travis: (laughs) You son of a bitch, I love it.
Matt: All right, so we're going to take a little break here while we set up for Critmas. Quick one, very quick, we'll be back here in just a few minutes, for those who want to hang in and watch how ridiculously amazing this community is.
Laura: Oh my gosh. There's like, there's a lot.
Marisha: Yeah, you guys are crazy.
Liam: Buckle up!
Matt: All right, quick break. See you in a second.

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Sound: [no audio]
Liam: I said a bad word. I got the soap.
Matt: That's called karma. First and foremost, we're going to get through our announcements for the evening so we can hop into the game. First off, tonight's awesome sponsor returning to us is Backblaze.
Sam: Yeah, are we good, guys? Are we good? What's going on over there? There's lots of people pulling out their hair.
Offscreen: I think we're having sound issues.
Matt: Okay. Hold on just a second.
Sam: A lot of people doing this. (panicked sounds)
Travis: Out of sync, is what they're saying.
Offscreen: All right, Twitch has sound.
Sam: Twitch has sound? We're good to go?
Matt: All righty. So Sam.
Sam: Hi. You know, Backblaze is one of our top two favorite sponsors. (laughter)
Sam: We love them to death. They love us. They are Critters. In fact, coming up later, you should tune in to the break to see their newest ad. It's made for Critters by a Critter. Backblaze is unlimited cloud backup for Macs and PCs for just five dollars a month. I actually use it. All my shit's backed up. Tonight, I prepared a word game for all of you to compete. You have to buzz in. You have to give me the answer. I can give you two clues, like two words, and you buzz in and tell me what the words are. Here's a hint. Here's a clue: all the answers are the same. Okay, so like, for instance, if I were to say, the rear part of your chest and what a fire does--
Laura: Backblaze.
Sam: Backblaze, that's right. One point for Laura. Okay. Here the game begins. The opposite color of white, and the topmost part of a helicopter.
Travis: Black blades! (laughter)
Sam: Classical composer Johann Sebastian, and a hairstyle made popular by Pippi Longstocking.
Laura: Bach braids!
Sam: Laura Bailey. Two points.
Marisha: Is there a buzzer system?
Sam: You just have to say it. Pages of paper bound together and a climbing or rappel technique.
Travis: Binder rappel!
Laura: Brad! No.
Travis: Book rappel. Book belay. Book belay! (laughs) I'm the smartest man alive!
Sam: Is it two-to-two right now?
Laura: I thought pages binded together. I was going to say brad.
Sam: Okay, this is not a real game. I invented this on the drive over! Okay, one more. You know what? You guys aren't playing anymore. This is between Laura and Travis. You know what? I'm going to do two more, just because I love them. Popular Ben Folds Five song, and the abrasive sound a donkey makes.
Liam: Brick bray!
Sam: Brick bray, yes! One more. One more. To get stoned and to get stoned. It's bake blaze. Anyway, Bakeblaze is an unlimited cloud backup for Macs and PCs. It can backup fanart, fanfic, music, photos, videos, drawings, documents, all of your data. You can restore by mail. If you crash, they'll send you a hard drive. It's amazing. Go to backblaze.com/criticalrole. (cheering)
Matt: Thank you, Bakeblaze, for your sponsorship. All right. Let me get through the next few announcements really quick, then. You guys got to see a video before this that Geek and Sundry put together. It was a fun weekend shoot to talk about the game Masquerada. I talked about it in previous episodes, but it's an awesome PC RPG. I am so in love with the process of us putting this together. It's a great story, fantastic cast, incredible writing, and very much hearkens to the isometric, Baldur's Gate, Planescape Torment-style RPG format of the early 2000s. I highly recommend it. You should check it out. I think it's in Steam now, and hope you like it. Next up, my first episode of the new GM Tips series is out today. It goes a little behind my screen, and gives some ideas as to how you can set up your own GM circumstance and experience. Mind you, most of it's just fluff. You don't need any of that to run a game. You can just have books, dice, paper, and pens, and you're good to go. But these are just suggestions and an example of the things that I do to run my game smoothly, and you should check it out if you'd like it. New episodes will be coming out every Wednesday on Alpha, I suppose, and then on Thursdays coming out on YouTube and the website proper.
Travis: Is it pronounced GM tips, or gmmm tips?
Matt: Gmmm tips. They are now. It is now Matthew Mercer's Gmmm Tips. Thank you, Travis. Disadvantage. (laughter)
Matt: So check that out. Also, my last announcement for me. There's a project up on Kickstarter right now called Open Legend RPG. It's a cool new RPG system. Both myself and Ed Greenwood, the creator of Faerun and the Forgotten Realms, are contributing to this project. It looks pretty cool, people involved are really nice, and go ahead and check it out, see if it's your jam. And if it is, you should go ahead and help support it, so check it out. It's Open Legend RPG. That's all my announcements. Does anybody else have anything they want to talk about?
Laura: What about our Halloween costume competition?
Sam: Oh, yeah!
Laura: I've been seeing some of them. It's Critical Costumes, is the hashtag, right?
Sam: #CriticalCostumes. You explained the competition?
Laura: Yeah. Next week, I think, is where we're stopping. Halloween will be the last day?
Marisha: On Halloween.
Laura: Halloween's the last day to submit, and then we're all just going to look at all your costumes and just decide who we like.
Marisha: I will say I had a cat dress up as my character, so the bar is pretty high.
Laura: I saw a really amazing Vex today. I'm just saying, I may be biased.
Sam: So just to be clear, the winners are not going to be announced next week. It's the week after.
Matt: No, the week after. The first Thursday of November, we'll be announcing the winners.
Sam: We don't know what the prizes are. But it will include my shirts.
Liam: Your sweaty shirts.
Laura: But not that shirt.
Sam: Yeah, this is my shirt. Forever.
Matt: One of these days, you're going to wake up, put a shirt on, and the universe is going to fold in on you. I'm excited. All righty. Anything else? All right, then. That being the case, let's go ahead and dive down into tonight's episode of Critical Role. [dramatic music]
Marisha: --balanced breakfast!
Matt: Welcome back, everyone. I just physically ordered the other torch, so that'll be fixed soon. Because sometimes you just got to do it yourself. Anyway, welcome back. So to continue from where we left off for tonight's episode of Critical Role, Vox Machina, our heroic players and characters, in fighting their way across the land of Tal'Dorei against the Chrome Conclave, a gathering of ancient chromatic dragons that have torn the current civilization asunder. They've gathered a number of artifacts of old called the Vestiges of Divergence and recently made allies with one of these dragons, Raishan, the green dragon of the conclave, apparently interested in revolting against the conclave's leader, Thordak the Cinder King. A tentative alliance has been forged and to prove both the stalwartness of that alliance, as well as to further your agenda against the conclave, you all traveled back to Wildemount, to the ruins of Draconia. With the help of the Ravenites you set a trap for Vorugal, the Frigid Doom. You summoned, using your single Gate scroll, from the Abyss, Yenk the Goristro, a great, powerful siege demon and caused it to battle with the white dragon. Partway through, the encounter got more intense, you all rushed into the fray. Got the crap kicked out of you in a lot of cases but when all was said and done, with the aid of Raishan, you felled Vorugal. The final shot being landed by Vex'ahlia herself.
Laura: Thank you.
Matt: You guys have now taken a moment. You've discussed with Raishan to meet back in Whitestone, after which she reverted form and vanished. And you've now begun to collect your spoils and gather what you can from the battlefield at this moment. So that's where we pick up this week. What would you like to do?
Liam: Man, we've gotta find Larkin.
Laura: Did you have dragon bits you wanted to gather?
Marisha: I did, very much so.
Taliesin: And some Yenk, I imagine.
Marisha: A little bit of Yenk, a little bit of dragon.
Laura: I got a little Yenk blood already.
Matt: You did.
Liam: Brazen, guys.
Matt: All right, so, you're heading to the dragon or Yenk first?
Marisha: Dragon.
Matt: Okay, so you head to the dragon. Okay. So you guys head over there. You now see partially elements of the wall that had crumbled in on Vorugal's body. You see now, emerging from the center of the scales in the chest as it lays on its back, slain, its throat torn out by Raishan, a piercing tree begins to burrow its way through the torso of the dragon and bloom outwards. Waiting for that process to finish, you bring out your carving dagger and--
Marisha: I patiently wait for the tree.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: I don't want to interrupt. That's rude.
Matt: It grows pretty fast as part of the enchantment of Fenthras. So, that brief pause completed, you go to town with your blade on the dragon's corpse. Let's go ahead and make a check on this. This would be--
Marisha: Nature, right?
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: With advantage. Oh, that's good. 28.
Matt: 28, okay. It'll take you the better part of about an hour to really harvest everything you want from this that's usable, and that's with aid from Scanlan, because it's a very big dragon, and that's a pretty small blade. So you begin that process.
Laura: I can help. I want to go up and carve a bear onto the tree growing out of Vorugal.
Taliesin: I may lend my cut-dragon-like-butter blade to this whole process.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Can I just pull off a scale? A single scale. Is that really hard to do?
Matt: Make a strength check.
Sam: Two.
Matt: You spend the next minute and a half going (grunting sounds). It's not budging.
Sam: It's actually three.
Matt: Oh, the next minute and 20 seconds going (grunting sounds).
Sam: Great.
Matt: You do manage to found a couple loose scales on the ground nearby after you've thoroughly embarrassed yourself.
Sam: I'll grab one and then I'll immediately start yelling for Tooma. (yelling) Tooma!
Matt: Okay, while he's doing that, what are you guys doing?
Travis: Right, so the dragon's got booty, right?
Laura: Yeah, like a lot.
Travis: So I look over and they're working on the dragon bits. Everything's cool? Yenk is like melting into the snow, right, because he's like a hell fiend or whatever?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: I take off running towards the lair.
Laura: Grog!
Sam: I'm going to go with.
Matt: Grog's already run off. Scanlan's following.
Sam: I'm going to Polymorph into an eagle.
Laura: Fucking fuck! Do you guys have this?
Marisha: Yeah.
Laura: Give me a claw. I want a claw to wear around my neck.
Marisha: You're going to be like Mr. T.
Laura: I want something to wear around my neck. Fucking something, all right!
Taliesin: We'll find something.
Laura: I'll take off on the broom after Grog.
Liam: Just scooping up Pike into a bit of a piggy back ride and carrying her inside and we're going to rest.
Matt: Okay. She's thoroughly hurt, but you still have the entrance to the mansion. Yeah, so you guys pull into there to rest for the moment. While Grog, as you're running, this eagle comes up to your side, is gaining on you a bit. As you come over the top of this one little ridge area, as the ravine begins to widen and head towards the lair portion that Vorugal was using, you see before you a group of about 22 or so armored dragonborn that are currently jogging up the ramp in your direction. As soon as you cross over the top they come to a slower point, with their weapons out, and you see one of them raise its hand. You recognize Skork, who you met earlier, who goes, "We've come to aid you!"
Travis: I'm still raging using Persistent Rage and I point over my shoulder and yell, Dragon that way! And I keep running past them.
Matt: All right! They pick up their weapons and keep running past you as you [whoosh] through them, the eagle following closely after.
Sam: Is Tooma with them?
Matt: Tooma is not with them, no.
Laura: I followed too. I am following as well.
Matt: Yeah, you coast up behind, you begin catching up to Grog and the wayward eagle. You're the fastest of everything right now.
Sam: I'm following him.
Matt: So you're staying back at same speed. Okay. As you guys begin carving, you begin hearing the footsteps approaching of numerous dragonborn. The rest of you guys continue down the path. You see the icy throne, if you will, of where Vorugal had placed as the new lair on this northern portion of the ravine. You guys that are staying behind, as you're carving your way into the dragon, all of a sudden you hear the footsteps and a bunch of these dragonborn, armored, with scavenged pieces, leather hide with metallic bits of armor. Weapons, definitely not of the highest degree from what you can tell, though some are ornate and seemingly unused, maybe scavenged from the fall of Draconia. They approach and slow their jog and look over at the destroyed corpse of the dragon.
Marisha: Hi.
Taliesin: Things went well.
Marisha: Man, how long of a jog is that?
Matt: They all look confused at each other and start talking to each other in a language you don't understand.
Marisha: Man, ooh, Vex isn't here.
Taliesin: No. All good. Good.
Travis: Fuck.
Matt: They nod and Skork gives a respectful nod and they all approach the dragon's corpse and start hacking into it.
Marisha: Oh no, wait, no. Hold on.
Taliesin: No. I'm going to point at all-- you all, sun goes down, all of us drink back there. Go back. Everything's fine.
Matt: Skork takes two steps forward and goes, "I understand this speak."
Taliesin: Oh, why didn't you say something? You're standing there making us very nervous.
Matt: (disgruntled grunt) "Look. We have to come to aid you in the battle as promised. You have seemingly done well without our presence. So let's all harvest the uses of what remains of this beast."
Taliesin: I'm fair with that, all right. Harvest gently. We're trying to keep as much of it--
Marisha: Yes, I'm working right here on this area and Vex wants a claw.
Matt: "Take what you wish. We are interested in hide and meat."
Taliesin: And we are interested in scale, tooth, and claw, and maybe some eyeballs, so that works out very well.
Marisha: And blood.
Matt: "Perhaps some teeth and claws as well. We shall trade." (speaks Draconic) All of them rush up and start hacking into the soft portions of the underbelly, where it's been exposed from where you guys have left large wounds and such and basically start to carve huge bits of dragon meat off the body.
Taliesin: Mind the tree. Mind the tree.
Matt: One of them was going for the tree and stops like-- And then looks very confused that the tree wasn't piercing through the dragon, but was rooted inside of it. They all take a moment to start carving around it. It's a very awkward. They don't know what the hell happened and it looks very strange from an outsider's perspective, but they're trying to adjust best they can.
Travis: New town square will be built around it.
Matt: In the meantime, the three of you guys coast down towards the lair. You can still see all the ice spires that are jutting out from portions of the snow, the various dragonborn corpses still adorning a number of the spires. As you begin to approach the throne of Vorugal, you can see there's a group of about 15 or so dragonborn currently there that are starting to climb up and get to that portion to inspect. You see, first, before anyone else does, Vex, that one of them appears to be Tooma, who is walking with this gnarled staff that she keeps to her side. And they're all approaching and climbing up the sides of the throne to get to the top.
Laura: I shout out, don't go up there!
Matt: You shout that and there's a moment of pause. Then, all of them turn and look in your direction.
Laura: I fly down close to Tooma and say quietly, Thordak has means of seeing through the stones up there. If you go up top, it's possible he'll be able to know that Vorugal has fallen. He might already know.
Matt: "This is good to know." (speaks Draconic) And the dragonborn around slowly pull backwards. You understand her saying, "Hold off. Words of warning." They all pull back and gather around you, and stand, awaiting what this conversation is going to entail as Tooma steps forward to you. "So am I to understand, then, that the dragon has fallen?"
Laura: (laughing) Yes.
Sam: I'll drop my form and throw the scale in front of her. It's done. There's your fucking dragon.
Matt: She looks over at the rest of the people who are all looking towards her for confirmation. She goes, "You came to us with words. You stood behind them. You displayed honor and honesty, things we find rare in supply outside of our people. Us, the Ravenites, survivors of chain and frost, are now truly free. We thank you."
Laura: And we thank you.
Sam: But we'll need something more than just thanks. We have two requests to make of you. One, this is not the final fight. There will be more, and unlike this fight, we would expect your aid in the next one. Is that something you can guarantee us?
Matt: "I am curious as to what you require from us."
Sam: We don't know yet, but you have many men, and they seem like good fighters, so we may call upon you in the future.
Matt: "Against what foe?"
Laura: Thordak the Ancient. He was commander of all of these dragons.
Matt: You see her face immediately goes from that calm, welcoming, elated expression she had a moment ago to this guarded, retracted position where she shifts her weight onto the back leg and--
Laura: You are not beholden to us. We ask this of your own free will. All of Tal'Dorei is at risk.
Matt: "We are not an army. We wish to help in this fight, for we had a stake in it, both of us. This was a mutual arrangement. You owe us nothing. We owe you nothing. But we are not ready to continue the fight immediately with a more dangerous foe than this one."
Sam: Hopefully, it won't be immediately. And might I remind you that you did not help us in this fight. We did it all by ourselves.
Matt: "Who do you think arranged, through previous conversation, to send the dragon your way into the trap that you had sprung? At my suggestion of the place of proper, and most conventional and helpful circumstances?"
Laura: It's true, Scanlan, they did help a lot in that regard.
Matt: "We may not have the might to finish the dragon--"
Sam: You told us that you would have men there to help us, and there was nothing. We almost died.
Matt: "We sent men your way!"
Sam: You knew when the fight was.
Matt: "We knew when to begin the fight, but we do not have means of travelling as fast as a dragon!"
Travis: I'm running around like a cracked-out PCP addict in the background. Just looking on the ground for booty, that's all.
Matt: Perception check.
Travis: One. (laughter)
Matt: There is snow and ice and it's pissing you off!
Travis: I'm doing the dog thing.
Matt: More snow. More and more snow. In the middle of this conversation, some of it starts spattering the side of Vex. You're like, "Stop it!" Angrily rage-looting nothing. (laughs)
Laura: Draconia has had a history of separating itself from the rest of Tal'Dorei. This is an opportunity for you to welcome other communities, to become part of the rest of the world.
Matt: "You are right. [no audio] And from this, I think we could try to rebuild, a new home for the dragonborn of Wildemount. Learn from the mistakes of our predecessors and our oppressors. We are no majestic mage nation by any means, but we can learn."
Laura: You are strong.
Matt: "They are strong. My time is nearly up. But what time I have left, I fully intend to make sure that there is a future for my people. For the Ravenites."
Sam: One more request, before we go. Once we're long gone, you can feel free to inspect this hill where the dragon slept, and be very careful in disarming any traps that you might find there. I would ask you one favor for us: we lost a friend in this fight, a dragonborn. He's buried near here. We'll tell you where. We would like a proper tomb for him on this hill, where the dragon slept. Could you build a statue, a fine statue, a handsome statue of Tiberius Stormwind, and bury him underneath it. And on the pedestal, could you please write, "I encourage peace."
Matt: She looks over at one of the nearby dragonborn. "This is Korsa. He is our finest stonesmith. I will see to it that it is done."
Sam: Teach your people of him, your offspring, that he was a brave dragonborn that wanted to unify all of your peoples.
Matt: "This can be done. (sighs) This mound represents the spoils of the remains of Draconia the dragon greedily stole, hoarded, and forced us to gather at the base of its icy seat. This will be the beginning of our new nation, and with this, we will make sure this statue comes to bear."
Sam: Good luck.
Travis: Where the fuck is it?! That's all you hear me say. (laughter)
Sam: What are you looking for?
Travis: Help me look!
Sam: For what? What are we looking for?
Travis: Just dig! (laughter)
Travis: Can I make another perception check, please?
Matt: No.
Travis: No?!
Matt: You can, Scanlan.
Sam: What am I looking for? Grog, what am I looking for?
Travis: We're looking for that booty.
Sam: Booty? Just dragon booty? It would be up where the dragon sleeps, not down here.
Laura: There's some under the ice right here.
Sam: All right, I will peer down into the ice below us with my 21 perception.
Matt: Okay. You glance down, and after pushing some of the snow out of the way, it's amazing that Grog didn't see this at all, but not really when you think about it. Encased in this pedestal that Vorugal had taken as a perch, beneath multiple feet of thick, locked ice, you see an incredible amount of hoarded gold, silver, platinum glittering as bits of light break through the overhead clouds, as the sleet is still raining down in places. Bits of it gleam and shift and shimmer. You can see finely crafted knick-knacks and statues and gems and antiqued metals all buried deep beneath this platform. It looks to be pieces of ornate armor and weaponry, all sorts of a random assortment of items that are locked beneath feet of ice, right there before you.
Sam: Nothing there, Grog. Sorry.
Travis: No! It has to be here somewhere!
Sam: (whispering) Just look right there, friend.
Travis: What?
Sam: (whispering) Right there.
Travis: Where? What?
Sam: He's my BFF.
Travis: I see it?
Matt: Oh yeah, once he points it out, you immediately clarify and the red haze that was covering your eyes suddenly fades and you see shiny.
Travis: Can I use the siege portion of the Titanstone Knuckles and start smacking the shit out of this ice trying to get down there?
Matt: Yes, you can.
Travis: Just like (smashing noises).
Matt: Yeah. (laughs)
Travis: I deal double damage against objects or structures.
Matt: Yeah, and as you start, each punch, the ice (splintering noise) more cracks begin to spider out. An incredible feat of strength and you can see the dragonborn take a few steps back at this view, and Tooma is almost intrigued at this point, staring with this grin across her face as this symbolic destruction of what represented Vorugal's lording over their entire life is being ripped apart by this half-giant madman. A few more punches through and a whole portion slides off and you have to move out of the way. You knock it aside with your fist and keep punching through and eventually you get about, over the next ten or 15 minutes, breaking through enough of the ice that you start hitting (clanging), starting to hit the actual outskirts of this large pile of gold pieces.
Laura: Wait, Grog. Can I check for any traps or is it like totally fine? Because I've been here before and it's not pleasant.
Travis: I really wouldn't mind.
Laura: Investigation? 18?
Matt: Okay, glancing about best you can in the vicinity, you don't see any traps.
Laura: What about the gemstones? Those are up high. I'm staying away from those.
Sam: We're outside the perimeter of the gemstones or the the main portion of the lair, right?
Matt: Yeah, the orbs are embedded in the top restful area. The actual hoard is hidden, locked beneath the ice at the base of this large platform, so you're essentially punching through the bottom portion. Much like any sandcastle, the further you go, the less structural integrity it has. You're starting to make headway into releasing and finding access to some of the horde yourself.
Travis: We need heat, and more than my wee urine can generate.
Sam: I can give us a little bit of fire?
Travis: Yeah, I mean, or get Keyleth over here.
Laura: Do you have dragon's breath?
Matt: She points to two of them and brings them over and two of the dragonborn step forward and release this torrent of flame into the area that you've already carved out.
Sam: Ooh, they can do that?
Matt: Yeah, it only lasts a few seconds and it causes a portion of it to melt back, but it's still extremely strong ice and it didn't have as much of an impact as you hoped it would've. This is very, very sturdy white dragon-conjured, ice-protected walls.
Laura: Just keep on punching it, Grog.
Travis: Really?
Laura: Just punch it. You're doing some good damage.
Travis: But no fireballs?
Sam: I have a fireball. I'll send a fireball over there. Back up a little bit.
Travis: Why? What if I want to be close?
Sam: Well, you'll get burned.
Liam: You're way down by 101 hit points, though.
Travis: I know. Yeah, I'm still up in the three digits. Let's make it exciting.
Sam: I'm not going to burn you, Grog. Just take ten feet.
Travis: All right, all right! Ten feet!
Sam: All right, I'll send a wand of fireballs down. I don't know, is that magic actually hot when it goes off?
Matt: Yeah, it's hot and it's an explosion. It's not just fire. It's an explosion. So it detonates from the inside of that small concave path that you had punched through and as it hits and detonates you can see the ice further crack. The ice begins to crack even further and portions of it, you see a bit of snow bank that had gathered at the top shakes free and off the side, revealing some of the upper platform.
Sam: We don't want to make too much of a disturbance here.
Laura: No, we don't.
Sam: Let's just take some stuff on the outside.
Travis: Is there any free platinum or gold or little bits I can start to put in my hands?
Matt: Yeah, you can start scooping bits.
Laura: You might want to ask Tooma if she has a problem with you taking all of Draconia's gold.
Travis: You saw what his face did, didn't you? Tooma, we are about to unsheathe and reveal a great fortune, of which we have very little interest because honestly it weighs us down. We're, like, plenty loaded already. However, it is a tradition to take little bits here and there as keepsakes.
Matt: "The spoils here were largely collected from the wreckage of our captors and much of the gold here was earned through our blood and turmoil. However, we were able to free ourselves and have access to this fortune a great deal thanks to your aid. We are more than willing to divide this between your folk and ours."
Travis: That sounds most generous. Shall we look for specifically interesting little bits, or just grab the platinum?
Sam: Just grab whatever's closest and leave.
Travis: Are there any interesting-looking weapons or unique items that are out of the ordinary?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Laura: Any looking-magically thingies?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Travis: Yes! Minus two. 17.
Sam: I will look for weapons of any sort. Ooh, 30. Investigation, right?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: 16.
Matt: (laughing) Do you want to add your bardic inspiration dice to that to be a dick?
Laura: Inspire me!
Sam: Did you suck or something?
Laura: Yeah, I only got 16.
Sam: Okay, I will add my bardic inspiration. I will sing to her. (singing) Something in the way I wink, inspires you like no other gnome can. Something makes you stop and think, how did he get so handsome? How did he get so suave?
Laura: Six extra points, so 22.
Matt: All right, there you go. Now Critical Role owes a royalty to the Beatles. All right, so, Grog, you find a painted gold war mask that looks really cool and nasty with the lower jaw. You're like, yes and you can put it on.
Travis: Yep, in fact, I lick it knowing that it's cold and I stick it to my face.
Matt: Okay. Your tongue sticks to the mask.
Travis: Fuck! And I rip it off.
Matt: You rip it off, all right. You take a point of damage. And your tongue is pounding with pain (throbbing) as the top layer of skin has been torn off your tongue. But the mask is still yours. You do also find a really beautiful black stone. It's really well cut and it's about that big and it's really pretty and dark and awesome.
Travis: I love stones. I'm a fucking fan.
Matt: And a whole shitton of gold and platinum. You, looking through, you find a beautiful reddish ruby gem that has this slightly gold refraction in the center of it that's somewhat symmetrical, it looks otherworldly almost. It's beautiful. You see deeper within the actual hoard a ship's mast that was plated with gold that has been jammed in the center of the hoard, wreckage that was dragged here and included in the hoard. You do also see, amongst some of the gold, a small vial with liquid that is unaffected by the freezing temperatures around it.
Laura: What color is the liquid?
Matt: The liquid is-- let me look that up.
Travis: This is my favourite part, getting new shit.
Matt: It is like a thick syrupy metallic, like a liquid iron, a reddish metallic tint to it.
Travis: I had an idea until reddish, but I don't know anymore.
Matt: And you find a pair of boots that are made from a very thick, dark brown hide.
Laura: Another boots of haste! For sure!
Travis: They're probably like elephant strength boots.
Laura: Definitely boots of haste! Pair of boots out of brown leather, you said?
Matt: Yeah, a dark brown leather, not very elaborate in their design, but they're well made and seemingly have braved the cold weather well enough.
Taliesin: They're Boots of Taste that you have.
Travis: I appreciate well-made boots.
Liam: They're Uggs.
Taliesin: They're Uggs.
Travis: Do we have an approximation of the gold and platinum?
Matt: We'll get to that in a second. Sam!
Sam: I'm sorry, who?
Matt: Scanlan.
Sam: Thank you.
Liam: Whoa! What just happened?
Matt: You find amongst this a platinum bracelet set with a gorgeous sapphire that looks like it's probably worth quite a bit. You also find another unbroken vial amongst a series of other vials that did break in the process of being hoarded here, the liquid spilled out. There's one unbroken vial. This one is a yellowish fluid with black swirls that shift on their own inside the vial's contents. As you shake it, you see they move at a faster speed and then slow down in a reverse direction. It's a very interesting pattern.
Taliesin: Lava lamp.
Matt: Kind of. Underneath that vial, you see a very beautiful--
Laura: Ooh, sheets of paper!
Travis: I love this shit. It's like walking into a Toys 'R' Us. It's the fucking best. It's like, "Which way do I go?!"
Liam: Find the Plate of the Dawnmartyr.
Sam: That was easy!
Matt: There you go! You find a gold and platinum band that is two separate bands that are woven together like a braid in a band.
Sam: Like a back braid?
Matt: Kind of. Other than that, it looks nice. There's no other defining markings on it. Looks like it would be worth quite a bit. You do, also, as you rolled ridiculously high, in pulling the ring out and the vial, you glance over and a handle is embedded in a large part of the gold. You go and grab it and it's actually a pretty big handle once you get your gnomish hand on it. You pull and you pull forth a very beautiful platinum greatsword. It has a series of small symbols carved along the base of the blade on each side. The handle comes a gradual upward curve. It looks beautiful, ornamental, like something you'd see in a temple as part of a centerpiece. But it's weighted properly for a greatsword and is far too big for you to ever possibly muster in battle.
Sam: I can't use this, so I'll just leave it.
Travis: Wait! Let's not be hasty! My god, it's beautiful!
Sam: Do you want it?
Travis: I'm very emotional about this right now. Can I check it for traps?
Sam: Check it for traps.
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Travis: Natural 20!
Laura: It is a natural 20, oh my god.
Matt: You have never been so sure in your life that this sword: totally not trapped.
Taliesin: I'm so hoping it talks to you now, I'm so hoping it starts talking to you.
Travis: 'Tis clean.
Sam: 'Tis clean?
Travis: Yes.
Sam: You hold it, I can't hold it, it's too heavy. It weighs as much as I do.
Laura: How's it feel, Grog?
Travis: Feels like money, money, money.
Laura: Speaking of money, money, money.
Matt: As you begin pulling out these materials, a series of the other Ravenites start gathering gold, filling sacks and having to pass them off. You see now two of them are pulling two big carts over and are loading up cash in the area. This is going to push your bag of holding.
Travis: That's why I said we can't take that much.
Laura: But if it's platinum, it'll help.
Marisha: More bang for our buck.
Sam: What can we lose from the bag of holding?
Travis: I'm very emotional about some of this.
Matt: You get about 20 minutes of gathering gold and platinum pieces from the section you have access to. You could get more, if you continue to dig beneath, probably. You manage to pull roughly, between the three of you, 18,000 gold pieces and about 12,000 platinum pieces. (yelling)
Travis: Forget the dragons, let's go buy real estate.
Matt: That's a third of what's in the hoard right now.
Liam: Park Place, motherfucker!
Travis: Build a fucking water park, let's go!
Laura: We don't need any more than-- This is really nice.
Taliesin: Let's build a condominium.
Liam: Condos in Marquet.
Marisha: Parking garage, that's where it's at.
Laura: How many gold is a platinum?
Matt: For the gold to platinum transition here--
Travis: It's a lot. Scrooge McDuck over here is fucking swimming in that shit.
Sam: With Brexit, it's not worth as much any more.
Matt: Ten gold pieces per platinum.
Laura: How many?
Sam: Ten gold pieces per platinum. So that's another 120 grand. Grog. Vex. We don't need to tell the others about this
Laura: They don't need to know. No!
Sam: We could go to a warm place, the three of us, and live out the rest of our days.
Travis: We'll build a bank. It'll just be us.
Sam: They'll never find us. We have the Dust of Tracelessness.
Laura: I'm tempted. This is amazing.
Travis: Right. We kill Vex after the first month.
Laura: Wait, I can hear you.
Travis: I was joking.
Sam: We might need her to restart civilization.
Travis: True, true.
Laura: Oh, you know what? Let's go back. You lost me. I'm out. (laughter)
Liam: Meanwhile, for the last twenty minutes, I've been combing blood out of Pike's hair, and we've been having god talk, and as I put little fun buns in Pike's hair I say, "You know, sometimes I feel like she is right there with me. I ask questions and I know the answers, but most of the time I don't know anything. Does the balance ever shift?"
Matt: "No, not really. It's part of what's great about it, is you put your trust into them and everything turns out okay."
Liam: That is so cool.
Matt: "You saw her, she punched a dragon for me!"
Liam: We've got to find Larkin though, what do we do about Larkin?
Laura: Okay, all right.
Liam: You're not here!
Matt: "I didn't like Larkin very much. It's probably for the best."
Liam: Aye, but he's out here on his own in the cold. Ravenites everywhere!
Matt: "Dwarves are made of hardy stuff, I'm sure he'll be okay."
Liam: You're probably right. Let me even you off.
Matt: (pained) "Thank you."
Marisha: What did we find? (laughter)
Sam: Ten dragon scales, the end.
Matt: All right, come back to you guys. So Vorugal is butchered in the center of the snow here. Strangely, as you begin to carve, the air, as freezing as it is, actual touch on the skin of Vorugal is colder, and there's a few moments where your fingers begin to adhere to the cold and you have to pull back a bit. But you do manage to carve from the hide, if you can carry it properly, about 150 pounds of dragon hide.
Marisha: Oh jeez. Oh boy.
Laura: How much?
Taliesin: 150 pounds.
Laura: We got 40 pounds of black dragonhide in the Bag of Holding.
Marisha: Well we now apparently have 150 pounds.
Taliesin: We're going to have to fill the Whitestone coffers with some of this stuff when we get back.
Sam: Grog is dumping stuff out of our Bag of Holding.
Travis: So one black studded dwarven armor suit, because Pike's the only one that wears full armor. There's another full set of regular plate armor. That's going too. There's a totally decomposed orc head. A brain chunk, two dark elf heads, one random arm, a piece of bulette armor.
Liam: That shit has been festering for months!
Travis: Twelve beef jerky strips are going.
Taliesin: I was saving that!
Matt: As you're doing this, Tooma is watching you, going--
Travis: By the way, this is totally up for grabs, anytime you want. You say something to me and we'll work it out.
Matt: (speaks Draconic) Another dragonborn walks over and picks up the beef jerky strips, hands them to Tooma, and Tooma keeps watching you all, chewing on one.
Liam: They're starving.
Travis: Those are super fresh. (laughter)
Travis: I'm throwing out a greatsword and replacing the platinum greatsword in its spot so that should make enough weight out. Bye, black studded dwarven armor. That was the first thing in the bag of holding.
Sam: By the way, excellent note-taking and keeping track of what's been in the bag of holding.
Laura: Yeah, that's great.
Matt: Well done.
Travis: Half of that body part stuff came out as gelatinous poo.
Matt: Yeah, it's the gamiest of gamey meat you've ever touched.
Travis: Just strings of-- You pull it up and you got to wrap it up in the string and toss it.
Matt: It is why I love the word "slough." (disgusted groaning)
Matt: You guys pull away portions of that, Kima helping out where she can. The sweat beads on her forehead; even among the cold exterior, she's a workhorse. You also manage to pry from Vorugal's mouth 20 individual dragon teeth that are harvestable outside of the ones the other Ravenites take for themselves. You manage to get six dragon talons pulled from the whole body, and about-- let's see, with all the destruction of the outside, and there is this creeping ice that's beginning to freeze the body from the inside, post-death-- the hide includes the scales, you have to pull off the scales and destroy the hide, and any other organs? You said the eyes, you were thinking about taking?
Marisha: Blood. Eyes.
Matt: Do you have any more empty vials?
Taliesin: Empty vials? I'm out of vials.
Laura: Did you take any healing potions? If you did you'd have an empty healing potion vial.
Taliesin: In theory then, I have three empty vials because I did have three healing potions that I've used.
Matt: We'll say you go ahead and recork three vials of white dragon blood.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Matt: Anything else?
Marisha: No.
Taliesin: I'm going to go sit down for a little while, and breathe.
Marisha: Yeah, I'm going to go into the mansion as well.
Matt: Okay. So you guys go ahead and join Vax and Pike. Kima comes and joins you as well, to rest for a moment, while the rest of the Ravenites begin tearing off pieces of Vorugal's body, leaving the ribcage, the spine. They pull most of the organs out of it, but the tree itself is rooted into the ribcage and the roots reach down and burrow into the ground beneath it. It's left this really interesting sculpture that they've torn everything away from. At this point now, the Ravenites have descended upon the interior of the hoard, and they're hacking away at bits of ice to open up more of the space beneath, while keeping a very careful eye to make sure the structure remains intact. You guys have gathered what you decided to take from the hoard, and are doing what?
Travis: Scanlan. Vex. We should disable the orbs, right?
Laura: I don't know how to.
Travis: Just beat the shit out of them.
Sam: Wouldn't that alert Thordak?
Travis: We don't want to taunt him first?
Laura: I'd rather him not know, right now, that Vorugal's dead because--
Sam: He would instantly know that we're not in our home base, he could launch an attack on that place.
Laura: Yeah. Maybe let's not do that just yet.
Travis: But what if he comes here?
Laura: Well if he does, hopefully they'll be inside their caves? I don't think he's going to leave Emon to come check out what's going on with Vorugal, unless he knows that Vorugal's dead.
Travis: All right. Shall we check in with the other members first, before we biggity-bounce?
Laura: Well, let's go back to the mansion. Maybe we can destroy it on the way out, if we feel necessary.
Travis: What about that big golden mast? You think there's a golden ship under there?
Laura: What if there's a skyship in here?
Sam: I assume it wouldn't fly very well, but all right.
Laura: Maybe that's how the Ravenites can get to Emon, if they can help us?
Travis: It was made of gold, right?
Matt: Gold plating around it. There are portions of it where you can see the wooden mast with large bands of gold.
Laura: Did it look like airship or normal ship?
Matt: It was hard to tell. From what you could tell, it is a mast. The airships you've seen do not have masts, since they do not use the wind.
Laura: Oh, right.
Matt: So it was most likely a sea-faring ship, and was torn asunder, from a great distance and then dragged here as part of the hoard by Vorugal.
Sam: What are we going to do with a mast?
Laura: I have no idea. Maybe on the way out we can see if it's uncovered any more.
Sam: We'll stick a Google Maps pin here. We'll always know it's here, because when we come visit Tiberius' grave, we'll also leave some flowers and take a mast with us.
Laura: They've been working on this for a while now, is it possible to wiggle my way in and check out the mast now?
Matt: Sure, make an investigation check.
Laura: 22.
Matt: You push past some of the Ravenite workers, their shoulders don't give and you have to squeeze through. As you get there, the upper part is still locked in ice, and the lower part is locked in ice. For how much they've carved through already, is the central portion, but what you can see is a wooden mast with large, thick bands of gold around it that are ornamental. You can see within them carvings and designs of a language you don't really understand-- actually, what languages do you know?
Laura: Elvish, Common, Undercommon, Abyssal and Draconic.
Matt: You do not recognize this language, but it appears to be ornamental, and that whatever ship this belonged to was a prized ship of either a navy or merchant fleet. Based on some of the marks on it, it looks like it was grabbed and broken off a ship. Looking down below, there is a portion of a ship that is beneath it as well. Much deeper, maybe another 25 feet of solid ice below you with the rest of this hoard. There's a portion of this ship that was dragged here by Vorugal.
Laura: That's crazy. It's a ship! I'm coming back out.
Sam: All right. Let's go back to the main group and tell them what we've discovered.
Matt: As you're hustling your way up the ravine to the east, you pass by a number of Ravenites coming by with large sacks, and chunks of dragon meat draped over them. You can see the meat itself is freezing the air and shoulders of those that are carrying it. The essence of the dragon's ice-built form is causing them to constantly shift it because it's starting to stick to their armor, and you see icicles beginning to form at the outside of these large dragon-meat haunches that they're carrying.
Travis: When you dry-age meat like that, salt it first, then hang it. Just a pro tip.
Matt: (speaking Draconic). Keeps walking, doesn't seem to understand you.
Travis: Really bad sinus problems.
Matt: Eventually you make your way back to Scanlan's Magnificent Mansion and gather the rest of the party. Percy, Kima, Keyleth and Vax are all there, resting and eagerly awaiting your return.
Taliesin: I've got to try and fix my guns.
Matt: Okay, make some tinkering checks.
Taliesin: Is this a misfire check or a tinkering check, since I'm not in combat?
Matt: These are tinkering checks.
Taliesin: Okay, so it's proficiency bonus, dex roll. Ooh, 28!
Matt: That's your Animus?
Taliesin: Yep, that's fine.
Matt: I believe Bad News was also?
Taliesin: Yup. 26.
Matt: 26 is fine. You manage to get Bad News functioning again in the workshop below. And Retort was okay, right?
Taliesin: Yeah, Retort's fine.
Matt: So as you all return and gather around--
Marisha: Keyleth has laid out the Vorgual spoils like she got back from a yard sale.
Matt: Which, by the way, is a macabre view as you walk in, and there's this smear of dark purple dragon blood, and long, haphazardly carved chunks of dragon hide, almost like the preset green lawn rectangles that roll out and smeared across the center of the foyer.
Laura: I drop the Bag of Colding next to Keyleth.
Marisha: Grog, can you help me see how much we can shove in here?
Travis: Shit, yeah.
Marisha: Here, maybe like a sleeping bag, and I'll sit on it and you can wrap it up?
Travis: Yeah, good deal.
Marisha: Okay, we'll do that. Try and shove as much as we can. (squishing)
Matt: When it's finally wound up, it won't fit within the Bag of Colding. The Bag of Colding is the size of a relatively large satchel. The dragon hide, rolled up, is about that big around, what you managed to carve off.
Laura: Ah, shit. What do we do?
Liam: Can we make Percy some dragonborn armor right now, somehow, so he can be all white, all over?
Taliesin: Wow, that would be a thing, wouldn't it?
Travis: How much do you think that roll weighs?
Matt: About 150 pounds.
Laura: Oh jeez. We can't carry that.
Travis: I could drag it behind me for a little bit.
Liam: Scanlan, do you have a room here?
Sam: A room?
Liam: For cold things? You have everything here, do you have a chilly room?
Sam: Sure, in the kitchen there's a chilly room. The mansion will expire in 12 hours though.
Laura: We just got to go through the tree, yo. That's it.
Sam: We could bring it into the kitchen for now.
Travis: Can we get everything else into the Bag of Colding, besides the roll of hide?
Matt: The teeth and those things can be put in the Bag of Holding. The only thing that needs to be preserved is the hide, until it's treated.
Laura: What about the blood?
Matt: The blood's been capped. That should probably be put in there.
Marisha: Three vials of dragon blood in the Bag of Colding.
Matt: Yeah, mark three vials of white dragon blood in the Bag of Colding.
Marisha: And we have six talons.
Matt: The talons themselves are large claws that have been removed.
Marisha: Okay, so we have six talons, 20 teeth and 150 pounds of hide.
Matt: There you go.
Travis: Yeah.
Marisha: Word.
Travis: We got so much bling. We're stupid rich.
Sam: A lot of things that we don't know what they are.
Liam: What's that mask?
Travis: I take the mask, and like Jim Carrey in The Mask, I stick it to my face and (yells).
Liam: Do you feel anything? What's it doing?
Matt: Okay, I need you to-- no, I'm kidding. (laughter)
Matt: It is chilly against your skin.
Travis: I feel like it's making me fall in love with the first person I look-- Vax!
Liam: Oh, you don't want to fuck with this. Are you sure?
Travis: No, you're right, I don't.
Liam: Maybe just a little bit. (laughter)
Travis: I take the mask off and put it in the bag of holding. But we got this! And I hold up the big-ass platinum greatsword.
Liam: Whoa.
Laura: Can anyone identify things in our group?
Taliesin: Do I recognize the text on it? Celestial?
Matt: Celestial, yes, you do.
Laura: Oh, you can read it!
Sam: When did you learn Celestial?
Taliesin: I was a very lonely child.
Liam: It's like Latin in the world of D&D.
Travis: It's like, covered with prunes, up and down the blade.
Liam: Priss, what's it say?
Laura: Are you calling him a priss?
Liam: (laughing) Yeah.
Matt: Looking across the symbols, they are specifically symbols speaking of creation, devotion, the power of a deity's love and the unity between god and creation. It is a very religious and holy text across the blade, both sides.
Taliesin: This is some sort of paladin sword. It's a holy weapon of some kind.
Laura: Oh, I bet Kima would want the shit out of that.
Travis: Oh yeah, is Kima here?
Matt: She's right now in the process, in the kitchen, of massaging some of the bruising and wounds she took from the battle.
Sam: Got some meat tenderizer on that?
Liam: Couple of chickens on it?
Travis: Stop what you're doing. I want you to get your hands on this big, beautiful bastard. And I hand her the greatsword.
Matt: "Where the heck did you get this?"
Travis: I could tell you, but I don't remember.
Matt: "Give me a little bit of time, I need to see if I can make this part of my communion. Hold on a second." And she walks away, staring at the blade. Without leaving her eyes from the scrolling on the side, walks quietly past all of you in the center of the foyer, sits down with it and starts meditating over the blade.
Travis: I walk over and go, "Before you hit anything with it, you come talk to--"
Matt: (shushing)
Travis: I leave.
Taliesin: Anything else interesting?
Laura: I found a jewel. It's red. It looks pretty neato.
Taliesin: How were the dragonborn about us taking some of their--
Laura: They were great about it actually, they were quite generous.
Taliesin: Anything else we should go back for, as well?
Travis: There was possibly a giant gold ship, underneath.
Taliesin: There was a what?
Sam: Gold mast, underneath the hoard. And also, much more gold and platinum that we can't possibly carry.
Laura: Wait, it had runes on it as well. Do they look similar to the runes that were on Greg-- Grog's sword?
Matt: No, the symbols on the side of weapon look like an ancient text, they're laid in a very ceremonial format. The text that you saw on the side of the mast looked more like an engraving.
Laura: Did it look fluid?
Matt: It was fluid.
Taliesin: There's a ship in the dragon's collection?
Laura: Yes. I don't know if it was an entire ship, but it was a ship.
Liam: So you didn't go in, you saw it?
Laura: Well I got down, but most of it was still frozen.
Taliesin: I think this would be a really good idea, before we left. If a dragon grabbed a ship, it was probably filled with something interesting. It got his attention and he kept it.
Marisha: It could take days to potentially melt the ice, right?
Taliesin: The ice is already melting.
Liam: Keek, you could probably melt your way in there in 24 hours.
Marisha: And I also have this. My new toy.
Laura: We should check that out before we go.
Sam: Are we in any danger staying here, leaving our special hidey place unprotected?
Taliesin: It's not like anyone can get in here.
Sam: No, I'm talking about your homeland. Leaving it unguarded.
Taliesin: It's as guarded as it's going to be right now.
Sam: We know that Raishan's out there, doing something.
Taliesin: She was doing something previously. I don't think that anything awful is going to happen.
Travis: I also took this little keepsake. I call it Stoneblack.
Sam: Because it's a black stone?
Travis: Well don't fucking break it down like that.
Laura: It's so neat.
Marisha: Does it look fancy? Is it magic?
Sam: Why don't you Detect Magic, whoever can Detect Magic?
Marisha: I can't. Wait, can I? No, I can't.
Sam: I can look at it and see if it looks magical.
Matt: Yeah, make an arcana check.
Sam: Ooh, 20!
Matt: It is not magical. However, your keen bardic eye, looking at the gem, it is a very rare gem. It is worth quite a bit.
Sam: Platinum zirconia.
Matt: It's actually a black sapphire, an extremely rare gem. It runs in the market anywhere between four to six thousand gold.
Travis: So anyway, I got rid of my old saltlick rock and now I've got Stoneblack here to take its place. Do you have a pet rock?
Sam: No.
Travis: Oh my god. I sleep with it, I put it under my back and it gets all the knots out.
Liam: That is the cutest.
Sam: Do you paint a face on it, or anything?
Marisha: I've actually had a lot of rocks that are friends.
Laura: Oh, that's great. You can make little clothes for it.
Marisha: Yeah, I didn't have a lot of friends growing up.
Travis: Sometimes I carry it in my armpit to keep it warm. You don't need to know about that.
Sam: That's very maternal.
Laura: Oh, and these boots!
Sam: Leather boots, could be anything.
Laura: Are they magic, Scanlan?
Sam: Oh sure, I'll look at those. Wow, 24! Arcana check, yeah?
Matt: Yeah. They're very simple leather boots, there's no real ornamentation beyond being functional boots. As you take a moment to look at them, there is a faint shimmer to the leather itself. When the light hits it, the brown gives way to a slight purplish undertone. It looks to have some sort of enchantment.
Laura: Does it seem evil or good?
Sam: I have no idea. However, they look fancy.
Taliesin: They are interesting, and I'm indifferent to such things.
Laura: I want to put one on.
Sam: Go ahead, put one on, what could happen? We're in a safe place.
Laura: I just want to see what it does.
Sam: Wait, what if it's single use only?
Travis: Well, now's a good time.
Laura: Oh no.
Sam: It's a boot, it's probably made for multiple uses.
Matt: You can take a short rest and take time with the item to figure out what it could do, if you want to.
Marisha: I attune to my staff.
Matt: Okay, so you attune to your staff. What are you unattuning from?
Marisha: Currently my Ring of Protection.
Laura: Oh, that's painful.
Sam: AC down!
Matt: So all your saves are down by two, your AC is down by two, for now. Good to know.
Sam: By the way, we have two unused Ring of Protections that we can trade for things. I have one that I haven't used in months.
Matt: Like Stone of Jordans now. It's the thing you trade. Props to you if you know what that reference was. What do you guys want to do? Do you want to take a short rest to try and figure things out?
All: Sure.
Matt: Kima's focusing on the sword, you're focusing on the boots.
Travis: I'm focusing on the war mask.
Matt: Who else is doing what?
Taliesin: Is there other things?
Laura: Here's a beautiful red gem. It looks special.
Taliesin: Does this actually look like a special gem?
Matt: Which gem is this?
Laura: The red beautiful gem you told me about.
Matt: Oh, the ruby. It looks very pretty.
Sam: I've got a vial with yellow and black swirly stuff in it.
Taliesin: That requires somebody who knows things.
Sam: I'll look at that.
Marisha: Can I do a check on the potion since I've got alchemy training?
Matt: You know what? Yeah, if you wanted to take a look.
Taliesin: There's some bracelets and such, I thought I'd take a look.
Sam: I have a gold and platinum band with braids.
Taliesin: Ah, I'll take a look at the back-blades.
Sam: The back-blades. That's nice.
Matt: So Keyleth was taking a look at the potions?
Laura: What about the bracelet, you also had a bracelet with a sapphire?
Sam: I just gave it to back-blades over here.
Laura: No, you had a ring and you had a bracelet.
Sam: I have a platinum bracelet which I assumed was just fancy and pretty. Here, look at that one too, Percy.
Taliesin: I think I can only handle one of these, but we'll find out what happens.
Matt: All right, so as you guys make a short rest. Keyleth, you identify both potions, one of which is a Potion of Speed.
Marisha: That's what I thought it was. The yellow one?
Matt: Yep. The other is a Potion of Invulnerability.
Sam: What does it do? Read it! Out loud, with your mouth.
Marisha: For one minute after you drink this potion, you have resistance to all damage.
Liam: God-mode!
Marisha: The potion's syrupy liquid looks like liquefied iron.
Travis: So you half all damage.
Matt: Half all damage for a minute.
Laura: That is so insane.
Marisha: And then Potion of Speed  when you drink this potion, you gain the effects of Haste spell for one minute.
Laura: I'm putting that in the party inventory.
Sam: No, no, no. Hand it out to somebody. Oh, that one should go in the party inventory.
Marisha: Which one, the Potion of Speed?
Laura: The Potion of Invulnerability, so we can decide later.
Liam: That's for a very special day.
Sam: Grog could take the speed.
Marisha: Yeah, do you want to take the speed potion, Grog?
Travis: Yeah, sure, I won't use it.
Marisha: Give the invulnerability to Laura.
Laura: Oh, thank you.
Matt: All right, the boots. To you, Vex.
Taliesin: So many things.
Laura: Is it Boots of Haste? (yells) Oh my god, this is so crazy, because I was about to learn a spell, for somebody, but these take care of that. These are Boots of Feral Leaping. When you wear these boots you can instill your leaps with incredible bursts of power! As a bonus action you can attempt to leap. Make a strength check with a DC of 16. If you are successful you leap either 15 feet vertically or 20 feet horizontally.
Sam: (meowing)
Travis: Do you have to attune to them?
Laura: It doesn't say!
Matt: Yeah, those aren't attunement. (cheering)
Laura: There you go Grog. You need those.
Travis: Does anyone want the Potion of Speed? I don't want it to be just my Christmas. That's amazing!
Sam: Anyone need the Potion of Speed?
Matt: If you fail the check though, you fall prone where you stand.
Laura: Oh, that's important.
Matt: Strength check, so you'll probably be okay.
Liam: Most of the time, but once in awhile--
Matt: Once in a while banana peel.
Laura: I have a question, because the spell that I was going to take, because I still have one spell that I haven't learned yet, is Jump, which triples your jump for one minute. So if I did that, would that triple that as well? Or would it just be Grog's normal jump?
Matt: That magic would override the spell, based on the enchantment. It's two different magical forces affecting the same thing. The Jump spell is part of the enchantment that boot was crafted around.
Laura: Oh, so that's perfect.
Matt: The platinum band is not magical.
Taliesin: Yay!
Matt: But it is worth quite a bit, actually. The platinum band is worth about 2500 gold.
Taliesin: That's a magic all its own.
Matt: And the ring, who had the ring?
Sam: I have a platinum bracelet?
Matt: The platinum bracelet was what he looked at right now. That's worth 2500.
Sam: Oh wait, the gold platinum band? The band was a ring? Got it.
Matt: You have the ring?
Sam: Yes I do. Oh, it's a thing! I'm stuck here. Oh god.
Travis: The cube shrinks to half its size.
Liam: A centimeter.
Sam: It's a Ring of Invisibility. While wearing this ring you can turn invisible as an action. Anything you are wearing or carrying is invisible with you. You remain invisible until the ring is removed, until you attack or cast a spell or until you get Backblaze. I don't need this.
Liam: Does it say attunement on it?
Matt: It does require attunement. It's a legendary item, meaning it's extremely rare. You know how you use a spell, and once you do something the spell's gone? That, while you're wearing it-- you can turn back invisible for another action. As many times as you want, for as long as you wear it. So situationally, it can be very useful, if you're trying to do infiltration or something.
Sam: You can pop out, cast a spell and pop back. But not a bonus action.
Matt: No. It's less of a combat benefit, necessarily, in some situations it may be.
Liam: Like going to a white dragon lair.
Marisha: Who wants to keep it?
Laura: Stealthy people need it, probably.
Matt: Kima is happy.
Travis: Kima is happy?
Matt: Kima is very happy.
Marisha: What'd she get?
Laura: Did you just give away something amazing?
Sam: We can always take it back.
Matt: As she stands up she takes the blade and swings it. It hits the ground, and when she hits you can see a spark of divine energy from the impact. She looks at her maul and goes, "Sorry, old friend. You'll find a good new home. But I'd say this Holy Avenger is going to do me quite well."
Marisha: What's it do, Kima?
Matt: To give you specifics, it requires attunement by a paladin.
Laura: Oh, so it has to be a paladin.
Matt: Only really Vax or her could attune to it. It's plus three bonus to attack and damage rolls. Hitting a fiend or undead, the creature takes an additional 2d10 radiant damage on every hit. While you hold the drawn sword, it creates an aura in a 10ft radius around you. You and all creatures friendly to you in the aura have advantage on saving throws against spells and magical effects.
Travis: Kima is now an associate member of Vox Machina.
Sam: Provisional.
Travis: Provisional, yeah. That's amazing. So the maul-- Kima, because I want to respect your weapon, what does the maul do?
Matt: "Oh, you want the maul?"
Travis: What? No, I'm just saying, what it does, or does it just beat the shit out of people beautifully by itself?
Matt: "It's my Holy Thunder Maul. It deals additional thunder damage when I hit something. That's about it."
Travis: Cool. You want me to hold onto it for you, or are you cool?
Matt: (thunk) I'm good for now.
Travis: Boss. Total boss moment.
Laura: She can do 100 push-ups.
Travis: That's true. Enjoy that.
Matt: "Oh, I shall."
Marisha: I run downstairs to the training area with my staff.
Travis: Anything from the war mask?
Matt: No, but it is worth 750 gold.
Laura: Whoa.
Travis: I'll unlock its secrets. Wear him down.
Sam: Well, if we're ever invited to a Masquerad-- is that how you say it?
Matt: No, but continue please.
Taliesin: Paper faces on parad.
Travis: Can I get a description of it?
Matt: Yeah, it resembles the Maori warrior masks with the big open mouth, the tongue sticking out, the two pronged teeth coming up from underneath. It's a war mask, it's meant to inspire fear and give you an ominous presence on the battlefield.
Sam: Is it platinum?
Matt: It's gold. Old, very old.
Sam: Does it go with his hat?
Matt: If you were to attach it some way, it would look very interesting.
Taliesin: Would you like me to attach the mask to your fine hat?
Liam: To the back of his head.
Laura: Ooh, to the back of it.
Liam: So they don't know if he's going or coming.
Taliesin: All right, bring it downstairs.
Marisha: They're both metal, right? I can help you by heating metal, actually.
Taliesin: Yeah, let's just do this.
Travis: Can you also put my title on the inside?
Taliesin: Your what?
Travis: My title.
Taliesin: Oh yes, of course.
Marisha: I'm going to go test this out, and I'll meet you in the workshop. I'll be right back.
Travis: Wait! Are you going downstairs?
Marisha: Yeah, I want to see what this does.
Travis: Can I come with you?
Taliesin: We're all going downstairs.
Marisha: It's a free mansion, man.
Liam: You want to have a drink with me?
Laura: Yeah, sure.
Matt: So while you guys go downstairs, you two are going to the dining area?
Laura: Is there a lounge in the mansion, is there a bar?
Sam: There's mostly lounges in the mansion.
Liam: Is there an aerated wine cellar? (laughter)
Sam: It's constantly aerating. (swirling)
Sam: Inside joke. I'm being teased right now for owning and using a wine aerator.
Travis: Whoever sold you that and said it was an aerator is laughing their happy asses off.
Sam: I appreciate fine things, and I'm not going to apologize for that.
Travis: Some guy broke that off of his kid's toys and was like "It's an aerator!"
Laura: So yes, that's where we'll go. We're going to go to the wine room.
Matt: All right, you guys find your way to the wine room. Scanlan, what are you doing?
Sam: A whole lot of nothing. I'll go down and watch the show, I guess. I'll watch the training show.
Matt: All right, you four head down to the training room. Kima comes down to watch as well. Pike comes down, eager to watch what this new artifact does. You head down to the training area. You have the big sandpit that's cordoned off with the wooden outskirts, you have the various dummies set up in certain ways, you have the portion of the room that has the armor stand on the side, the weapon stand. What do you want to do?
Marisha: Ooh-hoo. Okay. All right. Everyone stay back. I'm going to start by casting the lowest level of spell out of it, see what it does.
Matt: Which is?
Marisha: Apparently a Fireball.
Matt: Okay. At where?
Marisha: Whatever is further in the sandpit. I told everyone to stand back.
Matt: Everyone stays back. Furthest part of the sandpit is going to be one of the various combat dummies. So you launch-- put the staff down, you guys watch as in the centerpiece at the top, where that one gem is hovering and slowly rotating in place, the gem begins to glow bright red from its soft bluish-green composure. As it hits bright red, this beam of familiar red arcane energy streaks forward, hits it and detonates into a shaking explosion, destroying the wooden dummy and singeing the one immediately left to it.
Travis: Whoa. Cool.
Marisha: Did you see that, Grog?
Travis: Yeah. Really nice.
Marisha: That was awesome.
Travis: Was that the biggest thing it does?
Matt: So that's three charges off.
Laura: How many charges are there?
Marisha: 20, and they recharge at the top of a day. They recharge 1d6 plus four.
Laura: Oh. How many recharge a day?
Marisha: 1d6 plus four.
Travis: So five to ten. Five to eleven.
Marisha: Because I've been really excited about this one, I'm going to point at the other dummy and cast Chain Lightning.
Matt: Okay. As you do, you watch as this giant bolt of electrical energy arcs off the same place on the staff, hits the dummy and the dummy immediately bursts into flames from the energy hitting the wood, and then arcs off and hits the two others. Suddenly the dummies are partially blown apart on one side, the charred section slowly smoldering as smoke pours up, and you can see bits of the electrical energy going (crackling) through the remainder of the wooden dummy.
Marisha: Grog. Did you see that?
Travis: Holy shit. That was amazing. I kind of want to get out there for whatever you do next.
Marisha: Really?
Travis: Yeah, just to see how much damage it does. Wait, can you use this in Minxie form too?
Marisha: Hmm, I don't think so.
Travis: No, you think so, or you don't?
Marisha: I can try this though! Hang on, wait, that was five charges. No sorry, six charges. Burning through all the charges, but I don't care.
Travis: Do you have another one you want to do?
Marisha: Watch this Grog, watch this. I'm going to do Conjure Elemental.
Matt: Okay, and which elemental are you going to conjure?
Marisha: What elemental?
Travis: Earth, big!
Marisha: Earth!
Matt: You watch as she slams the staff in the ground and you feel this quaking, and the sandpit behind her begins to slowly billow and rise up. As the sand falls away from underneath, you see, standing behind and looming over Keyleth, this giant, cracked stone earth elemental, very much like the form she often takes, standing behind her. Its eyes flash up with a bright green glow and it sits there, awaiting her command.
Marisha: Then I do a bonus action and I also turn into an earth elemental.
Matt: That's right, because you got your forms back at a short rest.
Marisha: Yes I did.
Matt: So now she turns into the same form. There's now two elementals there.
Sam: Fight, fight, fight!
Marisha: Then we walk by and we Top Gun each other.
Matt: Each slam itself causes the air around to (cracking) like a small thunderwave in its own right.
Marisha: Then we both turn and look at Grog.
Travis: That was amazing.
Marisha: Then I punch Grog in the face!
Liam: Yes!
Matt: Go ahead and roll an attack.
Marisha: Natural one!
Taliesin: That's not a spell attack, is it?
Marisha: That was for me!
Matt: And for the other elemental, what's your bonus? As an earth elemental, what's your attack bonus? Because the other elemental is going to punch him at the same time too.
Marisha: He gets a plus eight.
Matt: Plus eight? That's a 16, that does not. So here's what happens. In slow motion, Grog stands there with a big grin on his face, and both fists go (slamming) and glide off, no impact. And you're still dumbfounded and enjoying the moment.
Travis: Keyleth.
Marisha: (gruffly) I did that on purpose.
Travis: Can I understand what she's saying?
Matt: No, you hear (rockslide crashing).
Sam: Wow, she can become far-sighted earth elementals. (laughter)
Sam: Amazing.
Marisha: Okay, I drop my form to hear what Grog has to say.
Travis: That sucked. That was the worst one of all of them.
Marisha: Really?
Travis: Yeah.
Marisha: Did it hurt you when we punched you?
Travis: No, like-- wait, is the beard all right?
Matt: The beard is fine.
Travis: Yeah, okay, no. It's all good. Does it do anything else than whiff?
Marisha: Well. And I tell the elemental to--
Taliesin: No, it does nothing else.
Laura: Nothing.
Marisha: Attack Grog again.
Travis: Let me turn around.
Matt: That is an 18.
Marisha: Fucking shit.
Matt: It doesn't miss, what it does is it hits you and you're like (slamming). You barely felt it.
Marisha: How was that?
Travis: Oh man, yeah. Really, whew. Stout.
Marisha: Really? Yeah?
Travis: Yeah. I'm questioning my faith now.
Marisha: Man, this staff is so powerful.
Travis: Yeah, sure is.
Marisha: Jeez, wow.
Travis: Not that I want to feel any more damage after that hurricane of pain, but does it do anything else?
Marisha: I can keep burning the fucking charges.
Matt: By the way, you've now burned 14 charges.
Marisha: Yes, I know.
Travis: Give me one really big one.
Marisha: Goddamn it. I hope we're not fighting anything so I can recharge these.
Laura: It's going to be like three days for her to get them back.
Sam: Does this thing protect you at all?
Marisha: No, it's a damage-dealer.
Laura: Don't do any more. Don't waste any more, Marisha. Don't do it.
Liam: You're not there.
Laura: That's why I said Marisha.
Marisha: I'm going to wait. I'm going to see. I'm going to save some action. Real fast, just in case-- and I whack him with the staff.
Travis: Like Rafiki?
Matt: All right, go ahead and roll a d20. Add your strength modifier and your proficiency modifier.
Marisha: My strength and my-- Let's see, 18. No wait, 19!
Matt: 19. What's your AC, Grog?
Travis: 20.
All: Aww.
Matt: Whack!
Travis: (melodramatic groaning) Oh, the pain of-- what's this thing called? Confires! It hurts so much.
Marisha: Wow, really?
Travis: I feel the reflux-- the conflux.
Marisha: Oh, it gave you acid reflux?
Travis: Yeah, it's real bad. I have to leave because I feel like I might toss.
Marisha: That's good to know. It induces sickness?
Travis: Yeah, I feel like I'm going to cry too.
Marisha: Okay, good to know, all right, thank you.
Travis: And I leave, holding my forehead and laughing. Small, little laugh.
Marisha: I'm good for now.
Matt: Percy, you're going to the workshop, you said?
Taliesin: Yeah, grabbing the helmets and here, I'm going to borrow you.
Marisha: And now I go.
Matt: So you guys go and do that. In the meantime, both of you find your way to Scanlan's wine room. (aerating noises and laughter)
Liam: I don't know what any of these are; do you know what's good and what's bad?
Laura: Pick the one that looks the fanciest.
Liam: You were better at that than I am.
Laura: I go to the corner-- the highest shelf, I don't fucking know. These are probably all fake wine anyway. I fly up and grab the one on the highest shelf and fly back down.
Matt: You grab it, look at the label. It's a Pinot Noir, and the title of the brand says Le White Meat.
Laura: Oh no, it's chicken wine. Fuck.
Travis: Oh no, is it really?
Laura: Whatever, we'll drink it anyway. It's going to be disgusting.
Taliesin: There's actually a drink called Cock Ale, which is brewed in a dead chicken.
Travis: Of course you would know that.
Matt: No, it's regular red wine. But definitely is labelled with a chicken on it.
Laura: That's funny.
Liam: I'm grabbing a random Two Buck Chuck next to me on the wall.
Matt: Same label. They're all the same wine.
Liam: Hey, hey, hey. To Vex'ahlia, the dragon slayer.
Laura: Fuck yes!
Liam: (slamming) Oh shite, we should do it for real.
Laura: Oh yeah, right, what's up?
Liam: Oh man, I'm proud of you.
Laura: Thanks!
Liam: Yeah.
Laura: Is that all you wanted to say?
Liam: No.
Laura: I didn't think so.
Liam: Well, that's three of five.
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: I don't know if we're all going to live, but I think that collectively we might actually pull it off.
Laura: I think we have a good shot of it.
Liam: Yeah. Almost bit it, out there.
Laura: Yeah, I noticed.
Liam: Again.
Laura: Yes. Scary.
Liam: Can I have a hug?
Laura: I'm glad you're not dead.
Liam: Yeah, old news. We've done it before, we'll do it again. Hey, do you want to try jumping around with those boots?
Laura: Oh, I gave them to Grog.
Liam: You want to try to jump around anyway?
Laura: Sure.
Liam: What can you do? How high can you go?
Laura: I jump. It's a jump. A normal little jump.
Liam: It's good, yeah.
Laura: Why?
Liam: No reason, I'm procrastinating.
Laura: Oh, yeah. So tell me what you're procrastinating about?
Liam: How long are you going to torture yourself for?
Laura: Oh, you fuck. (laughing) What? (muffled) What are you even talking about right now? Do you want to see how high I can jump now? So high. I get on my broom and I fly up to the ceiling.
Liam: Push out the wings. No, I can't!
Matt: Yeah, you already used it.
Liam: Will you come down here and talk to me?
Laura: (groans) Fine, fine! Hi.
Liam: Yeah. What are you doing?
Laura: I don't know! I don't-- what?
Liam: You know I've known for a while? It's all over your face, I've known you since you were a baby, I've known for a while.
Laura: Okay. (nervous laughter)
Liam: I've almost died. You have died.
Laura: Yes.
Liam: He died.
Laura: Yes.
Liam: What are you fucking doing, Vex?
Laura: (sighs) It's just timing, you know? It's all timing.
Liam: Timing could have you dead in the ground tomorrow.
Laura: This is true.
Liam: And do you know something? Hey.
Laura: Hmm?
Liam: He leads with this. Not with that.
Laura: His collarbone?
Liam: Yeah. Fucking smart-ass. Maybe he'll surprise you, but I don't know.
Laura: I think he isn't thinking that way at all, and honestly--
Liam: (snorts) You're a dummy. I'm the dummy, why are you such a dummy?
Laura: I don't know, darling. It seems so trivial. Doesn't it?
Liam: What the fuck do we have in this world except for moments with each other? That's all we've got.
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: I want you to have some happiness in your life.
Laura: I do have happiness!
Liam: I want you to have a little more. There's no reason to hold back. Why?
Laura: Wouldn't it be so awkward though?
Liam: Who cares? You know what's awkward?
Laura: Hmm?
Liam: A life not lived.
Laura: Hey, I'm living a life. I've got Trinket. I've got you, sometimes, when you're not with Keyleth.
Liam: Listen, you're my sister, and I love you very much, and I know a lot about you, and I can help you in a lot of ways. But not every way.
Laura: I know.
Liam: There are facets of you that have nothing to do with me.
Laura: Very few.
Liam: I want you to be happy, and we all could be dead in a week. You know that.
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: I'm a fucking idiot. I don't know anything.
Laura: (laughing) I want you to remember that you just said that.
Liam: I never forget it. Ever. In the game or out of the game, Laura.
Laura: Oh, don't!
Liam: It's a short life we got. I'm not going to tell you what to do, but I won't tell you what to do. I do want you to be happy.
Laura: Thank you. And I'll try.
Liam: And on a side note-- he's a little fucked up.
Laura: Oh, I know.
Liam: And he only listens to you.
Laura: Well, that's not true.
Liam: Yes it is.
Laura: No!
Liam: Who does he listen to?
Laura: Keyleth. They're like, so close.
Liam: Yeah, they enjoy each other's company, I know that, but you're really the only one who he listens to. So I need you to-- he has impulses. He has impulse control. I have impulse control.
Laura: Yes you do!
Liam: He has a different kind of impulse control.
Laura: Okay. You want me to control him then. Get him under my thumb. Bring him to the light, just a little bit?
Liam: You know what I'm talking about.
Laura: I know what you're talking about.
Liam: I take another bottle of wine and I (gulps).
Laura: (laughing) I thank you.
Liam: Am I drunk, am I at disadvantage now, if do the whole bottle?
Matt: In a minute you will be, yeah.
Liam: Grab another bottle.
Laura: Hm? Glug glug glug? Well, all right.
Liam: (groans) I want to go see some fireballs get shot, I'll see you later!
Laura: Okay, have fun.
Liam: Woo!
Matt: As Vax sloppily leaves the room, you're left in quiet, by yourself with your--
Liam: (booming) And I walk away!
Laura: I pop Trinket out, cast Speak with Animals and have a nice fun conversation with him.
Matt: We're going to go ahead and take a break here, come back here in a minute, use the restroom.
Marisha: Aw, we haven't done shit!
Matt: That's not true. You've discussed the spoils from your last major story bit, so we'll be back here in a few minutes. We're going to go ahead and take a restroom break, fill up on drinks. Stay tuned and we'll see you in a minute. [break]
Matt: Hello, everyone and welcome back to Critical Role! After a barrage of delightful phrases that were just shouted at me. It's great.
Travis: Love you, Matt!
Matt: Love you too, guys. I do want to say real fast that our wonderful Kiki Day, who made a number of other Vestiges--
Laura: Fenthras!
Matt: Made Fenthras, made--
Marisha: And the Spire!
Matt: Made the Spire of Conflux, which you can see on Marisha's twitter right now?
Marisha: Geek & Sundry's twitter.
Matt: Geek & Sundry's twitter. As well as making me a belt buckle that I'm going to be wearing at Blizzcon. (yelling)
Matt: That's fucking fantastic.
Travis: That's a badass motherfucking belt.
Matt: (McCree voice) Just saying.
Liam: (Oprah voice) Spire of Conflux!
Matt: (McCree voice) Now I've got a reason to go ahead and wear myself a tucked-in shirt. (normal voice) Anyway, let's get into the game. You guys, finishing those scenes. Taking a short rest. You roll your hit dice to heal up a bit. What more do you wish to accomplish? What's your next plan of action, Vox Machina?
Taliesin: I say we pack up all of our things and raid a ship.
Laura: And then head back to Whitestone. I mean-- Oh, no, we're fine in here.
Sam: Are we?
Laura: Are we?
Marisha: Do you want to rest before we do that?
Taliesin: I say we--
Sam: We have to rest. We're all severely injured.
Taliesin: Well, some of us, yes. I say we take a night, we hit the ship and then head home.
Liam: It's good wine!
Laura: Oh, he's drunk.
Marisha: You guys got into the wine?!
Sam: Did you aerate it first?
Liam: How do you do that?
Sam: If you don't have an aerator, you can put it in a mason jar and shake it up a bit.
Liam: We just drank it out of the bottle.
Sam: Well, that's just pedestrian, really.
Laura: You have so many.
Taliesin: Put some ice in it, keep it cold.
Marisha: Are we still melting a mask to a helmet?
Taliesin: We had a little bit of metallurgy to do.
Matt: Make a tinkering check, and this, actually, make--
Marisha: I help him with my Heat Metal spell like a soldering iron.
Matt: Okay! That being the case, it's going to help with the metal's pliability. Go ahead and make your regular dex-based.
Taliesin: Regular dex-based? All right.
Matt: Would make it strength-based for the metal, but the Heat Metal is helping you with that.
Taliesin: All right.
Marisha: Big money, no whammies!
Taliesin: That's a 26.
Matt: 26? Yeah, without an issue you manage to apply the mask onto the back of the helmet after looking at some brief glances at the shape of Grog's head, making sure that it has a hinge so if he leans forward, it doesn't restrict or press into his back if he looks up. It is a functional backmask onto his delightful pointed helmet.
Taliesin: I've also carved, in Elven, in the inside, "Kick Me."
Matt: On the inside of the mask?
Taliesin: Yeah. So it's there.
Marisha: It's magnificent.
Taliesin: I think so.
Marisha: Shall we present it to him?
Taliesin: Yes, let's.
Marisha: I feel like we should go at this with a little bit of theatricality. Just because it's so much fun to fuck with Grog.
Taliesin: I know!
Marisha: How do you want to do this?
Taliesin: I don't know.
Marisha: Oh! I turn into an elephant. Get on my back!
Taliesin: Did you say that before turning into an elephant?
Marisha: Yes, I do! Get on my back!
Liam: (elephant sound)
Taliesin: For god's sake, Vax, stop aerating more wine! We've had enough! You've had enough!
Matt: Sam is so over it.
Taliesin: No, never!
Marisha: Percy's on my back and I'm an elephant holding the mask while we go find Grog.
Matt: Well, first you get to the doorway of the workshop.
Marisha: It's a temporary fucking mansion. I bust through.
Matt: Make a strength check.
Marisha: I don't know how to-- Will you put this in dice jail for me?
Laura: You got it.
Matt: What'd you roll?
Marisha: I don't know. What do I roll for a--
Matt: Look it up. You add your strength modifier as an elephant.
Marisha: Well, I don't know what an elephant's stats are!
Matt: I'm going to find it right now. I'm going to find for you what an elephant's stats are! Just going to go look it up for you!
Marisha: Well, I rolled a two!
Matt: You rolled a what, a two?
Marisha: Yeah, a two.
Sam: It's not going to work!
Marisha: I'm a fucking elephant and it's a door!
Matt: It's plus six because it has a strength of 22 because it's a goddamn elephant. So eight. You (slam). It lurches ever so slightly, but that is a very strong doorway. It's almost like the arcane nature of Scanlan's magic makes a good home.
Marisha: Can I try it again?
Matt: You hit it again. Make another strength check.
Marisha: That's much better! 16 total!
Matt: 16. It causes some of the plaster to crack. Doesn't get that much further, but you're starting to get a serious headache.
Travis: Are we hearing this? Are we hearing a massive commotion?
Matt: You're starting to hear it now. There's this low, general slamming sound in the mansion.
Laura: What is that?
Travis: Yeah, do you hear that?
Sam: I do. Doesn't sound right.
Laura: Should we go find out?
Sam: I pull out Mythcarver and run down the stairs!
Travis: I take out the bloodaxe and I follow him!
Matt: Another strength check.
Marisha: They get better with each time. 19!
Matt: 19. The door gets knocked partially off of its hinges and the frame is now slightly bent forward. The wood is splintered and the stone has more cracks into it. The headache is now pounding.
Marisha: I should have thought about this!
Matt: You guys hear another, even louder slam this time. As you rush down to the outside of Percy's workshop you see some crazed, large, shifting gray movement of some creature, on the other side of the doorway.
Travis: Jesus! Scanlan, is this one yours?
Sam: No. It's definitely an intruder.
Travis: Then we fucking kill it! We race forward and attack.
Matt: All right, both of you guys roll a--
Liam: Wait, is Percy still riding?
Matt: You don't see Percy, because Percy's above you!
Taliesin: Am I aware of this happening? At all, I don't see them at all?
Matt: No, because you're inside the workshop and you're above the doorframe she's slamming into.
Travis: 23.
Sam: One.
Matt: So Scanlan, you go running with Mythcarver in the air, and as you go to strike, Grog shoves you out of the way, in the middle of his angry grab and you go skidding across the ground, Mythcarver spinning out of your grasp across the floor. Are you making a single attack or are you doing a full round of attacks on this beast?
Travis: This is a giant beast, I'm giving it what for!
Matt: So roll another attack, are you raging for this?
Travis: No, I'm not raging. (laughing) 24.
Matt: Okay, both hit. Go ahead and roll damage on both attacks, non-rage damage.
Marisha: No, go with it. Go with it.
Travis: 20 points, four points of necrotic.
Laura: Oh god.
Travis: I know, I don't hit lightly.
Sam: Elephant's going to die.
Travis: 22 points of damage.
Matt: You take 42 points of damage from your maximum of 76 hit points as an elephant, as all of a sudden, what little bit of vision you have through the pounding headache, you glance through in time to see Grog's form (roaring) run up and slam his axe into you twice.
Marisha: How much damage?
Matt: 42.
Marisha: What's my form?
Matt: 76.
Marisha: I fucking headbutt him, I'm going to gorge him! Let's go!
Matt: You're going to gorge him?
Travis: Scanlan!
Sam: Careful Grog, it has some protection magic on it. It threw me across the room! (laughter)
Matt: All right, Marisha. I would like you to roll for a gore attack against Grog.
Laura: This is ridiculous.
Marisha: What do I add? I don't have a stat.
Matt: Plus eight.
Marisha: 18.
Matt: 18? No, I don't think that hits you. So you go ahead and try and gore Grog, and Grog ducks right beneath the two giant ivory horns.
Marisha: Do I knock down the doorway a little bit more?
Matt: Make a strength check.
Marisha: Okay. 20 total.
Matt: With that, as you duck below, the elephant slams through the archway, sending stone and pieces of wood flying, and stumbles past. You duck down to try and the avoid the attack, going underneath the elephant as it begins to stomp over you into the room. You see this as you spin around. The elephant bursts in, and it is very much an elephant, you can see now, with Percy on top being dragged through the rubble.
Taliesin: I'm thankfully wearing a helmet.
Sam: It's got Percival!
Travis: Roll off! Roll off, Percy!
Taliesin: (deadpan) Oh help. Help, please.
Travis: He's so weak he can barely speak!
Sam: We must kill this elephant.
Travis: We must destroy this beast!
Matt: Scanlan and Grog, what are you doing?
Travis: Come on, buddy.
Sam: We got to kill this thing.
Travis: Yeah, you go. Come on.
Sam: I will throw a Wand of Fireballs at it.
Matt: How many charges does it have left?
Sam: Oh, plenty. I have only used one of seven.
Matt: But each time you use it-- okay. Not quite how it works, I don't think.
Liam: Just look at the shirt, Matt, just look at his shirt.
Matt: Oh, you're right. One charge is a third level spell, I misunderstood. So you launch your Fireball, go ahead and roll damage.
Sam: Oh wait, what is the damage? It's 8d6. Got it.
Matt: 8d6. Keyleth, I need you to roll a d20 minus one.
Marisha: Don't fuck me, Gil. Rolling your die! Wait, a d20 minus one? (laughing) Six total. Goddamn it Gil.
Matt: Okay. Percy, I need you to roll a dexterity saving throw.
Taliesin: That's not bad, that's 18.
Matt: Okay, what was the damage you said?
Sam: 26.
Matt: I need you to roll a dexterity saving throw, with advantage.
Travis: Natural 20.
Marisha: I'm still wearing my cloak, so do they get disadvantage on attacks against me? Because I'm in the Cloak of Displacement.
Sam: You're an elephant though.
Taliesin: You're an elephant in the Cloak of Displacement.
Marisha: But whenever I Beast Shape I absorb my items.
Matt: That would have been something to mention earlier, so going forward the attacks will have disadvantage, but you have to remember that for it to have an effect.
Marisha: But they're just now rolling.
Matt: He hasn't attacked yet, he's rolling because a Fireball just blew up in his face!
Travis: I got a natural 20, so I'm good.
Matt: So that's half damage to you. You said it was 26 damage?
Sam: 26.
Matt: So 13 points of fire damage to Percy and Grog, and a full 26 points of fire damage to you. That puts you at a total of 42 plus 26, so 68. You're still up. The elephant that's now storming through the center-- hold on, I have to go with the battle music for this now.
Sam: Where's your battle map?
Matt: --storming through the center of the foyer, is now spinning around, flames exploding, engulfing Percy, Grog. The elephant is now covered in blood and scrapes. That finishes your go. Grog, you're up.
Sam: Before I'm done I'm going to inspire Grog and say: Grog, remember. They never forget! (laughter)
Matt: Take your d12 inspiration.
Travis: Thank you. I'll take two strikes at the elephant's ass. That's a one.
Matt: With disadvantage.
Travis: Oh. Well, that's a one, so.
Matt: I know. You still have the second attack.
Travis: That's a two.
Marisha: (heavy footsteps)
Matt: So as you go--
Laura: Wait, it's not a two!
Travis: So the second one was 16, the first one was a 15.
Matt: It still hits. You rolled a two and it still hits because its AC is 12. It's very big and easy to hit. Go ahead and roll damage on the next attack.
Travis: Oh, nice. What a joy!
Taliesin: It's not hard to hit an elephant.
Liam: Can we also say that the two winos have come down to watch?
Laura: Yeah, we're staring from the top of the stairs at all of it happening.
Travis: The first one is 20, with four points of necrotic damage.
Matt: You only hit with one.
Travis: Oh, that's right.
Matt: How much was that, 20 points?
Travis: Yeah, 20.
Matt: Okay, so Keyleth, you yourself take 12 points of damage. As your axe swings through and slams into the elephant, the elephant's form suddenly vanishes, as your axe cleaves through Keyleth a little bit, causing her to fall back and catch herself.
Laura: Is Percy still on her back, piggy-backing?
Matt: In a second, Percy goes (thud) on the ground next to you.
Marisha: (pained noise)
Travis: Percy, you've been riding Raishan! Die, evil witch!
Laura: Grog! It's Keyleth.
Marisha: Oh, Grog, thank you! That elephant ate me! You saved me!
Travis: I did?
Marisha: You did.
Travis: Sometimes I don't know if you guys would live without me. I'm really glad I'm around, sometimes.
Taliesin: I can't imagine it. I legitimately cannot imagine it.
Travis: Ooh, is that my helmet?!
Taliesin: It is!
Liam: Ayy, Fredrickstein the Science Guy, nice job! Look at that! That is beautiful.
Laura: (whispering) He's drunk.
Marisha: The elephant ate this too.
Taliesin: It's Dr. Fredrickstein, please.
Travis: Is there poo on it?
Marisha: No, it's good.
Taliesin: It's clean. It's perfectly reasonable.
Travis: Ooh, the mask's on the back. Did you write on the inside like I said?
Taliesin: It is engraved in Elven on the inside, it's lovely.
Travis: It looks like writing. What's it--
Taliesin: It's your title, sir.
Travis: --is that? What language?
Laura: Oh, that? It's Elvish.
Travis: Oh, it's Elvish? So not everybody knows what my title is.
Taliesin: It's meant to be secret.
Travis: Very smart. Did you see my title?
Laura: I did, it's impressive.
Marisha: I wrote it down.
Taliesin: Did you? Oh dear.
Marisha: I knew it was going to be handy.
Travis: I will put on the new mask slash horned helm.
Matt: It feels impressive.
Travis: Does it?
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: Actually, because now the mask is facing the back, right? Can I fucking turn it around and put the mask on the front, with the horn sticking out the back like a big Nike swoosh?
Matt: You can. It's not as comfortable, but it definitely feels badass.
Travis: (muffled) I don't feel like this is the best--
Taliesin: You sound very intimidating.
Liam: He got polymorphed into De Niro. (laughter)
Taliesin: Oh my god.
Sam: I feel like I'm going to have to write some house rules from now on.
Taliesin: It'd be good to have a list of things to ignore, I agree.
Liam: You need some of those blue guys with an aerator at all times down in those cellars.
Sam: Blue man group?
Liam: One of your blue guys! The blue guys! That disappears with this place--
Sam: My hundreds of--? There's no guys here. They're all female servants. I don't know how many times I need to say this.
Liam: Well, nobody farted in our wine tonight. We had to drink it regular.
Sam: I am sorry for your loss, because it's really excellent once you let it breathe and open up.
Liam: It's pretty good right now.
Travis: Well, now that I got my helmet, are we going down to the ship?
Taliesin: I propose that we have an evening's rest. In the morning--
Liam: We should go now.
Laura: No. Maybe you need to rest.
Taliesin: No, I think we need an evening's rest.
Liam: I have 25 hit points. I'm fine!
Laura: Yeah. Well, Pike is resting because she was hurt quite badly.
Liam: Yeah, but did you see her fun buns, though? I did those.
Laura: I didn't.
Taliesin: You did her fun buns?
Liam: Yeah, I pulled little fun buns--
Taliesin: Oh! Okay! That's good--
Liam: What do you think I meant?
Taliesin: I didn't think anything, I'm going up.
Liam: What else does fun buns mean except for little, cute, little hairballs on your hair?
Sam: I'll give you a book later.
Laura: Oh, yeah! You have a book?
Sam: I have a few. I have a library.
Liam: Oh, gosh! Neither Vax nor Liam knew there was anything other than little cute hair buns-- Fun buns. What is a "fun bun" besides a fun bun?
Matt: Ask Larkin.
Liam: You guys! We got to find Larkin!
Matt: Okay. All right, so you guys take your long rest. You regain your spells, you're all full hit points, you regain half your max hit dice. So if you spent more than half of your hit dice, you still--
Laura: Do we keep our hit dice from our Heroes' Feast? If we never got rid of them? Or are they gone?
Matt: No. By the time you'd wake up, they'd be gone, probably.
Liam: Can you use the hit-- never mind.
Sam: When they wake up in the morning, Vax has a bill under his door for three bottles of wine. And Vex for one bottle. And Keyleth for a construction bill of 5,000 gold pieces.
Laura: I promptly rip the fuck out of my bill.
Marisha: I think it's a scam, and I throw it away.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: It is a scam. (laughter)
Matt: All right. Well-rested. A fresher day. The mansion, growing fairly close to probably expending the rest of its magic. What do you guys do?
Taliesin: Let's pack our things, head down and take a look at that pirate ship, then head home. Well, that ship. I don't know if it has pirate symbols, but I'm very excited.
Marisha: So wait, do we need things-- how far under the ice is it?
Taliesin: Probably a bit. Having the ability to melt some ice would probably be helpful. Also, you're going to have to do the tree teleport and possibly we want to deal with reforestation of some kind.
Marisha: Reforestation. Oh, sure because the Ice Age wiped out--
Taliesin: We have to go out like Captain EO. It's a thing.
Marisha: Yeah!
Sam: Just throwing this out there, is there anything to gain by going up to the dragon lair and communicating with Thordak? Is there anything we want to say to him?
Laura: No.
Taliesin: No.
Sam: Misdirection? Taunting? Anything?
Travis: Like, you suck. You can find us at the Glintshore?
Liam: We don't even want to take an hour for me to slip this on and go see if there's anything of value?
Sam: Up in the lair?
Liam: Yes.
Laura: You can do that while we look at the ship.
Taliesin: Not a bad idea.
Sam: But don't go alone. You can still get hit with traps.
Liam: I can look for those. I do like buddies to go. Do you need to go to the boat?
Taliesin: It's all in the same place.
Laura: Yeah. It's all in the same place.
Sam: I can hover above you or something.
Travis: Let's jauntily head over.
Taliesin: If there's a problem, we can call the others. We won't be that far away.
Liam: All right. Ooh! I slip Whisper into my pack and I put this ring on.
Sam: (whispers) Ooh! Precious!
Laura: Right, so you have to attune to that.
Liam: (Gollum voice) Nasty!
Taliesin: Thank you.
Liam: (Gollum voice) Nasty!
Travis: Nasty woman.
Liam: (Gollum voice) She's a nasty woman! (laughter)
Taliesin: Oh, I may need a ringtone later.
Matt: Yeah. All right, great. So you guys have put yourselves together. Kima and Pike joined you downstairs in the foyer. You make your way back out into the ravine just as the magic of the mansion fades. There you can see most of the dragon bones picked entirely off the corpse of Vorugal, except for the ribcage, still remaining as a landmark of the battle that took place with a central tree still sprouting from the top of it.
Laura: Is it any bigger?
Matt: No, the magic of Fenthras creates the tree and it stays that size as it sprouts. Who knows if over time it may grow? You haven't had the time to really tell. You guys make your way--
Marisha: I didn't know you are an artist.
Laura: It's quite lovely, isn't it?
Marisha: It's pretty amazing, yes. I appreciate this.
Laura: You're welcome. I did it for you, Keyleth.
Taliesin: Certainly adds something, doesn't it? To the whole valley. It's quite nice.
Travis: Yeah. Green.
Matt: The weather has cleared up. There's breaks in the clouds. It's still mostly cloud-covered, but you do see glimpses of blue sky here and there. Still cold, still see your breath out in the air. But the temperature does feel slightly warmer than it was the day before. You begin to walk down to the ravine center on the north side of the ravine where Vorugal's lair once resided. You can see hundreds of footprints, up and down, through the snow, through the ravine; looks like there's been a lot of foot traffic to and from while you guys were resting. You make your way to the ice throne of Vorugal and you see a portion of it has collapsed inward. But you also see a lot of foot traffic around, most of the ice spires that remained up there have been broken. The remaining Draconian corpses that were adorning them were taken down, or aren't in sight. And you can see there are a few remaining dragonborn Ravenites that are stepping in and out of the cavern-like chamber that you largely punched through and they continued to excavate it into the night.
Taliesin: If you could let them know that we're going to make one last venture into the ship and then we'll be on our way.
Laura: I walk up to one of the guys going in, and say in Draconic, have you unearthed the giant ship yet?
Matt: He looks for a second and says, "It is nothing for us. But we've worked around it." He points down, and you can see the portion of it that has collapsed, filled in part at the side and shoveled out in these large chunks of ice that are sitting outside of this cavern area. Parts of the ship have been moved around-- it looks like it's been somewhat damaged. It's not a full ship. It's a large portion of a ship. It looks like in whatever battle or attack that Vorugal took this ship, it destroyed a huge portion of it in doing so and took the rest of it with it, in pieces. And it is a very pretty ship. It looks like it may have been the jewel of a navy somewhere. And here it resides. However, it does appear like the ship has seen many moons since it was originally taken, if that makes any sense. Like, it wasn't brought directly here. It looks like almost a keepsake that Vorugal has moved from lair to lair.
Liam: (whispers) Oh, that's legit!
Matt: Has some sort of sentimental value.
Laura: Oh, wow! It had some engraving on it. You speak a lot of languages, right?
Taliesin: Well. I speak a couple of languages, I read a couple.
Marisha: What is it?
Taliesin: Does it look familiar?
Matt: What languages do you know?
Taliesin: Celestial, Elven, Common.
Marisha: Sylvan, Primordial, Druidic, Elven.
Travis: Giant, Common.
Sam: Gnomish. That's it.
Matt: You don't even know Common. No one has understood you this entire game!
Laura: Pike speaks Dwarvish.
Matt: Pike does pick up on it. It is Dwarvish text.
Travis: I speak Dwarvish, but I can't read.
Matt: That is a problem.
Travis: I have a belt, yeah.
Matt: It is Dwarven, and as Pike begins reading around it, this-- it's the name of the ship across the mast, which is "The Floebreaker." This ship appears to have been, at least in some way, shape, or form, designed as a means of travelling through very far north icy regions, meant to break through elements of heavy glacier flows and such. The construction of it, as you get closer to the actual bit of the ship that is there, you can see it's very heavily reinforced with metal and has a very rigid structure to it. The fine scrolling that you saw before, it looks to be partially filled with ice at times. So as soon as it broke away, you could see it's actually more of a harsh, broken Dwarvish runic writing to it. The ship has definitely seen a lot of wear and tear. That's about as much you can make out of it.
Laura: Can we get inside of it? Is there anything to see inside of it?
Matt: You can attempt to climb inside if you want to.
Marisha: How much is exposed right now?
Matt: Just the top of the deck, and where the mast connects to the-- that portion is still frozen into the upper part of the throne. There is no entrance immediately visible, but you can break through some more ice or try to break through the actual deck to get there.
Marisha: I cast a Flaming Sphere.
Matt: Okay. A flaming ball begins to roll on the bridge of the ship.
Marisha: Where does it look like the most convenient entrance? With ice and stuff?
Matt: Maybe four feet away from where the ice begins. You can see there is one broken portion of the ship deck, maybe about a three-foot, four-foot hole that you could melt towards if you wanted to.
Marisha: All right, I'm going to concentrate my Flaming Sphere on that and start melting it.
Matt: Okay. It's taking a while. About how long does the spell last, the Flaming Sphere?
Marisha: About a minute, I think?
Laura: (hums the Jeopardy theme)
Matt: All right, Flaming Sphere, up to a minute, yeah. The spell expires, the minute done, and you've managed to melt maybe three inches into the ice?
Laura: Grog, go punch it.
Marisha: How much was it?
Matt: About four feet of ice.
Marisha: Oh, fuck that.
Travis: Ugh! I got it.
Marisha: I step back.
Travis: And I start going Rocky-ribcage on this big piece of meat.
Matt: Okay, make your strength check.
Laura: Natural 20.
Travis: 21.
Matt: 21. He continues to punch, and punch, and punch, and each one you see the ice crack, pieces of it break away. You get quite a ways to punching through towards the direction that you are currently melting before a lot of the ice crumbles and falls and almost buries you for a second. But you knock it away and pull yourself out of it as you do, scooping the shards that occupied the space where you were and get out of the way.
Marisha: I cast a Gust cantrip over top of him to keep ice from falling on him.
Laura: I hope there's really something in here.
Marisha: Me too.
Matt: Keeps punching. You get to one point, and you hit, and you hear a (dull impact). You watch a crack spider up to the top of the throne.
Travis: I think we need to go.
Matt: Portion of the throne above you is now starting to crack and fall onto the side.
Travis: I start running out of there.
Laura: We should get out. Let's go.
Marisha: I also back out.
Matt: Okay. I need the three of you who are closest to it to make a dexterity saving throw, please.
Travis: Can I use my Boots of Feral Leaping?
Matt: You have advantage on dexterity, though. You'll be fine.
Liam: I could've hanged back, but I've been meaning to say this whole time that I was creeping around the thrones, I'm just going to throw that out, that I'm up there.
Matt: Okay, so you see this happening. A portion of it, like a whole half side of it has cracked and is sliding down into the cavern that has been excavated by your party and the Ravenites.
Liam: So if I'm almost on it, should I be making a dex save as well?
Matt: If you're almost on it--
Liam: I was going to poke around and look around it.
Matt: Only half of it's collapsing, I'll say sure. Go for it. You who offers me to let you make a dexterity saving throw, yes. I will take it.
Laura: Really? Did you really do that?
Liam: I rolled a one, but I have lots of Luck left. And now I'm fine.
Travis: I'm not.
Liam: So that's a 26.
Matt: So yeah. You manage to leap off and tumble in the snow to the bottom and don't have to worry about it. Travis?
Travis: Eight. With advantage.
Laura: 29.
Marisha: Eight.
Taliesin: 19. But I burned a Resolve.
Matt: So as you guys dart out, Grog and Keyleth unfortunately are left a little bit behind. You both are pummelled with chunks of hard ice and jagged points of broken frost there, dealing 13 points of bludgeoning and piercing damage to both of you. And you find yourselves partially buried in the ice that cracks off it. You see most of Keyleth's body is currently buried, just her head and arms are out. And Grog, you're about up to your waist now in broken ice and snow. And you're like, (grunts), and pull yourself out.
Travis: Look at Keyleth's arm.
Laura: Yeah, I see it. Can you get her out?
Travis: Okay. I start moving the ice and pull her out.
Matt: You pull Keyleth out.
Marisha: (coughing)
Travis: That didn't go well.
Taliesin: Let's burrow straight into the side, I think, to be on the safe side. Let's stop melting ice.
Laura: Isn't it buried completely at this point?
Matt: At this point, the entire excavation portion-- by the way, as you guys came back, most of the gold and platinum that was in there has been completely removed by the Ravenites over time. And this whole area that has been excavated so carefully left it in a precarious place. Those physical hits by Grog sent that whole south side of the throne to collapse inwards. So it's partially collapsed. There's a large pile of ice, rock and snow. And it's not very accessible from the current standpoint.
Laura: Maybe it was one of Vorugal's first kills or something? And it's sentimental?
Taliesin: I don't know, I'm irritated by it.
Liam: I think it might have given him a little bit of juice when he was at home.
Marisha: Do you think it has some sort of icy-like--
Liam: Extra ability when he was here, maybe.
Marisha: I could try, and maybe now that the ice is broken I can melt it through it easier?
Liam: Why would a dragon keep a boat?
Taliesin: Why would he?
Travis: Maybe his woobie, you know--?
Laura: Like a blankie.
Liam: Yeah. You know about that, Percy?
Marisha: Some people like collecting ships, you know? Maybe he's a nautical kind of guy.
Travis: Yeah, guns and ships.
Laura: He was a nautical kind of guy.
Marisha: Right, yeah.
Travis: (hums the intro of "Alexander Hamilton")
Liam: While we're all standing here with our thumbs in our butts, could I look around and see if I see a little stone, a little palantir?
Matt: Make a investigation check.
Sam: Where are you standing?
Liam: Ugh, Luck again. Jeepers creepers.
Laura: He's up top.
Sam: If he's up top, I would have been up there with him, too.
Liam: 26.
Sam: I'm a crow. Circling around, watching him from above.
Liam: I'm invisible.
Sam: Well, I'm watching the area.
Matt: All right. What did you roll? 26? Yeah. You see within the north side of the throne, there are two orbs embedded in the ice, about a foot beneath the surface. Previously you saw more.
Liam: In the past, in other locations, you mean?
Matt: No, meaning when you guys first came to this when he wasn't there, you saw three stones. You now see two. But half of the throne has collapsed as well.
Liam: And how far down are they under the ice?
Matt: About a foot, a foot and a half from the surface.
Marisha: Never mind.
Liam: I'm going to go find my sister.
Laura: (groans) It's--
Liam: Hey! I'm invisible! Here I am.
Laura: Hi.
Liam: Hi.
Laura: Did you see it? It collapsed.
Liam: Yes, I saw it. I dodged out of the way.
Laura: Good.
Liam: I'm right here.
Laura: I know! I'm looking at you.
Liam: Yes, but I'm invisible.
Laura: I'm looking in your direction.
Liam: Boop!
Laura: Ugh, goddamn it.
Liam: Remember those little round seeing stones?
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: There's a couple under the ice over there. Now, I was invisible so I don't--
Laura: You saw them under the ice?
Liam: Yeah.
Laura: You saw a couple under the ice?
Liam: A couple under the ice, a foot or two away.
Laura: Where were the other ones?
Liam: I didn't see any other ones.
Laura: Were they there before it collapsed?
Liam: I don't know. I was standing right beneath the throne when the throne collapsed. Then I found them.
Laura: Were they near the area that it collapsed?
Liam: Were they near the area that it collapsed?
Matt: One of them was, yeah.
Liam: One of them was, yeah.
Laura: Fuck!
Marisha: Fuck!
Taliesin: Fuck!
Travis: Fuck!
Liam: Fucking--
Sam: (caws)
Marisha: Hold on, did we maybe get-- is Thordak going to-- we should go.
Laura: Fuck!
Marisha: Percy, want to leave a mark anymore?
Laura: We should tell Tooma that--
Taliesin: We left one.
Laura: I go find Tooma.
Matt: The handful of dragonborn that were there, after the collapse, were walking back to the internal cavern area. As you head back, a large portion of Ravenites have all come out of their caves, and right now are in the process of scouring the ruins. Some of them are putting armaments away. Tooma is out there, currently conversing with a number of the other community leaders that are deciding what the next steps are.
Marisha: I approach Tooma. (clears throat) Tooma, it's time that we make our departure very soon.
Matt: "Very well."
Marisha: I want to thank you so much for everything that you provided and everything that your people have done.
Matt: "I wish to thank you for your sticking to your word."
Marisha: Of course. I would love to help and leave some parting gift in any way that I can.
Matt: "The riches from the hoard will provide enough for us. You need not worry."
Marisha: What was your land like before Vorugal got here? I know it wasn't as icy and as frigid.
Matt: "It was without snow. We are at the south side of Wildemount. I hope this fades with time, we are not bound for snow people."
Marisha: I can attempt to maybe revitalize your plant life as much as I can before I leave.
Matt: "You can do this?"
Marisha: I can.
Matt: "By all means. We would appreciate it."
Marisha: You have a good, strong people and I want to see your recovery. Just like I hope the same with mine.
Matt: "Me too."
Marisha: Anything that I can do.
Laura: Tooma?
Matt: "Yes?"
Laura: You know the stones we talked about?
Matt: "Yes."
Laura: Yeah, they got jostled.
Matt: "Why?"
Laura: It looks like that ice wasn't super-strong, and it collapsed.
Taliesin: The ice was going to collapse eventually, anyway.
Matt: "What does this mean?"
Laura: Not sure exactly.
Matt: "Okay."
Laura: But you should keep an eye on the sky. If you see something red, maybe hide. Just for a while. Thordak doesn't know what was here. But if he realizes Vorugal's been killed, he'll come looking. Potentially.
Matt: "But you're going to kill this Thordak, yes?"
Laura: Oh, yeah! With your help, I think. Just in case he comes before we get to him.
Matt: "You should get to him quickly, then."
Laura: Good plan.
Matt: "Good."
Liam: The whole time she's been talking, her braid has been going like a magical jump rope because I'm standing here doing this with it.
Laura: Not. The time.
Taliesin: If you find something--
Laura: (whispers) Fucking dick! Stop it!
Taliesin: If you find an ice weapon in that ship beneath the throne-- anything magical, some sort of ice power, we may need it. That may be useful.
Matt: "Keep in mind for it."
Marisha: I go up to the group. Percy, Vax, I need to take time with this, so are you all all right spending the rest of the day here while I help them?
Laura: Of course.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Marisha: All right. I ascend to the top of the ravine and I start meditating, and I cast Plant Growth.
Laura: We all need to go up there anyway because that's where the trees are that we're going to transport through, right?
Marisha: Yeah.
Laura: We make our way to the top of the ravine as well.
Matt: What level is Plant Growth?
Marisha: Third.
Matt: 3rd-level. Gotcha.
Marisha: And I'm doing the eight-hour--
Laura: Eight hours!
Matt: Boy, guys!
Sam: Super boring day for us.
Marisha: Yep. Sorry.
Taliesin: God, I want to get in that ship!
Marisha: I start doing that and revitalizing their landscape as close to what it was before, giving their-- [no audio]
Matt: It affects all normal plants within a hundred-foot radius. So you have a very specific portion that you revitalize in the ravine.
Marisha: Okay. Well, I talked to Tooma and find out where she--
Matt: Actually, no, all plants in a half-mile radius are--
Marisha: That's what I thought, yeah. In the eight hour one that's like, crazy.
Matt: I should have kept reading. Okay, so yeah. You talk to her about it, and she tells you, "The ravine itself does not have the nutrients to support crops, but we had farmland right above the ravine."
Marisha: All right. Do you plan to still reside there?
Matt: "Once the snow melts, yes."
Marisha: I'll do what I can. And I go there.
Matt: Okay. You get there, and through the use of your elemental magics, you easily cast aside the snow. And from underneath, you can see where once there was a heavy amount of cropland that has all died off because of the recent freeze that came with Vorugal. You take the eight hours to concentrate and as you, do you enrich the land. You can watch as many of these dead seeds come to life with green once more. Suddenly, you see sprouting bits of delicious cabbages and other forms of produce begin to spring to life and grow nutrient rich. As this happens, you can see a few of the Ravenites who followed you to watch this are taken aback and excitedly rush down to tell the rest of the people. The rest of you are bored out of your mind for the next eight hours.
Travis: Kima and I are sparring.
Sam: Challenge Vax to a peeing in the snow contest.
Matt: He's had a lot of wine.
Liam: Oh yeah, that was last night.
Laura: So you're pretty hungover, you don't have a lot.
Sam: Distance and accuracy.
Liam: (sings a fanfare) I've brought one from your house.
Sam: It's gone.
Laura: It disappeared.
Liam: Damn it!
Matt: Yes, as you reach for it, there's nothing there.
Laura: That's amazing.
Matt: So you guys have fun sparring for a while, you beat the crap out of each other off and on for a few hours and you both feel good about it. When the eight hours have finished, you guys reconvene.
Liam: V-A-X. Your turn.
Marisha: Vax is shorter than Scanlan.
Travis: Cursive, baby.
Matt: I want both of you guys to make performance checks
Sam: Okay. Performance for peeing in the snow.
Laura: Oh, what what. He's got a really high modifier, though.
Liam: Oh, I'm sure he'll win.
Taliesin: No, you're going to win.
Sam: Not good.
Liam: No, even at his lowest it'll be higher I bet.
Sam: 18.
Liam: 21.
Matt: You want to add your d12?
Liam: Zorro.
Matt: You can add your own bardic inspiration.
Liam: Yeah, if he thinks of it.
Sam: It's a fair fight.
Matt: Okay, okay.
Sam: This is a fair fight.
Matt: It is close, but as much as your cursive writing was on point, it was impressive that Vax was capable of cursive drawing the X, stopping and then crossing the X.
Sam: Whoa.
Travis: It stings when you stop.
Sam: That's impressive, but you know my wang is built for power, not accuracy.
Laura: As soon as the cube comes out  can I talk to you, do you mind stepping away?
Travis: With the cube out?
Sam: You talking to me?
Laura: No, not you.
Taliesin: Sure, yeah, I'm going to do nothing but stare at that bloody ship if I don't, so sure.
Laura: How are you, after dying?
Taliesin: I'm trying really hard not to think about it, actually. I don't know, honestly. There hasn't been a lot of time to process.
Laura: No, there hasn't. It's a lot in a few days.
Taliesin: I would say it would be nice to be going home, except I know what we're going home to. So there's going to be no relief.
Laura: No, not for a while, I don't think.
Taliesin: That creature hanging around.
Laura: Yes.
Taliesin: Yeah, death was not pleasant.
Laura: No. I have to tell you something
Taliesin: All right.
Laura: Do you know what Fenthras means?
Taliesin: I don't, actually.
Laura: It comes from the Elvish words, I'm surprised. Growth and protection.
Taliesin: I would've eventually looked it up. It's the sort of terribly boring thing I would do.
Laura: It's odd that Saundor had it for so long, since he was quite the opposite of that, don't you think?
Taliesin: I tend to think that many people tend to exalt the exact opposite of what they are.
Laura: Yes. I don't know, I think he focused for so long on the betrayal of his love, on all of the horrible things within himself that caused that, that he became the physical embodiment of it. And I think he was trying to do the same thing to me. Even though I refused him, I could feel those seeds being planted. Self-doubt and loathing echoing in my mind every night. Reliving every wrong that people have done to me and everything I have done.
Taliesin: I recently-- I will say, before death-- had a bit of an epiphany, and have been trying-- not always succeeding, but trying-- not to dwell on such things.
Laura: That's actually what I wanted to talk to you about. In the fight with Ripley.
Taliesin: Yes.
Laura: Your last words to her were, "I forgive you."
Taliesin: Yes.
Laura: It was such a surprise.
Taliesin: Yes.
Laura: I pull out Fenthras and I show him what I've carved onto it, it's "sinaeth." Do you know that word?
Taliesin: How common is that word?
Matt: You know the word.
Taliesin: I would know the word.
Laura: It's forgive.
Taliesin: Oh.
Laura: I carved this on Fenthras because that's the key, isn't it? It's the only way to really grow.
Taliesin: I think so. I'm trying. It's the only thing I've tried that's made any sense so far. And it felt very liberating, it felt good, it felt perfect. And it wasn't about her. It was just about me. Honestly, that was really the thing that I noticed, was I didn't say it to make her feel better, I didn't say it to give her any peace. I came to that feeling before running into her. I didn't know if it would be true when I saw her, but I feel like so much of my energy had been such a waste. And worse than a waste, it had been twisted in the wrong direction. And it's too late for a lot of things. There are things I cannot take back and things that I have done that will forever be terrible, but that's not the point, I suppose.
Laura: It isn't. Whoever that boy was that created those things, that suffered such horrors that he felt they were justified? You have to forgive him, too. Because everything you've suffered and endured and created in that time has made you into the person you are now. And you have a brilliant mind. And any darkness that might cloud your vision on occasion, the fact that you found it within yourself to forgive her means that it will never overtake you.
Taliesin: Thank you. I would like to think we're all better than we think we are. Except maybe your brother. I think he's just a mess.
Laura: He's terrible, isn't he? Just the worst.
Taliesin: Is he in here?
Laura: Maybe, he's probably hiding somewhere.
Taliesin: Shouldn't have given him that ring. Thank you. I know I have to forgive myself. I'm not quite there yet, but I can see a path. I like where we are and what we're doing. I think that we're the right people in the right place and the right time.
Laura: I agree. And this engraving is a reminder that every time I attack, it's not out of vengeance.
Taliesin: I would be horrified if you were taking yourself too seriously.
Laura: Never. Did you see the bear that I carved on the tree? It's quite lovely.
Taliesin: It was quite lovely. I don't know if the tree is quite as happy with it, but I was quite impressed.
Laura: Thank you.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Laura: That's all.
Taliesin: What room are we in, out of curiosity?
Laura: There's no room, we're in the woods.
Taliesin: Oh, no room, we're in the woods. Yeah, all right. As I walk away, I walk up. I kiss her. So we'll talk later. And I walk away.
Liam: (singing) Anything can happen in the woods.
Taliesin: Bless you.
Travis: (high-pitched) Oh shit!
Matt: And it's ten o'clock. We're going to go ahead and end today's session.
Taliesin: Bam, motherfuckers! Bam!
Travis: (singing) Go on and kiss the girl.
Laura: Oh man, oh man.
Matt: Thank you guys for watching! That episode had a lot of interesting moments.
Sam: We had an elephant fight. (laughter)
Matt: The spoils of war.
Travis: A whole bunch of new shit.
Liam: Look at our signatures in the snow, that's fucking beautiful!
Taliesin: There was pissing, there was kissing, there was everything!
Sam: Pissing and kissing.
Taliesin: Pissing and Kissing is the title.
Marisha: That's a good title.
Matt: That is not going to be the title.
Liam: I shit it.
Taliesin: You're welcome, Internet.
Matt: Well then. We'll get ourselves to rest for the evening. You guys do the same, thank you for hanging in there. Once again, amazing community, we love you guys so much, all the support you have. Make sure to dig into all the awesome charities that we support, and you guys support as well. We're continuously getting messages from them, blown away by the generosity of the Critter and Team Hooman community, so thank you guys so much for your support on those.
Laura: Thank you, Backblaze.
All: Thanks, Backblaze!
Travis: That amazing commercial. They're always so good.
Matt: I guess until next week, guys. Is it Thursday yet? See you then.
Travis: Oh shit, man!

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello, everyone, and welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play Dungeons and Dragons.
Travis: That's what we do!
Matt: Yep! So, welcome. We had a brief break last week as Liam brought us through his delightfully dark and twisted mind. Thank you again, Liam, for running that.
Laura: Creepy!
Liam: I went to Catholic school!
Matt: It was awesome.
Marisha: Why am I not surprised?
Matt: So, anyway, glad you could join us. Before we jump into tonight's game, we have some quick announcements to make. First and foremost, you want to talk about some new merch stuff that just got in there? What the hell you've got right there?
Marisha: What's that?
Ashley: What are these?
Laura: What are these? These shirts are in the store right now! And the color, and they're so soft, I'll be petting you guys throughout the whole night.
Liam: They're soft like the hoodie. They're like a thin version of the soft hoodie.
Laura: If you have the Gilmore shirt, it feels like the Gilmore shirt. Also, the Critical Role dice are coming back in stock very soon, but they are on preorder right now in the store. You can go in and get on that. We also have the CR enamel pin back in stock, so you can check that shit out in the store right now. We'll wait.
Matt: Awesome. Let's see. There's a new Signal Boost coming out this week with kind of a cool person who hosted that. Who's that?
Travis: DM O'Drien!
Liam: I am not cool, so you are not talking about me.
Marisha: It's actually going to play during the break.
Liam: Oh yeah?
Marisha: Yeah!
Liam: So you can hear about all my artsy-fartsy theatrical sad hangups from the past? Oh joy, guys!
Marisha: Yeah, yeah! You'll like it! So stick around!
Matt: Look forward to that. And also, a reminder that MomoCon's coming up, end of next month, where Taliesin, Marisha and I will be guests and, as of recently, our good friend Brian Wayne Foster will also be joining us for a Talks Machina live panel at the event, which will be fun.
Matt: MomoCon!
Liam: Yeah, MomoCon is just fun to say. MomoCon.
Laura: We're all going to say it.
Matt: Yeah. So we'll be there, it'll be fun. It's May 25th to the 28th, in Atlanta, Georgia. Look forward to seeing you guys there.
Liam: Oh my gosh, oh my gosh!
Laura: Oh my, what? How? Why? (laughter)
Sam: It's the start of a new year.
Travis: Why doesn't it wrap around to the back?
Sam: I tried to get the eyes on my nipples.
Travis: Pull it down a little bit. Just give it a little tug. There it is.
Laura: I've never realized how large-- Wow, it's bulging. Those are some bulging eye sausages if I've ever seen them.
Matt: What's great is when you're not stretching it, it looks like that dumb FaceApp thing now where you can see your older version of yourself.
Laura: Have you noticed, the guys turn into girls so much better than the girls turn into guys? I mean, we look so terrible turning into--
Matt: I've seen some girl photos that turned out pretty good. Maybe it's just you guys.
Laura: You have to have your hair pulled back.
Matt: It might just be the three of you, I'm sorry. Although who did Ashley end up looking like?
Marisha: Haley Joel Osment.
Matt: Yeah, that worked out pretty well.
Ashley: Actually, a lot of people tell me that I look like him anyway.
Laura: Really?
Ashley: Him or-- I get--
Travis: Brad Pitt?
Laura: Yeah, definitely Brad Pitt.
Ashley: From the '80s band, it's a guy.
Travis: Keep going.
Ashley: Justin George?
Liam: Narrowed it down. Hum a melody.
Ashley: I can't think of a song. I'll think of it.
Liam: This is the whole episode.
Laura: And she'll just yell it out during the break. Travis makes a really ugly woman, though. I turned one of your pictures into a girl. I never should have done that.
Matt: I don't agree with that. I've seen Nip Tuck.
Travis: Thank you, Matt! Thank you.
Matt: A supportive significant other. Wednesday Club, Taliesin! Do you want to talk about Wednesday Club?
Taliesin: Actually, this one, it's going to be Matt Key is taking the reins on this one, so I don't even-- I'm not sure he's settled on what's going on, but I think we were talking about maybe Brian K. Vaughan and looking at his whole body of work, which would be a lot of fun.
Matt: There you go, that'll be fun.
Taliesin: TV writer and comic book writer. Could be cool.
Matt: Fantastic. And of course we have Talks Machina next Tuesday, live here on Twitch and Alpha at 7PM Pacific with our wonderful host, Brian Wayne Foster.
Travis: Except there won't be one.
Matt: Oh wait, there won't be one this week! Never mind, 'cause they're going to be on vacation.
Travis: 'Cause you're going out of the country. They're going to-- Where are you going, the North Pole?
Ashley: I wish we were going to the North Pole. We are going to Mexico!
Matt: Let's be nice and vague. Going to a place that's pretty.
Ashley: We're going to a place.
Matt: Which, as a note, as far as Brian was saying, you guys really haven't had a vacation together, ever.
Ashley: Never.
Matt: So, super excited that you guys have the chance to do that.
Ashley: We've almost been dating for five years and we've never gone on a vacation together.
Travis: Y'all are dating? (laughter)
Laura: Wait. What?
Matt: Well, that'll be fun. Yeah!
Marisha: Also, your Date with Matt Mercer in a Silk Robe, thanks to Brian Wayne Foster, will be up on YouTube tomorrow at 10AM.
Matt: Ho boy.
Marisha: Is that okay?
Matt: Yeah, it's fine. Prepare for a lot of port drinking.
Ashley: Boy George! Boy George! I get it a lot. I get that.
Laura: What? You don't look like-- With a lot of makeup, maybe?
Matt: Awesome, so tomorrow? All right, for those of you guys who missed it, you'll be able to see it tomorrow. No, that's fine, bring tissues.
Taliesin: That could go a number of ways.
Matt: That it can.
Taliesin: Sorry.
Matt: But no, thank you all. Thank you all who came on Tuesday to chat and talk and create some fun future characters for this storyline in the future, it'll be fun. Anyway, do we have anything else anyone wants to mention, or shall we continue?
Sam: Did you already do the shirts?
Matt: We did the shirts. That is so nightmarish, Sam.
Laura: I love it.
Sam: It's an homage.
Travis: It looks like Mercer's eating the table.
Matt: What I'm looking forward to is the eventuality that you have enough of these shirts that your closet has a section that's just my face.
Sam: Your face, my face.
Matt: Yeah, it's just this face is printed, and just having your wife eventually come up to me and having you go--
Sam: I might have enough that we can all wear one one night. (laughter)
Sam: Let me think on that.
Matt: All righty, then, without further ado, let's jump into tonight's episode of Critical Role. [dramatic music]
Matt: And welcome back, everyone. So, last we left off, Vox Machina, having completed a multitude of various quests over a prolonged period of time, found themselves free of immediate necessity and danger.
Travis: What?
Marisha: Brought peace to the world forever.
Matt: No, that's not true.
Marisha: Nothing bad will ever happen again.
Matt: (laughs) That's not how this works. (laughter)
Sam: Credits.
Matt: So, as the last episode wound down and friendships were strengthened, you all then began to ponder about what you wanted to do with the time before you. And today we return approximately one year after we left off. So, we met earlier this week to discuss this. We went through a various number of things you wanted to accomplish, both as individuals and some of you in groups. So we're going to go ahead and go over those elements for you guys and get everyone up to speed with what exactly has transpired in this year period of time.
Liam: Show and tell!
Matt: So, who would like to begin?
Sam: We're just going to share?
Laura: Just say what we did, what we accomplished?
Liam: Summer vacation!
Matt: Share elements of it, and then some elements will be roleplayed, because that's what I want to do.
Laura: Because that's what I want to do.
Matt: Yeah. So.
Travis: Are you pointing at me? Okay, okay. I'll start.
Matt: All right, so, Grog, what are some of the things you did?
Travis: Because I single-handedly established peace across Exandria, I found myself bored, in need of action. And so I sought out where the fight would now be. I looked for Scanlan a little bit along the way. I didn't find him.
Matt: No, you did not.
Travis: I looked for, like, magical items along the way. I didn't find them. So I went to Vasselheim, which is where the Slayer's Take is. And I think before I left, I wanted to get some personal things, like, done to my body. So I had the bear tattoo that I filleted of off Kevdak, and I had it tanned, and then I got a copy of that tattoo on my back.
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: Because that shit's behind me.
All: Ooh!
Matt: So you now have Kevdak's bear-totem tattoo that was on his chest, now on your back.
Travis: Yep.
Matt: Out of sheer disrespect for him.
Travis: Totes.
Matt: I love it.
Liam: Did you get a bear ass on your bare ass?
Travis: Much better idea. I also took Kevdak's skull, the top of it, and I had a new cup, a new mug made out of it. With metal bits and stuff, with a handle.
Matt: Yeah, yeah. Okay.
Travis: I don't understand how, but it looks really great. It's like metal and bone, and I (drinking sounds). That's me.
Matt: That's delicious.
Travis: I just choked on a peanut.
Laura: Yeah. Oh Grog. I heard it happen.
Travis: So, I went to Vasselheim, and I defended my title in the Crucible.
Matt: Yeah. Met multiple times.
Travis: Multiple times.
Matt: Including once against a familiar individual called Kern the Hammer.
Travis: Kern the Hammer, he came back with that monk shit.
Matt: Yeah. And did not prevail.
Travis: Nope.
Matt: However, he did come back to you, requesting to learn and train under you, to teach him your ways. To which you said--
Travis: I forgot. No. Yes. I said yes.
Matt: You said no.
Travis: I said no. (laughter)
Matt: That's what you told me, at least.
Travis: I said no. I said no, because I was like, you've got to drink, all the time, and this, and he just wasn't up to snuff. That, and I should not be teaching anyone anything. So then I went to the Slayer's Take, right, in search of big game. And I had fun with that for a while, but it just wasn't quite the same. It wasn't crazy-ass, you know, ancient dragons or nothing. It just wasn't quite up to snuff. But I did have my curiosity about the Deck of Many Things piqued. So, at some point along the way, Vex's warnings ringing in my ears, I found a nice drunk sap to--
Matt: So, so, as you are wandering down an evening byway in the Quadroads of Vasselheim, a number of cups in yourself, you hiccup loudly and glance off to the side to find one gentleman who's been far deeper in his cups and is currently trying to steady himself against the stone wall in an alleyway.
Travis: Yup. Hey, you!
Matt: "What?"
Travis: You. You look like a mighty warrior. Do you need another drink?
Matt: "Oh, if you're buying, yeah."
Travis: Yeah, I do. I have one. And I pour him a little bit from the keg. Hey, do you have like, a wife, kids, attachments? Anyone that would miss you?
Matt: "You think if I did I'd be drinking this hard?"
Travis: I'm going to take that as a no. Cool, hey, look, I don't know if you're interested, but I have, in my possession, something really cool. And I take out the Deck. Do you know what this is?
Matt: "I have no idea."
Travis: Great! Great! We're in the street, right?
Matt: Yeah. You're near a thoroughfare and there's a small alley off to the side.
Travis: Good. Follow me into this alley and it'll be a deal. Just follow me over here.
Matt: Make a persuasion check. With advantage, because he's really drunk.
Marisha: For anyone who's watching, this is like, abduction, how to not-- 101, self-defense.
Matt: This is terrible.
Liam: I mean, he's either changing this guy's life for the better, or murdering him.
Travis: 19 plus one.
Matt: (laughs) You watch as in the center of his pupils a little sparkle of interest kicks in. And, I mean, five percent soberer at the prospect of something fun of this stranger that gave him a drink and goes: "Wait, what are you talking about?"
Travis: Well, listen. I am kind of like an evangelical spreader of good news. And I found this. And one time I pulled a card out and I got a magic weapon. It was amazing. And I just figured, like, you look like a guy that would appreciate such a weapon, so--
Matt: (belches)
Travis: -- and I open the Deck. I thought maybe you would like to draw a card.
Matt: He takes a second and looks around. Looks at the Deck. "Is this some sort of a magic trick?"
Travis: Yes. Yep.
Matt: "All right. Do you want me to tell you what it is?"
Travis: Sure. Yeah. Just draw it and-- Actually, just hold it and don't tell me what it is.
Matt: Okay. Let me get my cards out.
Laura: Oh my God.
Ashley: You have an actual set?
Laura: What the actual fuck is happening right now?
Travis: It was a fucking year. Did you not think this was going to happen? (laughter)
Travis: It probably happened in the first week.
Liam: This is the first of ten guys.
Travis: Lot of problems, lot of drinking, lot of fighting. Ran out of shit.
Sam: What if you die? What if you die right now?
Travis: I'm not. He's drawing the card.
Laura: Yeah, but you could still die.
Sam: It could kill-- It could kill you too.
Travis: Could it?
Sam: I think so.
Travis: I'm not really sure on how this shit works. But I need another card to come out of that Deck.
Matt: Yeah, maybe.
Laura: Oh my God. Oh no, what did he pull. What did he pull?
Matt: No. No. No. Huh. I'm going to let somebody else pull this. Who wants to pull it?
Travis: Oh, you raise your hand to pull from the Deck? Thats some bullshit.
Laura: Oh no. Should I turn it?
Travis: Ooh. Ooh.
Laura: Do you know what that is?
Travis: No, I don't remember.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: It's just, it looked ominous.
Travis: It was a face card, though.
Taliesin: It was a face card. Oh. Oh.
Matt: (laughs)
Laura: Oh no. Is it amazing? Did he get something really good?
Taliesin: You're the DM now.
Matt: Hold on. I have to roll a die first. (laughs) He takes the card and looks at it. Turns around and shows you, and it's this tarot card of a beautiful moonscape, with an open night sky. I believe that's what it is. Yeah, that's what it is. He puts it back in the Deck, and is like: "All right, what's the trick? I'm-- I'm feeling a little-- a little strange."
Travis: Could you describe to me how you feel right now?
Matt: And he's like trying to contemplate it. He goes: "Wait a second. I wish that I was a powerful lord of the Quadroads." And there's a strange, tingling visual image as the cloth around him that was tattered and worn-out becomes beautiful silks--
Laura: Oh my God.
Matt: The drunkenness fades from him ever-so-slightly, and now he looks washed. And you glance over at the far end of the alleyway, and there's a guy there who's dressed in long, long tails and a coat and goes: "Sir, how long are you going to be?" He goes: "Right with you. I don't even know what his name is. Well, thank you so much, stranger." And he pats you on the shoulder.
Travis: Grog. Grog.
Matt: "Grog."
Travis: Grog Strongjaw.
Matt: "Grog Strongthings."
Travis: Maker of kings.
Matt: "Great."
Travis: Yup.
Matt: "I still got one more of these." And he walks off and runs off to the carriage.
Laura: He got two wishes?
Matt: 1d3 wishes.
Travis: Are you fucking serious?
Sam: Wait, he got two wishes? You gave away two wishes?
Travis: (shouts) Wait! What was your name?
Matt: The queen of diamonds was the card.
Travis: Did I get his name?
Matt: You didn't get his name. He just runs off.
Taliesin: Lord of the Quadroads, now.
Sam: You just got a cure for cancer, and you gave it away?
Laura: Wait, wait, I have a question. Once a card has been pulled, is it gone from the Deck, or does it go back in?
Liam: Some go back, and some--
Laura: Oh my God.
Travis: I should just pull all of these right now. (groaning)
Travis: I mean, obviously, it was just a little appetizer, the first one.
Matt: Well, let me see here. Let me see. Let me see.
Travis: That is way better.
Taliesin: (laughs) You want to pull another one.
Sam: Matt's verifying.
Laura: Verifying that he did the right thing?
Travis: He's double-checking.
Sam: This is important.
Laura: I know. Yeah.
Matt: Once the card is drawn, it fades from existence.
Taliesin: Oh there's no other-- No, the Wish card goes.
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: The best card is fucking gone. It is the best card, isn't it?
Liam: Now the Deck is slightly shittier.
Sam: Way shittier!
Matt: But you know what?
Travis: You know what? Only one person picked that card from the Deck. So it's not really my fault.
Sam: It's Laura's fault?
Taliesin: Good roll, Laura.
Laura: Thank you, thank you. Hey, man.
Matt: That one's gone, now.
Taliesin: Lord of the Quadroads now owes you a favor.
Laura: Yeah!
Marisha: That's true!
Travis: It was the queen of diamonds, right? Yeah.
Ashley: I say, at the end of all this, we all pick one.
Liam: Who was that man? That was Taliesin Jaffe, Mayor of Ren Faire!
Taliesin: Huzzah!
Ashley: Huzzah!
Laura: What's going on, Matt?
Matt: Just double-checking to make sure the card goes away, and it does, according to how it's written.
Travis: Clearly, nobody in my group knows what they're talking about. This Deck is a mighty gift!
Laura: Fuck.
Taliesin: We're doomed.
Travis: And I put it back in the Bag of Holding.
Matt: Okay. I was like, "Oh god, is he going to draw another card?"
Liam: Two-hour combat scenario.
Travis: I want to, really bad, but I have an open bar tab.
Matt: Okay then! You, in your time away, radically changed some poor man's life! And, apparently, Wished himself to some level of nobility within the Quadroads of Vasselheim, with one Wish still standing!
Laura: That's amazing.
Travis: Okay!
Marisha: Remember that guy.
Travis: Lord of the Crossroads? Quadroads?
Matt: Well, there are many lords and ladies of the Quadroads, he's just now one of them.
Travis: Good deal. That happened.
Matt: I was thinking to myself it was either going to be that or some grim reaper's going to show up and cut his head off.
Travis: That's all I wanted, really. Just cheer him on, maybe have a little better counterweight for my expectation of the Deck, but now I just want to pull one every day. Nothing but good shit happens! Magic weapon! Fucking Wishes!
Matt: So if this happened early in your year, do you still resist the urge as the year progresses?
Laura: Oh no.
Travis: No.
Laura: Oh, Jesus!
Taliesin: Yay!
Matt: How long does it take until the urge creeps up again?
Travis: I mean, oh god, why do I have to be so fucking true to my character?
Taliesin: There's nothing we can do!
Laura: We're not even there!
Liam: Probably thinks he has three birthdays a year, right? So.
Travis: I will probably wait to take it back so that I can open it with my good friend, Pike. Because she'll understand that this is an awesome deck.
Matt: Which actually plays into her opening. The other thing you did, which happens towards the end of the year, is you said you went to the Frostweald.
Travis: I did, yeah. I was curious about the werewolves. So I went to go see the nymph in the frozen lake. You know, the one that's all about Grog.
Matt: Mm-hm.
Travis: So I had a conversation with her, and I felt really bad because I wasn't as affectionate as last time, so I gave her this palm-sized ruby that was at the bottom of the bag. Looked really pretty, so I gave it to her.
Matt: She thanked you.
Travis: She did. We hit it off. And I asked her if the werewolves were just in the Feywild. Turns out--
Matt: Lycanthropy is scattered throughout the planes.
Travis: Well, I didn't fucking know that.
Matt: Now you do. She passed that information on to you. All right. So. That's the truncated example of Grog's year. We might come back to it here in a minute. Next up would be Pike, because that's a good transition point there. So, what'd you do?
Ashley: All right. So I followed, in the beginning-- did the guy pick the Deck in Vasselheim? Or were you--
Matt: It was in Vasselheim.
Travis: It was in Vasselheim.
Ashley: So I went with Grog to Vasselheim. And because I wanted to go and read and work on some things--
Matt: Check in on your temple that you built there.
Ashley: Yes. I ended up fighting (laughs) because I saw him fight, and I was like, oh, I should probably just try it!
Travis: Yeah!
Ashley: And did well.
Matt: Yeah!
Ashley: I'm the second champion under Grog.
Laura: Fuck yes!
Matt: And as everyone was pitting both of you against each other for another championship bout, you both decided to--
Ashley: Do it. No! To fight!
Travis: To kill each other.
Ashley: We didn't end up doing it.
Travis: Nope.
Ashley: We just shook--
Travis: Yep. ASHLEY -- and we knew both of us were just too powerful--
Travis: Too true!
Ashley: -- and I would win. So we just decided not to do it.
Travis: Two monsters of a feather stay in leather.
Ashley: Two monsters of a feather. Also, in that time, which was a five-month period, we had a lot of lessons and taught Grog how to read.
Laura: Yay!
Ashley: Just a little bit.
Travis: Just a little.
Matt: You can slowly read four- to five-letter words.
Marisha: Five-letter words is a big deal!
Laura: That's a big fucking deal.
Matt: He knows how to write his name now.
Laura: Yeah!
Matt: And he can write a full sentence over a short rest.
Travis: Yep. (laughter)
Travis: Meat. Cat.
Liam: Farts. Farts.
Travis: Doody, with a Y.
Marisha: Does he get exhausted from reading?
Matt: We'll cross that bridge when we get to it. (laughter)
Ashley: Wait, what did you ask?
Marisha: If he gets mentally exhausted from reading. Takes a point of exhaustion when he tries to read.
Ashley: I'm so tired!
Travis: I'm tired now!
Ashley: I took some time to learn how to be just a little bit more stealthy.
Laura: Yeah!
Ashley: Just did a little bit of training. Not a ton, but maybe, we'll see. I also went to check on great-great-grandpappy Wilhand to see how he was doing, and he's doing fine. He's older.
Matt: Wilhand. Yeah, he's doing good. The home that was damaged in the Umbrasyl attack on Westruun, your room has been repaired. Though it's taken a little while, because it's mainly just him hiring who he can at the time. But he's doing well. He's "an old gnome, but still kicking around! Still doing his best, still doing his prayers to Sarenrae, glad to see you coming, saying hi."
Ashley: Oh, of course. Always.
Marisha: Does he still have Fassbender?
Ashley: I've totally forgot about Fassbender! Didn't he die?
Laura: No, no, no, we left Fassbender with him.
Ashley: Oh shit, I forgot about Fassbender.
Sam: No, I thought that we lost him in the dragon fight.
Laura: No, no, no, we left him with Wilhand.
Ashley: He's keeping him safe. He probably helped build the house.
Matt: If you ask him about that, ask him where Fassbender is, he's like, "Oh, this nice older fella came by and said it was his property? So I gave it back to him. He seemed very--"
Laura: It was that dick.
Matt: "-- very intent on receiving his property, and I wasn't about to argue."
Ashley: That's okay.
Laura: He was technically his.
Ashley: It was technically his. I also sent a little bit of money to -- I don't know where they are, but I hired somebody to send a letter and some money to some of my family.
Matt: Yeah, some of the Trickfoots.
Ashley: Yeah. And what else? Oh, last, but certainly not least, we opened up a bakery.
Sam: Oh, yeah!
Laura: Yes we did!
Sam: What's it called?
Ashley: It's called-- tell 'em.
Laura: It's called-- well, this was Tary's idea-- it's called the Slayer's Cake.
Ashley: And we have many, many items.
Laura: Delicious Sun Treats.
Ashley: Sun Treats. Bear Claws. Angel Food Cake.
Marisha: Some Tree Bark that Keyleth made.
Ashley: So many treats and treasures.
Sam: Bear Claws?
Marisha: Definitely Bear Claws, yeah. Out of Whitestone, of course.
Laura: Obviously, yeah.
Matt: Bear Claws? Is that it? Did you guys make Bear Claws?
Ashley: So Tary, Keyleth, Vex and I just decided on a drunken evening, we were like, we should open up a bakery!
Laura: Let's just fuckin' do it! (laughter)
Laura: We found this building that was pretty abandoned in Whitestone, we fuckin' put in a bakery.
Marisha: We should just do this tomorrow. We should do it tomorrow.
Matt: Whitestone needs more commerce.
Laura: That's right.
Ashley: It does.
Matt: And there are plenty of vacant buildings that are starting to fill up as people move back in.
Laura: That's why we did it, 'cause we wanted to help the economy.
Marisha: Yeah.
Ashley: Yeah.
Taliesin: Anything to get you out of the wine cellar is such a good idea.
Marisha: Yeah. Plus, small-business tax breaks, it was good all the way around.
Taliesin: You're not getting a tax break.
Marisha: What?
Ashley: I did try looking for Scanlan at one point.
Matt: You did, yeah.
Ashley: But I couldn't find him.
Matt: Yeah. It led you all the way to Emon, I think it was, then it went cold. Yeah.
Ashley: Yeah. Yes. And what was the last thing. Oh, we went to go see--
Matt: We'll get to that.
Ashley: -- something great.
Matt: Yeah, we'll get to that.
Ashley: Yeah. So that's what I did on my year of break.
Matt: All right, who wants to go next?
Sam: Are we going in order, or-- what are we doing?
Laura: I mean, I guess we can, yeah. All right, well, I spent my beginning of the year trying to find the baby of the Grey Render that I sent on its way. Mortally.
Matt: Yes, you discovered that there was an offspring. There was a singular offspring in the Parchwood, not too far from where you saw it emerge in your vision. And upon finally finding it, it was young and defensive and feral and, after--
Laura: Very angry.
Matt: Very angry. And day after day you returned with various foods and meat and trying to connect with it, and did not succeed.
Laura: I did not. I failed miserably.
Liam: So many shit rolls.
Laura: So many shit rolls!
Matt: Yeah. It fled southward into the Parchwood, and while you now have sent your Grey Hunt that is now working below you to keep an eye out for it, it has not been seen since.
Laura: Yes. I am on the lookout in case it comes close to our territory. I want to keep our people safe. But I'm not going to go and try to kill it just for the shits.
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: Yeah. I also built my house!
Matt: Mm-hm.
Laura: Yes! New house, new house! And built up the guard. And I made a nice little animal sanctuary for Trinket, a nice garden area for him to hang out in, and other wildlife should they so desire. Oh, and Tary, Tary moved in.
Sam: I didn't have a place to stay.
Laura: And I have such a large house, you might as well just come and live over here, right?
Sam: Well, I mean, if you'll have me.
Laura: Of course, darling!
Sam: I can sleep on a couch.
Laura: No, no, no, you'll have your own room.
Sam: Excellent, because I don't think I could sleep on a couch. (laughter)
Laura: You're wonderful.
Sam: You're not so bad, either.
Laura: Oh, you! And I became, for Whitestone, the ambassador to Syngorn. So I'm working on making a Teleportation Circle, is that what they're called?
Matt: Yeah. You're having a Teleportation Circle placed within your estate in Whitestone, and at the end of the year it's still two weeks out from creation. So it's going to take a little while longer, but it is in the process.
Laura: Trying to make amends, to make peace with my father, trying to forgive and grow and move on. And while Tary was living in the house--
Sam: Braiding hair.
Laura: Oh my gosh, just doing so many things, we decided to make armor out of Vorugal, so I have new white dragon leather armor that Tary helped me enchant. Actually, that Tary enchanted and I hung out with him, for five months, while he did that.
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: Yeah, that happened. (laughter)
Sam: A lot of hard work, but I learned something from it.
Laura: Yeah, that I'm really good company, basically.
Sam: Yeah, yep. She knows two songs. She sings them all the time. (laughter)
Laura: And Trinket gives amazing massages.
Sam: That's true.
Laura: Yes. I think that's pretty much it, outside of the bakery, which has taken up a lot of time, really.
Matt: Yeah. You did also research some--
Laura: Yes! I spent a fuckton of time! I'm building up my library in the house, so I spent a lot of time researching Orcus and the Raven Queen and learning everything that I can about all of them. All of them.
Matt: All right. And Vax?
Liam: Everything's going to start to get a little intertwined here now.
Matt: Which is why I led it along this way, so, yeah.
Liam: Yeah, yeah. So, overarching theme is, there was a lot of Zephra and chill. (laughter)
Liam: Enjoyed not being on death's door every fucking day and relaxing and being the right hand of the Queen back in Zephra, and--
Marisha: Chief.
Liam: I'm still learning the lingo. Getting to know Korren a bit more. Keyleth helped me-- I let a lot of blood and made a small altar to the Raven Queen in Zephra and it's been all flowered and vined out. And while we spent most of our time-- Oh, tattoos, want to talk tattoos?
Marisha: Yeah, since Keyleth-- the mantle's a little heavy and flashy and a little formal to wear all the time, but wanted something to still represent my chiefdom.
Sam: Did you get antlers tattooed on your face? (laughter)
Matt: Just right there.
Laura: Ooh, that actually could be pretty tight. Like those elves in Dragon Age.
Marisha: Keyleth goes hard, yeah. No, I got the traditional Ashari tattoos of the mantle across her chest and shoulders to mimic that.
Laura: That's super tight.
Liam: We went together. Yours took much longer than mine did. Yeah.
Marisha: It took a while. It's old needle-and-hammer style. All traditional.
Liam: Yeah, and about two-thirds of the way through yours, they started on mine, which is just a pair of antlers on the right bicep here.
Marisha: See, he got the antlers.
Sam: Nice.
Laura: Oh, did you really?
Liam: I did. Not on my face.
Laura: Oh, that's great. That's so cute.
Matt: Right next to the barbed wire.
Liam: Yeah. Keyleth for life. So we spent a lot of time in Zephra, but since have-druid-will-travel, we met up with these two quite a bit. About once a month, we would have three- or four-day weekends. We'd spent time in Whitestone. We went to Vasselheim a lot. The twins spent a lot of time in the library.
Laura: Yes, we did.
Liam: Reading a ton. I spent a lot of time at the Raven Queen's temple, getting to know the people there, getting to know what the hell a cleric or a priest or a paladin of the Raven Queen does, since I didn't really have any time to do that.
Matt: Part of your process there, once you had been fully accepted into the Order there, some of the few responsibilities you had were, you were called whenever relatively important figures in the city had passed away, to go and give rites when they were interred and be present during a number of funerals in there. That was one of the earlier responsibilities that was given to you within Vasselheim while you were there.
Liam: I tried to do a little observing, too, in Zephra as well. I didn't want to interfere with their customs, but it's like working at a funeral home, and over time you just get used to it. A couple of bits and pieces. I saw everybody, really. I went on a man's weekend with Grog and killed things, that was awesome. Talked a lot of shop with Pike. God talk. The girls went off on their own a little bit, so I spent time trying to figure out what it was Percival does in his workshop. He lent me a book about the history of Whitestone.
Taliesin: I did, I also sent you on a tour of the frescoes, it was quite nice.
Liam: It's beautiful, once you're not screaming, running on fire, you can really take in art and pass notes.
Taliesin: It had been years since I'd done it without being on fire, running around. Yes.
Liam: Also tried to locate Dr. Dranzel in an effort to find Scanlan, but was unsuccessful.
Matt: Yes.
Travis: You ate raw meat with me.
Liam: Yeah, and kept it down.
Travis: You did. Like a champ.
Sam: Do you like me? Check this box.
Liam: Are we married? Yes or no. (laughter)
Taliesin: Check one. Carry on, carry on.
Liam: Oh, and last thing, Vex took me to Syngorn on one of her trips. Spent some time with little sis. Not as much time with Dad. Some time with Dad. We're all right.
Laura: Eh, it's whatever.
Liam: It's fine.
Matt: Yeah, you've arranged a respect. There is no familial bond, per se, with him, but a lot of the tension has died away and there is a business, positive interaction.
Laura: Yeah, there's finally this feeling that we don't need-- at least, for me-- his approval anymore, which is very nice.
Matt: No, and he acknowledges that, and he seems both simultaneously proud and sad, almost a mild regret that, perhaps, I think he realizes now what he missed out on.
Laura: How fucking cool we are?
Matt: Kind of.
Sam: Well, you were until that. (laughter)
Laura: Just so fucking cool. Thanks for the note.
Liam: In character, in character. You know, elfs going to elf, and there's no getting around that, so.
Matt: Exactly. All righty, and I think I'm to Marisha as Keyleth. Keyleth, what you got going on?
Marisha: Okay, so once again, lot of intertwining starting to go on. Got our tattoos, took a little bit of time. One of the big things that Keyleth did over the course of the year, which took a massive majority of her time, was she went on a diplomacy mission to all four of the tribes as well as Emon and Whitestone, and with the help of Percy and Tary, we came up with a system that we are calling the Crisis Orbs system, is what you called it? Where we put magical orbs in each of the cities that are basically giant panic beacons. And each city got assigned a separate color, to where if anything goes terribly wrong, someone can hit that beacon and all of the crystals will light up and whoever can respond first will do so.
Matt: Yeah.
Travis: What if some shitty 11-year-old kid just runs up and hits it?
Matt: They are heavily under guard.
Travis: Oh. Smart thinking.
Sam: By a 12-year-old.
Marisha: It's like how calling 911 is illegal. You don't do that. You don't do that..
Taliesin: You're not allowed in that room. (laughs)
Marisha: Yes, 'cause Keyleth does definitely-- Keyleth and a lot of the other Ashari dealt with a little bit of guilt after Cinderking Thordak, and wanted to make sure that if anything tragically goes wrong again, we can potentially be faster to respond. And have allies nearby. So that was a massive part of it. I also went to Whitestone and grabbed a little sprig off of the Sun Tree to propagate one of my own trees back in Vesrah. Spent a lot of time working on my alchemy, in between. I imagine we have would have crafting parties in Whitestone, yeah? And then, you know, I would do some alchemy.
Laura: I made friendship bracelets, she worked on her alchemy. So--
Marisha: Yeah, yeah. It was great. It was great. And he made dragon armor.
Sam: I was just making that fuckin' armor. (laughter)
Laura: It looked so good.
Liam: Girl better appreciate.
Matt: It's not like you have to make the armor, you commission the armor. You enchanted it for five months.
Sam: That's right.
Marisha: Took trips with Vax, and had him as my right-hand man.
Liam: Unnecessary bodyguard, yeah.
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: What's his official title?
Sam: Unnecessary bodyguard. (laughter)
Liam: It's Puddin'.
Matt: Coattails of The Tempest.
Marisha: Sir Vax. The Gothy One.
Sam: Cervix? (laughter)
Matt: Maybe not that one!
Liam: That's Cervex.
Laura: I like it. (laughter)
Matt: And thus, another meme was built. (laughter)
Matt: Okay, and since you were the last of one of the intertwined events, the four of you-- Keyleth, Vax, Vex, and Pike-- all took a specific trip.
Laura: And Tary.
Matt: I'm sorry, Tary came along too. So the five of you guys took a journey into the Feywild in search of the Theatre.
Liam: (sings) The fuckin' Theatre.
Taliesin: It was amazing-- I wasn't there, but it was amazing.
Matt: You weren't there.
Marisha: Such a good show.
Laura: They integrated rap, too. It was like--
Sam: History? Wow.
Laura: Yeah, it was like a whole new way to tell history. It was just so good.
Matt: (laughs) So after searching for a few days, up northward in the forest where you recall seeing portions of the tree-- canopy line shifting and seemingly vanishing and then reappearing, you eventually stumbled upon a large, wooden structure-- circular and tall, almost like a giant crown of wood, it sat there-- and noticed that the mists that hugged the base of this marsh, as it's slowly recovering since Sondur fell. Still thick marshland, but not quite as disgusting and corrupt as it once was. The mists that clouded this area were all gathering towards this wooden structure, and you begin to see shapes in the mist. Heads. Faces. Bodies. And you begin to realize that these were all spirits of the marsh being summoned to this structure. You all went, disguised as various small flying insects-- or beast creatures-- and managed to stealth into the entrance doors, into this mossy marsh-rotted wood structure, and on the inside saw the mist form an audience, within the inside of this Globe Theatre-like structure, upon which the central platform remained. A strange, crystalline spark began to form upon that stage, where a doorway opened and then, stepping from it, a half-dozen elvish-looking figures, though their skin is pale white-gray, their eyes white and iris-less, their limbs lithe and thinner and longer than elves you're used to seeing in your experience. And, while none of you could understand-- or most of you could understand the language except for Keyleth and Taryon, I think it was?
Marisha: No, we were the ones that could.
Matt: Yeah, you guys were the only ones who could understand it because you both knew Sylvan.
Marisha: Correct.
Matt: What you saw was a brilliant three-act performance for the undead spirits of the surrounding marsh. Unaware of the serious danger if any of you had been discovered. (laughs)
Liam: Do tell, Matt.
Laura: Yeah, I know. I want to know.
Matt: No. You don't know.
Liam: Aliens!
Matt: Go back. Go back. However, you watched the performance entirely, did not gather their attention. At which, the entity stepped back into a doorway, and it closed off and you absconded from the Theatre before the rest of the audience could shift its way out and become the mists of the Forests once again.
Liam: This is their most sacred ceremony or something?
Matt: You don't know.
Liam: I don't.
Matt: You only know what they told you.
Taliesin: You only have what I told you later, it's pretty much--
Matt: Yeah. So as you guys returned from this and described your experience to Percy, the only person who really had spent a large portion of his youth researching the Feywild, and having an interest in these Fey creatures and their societies--
Laura: He didn't want to go! Yeah, he had things to copy.
Taliesin: I had things to do, I wasn't entirely clear about what you were planning to do. My god!
Marisha: Sorry.
Taliesin: No, it's great! You didn't die, you weren't kidnapped, your soul wasn't taken, you weren't--
Laura: That could've happened?
Taliesin: Yes, you watched the--
Marisha: The Royal Troupe of the--
Taliesin: Unseelie Court.
Marisha: Unseelie Court.
Taliesin: For god's sakes. Yes, a lot could've happened. They have these little vignettes on occasion that they use to sort of-- it's like a nice little trap. They just like to grab people and use them for various things, no one really knows because no one ever comes back.
Liam: Who are 'they'? The 'Unseelie court'?
Taliesin: They're sort of the shadow court, I suppose. They would be the-- for everything that you saw in the Feywild, they are the thing that the Feywild is a little sketchy about and a little worried about.
Laura: Ooh.
Liam: Well, listen, man. If I can't have the arts in my life, I'd rather be dead.
Taliesin: I respect that. (laughter)
Taliesin: And I'm very impressed. You're going to have to draw everything. You're going to have to draw everything. It's very important.
Liam: They looked like Slendermen.
Taliesin: I don't know what that means.
Laura: Very tall and slender.
Sam: They kept singing about a Technicolor Dreamcoat. (laughter)
Taliesin: I have a book about that. (laughter)
Matt: All right. So. Your adventure to finally find the Theatre, complete. I believe that concludes your immediate ventures. Percival.
Taliesin: I had the least vacation-y of anybody's vacation.
Matt: Of course you did.
Taliesin: 'Cause I have technically been on vacation for many, many years. I finally took the mantle of responsibility for not necessarily-- I'm not ruling Whitestone, that's not how it works, but I did take on a lot of the civic responsibility.
Matt: Yeah, you guys converted into the Chamber of Whitestone.
Taliesin: Yes.
Matt: Which is less of a singular family ruling and more of a small series of offices held by Lords or Ladies.
Taliesin: I hired someone to help run the-- my workshop.
Sam: I was doing a lot of work. (laughter)
Sam: Mornings at the bakery-- (laughter)
Sam: -- afternoons at the workshop, and then an hour and a half every night enchanting it.
Laura: Yeah.
Taliesin: And then we drink.
Sam: Yeah.
Laura: But didn't it feel good, Tary, to get your hands dirty?
Sam: It did. I got this thing on my finger, I was later told that that's what happens when you work with your hands. (laughter)
Sam: It's a blister! Yeah.
Travis: How awful.
Taliesin: So, with the help, I had time to start working on a few projects. I finally made a new pair of glasses. Well, I tried.
Matt: You tried.
Taliesin: To make a new pair of glasses.
Matt: You rolled a one. And then you rolled a two.
Taliesin: And then I rolled again and tried to make a new pair of glasses. And then I realized it's very, very hard to make a pair of glasses when you can't see what you're doing because you don't have a pair of glasses.
Sam: Warby Parker.
Taliesin: So then I actually called Tary and said, please fix these for me. He made very, very nice glasses. I think they have your name inscribed on them, they're really gaudy.
Sam: Rose gold is the best.
Taliesin: White gold. White gold. Please. (laughter)
Taliesin: It's got to match the outfit. I automated the system for making shot and powder for the castle. I created a royal guard that-- and have been training an elite group of soldiers specifically to guard the family and the house. They were the Whitestone Musketeers until Cassandra said that that was silly and so they were called the Riflemen.
Matt: Riflemen of Whitestone.
Taliesin: Yeah, the Riflemen of Whitestone. (whispers) Musketeers. (laughter)
Matt: "I'm sorry, Percy, but no."
Taliesin: No. I get vetoed a lot, these days. (laughter)
Taliesin: I began modernizing the city. I have a wonderful dream of turning Whitestone into a shining beacon on the hill of what the future of mankind could be. And the first order of business, one of two big projects that we've started to bring forth our reputation as this modern city, is we've been running steam pipes from the depths through the main streets so that the snow never needs to be uncovered, so that the streets are always clean, and a few of the major houses can be heated this way during the heavy winters.
Matt: It's a heavy endeavor, it's going to take a while to complete.
Taliesin: It's not completed yet.
Matt: It's begun work.
Taliesin: We're also trying to create some series of illuminations at least within the main castle in case the thing in the basement that we're still working on ever turns on us and suddenly we are un-magiced, which is a constant fear. I've upgraded, with Taryon's help, we've upgraded several of my inventions. I've had a proper sword of my family crest made. I finally got the glove more-or-less working. More working, honestly, but I'll get into that later. I've been desperately trying to get you to stop going out into the woods to stop searching for that bloody thing.
Laura: I've been a bit obsessed, I'm sorry.
Taliesin: That covers quite a bit of it, at this point.
Matt: Yeah. That's pretty much everything you've got here.
Travis: What'd you kill, in the year that you had off?
Sam: Time.
Taliesin: Time, and things in the woods, on occasion. We go hunting. And I've also been training men how to use their guns, so there's been a bit of that.
Travis: Boring.
Matt: All right.
Liam: Did you catch a whiff of Galdrick out in woods?
Laura: I've seen a wolf, out and about, but he seems to do his job well, and I'm not going to stop him.
Taliesin: Technically an honorary member of the Grey Hunt, I'd say.
Laura: Yes, quite.
Matt: All right. And Taryon.
Sam: Well... Taryon had a great year.
Matt: You're such a terrible person.
Sam: You've heard much of what he's done. Mainly just building and working and working and building. And in his spare time, he built and worked on things for himself. Chief among them, Doty! Doty 2.0, take this down.
Matt: "Tary."
Sam: Yes, see?
Travis: Oh he fucking talks!
Sam: A little bit. Doty, how handsome am I?
Matt: "Tary."
Sam: I heard "very". And Doty, what do you say when it's windy outside?
Matt: "Tary."
Sam: It's airy. Right? That's what I heard. Oh no, boo!
Matt: "Tary?"
Sam: Yeah, it is scary. He says a lot of things. It depends on the context, you have to sort of figure out what he's saying. But he can say that, he can say one word. It took a lot of money to do that, but it was worth it. He's also got a couple of upgrades. He's got a waterproof slot for the book inside of him so he can store my book.
Matt: The door itself is also a crest.
Sam: Yes, the crest of Vox Machina, right on his chest, emblazoned there. His arm works a little differently, his right arm, which we might see in some sort of competition at some point. And his left arm, thanks to Percival Fredrickstein von Mussel de something.
Taliesin: Bless you.
Sam: He's got a little hole right here in his hand, that--
Laura: That you... never mind. (laughter)
Travis: That was amazing!
Liam: Our hero!
Taliesin: You're gonna pay for that, oh my God, I can feel the radiation.
Travis: It can't be for anything else. Anything else won't compare. Just change it.
Laura: Just a little hole.
Travis: Itty-bitty little hole.
Liam: How wide is the hole?
Sam: It's got some girth.
Taliesin: Well-machined.
Sam: But it can fire a shot, a bullet shot. I've never used it before, but it can shoot something.
Taliesin: It can.
Matt: Once, and then takes a short rest to reload.
Sam: Yep. And I think that's the major improvements to Doty, other than the speaking and the other stuff. Let's see, what else did I do?
Liam: You told me one other thing. Did that get jettisoned?
Sam: Oh, I also bought him-- I bought a lot of stuff. I'm almost out of money, guys.
Travis: What?
Laura: But you're making some, with the bakery.
Sam: That is not what I would call money.
Taliesin: You are technically a civil servant as well, so you're making money there.
Sam: No, I'm talking about actual money that you can buy things with. I bought Doty a pair of boots.
Matt: Yep.
Sam: The Boots of--
Taliesin: Wow, that's a lot of cards!
Sam: Yeah, I bought a lot of stuff. The Boots of Elvenkind, so he's a little more stealthy when we go around.
Laura: Don't you have those, too?
Sam: I also tinkered with my armor, or did I have it tinkered on?
Matt: You don't know how to make armor, so you had the armor commissioned, using the remains of Vorugal's hide. No, sorry, you have Vorugal-- the remains of Umbrasyl's hide.
Sam: Yes, so I have breastplate armor that has black dragon scales embedded in it, right?
Matt: Yes.
Sam: And it gives me a little more protection against acid, and it also looks cool. A little darker flair. And so I could communicate with them, I built myself a little earring-- it's a little different from yours, it dangles and it's got a nice gem on the end, because if you're going to wear it, at least look good. And also, in my spare time at Vex's house, when she was asleep-- she's a snorer-- sometimes I would be awake and I would examine her broom a bit and decided to make myself one too. (gasping)
Laura: Sneaky sneak!
Travis: You made a broom?
Laura: You know we have a fucking flying carpet?
Sam: Now we have two brooms. We can leave those fuckers in the dust!
Laura: That's pretty fucking cool. (laughter)
Travis: You really have no money left.
Sam: I am out of money. I have a teeny bit left. But I also bought some other things.
Taliesin: He's now going to become Whitestone's FedEx though.
Liam: Are we all getting any prezzies?
Sam: Are you back? You were gone?
Matt: All right, is that the end of that?
Sam: And I wrote. A lot.
Matt: Yes.
Sam: Just a lot of writing, and I'm probably halfway through that book by now.
Matt: Awesome. All right. So as the months go by and you all have your individual adventures, as you converse and talk amongst yourselves, the date of Winter's Crest begins to creep up. Now, Winter's Crest is a day that's really only celebrated in Tal'Dorei proper-- occasionally by people in other places who migrated away from Tal'Dorei, but the event that it's based around, Eravon the Ice Lord, was specific to Tal'Dorei. It's not celebrated everywhere in the world. However, it is coming up, and you all decided to celebrate your Winter's Crest festival this year, not in Tal'Dorei. You all instead made your way towards the Bay of Gifts, in Marquet.
Marisha: Tropical vacation.
Matt: Now, how are you guys getting there? Are you taking a leisurely boat trip? Are you going via trees?
Taliesin: Well, we were leaving from Whitestone, right?
Laura: We were leaving from Whitestone because we'd all gathered there for--
Matt: Oh, that's right, before you even left there, you--
Taliesin: That's right, as you were saying, it is based on that festival, and of course Whitestone has its own paganistic rituals dating back many, many years.
Liam: I've read about them.
Taliesin: Yes, you have now.
Liam: And I will start telling you about it.
Taliesin: I've so many text files to send you, my word. So usually at this time, the winter solstice, especially when we have a new Master or Mistress of the Grey Hunt, there's usually a celebration or a ball, and they're not every single winter's festival, but it does happen, but since this was the first, we decided to have a fancy party. She was bestowed with her crest and otherwise and we all dressed up.
Marisha: Did she get a dope crown?
Taliesin: You don't get a crown, you get a cloak-y thing with a medallion piece.
Marisha: Mantle sisters!
Taliesin: You don't really have to wear it, it's just something you get to own. But I also had a piece of jewelry commissioned for everybody.
Sam: I've already got one.
Matt: Keyleth helped you with this one specifically.
Taliesin: This one specifically, because I had to go find our friend in the Fire Plane.
Matt: Senokir, yeah.
Marisha: That's right, that's right.
Matt: "Very happy to help you."
Marisha: And we inform him that we buried his wife's ashes.
Matt: "And I greatly appreciated you being so honorable."
Marisha: Yes, yes.
Matt: "Thank you."
Marisha: Okay, Percy, do your thing.
Matt: "What do you need from me?"
Taliesin: I have this design, and this requires some gemstones, and I have a limited amount of dragon scales from five dead dragons, and I was curious if you could make a hero's crest that is built around these five dragon scales, so that everyone who helped to slay these dragons will always have a token that proves that they were there and they were one of them. And then I also need one made without the dragon scales as well.
Matt: "Understood. Right away." (laughter)
Matt: "You may leave now."
Marisha: Do we come back in, like, two weeks?
Taliesin: He'll call.
Marisha: He'll call? Okay.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Marisha: Is this like a-- do we wait here?
Taliesin: Goodbye!
Matt: "Goodbye."
Liam: (AOL voice) Goodbye.
Matt: You receive word via imp, strangely enough. Which sets you off for a moment, there. But you are notified of their completion, and they're delivered, finished, by this imp.
Taliesin: They're beautiful, and at the ball, I present all of these to you, and each is just a bit individual. And they are crested in the gems and in the dragon scales to give this color wheel of the red, the white, the blue, the green.
Laura: That's really beautiful.
Taliesin: And there's one that doesn't have the dragon scales, but it's just got this flourish around it, and we give it to Taryon because these are meant to be built upon, as we will build upon ours. Your accomplishments will be built upon yours as well.
Sam: Thank you, Percy. That's very kind.
Travis: Is there a pin?
Liam: Yeah, where are they best affixed to wear our bling?
Taliesin: Anywhere you like.
Liam: Okay.
Travis: I don't wear a shirt, so.
Laura: Just right in your skin, Grog.
Liam: Nipple piercing.
Travis: Right in the nips?
Taliesin: All right. Or you could use it as your piece clasp. You could put it on your-- you could put it anywhere. You could put it on your gauntlet.
Marisha: I use it to affix my mantle.
Matt: There you go. Right in the center of the mantle. Right there.
Taliesin: They're just something so that, in the worst-case scenario, anyone will always know who we are, and we will know each other. It can't be replicated. There's no one else who's made anything like this. There's not enough material to make anything like this.
Laura: Ooh, I want to make mine my hairpiece.
Taliesin: And we've got to figure out how to start putting your accomplishments on yours soon.
Sam: Well, I hope to have an accomplishment to add to it.
Taliesin: You have several already. You defeated a leviathan.
Sam: Sure. I killed a marid, right?
Marisha: You helped me unify the world, globally.
Sam: I mean, go on.
Laura: You're a world-class enchanter.
Sam: Mm-hm, yeah, yeah.
Taliesin: Think of it much like your book.
Sam: Pike, what do you like about me?
Ashley: You are so great at baking.
Sam: My profiteroles are really good.
Travis: Profiteroles?
Ashley: What did we name the profiteroles again?
Sam: I don't think we had a name for them. Profite-roll for initiative?
Liam: Profiterolos!
Taliesin: Profiterolos!
Laura: Oh, that's profiterolos!
Liam: You're fun to fucking drink with.
Sam: Thank you.
Travis: Your money.
Sam: Well, thank you.
Ashley: Your hair is lovely.
Sam: It is, isn't it?
Laura: It's very shiny.
Ashley: You're kind. You're very giving.
Sam: All right, all right. Now I'm embarrassed. But thank you. Thank you. Doty, you got all that?
Matt: "Tary." (laughter)
Travis: Jesus. No! (laughter)
Taliesin: So we just have a wonderful evening where we eat too much, we drink too much, we dance and we all look fabulous.
Laura: Fabulous.
Travis: I'm only wearing the pointy helmet, Percy's ascot, and his glasses.
Matt: And that's it.
Laura: No pants?
Travis: I mean, I always have pants on.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: Not always.
Liam: Also, I am not always wearing the Raven Queen's armor. I'm wearing some of Percival's loaner cast-of-Hamilton clothing right now. I, on the break, built a trapped box to slide under the bed so that I can let my skin breathe at night.
Laura: He doesn't smell as moldy after a year.
Liam: I smell lovely.
Marisha: You know, I've crafted him some oils with some herbs. He's good. I helped him manscape a bit, it's good.
Liam: Barely any hair on this body. (laughter)
Matt: Oh! All right, and as you guys-- the ball is complete, you've all gathered. Your hangovers have faded. You all begin your trek toward the Bay of Gifts.
Taliesin: Yes!
Marisha: Wait, are we sailing or are we bamfing?
Matt: That's up to you guys.
Taliesin: I'd like to sail. I need a vacation.
Travis: (sings) Sailing.
Travis: (sing) Takes me away, to where I've always---
Sam: (sing) Takes me away, to where I've always---
Matt: (sing) Takes me away, to where I've always---
Liam: A little nostalgia in that for you, yeah?
Ashley: Yeah.
Laura: That's right.
Ashley: Because I've sailed there before.
Marisha: And we didn't go sailing with Pike.
Taliesin: Teach us some sailing songs. It will be fun.
Ashley: I'll teach you the ropes. (laughter)
Matt: Bah-derr.
Liam: And show us all the best gifs.
Ashley: Okay. (laughter)
Ashley: I'll show you all the best jifs.
Liam: That's okay too. That's okay too.
Ashley: Okay, just kidding. I don't say that.
Matt: I don't know what those are. All right, so you make your way to Emon, then you charter a ship across the Ozmit Sea and make your way to the continent of Marquet. On the northeast base of the Aggrad Mountains of Marquet, which consume a sizable portion of the continent's north shore, there before you stands, as it comes across the horizon, a brilliant crescent-shaped bay of white sands, glittering clear turquoise-colored waters, and the grandiose port city of Shamal.
Laura: (sings) Shamal. (laughter)
Laura: Sorry.
Travis: Holy crap.
Taliesin: God damn it.
Ashley: Oh, man.
Matt: Hundreds of ships fill the bay, from small fishing vessels to massive cargo ships, bringing an ever-flowing mixture of cultures, goods, and characters from across Exandria to its sunny location. Now, while back home Winter's Crest brings seasonal rain and snow, here in the Bay of Gifts the sky is clear, the water is warm, and the sun is ever-shining throughout the day. The streets of the city are draped in white and gold silks, affixed and framing crossways and street corners between torch posts and buildings. The distant sound of waves and seagulls cawing seems to envelop the city at all hours, occasionally stemmed by the sounds of localized musicians. So as you arrived here about midday or so, you take in the nice salty air into your lungs. You have your belongings, your sacks at your side, the city is bustling. What do you want to do with your vacation?
Laura: Oh. What do we do with a vacation?
Travis: Straight to the house of lady fav-- (laughter)
Taliesin: I don't think I've ever done this before. I'm not entirely sure.
Laura: I think we're supposed to just hang out and lay down in a hut and hang out on the beach.
Sam: We need a place to stay. Right?
Laura: Well, yes.
Sam: Preferably a fancy location.
Liam: As close to the beach as possible.
Taliesin: Oh my God, you've done this before, haven't you?
Sam: We used to summer in warmer climes. That's right. And--
Taliesin: We've never needed you more. (laughter)
Sam: Well, we should get some cabanas. (gasping)
Laura: Yes!
Taliesin: I don't know what that is!
Sam: And some people to wait on us. And we should-- Preferably near water. Swimmable water. And we just relax and tan, and sip mojitos. (laughs) (laughter)
Marisha: Do you have, like, a racial advantage to find a place like this?
Sam: (laughs) Vacations are my favored terrain. (laughter)
Marisha: Teach us your upper-white-male ways!
Taliesin: The blood is blue. (laughter)
Sam: I will certainly be of help. I'm afraid I can't pay for us this vacation.
Taliesin: No-no-no-no-no-no-no.
Laura: This is Vox Machina's vacation.
Sam: All right.
Taliesin: This is a group vacation. This is what this is now.
Sam: Well, let's find a resort of some sort. Or a relaxing spa! Or a---
Travis: Some sandals.
Sam: (laughs) Yeah, sure.
Matt: (laughs) All right. So who's helming this journey here? This search for--
Laura: I'll helm.
Matt: All right, make an investigation check.
Laura: Okay.
Sam: I will help her.
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: All right. If you're helping her, that's advantage for her on it, then.
Laura: Oh, ah!
Liam: Oh my gosh!
Laura: Okay, well-- It doesn't matter, I rolled it.
Taliesin: The one that got away.
Laura: (hums) 17.
Matt: 17. Okay. Roughly 20 or so gold later, you find the party affixed with the finest of Marquesian sandals. (laughs) (laughter)
Matt: And come upon a place that was referred to you as Dalen's closet. D-A-L-E-N's Closet. Which doesn't sound majestic, but when you were eventually led to where it resides-- the best way I can describe it? It's a field of beautiful hammocks affixed to various tropical trees and structures that are built out of driftwood.
Marisha: Oh my God.
Matt: Right next to a brilliant bright white sandstone structure that appears to be the actual resort, if you will. It's a wide tavern, single-story. But well-staffed, and not terribly busy. But it seems to be very nice, and akin to some of the best places you've been to in your previous excursions on vacation.
Sam: All right!
Matt: So as you arrive there, you are met with a male, dark-skinned, somewhat balding Marquesian halfling at the front desk who smiles as you approach. He puts out his hands. "Welcome, friends! You are here for a-- I imagine to stay within The Closet?"
Laura: Yes.
Ashley: Yes.
Matt: "Ah, I am Guath, and this is for all of you? I will have to charge for your friend, I am sorry."
Sam: Oh, well, he's not really a person, but--
Matt: "You're lucky I'm not charging twice! He's a very big guy. That goes for that one as well."
Sam: He doesn't eat. So--
Matt: "Then he won't order food! But he's going to sleep somewhere, yes?"
Laura: He doesn't sleep.
Taliesin: He doesn't sleep.
Sam: He doesn't sleep.
Matt: "Well then, is he okay with staying out on the beach?"
Sam: Doty? Are you okay with staying on the beach?
Matt: "Tary?"
Sam: He said very. (laughter)
Matt: "Okay, very well. So that would be ba-da-da-- seven and a half? Seven, we'll go with seven. How long do you plan to stay?"
Liam: A couple of weeks?
Laura: A couple of weeks, a week? Something like that.
Sam: Ten days? Ten days?
Laura: Ten days is really good.
Matt: "Ten days?"
Sam: We'll get bored after eight or nine.
Marisha: Yeah, we might hop around.
Liam: We should be so lucky.
Laura: I know what he's about to do to me right now. I know what Matt's going to do.
Matt: "Let me see here." And he brings up this small abacus and starts doing math really quickly on the side you see. "Nine days, you said?"
Laura: Ten days.
Matt: "Ten days, all right. We'll put that at an even-- with discount for friendships, 1500 gold for the entire stay."
Laura: Oh! Well, seems-- and food is included, I'm assuming.
Matt: (laughs) "Oh, no. I'm sorry."
Laura: Where would we go eat?
Matt: "Well, we have a restaurant within as well, and there are plenty of places to eat around the way. We are happy to bring it to your quarters, but there is a surcharge for it, of course."
Liam: Are you going to do the thing?
Laura: Do what thing, darling?
Liam: Your thing.
Ashley: Do you have any specials?
Liam: The thing you do. (laughter)
Marisha: AAA discounts? (laughter)
Taliesin: Rotary club.
Ashley: AAA discounts, tenth night free situation?
Laura: Friends of J'mon Sa Ord.
Matt: "Uh. We do not run discounts here, unfortunately. We are a very premier establishment here in the Bay of Gifts."
Laura: Of course.
Matt: "So do you wish to stay or not?"
Laura: Well, 1500 gold it is.
Travis: We wish to stay.
Marisha: That's fair.
Taliesin: I think we wish to stay. I think--
Marisha: We never spend money on ourselves.
Sam: Yeah, we never treat ourselves.
Liam: Yeah. Ultimately our time is worth far more than our money, so-- let's just go with that.
Taliesin: That's very fair.
Matt: "All right! Fantastic!" So you pay off the 1500. Mark that off on the party gold. You are given some keys--
Ashley: How about some free drinks?
Matt: (laughs) Make a persuasion check. (laughter)
Taliesin: Wow!
Travis: Getting after it! Wasting no time.
Matt: This is training for your vacation next week.
Ashley: I used to come here on a ship and we used to bring you guys a lot of supplies, so, you know. (gasping)
Taliesin: Natural number.
Travis: Wow.
Ashley: 31.
All: Ooh!
Matt: What is your persuasion?
Ashley: It's 12.
Sam: It is?
Laura: Oh shit.
Sam: Pike!
Travis: Why have we not had fucking Pike do things?
Sam: No shit!
Laura: Oh my gosh!
Ashley: Maybe, how about-- If we don't get free food, what about--
Matt: As you're telling him this he goes, "Well, I--" That's right, because you trained in persuasion as part of the skills feat. That's right.
Liam: All right, all right! (laughs)
Matt: So your charisma is-- Sorry, just making sure on the math on this one. Don't want to get lost. What's your charisma?
Ashley: Two. 14.
Matt: 14. Plus two. Plus-- So it would be plus eight, unless you had something else to add under persuasion. Regardless, you rolled really high. We'll go over the math later.
Ashley: Okay.
Matt: "I don't recognize you, but we've had many travelers and you seem--" He looks over the group a bit, especially the large one. "Free drinks. Why not? I'd be happy to give you this."
Laura: All right, nice, Pike!
Matt: He reaches behind the counter and brings out a couple of these small wooden coins.
Ashley: Tokens!
Matt: He passes them out "All right, that is five, six-- He doesn't drink, you said. So that is just seven. There you go."
Ashley: Thanks!
Sam: We said he didn't eat. He drinks. (laughter)
Matt: "So seven for all of you! Enjoy your stay! If you have any questions, requirements, issues, or anything, anything at all, you let me know. We can provide. Okay!" He gives you your keys, leads you to you guys'-- The rooms are clustered in fours, like a little square. They are all adjacent next to each other in groups of four, so there is two sections you guys are given, in square formation with small pathways, but all the walkways, all the alleys between these all just lead right out onto the beach. There are no solid walls on any of the hallways here, it's just the rooms that are closed off. Everything just goes-- you just step off into the sand.
Laura: This is amazing. I'm already, I'm in love with this place.
Liam: We don't need to go anywhere. This is it.
Matt: All right, so. Anything you guys wish to accomplish specifically while you're here?
Laura: No, just get drunk and hang out on the beach.
Liam: Yeah, I'm already peeling off my shirt.
Laura: Yeah! Roll for fucking putting on swimsuits!
Matt: (laughs) That's great!
Sam: I have a gift to give to Vax! I have a gift to give.
Liam: Oh yeah?
Sam: 'Cause we're in the Bay of Gifts.
Liam: I've got my shirt up around my arms. What's up, buddy? (laughter)
Sam: You know, we haven't talked much over this year since I've been helping your fucking sister.
Liam: Well, my sister has locked you up, it's true.
Sam: But, you know, I've talked to her a lot about how you have this ongoing sort of teasing war with Grog.
Liam: Oh yeah?
Sam: And I have acquired something for you to use in this battle.
Liam: Do tell, motherfucker.
Taliesin: (gasps) No!
Sam: Use it when the time is right.
Taliesin: No! No, you are a sadistic bastard!
Liam: Oh. My. Fucking. God! (laughter)
Liam: Oh my fucking God! I pull him into the tightest hug, and I give him a kiss on his forehead.
Sam: Oh, oh, oh! No! Okay.
Liam: You beautiful fuck! Slap! Let's go get in the fucking water! And I run off towards the beach.
Taliesin: That is the darkest thing I've ever seen. That is amazing.
Matt: (laughter) I think I know what it is. All right, so as you guys shed your armor, shed your weapons, put on your beach-faring clothing, you all one-after-one begin to charge your way down to the white beach sands of the Bay of Gifts just outside of the city itself.
Travis: Are there any pool aerobics? (laughter)
Matt: (laughs) No, but you're welcome to start one.
Travis: No, I'll join the rest.
Laura: Grog! Grog! Lift me like Dirty Dancing! (laughter)
Sam: (sings) Ahh!
Matt: Do you wait until she gets to the water before you do that?
Travis: Nope! (laughter)
Matt: You arc a good 15 feet before you go face-down in the sand.
Laura: Oh shit! You're supposed to hold on, Grog. Never mind.
Travis: Oh, you said lift. I did it. (laughter)
Marisha: Yeah, Keyleth runs out and goes, who wants to go scuba-diving?
Ashley: Ooh!
Marisha: 'Cause I can Water Breathe us, and we can go look at the coral reefs!
Laura: Yay! Let's do it!
Liam: Let's do it! Let's do it!
Marisha: Okay!
Matt: All right.
Marisha: We do that.
Matt: All right. So. (laughter)
Marisha: We do that at some point, throughout the week.
Matt: Through the elements of-- which by the way, we're all discovering here now, all the various relaxation elements of magic in D&D. (laughter)
Matt: Which they don't go into in the Player's Handbook as often.
Liam: Oh yeah.
Matt: (laughs) You guys manage to explore the majority of-- over this journey, and multiple trips-- explore a lot of the underwater portion of the Bay of Gifts, which includes a number of wrecked ships, that have just been storms, this is a very, very prominent bay.
Marisha: It's like the Bermuda Triangle!
Matt: You do run into other individuals that are actually either scavengers or pearl-divers or people that deal with gathering kelp and various other forms of plant life off the ground for food or other purposes. It's a very thriving ecosystem here. The people that live within this bay utilize everything in the vicinity. You see that work here, it's quite fascinating, and you see all walks of life. You all are pale as fuck by comparison to the locals here, who live in the sun most of their life.
Travis: Well, me especially.
Matt: But everyone there is friendly. You're little white-ass beacons underwater.
Laura: Do we see any mermaids?
Matt: There are no mermaids in this bay that you find. Sorry.
Laura: It's okay.
Taliesin: Next vacation.
Marisha: I turn to Pike and Vex and go, hey! Hey! Underwater tea party!
Travis: Nope. Not doing that shit. Not doing that. (laughter)
Ashley: Are you going to join?
Sam: I'm still trying to pressurize. (laughter)
Laura: I want to find pearls!
Taliesin: I'll go diving for pearls! Oh, yes!
Matt: All right. Each of you who wants to go pearl-diving, make an investigation check.
Ashley: I want to.
Liam: I want to go!
Marisha: Can I look for shark's teeth? That's fun! Can I do a nature check?
Travis: I'm building a sand castle while they're doing that.
Laura: Investigation?
Sam: I'll help you with that sand castle.
Travis: Okay.
Liam: 26!
Laura: Oh, that's good!
Taliesin: 21!
Ashley: I got a five. I definitely didn't find a pearl.
Marisha: 17.
Taliesin: 21.
Laura: 22.
Matt: You have no luck under the water, but you do find a couple of shark teeth-- at least they look like shark teeth-- along the sands of the beach that have washed up on the shore.
Marisha: Cool.
Liam: 26. 26.
Matt: You don't, what did you roll again?
Taliesin: 21.
Matt: 21, okay. You do manage to find one pearl, it's small but it's pretty. You manage to find a pretty decent pearl. You're not entirely certain-- make an intelligence check.
Liam: All right, I'm okay at that. Not today, though.
Laura: Are you feeling Lucky?
Liam: I'm not burning Luck on this.
Matt: You've burned it on lesser.
Laura: I know, right?
Liam: I'm not burning it on this. 13.
Matt: 13, okay. You gather the pearl you gathered is worth 150 gold.
Liam: Do you want this? I don't. You can have it.
Matt: There you go.
Laura: I rolled 22, as well.
Matt: You and Percival both find similar pearls. Imperfect, maybe worth ten to 15 gold.
Laura: I don't want to sell it. I just want to have it. It's pink.
Taliesin: I think I know how to pierce them. Lovely.
Matt: And you rolled a five?
Ashley: I rolled a five. I found a boob.
Matt: You found a sea cucumber.
Ashley: Oh.
Taliesin: It's the sea hairs that squirt the ink?
Matt: Not that type. It doesn't seem to have any sort of defense mechanism. It sits there sadly in her grasp.
Liam: By the way, I should probably toss out, because we probably haven't all been half-naked together-- you know this, some of you have, but not all of us together-- I still have this big mark in the middle of my chest. This black, veiny thing.
Matt: It's not like a pulsing tumor, or anything. It's a dark spot that looks like a bruise that never quite went away.
Liam: FYI.
Marisha: Tattoo's looking good, though.
Travis: Tary, do you know what I hear they do on beaches? You bury someone up to their head in sand.
Sam: Do you want me to bury you?
Travis: No, I thought we could bury you. Hold on. And I start doggy digging between my feet. I go into a Rage.
Taliesin: You could walk away right now. He'll never know.
Travis: Big hole right there.
Matt: What you don't notice is another traveling couple that's lying on the beach about 15 to 20 feet away are now completely buried in sand with their drinks.
Travis: I end my Rage. Get in.
Sam: All right, sure. We're friends.
Travis: Yeah, totally friends.
Sam: All right. I'll step into the gigantic hole.
Matt: You step in. Doty watches you get inside, not really having an opinion on this.
Sam: Sure.
Travis: Why didn't you pay for our rooms with all your money?
Sam: I've spent a lot of money.
Travis: How much?
Sam: A lot.
Travis: How much do you have left?
Sam: Not a lot.
Travis: I start filling up the hole. (laughter)
Travis: I stop. Just so his arms are out, like that.
Sam: Oh, this is fun. I should have taken my armor off first. It's chafing me.
Matt: All of you guys are beach-dressed except for Tary!
Sam: I thought this was a formal trip.
Matt: Sand's gotten all in the metal joints and the inside of the armor.
Marisha: You know salt water is bad for the armor, right?
Ashley: You should go change.
Marisha: You should.
Sam: Doty, lift me up, please.
Matt: "Taryon." Puts you down.
Liam: He just evolved.
Laura: Yeah, I know. I feel like he said Taryon.
Matt: Tary. It should have been Tary. Good catch.
Sam: Undress me.
Matt: He pulls off the breastplate, starts taking off the armor pieces. You are now currently down to your skivvies.
Sam: Great.
Travis: Do you want to build a castle?
Sam: Let's build the best castle ever.
Travis: Fucking A, man. Do you know how to do that?
Sam: Do I know how to do that?
Matt: Are you trained in sand castle building?
Sam: I am a tinkerer.
Matt: Yeah, and some of those tools may come in handy. You know what I'm going to do on this?
Sam: Sand castle rolls.
Matt: Yeah, we're making rolls for sand castles.
Travis: No shit? (laughter)
Matt: For this, we'll have a skill test for you, because you are a brute strength individual. This is going to be a dexterity check.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: And you're following his plan.
Sam: I'm going to go to my history knowledge and try to base it on one of the famous castles from my youth, of my land.
Matt: All right, from the Dwendalian Empire.
Sam: From the Truscan Empire.
Matt: Truscan area. I misspoke in an earlier episode. The Dwendalian Empire of King Bertrand Dwendal.
Liam: Everybody looks over and Castle Ravenloft is towering above the beach.
Matt: Exactly, yeah. So, make your dexterity check.
Travis: Four!
Matt: Taryon, go ahead and make your history check.
Sam: 16.
Matt: Great. You get the structure built. You map out the right scale structure of this castle, and you get about three-quarters of the way through before Grog (shifting sand).
Travis: What did you do?
Sam: (sighs) You know, maybe we should have-- you know, let's just try one more time.
Travis: Okay. What did we do wrong the first time?
Sam: Just be very careful, Grog. Because you were backing up and I think you knocked into it a little bit.
Travis: You putting this on me?
Sam: It was probably Doty.
Travis: Probably. Doty, go walk over there.
Matt: "Tary." (impact sounds)
Travis: Oh, he listens to me now?
Matt: He walks over about ten feet.
Sam: All right, let's do one more try.
Travis: Yeah.
Sam: And really put some artistry into this. We want a moat, we want defensive towers. I'm going to put a little alchemic fire in the middle of it, so if anyone gets through the gates, they explode.
Travis: Wow. Dungeons?
Sam: Of course.
Travis: With alligators in the moat?
Sam: Yes.
Travis: Okay.
Sam: Let's do it.
Matt: All right, now make an intelligence check to lay out the design.
Sam: Just straight intelligence?
Matt: Just straight intelligence.
Sam: 13.
Matt: That's still good. It's not a very hard DC. You're structuring a sandcastle. (laughter)
Travis: Come on, Gil. Five.
Laura: Oh no!
Marisha: You're with the worst sandcastle partner.
Matt: This one's bigger. This one's coming along great. You're glad the first one fell over because now this is going to be much better.
Sam: Yes, yeah, this is coming along great.
Matt: (sliding sand)
Sam: God fucking-- Grog! You stepped-- I mean, the central structure held the whole thing! I'm getting a sunburn because we've been here for so--
Travis: I think that was my fault. (laughter)
Sam: (sighs) You know what? Just bury me again. Just do that. Bury me again.
Liam: While that is happening, may I hide Taryon's clothing?
Sam: Aren't you skin-diving?
Liam: Time is loosey-goosey. Aren't we playing Dungeons and Dragons here? It's up to him.
Matt: Make a perception check.
Liam: 23.
Matt: You see the opportunity.
Liam: I'm getting him.
Matt: Make a sleight-of-hand check.
Liam: Sleight-of-hand check? Natural 20!
Matt: A gentle pass by, choosing the right moment in which Grog is involved in rage-burying and Taryon has completely given up on his activities, you manage to scoot through the sand, and moving your hand behind you to hide the trail, you drag his armor off back towards the resort.
Liam: Yoink.
Matt: All righty. As you've been buried now, sufficiently--
Travis: All the way up to the head this time.
Matt: Up to the neck. You feel the sunburn is starting to kick in a bit.
Sam: (sighs) I need that helmet, Doty! My helm, please.
Travis: The giant reflective piece of metal?
Sam: Yeah.
Travis: You're going to cook in that thing.
Matt: "Tary."
Sam: What do you mean, "Tary?" (laughter)
Sam: Where did it go?
Matt: "Tary."
Sam: Don't tell me "Tary!" Your number one job is to take care of me, and your number two job is to take care of my belongings! That stuff is worth more than you!
Matt: "Tary."
Sam: All right, just get me out of the hole.
Matt: (impact noise)
Laura: By your head.
Sam: Ow!
Travis: I hand him a seashell. I'm sorry.
Sam: Let's go find my armor. I'm going to go look around for it.
Matt: Make a survival check, because you're now tracking.
Sam: Survival? Ten.
Matt: Ten.
Sam: Oh, no. That's a four, so that's three. I'm a negative one for survival. I thought it was 11.
Matt: You spend the next hour asking from person to person on these white sands.
Sam: Excuse me, pardon me. Sorry to interrupt your vacation. Have you seen a lot of armor and a big golden helmet? No? Okay.
Taliesin: Does everybody speak Common?
Matt: A lot of people do. This bay, in particular, because this bay is a bastion of trade.
Sam: They're all German tourists.
Matt: Exactly, yeah. It's a Swiss drop area. It's great. But while everyone here, for the most part, speaks Marquesian, a majority speaks some level of Common.
Taliesin: I was just curious if he was walking up to people and they were staring, going "oh no", and walking on.
Matt: There were probably a couple, but they probably understood him, they just didn't respond. Eventually, you find your way to the resort. You're tired and you're sunburned and you're exhausted. You walk out and see him in this state.
Liam: And by the way, I went to the front desk and I asked which room Mr. de Rolo was staying in, because I wanted to put some of his belongings there, and I hid the armor in Percy and Vex's room.
Taliesin: You'd better have been able to actually convince them.
Matt: Which is what I'm about to get to. Make a deception check.
Liam: Sure. Here's where the Luck is. Yeah. Persuasion, you say?
Matt: Deception.
Liam: Deception. That's a 20.
Matt: 20. Okay, it takes a little bit of convincing, but eventually he sends one of the employees to go along with you. They let you into the room.
Liam: And now I'm coming back to the beach.
Matt: Okay, so as you guys come in at the close of the day-- you've been here for a few days as part of your excursion here-- you all come in as you've had enough time in the sun and you probably need to get out for a little bit.
Liam: Tary, come here.
Sam: Yes?
Liam: While you were messing about with Grog, Percy grabbed your shit and hid it.
Sam: Percival?
Liam: Yeah.
Sam: My dear friend?
Liam: He was chortling the whole time.
Sam: I don't believe that he would do such a thing.
Liam: All right. I walk away.
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: Oh god.
Sam: Let's go to Percy's room. I'm going to go knock on his door.
Matt: Are you in your room, currently?
Taliesin: Oh god, no.
Matt: No answer.
Sam: I try the door.
Matt: It's locked.
Sam: Chime of Opening. (laughter)
Sam: Oh, I can open any fucking door.
Taliesin: Yes!
Travis: Where have you been all our campaign?
Marisha: It took us a year.
Liam: You're like a Swiss army knife of fixing all our problems and trolling.
Laura: We have the same room.
Taliesin: Okay.
Matt: Opens up. Quick glance inside, and there's sand scattered all across the ground, and in the far end, right next to the bed, haphazardly jammed underneath, you see your armor and belongings. (laughter)
Sam: We were science bros! How could he? Doty, this calls for revenge. What of his belongings are there?
Matt: Of yours?
Sam: Of his.
Matt: Of Percival's. That would be-- because you didn't bring everything.
Taliesin: My stuff and Vex's stuff.
Matt: Yeah, so pretty much all of Percival and Vex's belongings are within the room.
Taliesin: Here, take a look. Guns, swords, boots.
Sam: What can we do, Doty? What can we do?
Matt: "Tary."
Sam: Good idea, but a little bit too cruel. (laughter)
Liam: "Kill them all, you say?"
Travis: "But they need their skin to live!"
Sam: All right. I'll go to my cloak and tear off the Patch of Two Mastiffs.
Taliesin: Oh no.
Sam: They're two big dogs, right?
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: Yeah, all right. And I'll throw some kibble all over the place and be like, go on, just chew everything up and make a mess and pee wherever you want.
Matt: All right, as you pull the patch and throw it in the room, it glows a bright orange and then flashes and burns into two small coal-like embers that when they slam into the ground, crack and open, and from those two embers you see two full-grown mastiffs. (barking and snorting)
Sam: There's food in there. Eat it all. Scratch through everything you want.
Matt: They both start eating. They go nuts on the place.
Sam: And use this as your latrine as well.
Matt: One of them goes, (sniffs) and just pisses on one of the sacks. You're not quite sure which one it is.
Sam: Good doggy. All right. You're free now. Go away. I don't know.
Matt: Do you leave them in the room?
Sam: Yeah, just stay here, go, whatever you want. I don't know. I feel weird. I don't need a pet right now.
Matt: You leave and close the door behind you? Okay. All right, so you guys meet up again. You get more drinks, you begin to wander the city. Is there anything else you want to do while you're out and about for the afternoon?
Ashley: I want to get my hair braided with beads on the end! (cheering)
Travis: Yeah!
Matt: All righty.
Ashley: And Grog.
Laura: Just the beard?
Travis: Yep.
Matt: All right. You guys ask around about a half an hour or so, and you're led to one location that is windowless and has an open archway door with some fine purple and red silks blocking the entry. As you walk inside, there's one woman who's sitting there, in the process of eating a small bowl of fruit. You see she is a dark-skinned Marquesian, but elf lineage. She has elven features. Her hair, which is this dirty brown, is braided in rows that go down past her waist and have a series of multi-colored, looks almost like gems and rings and other cool pieces of jewelry that are woven into it. As she's looking at this small book in her lap and eating the fruit, she turns around. "Oh, I'm sorry. Hello."
Ashley: Hi. Could we get our hair-- yours looks amazing. Could we get some hair braids? Tight and then going down, with some gems and sparkles in it? And same here, on his beard?
Matt: "Oh, the beard. I can do that."
Ashley: Yeah?
Matt: "Yes, of course." Closes her book and sets it down. "Come, sit."
Laura: Some razor blades up in them.
Matt: She calls out in Marquesian for a moment, and a younger woman, probably about 15 or so, comes out. Human, dark-skinned, as well. Both begin to start working on your hair and your beard. Asking about where you're from. It becomes a conversational piece because you're there for a good hour and a half or so to go through all of your hair and get it done, but nevertheless, you now have a fantastic series of braids in your hair.
Travis: She pulled really hard.
Ashley: It looks really good. Do you want to add any jewels in it?
Travis: Jewels?
Ashley: Earrings and stuff like how she has?
Travis: I just want the beads. Little beads and little braids. No jewels. What about you?
Ashley: I want all of it.
Travis: Everything?
Ashley: Just all of it.
Matt: "All of it?"
Ashley: What does all of it cost?
Matt: "If you want more than what I have in mine--"
Ashley: Well, no. Let's not get carried away.
Travis: Do you want extensions?
Ashley: My hair is already so long.
Travis: It is. Do you want other colored hair in there, too?
Ashley: Let's put blue in there.
Matt: "Oh, you wish to color?"
Ashley: Oh, well--
Matt: "No, it's okay."
Travis: Yeah, why not? Fuck it!
Matt: She talks to her assistant, and the young girl runs off for a second with a smile. Comes back, and there is what looks to be some sort of a fruit. Looks like a blue pomegranate that's partially crushed. She takes it and with a mortar and pestle setup begins mashing it and goes, "We can do blue."
Ashley: Yeah!
Travis: Yeah.
Laura: So cool!
Matt: The whole endeavor between the two of you guys is not inexpensive-- few things are in the Bay of Gifts. It's designed specifically to survive and thrive on the trade here. Both of you guys, it costs about 120 gold.
Marisha: Oh shit.
Travis: Not a problem.
Ashley: So how does that break down? For my hair versus his?
Matt: "Oh, for the two? For any sort of masculine hair endeavors, which is not our specialty-- Well, the beads themselves are made from finely blown glass and they're individually colored, and those are made specifically by an artisan who is about three blocks up that way, so those are brought here, and those are purchased on our end, as well. You are paying straight cost of the beads. Time and training, of course, on our end, and we do the finest work you'll find all across Marquet."
Ashley: Well, you know what? I am a very big supporter of small businesses, so support small business, and I will give you 120 gold.
Matt: "The 20 is mainly for him. The 100 was to give you the dye coloring--"
Laura: Oh, it's for both of you guys? Oh, I thought it was 120 each!
Liam: That's all right.
Laura: That's not bad. I mean, that's a lot.
Matt: It's still a lot. But since you've gotten here, you get the sense that it's-- by nature, everything here costs a little more. A lot of it's imported and a lot of it is designed for people that are willing to pay for foreign goods.
Ashley: Great.
Travis: Are we supposed to tip?
Laura: No, she owns the business so you don't have to do as much.
Travis: Are you there?
Ashley: Just 120.
Matt: Very well. So how much blue did you want to get in your hair?
Ashley: Say again?
Matt: How much blue did you want to get in your hair?
Ashley: Just some strips, you know. Just some strips on the white so it pops out.
Matt: Okay.
Ashley: Just like--
Matt: All right.
Ashley: You know, dealer's choice. Just get creative and do what you want.
Matt: All right. Okay. So upon completion-- It's very cool. It's pretty close to what you were hoping and expecting. You end up with three streaks: one central one that goes from the center, and then two that go from the sides and back that way.
Laura: That's way different than I expected.
Ashley: It's awesome.
Matt: And then all the tips go to blue, so it's almost like you have these two blocks of white and then eventually it all goes blue towards the edge.
Ashley: Yeah.
Travis: Yeah.
Laura: Imagine what that'll look like when your hair is down, too, because it'll be like blue all over the top and all mixed in everywhere.
Ashley: Ooh, that's pretty cool.
Travis: Hell yeah.
Matt: So yeah. Anything else you want to accomplish, or call it an evening?
Laura: I think just eat a nice dinner and then head back to the rooms and get ready to wake up in the morning and do all the same shit again.
Marisha: Definitely some magically frozen daiquiris.
Matt: You guys all find your way back with some drinks. The sun has set now, the cold night has come in through the bay, but it's still warm. It's cold by the bay standards, but you guys come from the northern ends, in Tal'Dorei proper it's still a pretty warm night. You hear the waves crashing as you enter the establishment. You all head back to your rooms to get in more evening attire. Percival and Vex-- how long do the hounds last for?
Sam: Let me look.
Taliesin: That's a good question.
Sam: It just says Two Mastiffs. I think they just are. (laughter)
Sam: It's not like a spell or anything, they are two dogs that live now.
Matt: I am so excited. I am so excited.
Travis: They don't live for much longer.
Matt: Okay. So, as soon as you approach, you guys hear, through the door on the other side, this low growl. This (growls).
Taliesin: Vex?
Laura: What is that?
Taliesin: I don't--
Laura: I open the door. Just fucking on guard.
Matt: Okay. You come inside to notice the entire interior of the room has been sundered. Pillows and cloth torn and pulled everywhere. The room smells immediately of heaping piles of dog shit and urine. The bed is scattered and torn open. The curtains have been pulled down, and there, in the center of the room, are two massive mastiffs, mating. (laughter)
Laura: What the fuck!
Taliesin: I grab the door and shut it.
Laura: Who did this?
Taliesin: It was either Grog or your brother. Those are really the only two people who could be possibly responsible--
Laura: Grog! And I take off running to his room.
Matt: Okay. (laughs)
Taliesin: I'm not missing this. I am following.
Matt: Okay. Your door is open, Grog. You're just there sitting down for a second just grabbing your jug. Getting a quick nip before your next nip.
Travis: Yeah, mini-fridge.
Matt: And Vex just storms in, heaving mad.
Travis: Hey. Oh. Hi.
Laura: Did you have anything to do with this? (laughter)
Travis: I feel like I should ask what, but the answer's probably yes?
Laura: The fucking dogs. Grog! I grab him by his beaded beard and drag him back to the room.
Travis: Ah! It's really tight! (yelps)
Matt: Percival, as you catch up-- She comes around the corner just dragging Grog by the beard behind her.
Taliesin: Oh god, she's going to kill you.
Travis: (groans) What in the-- what-- (groans)
Laura: I open the door and throw him in. Did you do this?
Travis: (sniffs) Ugh. What the fuck?
Matt: The dogs have stopped mating at this point and one of them comes over and goes (sniffs, chomp) and just bites into your neck. It does nothing, it just rests there.
Travis: Is this your fucking dog?
Laura: Is this your fucking dog?
Travis: No! Where am I going to get dogs from?
Laura: (huffs) True. (laughter)
Travis: Although I don't think this shit and piss is mine.
Laura: (laughs) That's good.
Travis: Yep.
Laura: What does our room look like? What does our stuff look like? Is it ruined?
Matt: Your stuff isn't--
Liam: Not the magical items.
Taliesin: The stuff in the closet is probably--
Matt: Yeah. You didn't just leave your stuff on the floor, there. You had things put away inside the cabinets and stuff. And the things that were in the cabinets were fine. So most of your general clothing is all right. It's more like your sacks, anything that was just loose. Your boots. All just smell of dog piss.
Laura: How did they even get in? I take off to the front desk. (laughter)
Sam: Oh, shit.
Travis: Can I let the mastiffs have a couple of licks from the alchemy jug full of beer that I was drinking out of?
Matt: They do have a lick. Big old mastiff tongues.
Taliesin: I'm going to go find Vax.
Matt: Okay. As you rush off to the front counter, you can see Guath, the Marquesian, is still there. He's in the process of going through the books, making sure he's keeping everything tidy and he sees you approach. "Ah, hello! Is there anything of--"
Laura: Who-- Hi.
Matt: "Hello."
Laura: Who was in our room? Did you send anyone to our room?
Matt: "Uh. Yes. Yes, there was--"
Laura: Who was it?
Matt: "The other who looks like you. He came by and said that he was supposed to put the-- We had to send--" (laughter)
Sam: Yes!
Matt: "He said he had to put things in the room for you. I am so sorry. I am so sorry. If this is a problem, we can call the-- You wish us to call the guards over here?"
Laura: (scoffs) How? Why? Vax! And I take off running. Vax! Where are you? Where are you?
Liam: I'm in my room.
Laura: Ooh!
Taliesin: I have just turned the corner towards Vax's room. I'm probably just now in eyesight.
Laura: I sprint and I--
Marisha: I just showered, you guys, now's not a good time. I'm just--
Laura: Trinket, off with me, we're ready to fucking fight. He's out of my necklace and we're taking off towards Vax's room.
Liam: Did you say you're coming to the room?
Laura: You are dead.
Taliesin: Can I hear this?
Liam: I mean, practically.
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: I can too.
Travis: We're all making our way over to Vax's room.
Liam: Kiki, might want to go to into the bathroom. I think that my sister is coming. Whoa!
Laura: Keyleth.
Marisha: Hi, Vex.
Laura: Put some clothes on.
Liam: I guess I will as well.
Marisha: I feel like we're in trouble.
Laura: Not you.
Liam: Yoink. What?
Laura: What the fuck did you do? Why the fuck would you do that in our room?
Liam: What did I do in your room?
Laura: Destroyed it.
Liam: Why would I destroy your room on the first day of our vacation?
Laura: Did you-- Did he-- Did you-- Why would you?
Liam: I wouldn't. What are you talking about?
Laura: The dogs. Shit and piss everywhere. I know you were in our room.
Liam: Dogs?
Marisha: There are dogs? (gasps) What kind of dogs are they?
Taliesin: Why don't you come with me and I'm going to go show you while they talk.
Marisha: Okay.
Liam: Are you pranking me? What are you talking about?
Laura: Ooh. I just yank your hair as hard as I can.
Liam: (yells) What are you doing?
Laura: Why would you do it? Why?
Liam: Do what? You have to be more specific.
Laura: Dogs. Shitting and ruining everything in our room.
Liam: What the fuck are you talking about? Dogs? I don't have any dogs.
Laura: Don't you lie to me.
Liam: I don't have any magic. I can heal a little bit and that's it. What are you talking about?
Laura: They're not even magic dogs, they're just dogs! Can I roll to see if he's fucking telling the truth?
Matt: Make an insight check.
Liam: I'll make my deception check.
Taliesin: Kiki, we've always been friends.
Marisha: Yeah, of course.
Laura: 18.
Taliesin: I want you to know this is nothing personal but this is--
Travis: Is that your second Luck?
Liam: Yes, it was.
Matt: That's the second Luck, yeah.
Taliesin: And I open the door and show you. And then I shove you in and shut the door for a moment.
Matt: You can see he's covering up. You don't quite know the full specifics, but you know he's covering.
Laura: I know you were in our room and I know you're lying to me.
Liam: I was not in your room. I am not lying to you, I don't-- (yells)
Laura: I just yank him out of the room. Trinket!
Liam: What are you-- what?
Laura: Sic him! (laughter)
Matt: At this point, she's pulled you out into the hallway. You now see, the bear you've grown up with and loved, for the first time, you realize how massive and scary this bear could be as it (growls, heavy steps).
Liam: I click my Boots of Haste!
Travis: You were fucking naked a second ago.
Matt: Trinket charges you.
Liam: This is improvisation. If I say it, it's real. That's how this fucking works.
Sam: You were putting on your boots?
Matt: So what are you doing? Trinket's coming at you.
Liam: I'm running in my boots!
Matt: All right.
Laura: I have the back of his head. I have his hair.
Liam: Disengage.
Matt: Okay. So hold on. She does have your hair.
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Technically, it's a grapple.
Liam: Okay. You want to make it a strength check? I know my strength is double hers.
Laura: (gasps) Your strength is double mine?
Matt: It's athletics and acrobatics versus her--
Liam: Okay. Oh, acrobatics, okay.
Laura: Versus my strength?
Matt: I'll double-check real fast. I should remember this, but for this one particularly I want to make sure that I get specifics right here.
Taliesin: This is so great.
Sam: Forget rolling for sand castles, this is it. (laughter)
Matt: Yeah, man. This is the craziest shit. (laughs) I didn't expect it to go this way.
Taliesin: I vaguely wonder what you actually had planned for this.
Matt: Not all this!
Taliesin: This is bedlam, at this point.
Matt: This went in a whole different direction.
Sam: A big title card comes over the frame  Night One. (laughter)
Matt: Okay, yeah. It's athletics or acrobatics versus her athletics.
Laura: Oh.
Liam: Well, I will choose acrobatics.
Laura: Motherfuck.
Matt: Go ahead and roll your acrobatics. Roll your athletics.
Laura: Ugh, it was almost good.
Liam: 29.
Laura: Six!
Matt: You slip out from her grasp right as Trinket comes upon you. What's your speed?
Liam: Fucking wicked, man. I'm double-speed, so 60.
Matt: You don't have your boots on, you just put your pants on!
Ashley: Weren't you in the shower?
Matt: You mimicked putting your pants on.
Liam: All right. 30.
Matt: Okay. Trinket's movement is?
Laura: Oh, he's got 40.
Matt: Trinket is gaining on you. (laughter)
Matt: You watch as an older couple emerge from the room down the hallway and go, "Nope." And close the door.
Liam: I see food trays left by other customers. I start knocking them down and dumping food on the rug behind me as I run. It's improv. It's real!
Matt: There are small baskets.
Liam: I said I saw food!
Matt: Yeah, so you knock some baskets behind you and you keep running. You just emerge from the edge of the hallway. You can see the beach ahead of you. You can see the little bit of moonlight hitting the sand in front.
Liam: What's around me?
Matt: Hallways and doors.
Marisha: Is our room nearby? Did he see me get shoved in?
Taliesin: He wouldn't have seen you get shoved in, but he would have seen me in the hallway at this point, if he passed her.
Matt: I'd say you moved one direction. Trinket went and chased him down the other side, so this is going away from you guys.
Marisha: Hey, Vax? I think they're really mad at us.
Liam: Little busy, little busy, little busy!
Matt: Just as you emerge to part of the sand and you think you're home free, you stop hearing Trinket's footfalls. (whack) Leapt and just impacts you on the sand and both of you tumble, end-over-end, through the sand. Eventually, you land flat on your back and Trinket pounces on top of you, your breath (groans) as your chest gets closed in. And right up in your face, pinning you down, going (growls).
Liam: I immediately start doing this.
Sam: What is that?
Liam: This is me rubbing his tummy.
Laura: Oh. Don't fall for it, Trinket!
Matt: (growls) (laughter)
Matt: You are pinned by a very heavy bear, to the point where your breathing is (shallow panting).
Liam: You hear from under the bear, (muffled) I have been here before, and I will be here again!
Laura: Why would you do it? It's such a beautiful vacation and you ruined it. You ruined all of our things.
Liam: Did I ruin it? What did I ruin? I still don't know what happened.
Laura: Vax, you let two dogs loose in our room and they shit and pissed all over everything, and our bed is ruined. They were fucking in our bed!
Liam: I did not fucking let two dogs--
Laura: Then what did you do? I know you were in our room. I know you're lying to me.
Liam: I was there for five seconds. I put Taryon's armor under the bed and then I left. I was in there for 30 seconds. I don't have any dogs. I don't know dogs.
Laura: Why would you put Taryon's armor in our room?
Liam: Because it was fucking hilarious!
Laura: Wait a minute.
Marisha: That's the trolliest thing you've said, ever!
Laura: Did you tell Tary?
Liam: I did.
Laura: So Tary did this?
Liam: What happened?
Laura: Someone let two giant dogs loose in our room, and they destroyed our things. Just destroyed it. And now, on top of having everything ruined, we're probably going to have to pay for damages. Which will be coming out of your funds, by the way.
Liam: That's the funniest bit, because I have no money.
Laura: Well, then Keyleth. Trinket, stay on him for a while. Just for a while. Feel free to relieve yourself. (laughter)
Matt: Trinket's head slowly turns over back towards you with a, "What?"
Laura: Just a little time. And I walk.
Matt: As you walk away, Trinket's head moves back to you, and if you could see a bear smile?
Liam: Yeah. When she's gone and it's just us, I say, she thinks I care. I don't care. Does she let you kiss her? No, she doesn't. But you get to kiss me all you want, so have at it, buddy.
Matt: Trinket goes, (grunts).
Liam: It's all right.
Matt: And you feel your lower regions get warmer. (groaning and laughter)
Laura: You got pissed on.
Liam: I've been inside a dragon's fucking stomach, buddy. I don't care. The beach is 50 feet that way. Get it all out.
Matt: All right, while you're pinned there, you march off. You guys just now catch up to the chaos.
Marisha: I have to say, wherever these dogs came from, they're very beautiful dogs. Look purebred. Very great muscular structure. Come here, boys. Come here!
Matt: Keyleth's currently getting the mastiffs out of the room.
Marisha: Can I Speak With Animals to them?
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: Come here, boys. Come here. I take out some beef jerky. Come here. That's good boys. Good boys.
Laura: Where did you have beef jerky?
Marisha: Fish jerky from where we were at the casino earlier.
Sam: Oh snap!
Marisha: As Liam O'Brien said, it's improv, so that makes it true!
Laura: I'm just wondering--
Liam: You fucking made out that you were hiding in crystal clear bathwater, motherfucker! If you say it, it's real!
Marisha: Right, so just like the internet, if you say it, it's real. Come here, boys.
Matt: Animal handling.
Marisha: Oh, it smells. You boys did a number in this room. Okay. (laughter)
Marisha: I've got to have some advantage for being a fucking druid, right?
Matt: No.
Marisha: That's a one.
Matt: So you say, "Come here, boys." They both look at you. They rush up, grab the jerky out of your hands, and dart out of the room. You hear them, (barks) vanishing.
Marisha: Fuck these dogs! That's why you said we should never own dogs.
Matt: Taryon?
Sam: I'm getting night cream put on me by Doty. (laughter)
Sam: Doty, could you sing to me?
Matt: (sings) "Tary. Tary. Tary." It's all the same. It's all horribly mechanical-sounding and echo-y. It's not singing more than it's repeating your name over and over again in the same intonation. It's horrifying.
Marisha: Percy?
Taliesin: You're going to have to help us clean at least our personal belongings.
Marisha: I didn't do this! I'm more than happy to help, but I just want you to know: I had nothing to do with this.
Taliesin: Oh, I know. I know you had nothing to do with this. He's useless. You're not, so I'm going to make you help on his behalf.
Marisha: It smells like shit. Like a giant fucking locker down shit in here.
Taliesin: Worse than hell. Legitimately worse than hell. This is making me miss hell.
Marisha: I'm going to cast Control Water. Can I magic this clean-up like it's Fantasia or some shit?
Matt: That is Prestidigitation.
Marisha: No, can I Control Water and levitate the urine?
Travis: Yeah, totally.
Matt: You know what? Yes, I'll let you do that. I will let you Control Urine.
Marisha: I am the leader of my tribe, and I am doing janitorial duties. Ugh.
Matt: After completing your Aramente, after years of training in the druidic arts and becoming the leader of your people, you are reduced to lifting the urine from a ruined hotel room.
Taliesin: I would like you to meditate upon who is responsible for this.
Marisha: Fucking Vox Machina pieces of-- why am I-- why are we us?
Taliesin: This is your boy. I'm taking no responsibility for this one.
Marisha: Okay, I control the water and fling it into the ocean.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: I'm hearing all this over the earring, and I whisper, only to Trinket: I'm back, Trinket. I'm back. (laughter)
Marisha: I control a little of the urine that dribbled in the hall, as well. I don't want us to get kicked out by the hotel.
Matt: The room's still destroyed. For the sake of brevity, here--
Taliesin: Some wild dogs attacked our room.
Matt: Who's talking to the manager about this?
Laura: Percy is.
Taliesin: I'll speak to the manager.
Matt: All right.
Sam: (giggles) Wild dogs?
Marisha: Wild ocean dogs. Beach dogs.
Matt: So at this point, while all this has happened, Guath, the gentleman at the front, sees the bear and is like, "What is going--" (yelps) The dogs go (barks) and jump past him. The slightly chubby halfling comes forward. "What the fuck is going on?"
Marisha: You tell us, man.
Matt: "No, you tell me. This is my place! Whose dogs were those?"
Taliesin: We have no idea. We came back and they were in our room, pissing on our stuff.
Matt: Make a deception check.
Taliesin: This is not deception!
Matt: You know whose they are.
Taliesin: Actually, do I know whose they are?
Matt: You've been hearing it over the earring this whole time.
Taliesin: I don't know where they came from.
Travis: That's true, he hasn't said.
Matt: That's true.
Taliesin: I'll do deception.
Matt: Persuasion.
Taliesin: Persuasion? Well, deception's higher, but I'll try persuasion. (laughter)
Marisha: What the fuck, man?
Taliesin: No, god damn it.
Sam: Honor yourself.
Taliesin: I'm honoring myself. It doesn't matter, anyway. That's 27.
Matt: He goes, (sighs).
Taliesin: I mean, it was upsetting. Your property, our property. This is our problem. All of us.
Matt: "Let me see." He pulls past and makes his way towards the room, and looks inside, and you can see him go, (distressed noise).
Taliesin: Has this happened before?
Matt: "No! I've never seen those dogs here before. The breed? They don't exist!" (laughter)
Taliesin: I've never seen them before, either. I've never seen anything like it.
Matt: (exclaims in a foreign language)
Taliesin: How good a job did you do on our stuff?
Matt: It's still torn and messed up, but it's not covered in urine. It still smells terrible in there.
Liam: Your clothes and bullshit is fine.
Taliesin: I know.
Matt: "I'm so sorry."
Taliesin: It's hardly your fault. This is ridiculous.
Matt: "We'll get you a new room immediately. Hey!" Two servants come out immediately. He starts shouting out to them in Marquesian. They walk off and eventually people start coming in and pulling your stuff out of the room and taking it to another chamber. It's down two halls over, so you guys are separated from everybody else.
Taliesin: We have a lot of foreign guests as well, in our establishment back home, so I know how things can sometimes get a bit crazy, and I certainly don't want to put any undue pressure on you.
Matt: "Oh, it is okay. We will launch an investigation immediately."
Taliesin: Excellent.
Matt: So. (laughs) Vex, anything else you want to do?
Laura: Yeah, I want to go knock on Tary's door.
Matt: You hear through the doorway this really creepy, "Tary. Tary."
Sam: I'll take off my blinders, my night-blinders.
Taliesin: Do they actually have little cucumbers drawn on them?
Sam: My mask. Come in.
Laura: Do you have Doty singing to you again?
Sam: Oh, yes. He sings me to sleep now. It's sort of a ritual we have.
Laura: I shut the door.
Sam: Did you have a nice night, Little Elf Girl?
Laura: I didn't, Goldie. Actually, did you happen to set a couple of dogs loose in our room?
Sam: Well, between you and me, I did.
Laura: Oh, you did?
Sam: You see, Percival played a little bit of a prank on me, and I got him back.
Laura: Yes. Well, you also got me back, and actually, it wasn't Percival, it was my brother who did it. Stole your armor?
Sam: But he told me that it was--
Laura: Yes.
Sam: He told me--
Laura: Yes, and you believed him over your two best friends?
Sam: You've taught me so much, but not about the human heart. (sighs) I am so sorry. I should have trusted you.
Laura: You should've!
Sam: I should have not doubted my staunchest ally, Percival. Of course, someone as trained as he is in the sciences wouldn't lie to me like that. I failed you.
Laura: Tary, you know I can't stay mad at you!
Sam: I'm so sorry! (laughter)
Sam: What can I do to make it up?
Laura: I don't know--
Sam: Doty, go clean their room.
Laura: Thank you, dear.
Sam: I'm so sorry.
Laura: Oh, it was disgusting.
Sam: But your brother.
Laura: I know! Trinket peed on him.
Sam: Trinket peed on him? Well, that's pretty good. I feel like there's more revenge to be had, but you know what? We're on vacation.
Liam: Over their earrings, they hear, he also dropped a loaf.
Laura: He also dropped a loaf, apparently.
Sam: That's nice. All right. I'm so sorry. Will you forgive me?
Laura: Of course I do, dear. Have a wonderful night's sleep.
Sam: You, too.
Laura: I'll send Doty back when he's done.
Sam: He can last forever, so just as long as you need him. He'll wash whatever you need. He has motor skills. Not fine motor skills, but he could try to sew something if anything was ripped.
Laura: I'll check it out and I'll let you know.
Sam: And if you ever need more dogs?
Laura: You're the man to call.
Taliesin: I see Doty appear, correct?
Matt: Yeah.
Taliesin: Doty, they're going to take our things. I know why you're here.
Matt: He just walks past you. (laughter)
Matt: Enters the room.
Taliesin: Are our things even in our room anymore?
Matt: Your things are being brought out in pieces, but the two employees see Doty enter and set them down and Doty starts picking things up and dusts them off. Starts picking up the piles of dog feces.
Taliesin: Tary, call him off.
Sam: Sorry?
Taliesin: Call him off.
Sam: I'm sorry? Call him off?
Taliesin: Call him off.
Sam: He's cleaning your things.
Taliesin: No. We're getting another room.
Marisha: What is he throwing away?
Matt: He's throwing the dung out onto the beach. Starts heading back.
Sam: I should have been more specific.
Marisha: I don't think he's very sanitary.
Sam: This is my earring, by the way.
Taliesin: I know.
Sam: This is how I have to talk with it. I have to dangle it.
Taliesin: I know you have to fiddle your dangle. I'm well aware.
Sam: All right, I'll be right there to give him more specific instructions.
Taliesin: We're going to sleep.
Sam: I'm coming.
Liam: Do you improve the reception by moving it around?
Matt: Okay. Over the course of the evening, the room gets cleaned as best as it can.
Taliesin: We do not tell them what our new room number is.
Matt: You guys, from that point being the most contentious, but you manage to enjoy the rest of your stay here in the Bay of Gifts. You enjoy a nice, well-earned vacation, some of you plotting the next stage in your vengeance, whenever that may occur. Boarding your ship back, making your way to your home in Tal'Dorei, across back to Whitestone proper to finish the remainder of your year's journey. We're going to take a break. Before I go, real fast, letting you guys know, we have another giveaway tonight. This is a nice purple heart Wyrmwood mini holder, which is pretty rad.
Sam: Is that what I have?
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: I love it. Honestly, this is the best color. It's so cool. It's kinda like rose gold, therefore it's the best. (laughter)
Matt: There you go. Yeah, so this is going to go to one of you lucky winners in the chat. The code word for tonight is Momocon. M-O-M-O-C-O-N. So go ahead and we'll do that over the break. Enjoy Liam's episode of Signal Boost.
Ashley: It's so good!
Liam: Man, that was pure Dungeons and Dragons. I took a little pebble and dropped it and it turned into a frigging avalanche on the side of Everest.
Taliesin: That reminded me of the old home games quite a bit.
Matt: I wasn't expecting that to become our beach episode, but it did! (laughs) All right, guys, we'll see you here in a little bit. [break]
Matt: Welcome back, everybody, to Critical Role. (laughter)
Matt: First and foremost, our winner in the chat room goes by the name of Makelovelikewar, congratulations! Congratulations. You won the box. We've all signed it, and it'll be coming to you in the near future. Make sure to contact the folks who run the chat here, and they'll get your information, and well done. All righty, so. Bringing us back in. You guys have been travelling across the Silvercut Roadway, through the dividing plains of Tal'Dorei, onwards to the Alabaster Sierras, and eventually to the homestead of Whitestone. You guys have made your way back.
Marisha: We catch up on so much gossip.
Matt: (laughs) So you arrive. What do you want to do?
Travis: Well, actually, now that we're home, I would like to try and find Pike once we're in and settled.
Matt: So you guys all get settled and you find your way to your rooms. The afternoon comes to a close for the evening, and everyone's gone off to do their business and prepare for a dinner, we'll say, in about an hour.
Travis: Cool. Hey. Hey. Oh, sorry.
Ashley: Hello?
Travis: Hey, it's Grog.
Ashley: Oh, come in!
Travis: Huh, what?
Ashley: Okay. (laughter)
Ashley: Hi, Grog.
Travis: Hi! Hey. Hey. Hey. So, can I shut the door? So I--
Ashley: Yes?
Travis: Oh, okay. I shut the door. So, I have a secret.
Ashley: Ooh?
Travis: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Ashley: Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay.
Travis: Okay, so. When we beat Thordak, I was rummaging around and all of Emon's treasures were in this one place and everybody was like, "Meh, we want to heal," and I found these little gifts, and one of them was this little itty-bitty deck of cards.
Ashley: (gasps)
Travis: I know, right? Now, here's the thing. It was in a really pretty box: wooden box with gold all over it. I tried to open it, and it wouldn't, so I smashed it.
Ashley: Naturally.
Travis: Like you do.
Ashley: Yeah.
Travis: And I took it out. And I drew a card from it, and this magic sword appeared in my hand.
Ashley: (gasps) So something magic comes out of it when you pick one? Can I pick one?
Travis: Yeah. Do you want to?
Ashley: Yeah.
Travis: Yeah. So I also went and I was journeying around. I went to Vasselheim. Now, here's the thing. Vex was like, "No, don't pick one, it's dangerous. Mm."
Ashley: Wait, it can be dangerous?
Travis: Well, no. She's afraid that it's dangerous, right? Because the sword, it turned to rust, and I got a headache afterwards. Whatever.
Ashley: Okay. Oh.
Travis: But I think I didn't handle it right. But I went to Vasselheim, and I had this other guy pick a card. You know?
Ashley: Okay.
Travis: And he picked a card. He got two Wishes.
Ashley: What!
Travis: Just like that! And he made himself--
Ashley: That sounds like the best thing ever.
Travis: I know! He's the Lord of the Crossroads.
Ashley: The Crossroads.
Travis: Yep.
Ashley: (gasps)
Travis: He's rich; he had a servant who appeared out of nowhere. All of a sudden he had fuckin' dope-ass threads.
Ashley: Should we-- Whoa. Should we pick a card?
Travis: I mean, I feel like we should. I've seen nothing but good things happen. (laughter)
Ashley: Wait, what do you mean this sword gave you a headache, Grog?
Travis: Well, I don't know. So it was a magic sword, right? I was going to be able to throw it and it would fight without me. Like it would just fight things that I told it to.
Ashley: Was it evil?
Travis: No! I tried talking to it and it didn't say anything.
Ashley: Okay, that's a--
Travis: We have a history.
Ashley: That's a red flag.
Travis: I know. I have a history of, you know.
Ashley: So it didn't talk back to you.
Travis: Nope.
Ashley: It fought on its own.
Travis: Yep.
Ashley: A guy that you met, you made him just rich and amazing.
Travis: Yeah. Pretty much. I think it's a Deck of Fortunate Things.
Ashley: A Deck of Fortune?
Travis: I think so. I mean, I haven't really looked at it too closely. Do you want to look at it with your knowledge?
Ashley: I mean, I don't, yeah.
Travis: Yeah.
Ashley: I don't know if I have the knowledge, but I'll look at it.
Travis: All right. I give her the deck.
Matt: All right, make an arcana check. (gasping)
Ashley: Natural 20. (cheering)
Matt: But what's your skill? What's your skill bonus?
Ashley: Plus one. So 21.
Matt: Okay, you take the small sack that contains the cards, and you pull the deck out of it, and you inspect it from the outside. Just checking the inscriptions. You've heard things about magical decks of cards. Sometimes they're used to see the future. Sometimes they're used for different types of augury and divination. You might've heard a myth or two about a card deck that can alter reality in good and bad ways. That's as much as you are able to glean from this.
Ashley: Can I tell which cards are good and which cards are bad?
Matt: No.
Ashley: I was just checking. (laughter)
Ashley: I figured the answer would be 'no'.
Matt: But you do know from looking at this, while the name doesn't come to you, you're able to ascertain this seems to be very, very in line with the fate-altering deck of cards, the one you've heard can do good and bad, and is as powerful and dangerous as it is interesting.
Ashley: I feel like I've heard of something like this before.
Travis: Really?
Ashley: But sometimes you can choose a card that will do very bad things.
Travis: Oh.
Ashley: So it's like a 50/50 chance that you could get something very good. Like, you have your fortune change, you become a king, all of this thing--
Travis: Or you make a bad person a king?
Ashley: Or you get a magical sword. Or if maybe someone-- you could just die instantly.
Travis: Really?
Ashley: I don't know, maybe. Something along those lines.
Travis: But we're good people, so good things would happen to us.
Ashley: (strained) Oh, it just sounds so fun though.
Travis: I know, right? And think about my previous experience. There is nothing bad that has happened in what I've seen so far.
Laura: (laughs) Oh god.
Ashley: (strained) Oh, I don't know what to do. Well, do you want to pull one or should I pull one? Or should we not?
Travis: I don't know. I mean, like, I kind of want to. I mean, so like. Like bad things.
Ashley: What could be that bad? I mean, if someone were to die, we could do a Resurrection spell.
Travis: How could it just outright kill you? Well if you die, I can't do a spell.
Ashley: (sighs) I don't know what to do. I don't know if we should. I don't know if we should test the fates.
Travis: We should flip a coin.
Ashley: Let's flip a coin.
Travis: Okay. Do you have a coin?
Ashley: Yeah, I have a coin.
Travis: Oh, you do? That was lucky.
Matt: All right. Did you--
Marisha: "We shouldn't test the fates, let's flip a coin." (laughter)
Matt: Do you want me to flip a coin for you?
Liam: You can roll a 20.
Laura: Oh yeah, no. We have coins.
Marisha: I've got one on hand right now, beotches.
Travis: Do you want to?
Matt: It's up to you guys. This is entirely your call.
Marisha: Here it is.
Laura: Oh, Melora.
Liam: Coming in.
Laura: There you go.
Ashley: Okay.
Travis: What if all the good ones are gone?
Ashley: Heads or tails. Okay, so one is heads.
Travis: Heads, because that's all bad in the heads. But the tail is the booty, so.
Ashley: Okay.
Laura: Wait, but what is what?
Ashley: So what's what? 20, we pick a card. One, we do not.
Liam: 20, we don't pick a card.
Ashley: 20, we don't pick a card.
Liam: 20 is sensible. One is ridiculous.
Ashley: You are not here.
Travis: Yeah, what do you feel like? What do you feel like? One, we pick a card. 20, we don't-- we do pick a card. (laughter)
Ashley: That's both of those. You said we'd pick a card both sides.
Travis: That was a Fraudidean slip. (laughter)
Ashley: Yeah. One, we pick a card. 20, we don't.
Travis: Okay.
Ashley: Who picks the card? Or should we--
Travis: We should flip for that too.
Ashley: Okay, okay, I'm going to check it. Oh, we don't pick a card.
Travis: But that was for you, you flipped. And now I flip.
Ashley: Okay. Oh. You don't pick a card either. You know what? It's safer this way.
Travis: It is?
Ashley: I think so. Because what if we would've gotten something bad? Did you want me to hold onto it? Or do you want to hold onto it? I'm just afraid you're going to pick it and be alone.
Travis: I might. (laughter)
Travis: No, I want it. I really want it. It's real important to me.
Ashley: Do not. Pick it. Alone.
Travis: I've made this promise before. (laughter)
Ashley: Who did you make the promise to?
Travis: Vex.
Ashley: Well, you live your life how you want to--
Travis: Oh. Ooh. No, your promise was different. You said 'alone' so if I was like really, (distressed noise) I need to, I come to you--
Ashley: Yeah.
Travis: And we pick it.
Ashley: Yeah.
Travis: Okay. Deal.
Ashley: Yeah, okay.
Travis: Thanks. You're sure you don't want to just, like, slide one out and just take a look at it?
Ashley: Just take a peek?
Travis: Yep. All right, fine. (laughter)
Ashley: (strained) I want to so bad.
Travis: All right.
Laura: That is fate. Helping us.
Ashley: I know.
Taliesin: That was like watching an eight-year-old juggle a gun. (laughter)
Laura: Was that another 20?
Travis: Yes. (laughter)
Liam: They both want to do it so bad.
Matt: I know.
Marisha: Moving on from that scene before they change their mind.
Matt: We'll say for the point of the narrative, a couple of weeks go by, relatively unimpactful.
Laura: Oh, I get my circle!
Matt: Yeah, the Teleportation Circle is complete.
Laura: Hey, guys. We can go to Syngorn whenever we want.
Marisha: Oh, rad.
Laura: Tight, right?
Liam: The question is, do we want to?
Laura: Probably not!
Marisha: Can I go check in with the Sun Tree while I'm here?
Matt: Yeah, sure. So you walk on down to the center of Whitestone, which is now far more full of life and bustling. A lot of the buildings that line the square have little flower boxes underneath the windows. Color has returned to it. Still keeps moody gray skies a large portion of the day, but overall the city itself seems to have sprung into life over the past year or so. The Sun Tree is beautiful. It's still a vastly bark-visible tree. It has that orange-brown color across it, smooth in most places, a little more textured toward the bottom, but you see the very lush green leaves up into the boughs. You can see little bits of white flowers that year-round reside up in the top. It stands there before you in all of its magnificence.
Marisha: I come up and say, hey, Sun Tree. Casting Speak With Plants, of course.
Matt: "Hey, Keyleth."
Marisha: Hey!
Matt: "It's been a while."
Marisha: It's been so long. You're looking so good. So healthy.
Matt: "Thanks. I've been eating right."
Marisha: Yeah? Have you been working out?
Matt: "As much as I can. You know, I'm a tree."
Marisha: Sure. Yeah. How's it been? Whitestone seems so much better. Seems happier. Has morale been up?
Matt: "I mean, yeah."
Marisha: Yeah?
Matt: "There's kids and stuff."
Marisha: Yeah? Do the kids sometimes climb in you?
Matt: "Yeah."
Marisha: Do you like that?
Matt: "No."
Marisha: No? Oh, right.
Matt: "No, it's uncomfortable."
Marisha: Really?
Matt: "Yeah."
Marisha: Should I put a Do Not Climb sign on you? Would you like that?
Matt: "Would you have to nail it into me?"
Marisha: No. I could stake it in the ground around you.
Matt: "It's fine."
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: "But thank you. I appreciate the offer."
Marisha: Anything to make you more comfortable, man.
Matt: "Appreciate it."
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: "You're great."
Marisha: Oh, thanks. Anyway, is there anything else that you need? Any new news? Anything going on?
Matt: "Nah. Glad the snowing stopped."
Marisha: Right? Thought that winter would last forever, right?
Matt: "It's hard to keep these blossoms up through the winter, let me tell you."
Marisha: Oh, yeah? But you're still good.
Matt: "Yeah. How are you doing, Kiki?"
Marisha: Oh, you know. Keeping busy, keeping on keeping on, you know? It's been good. You're like the coolest person I know, and you're a tree. It's weird. Even after a year, it's like talking to an old friend. It's good.
Matt: "If I could blush." (laughter)
Taliesin: Oh wow.
Marisha: Oh, look! Some of these flowers are getting a little pink, Sun Tree.
Matt: "Don't point it out. It's embarrassing. So. Hi."
Marisha: No, that's all. It's actually getting a little awkward now. It's gone on for a little long.
Matt: "I'm glad you brought that up. I didn't want to breach the subject."
Marisha: I just wanted to make sure you were cool.
Matt: "No, I'm cool."
Marisha: Yeah. Awesome. Okay, I'll see you around. Bye.
Matt: Hang up.
Laura: It's going to be a while before you guys call again.
Marisha: I'll wait for him to text me first. Yeah. It's the rule. Long time.
Taliesin: I don't know what they're looking at.
Matt: I don't know, either. Partway into the day, we'll say that you've been doing this. The bakery's been going fine. Which, actually, Pike and Vex, you've been in the process of-- have you guys hired employees to run the bakery?
Laura: Obviously.
Matt: Are you more playing as managers as opposed to actual workers?
Marisha: Owners.
Laura: Creative input.
Matt: Pike, on this day, you've been keeping tabs on this. A couple of the Pale Guard approach the bakery. One of them, without seeing you, walks in and goes, "We're looking for Pike. Is Miss Pike in?"
Ashley: Yes?
Matt: "Could you please come with us? There's somebody on the border requesting your presence."
Ashley: Where?
Matt: "On the outskirts of Whitestone."
Ashley: Okay. Yes.
Matt: "Someone who says they know you. You'd better come with us."
Ashley: Okay.
Matt: The two guards step back and-- do you walk with them?
Ashley: Yes.
Laura: Are any of us with you?
Matt: It's just her, at the moment.
Marisha: Does she walk past the Sun Tree when I'm having a random conversation with no one?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Marisha: Rolling really shitty tonight. Let's see what happens. Oh, that's good! That's much better. Straight perception? 30.
Matt: Okay. As you're walking away from the Sun Tree and begin heading back to the northern side of Whitestone, glancing back at him. "Oh, it's good to talk to him again." And you see Pike walking with two guards just on the southwestern side of the square. She looks a little nervous.
Marisha: It's about that time I'm like, okay, bye, Sun Tree. And then I'm going to Beast Shape into a crow and start circling her.
Matt: There are two kids off to the side that were just playing who look over and go, "Whoa."
Laura: That was amazing!
Ashley: That was awesome!
Matt: "I want to do that!"
Marisha: Poop on the way up.
Laura: That was even cooler!
Matt: They did not see that. So, as you're brought to the western road, it leads you alongside the shops and one of the guard who's talking to you is like, "Yeah, sorry. A group of folks have been here for a couple of days asking-- a few hours, I should say. Not a couple of days. Asking about you. We've kept an eye on them. They don't seem to be aggressive, but they asked for you recently, and we managed to find you by the bakery. Here they are." They lead you to the outside of the town, and there you see a small carriage with two horses that are currently hitched up front. You see about three other Pale Guard in full armor. One of them is in the middle of conversation with a couple of figures. You see four figures. You see three, and then a fourth one emerges from inside the carriage. It's a topped carriage with what looks to be some sort of curtains that are closed-- reds and dark purples. It doesn't look like an elaborate carriage, but it's functional. You see a male gnome with short dark hair, slicked to one side, and a well-groomed mustache that curls at the end. He's in the middle of talking when he glances over and sees you and goes, "Aha! She's here!" He leaps off the top and the guards get defensive as he goes, "Astra! Ogden! JB? She's here!" Then he goes rushing off in your direction as the guards are like, "Sir! Sir!" He ignores them for a second, and the two guards with you say, "Miss Pike, should we?" And they go for their blades.
Ashley: It's okay.
Matt: He approaches real fast and goes, (laughs) and gives a big old hug and lifts you off the ground, and it takes you a minute to realize, this is Johann Trickfoot, your cousin who you haven't seen in quite a long time. He's dressed in a fine vest that is a dark maroon color with a gold trim. A little ragged at the edges, but fine. Big, swishy pants and boots, and he lifts you up for a second and then sets you back down and is like, "It's been quite a while."
Ashley: It's been so long. How did you know where to find me?
Matt: "Well, we got your letter! And we've been hearing all about you-- at least, JB's been telling us all about you, hasn't she?" And he looks around and you see the other figures as they approach. There's a female gnome, older than you, who you haven't met before, who has curly strawberry-blonde hair that goes just past her shoulders. She's wearing this very revealing shirt and seems to walk with a confidence and smile and she goes, "Pike, my dear! I've heard all about you!" And she rushes up and gives you a big hug as well. You look back, and stepping off the carriage, you see a very old gnome who is just a wreath of black and salt-and-pepper hair, crazy, around him like a lion's mane, and a giant beard. You wouldn't see a face if not for these small spectacles and a little button nose poking out as he's being helped off the wagon by another female gnome that you recognize as she turns around towards you. She has long, straight black hair that goes right past her shoulders. She has a Wednesday Addams vibe to her. She looks back at you and smiles, and you can see this gap in her front teeth. She's about your age. This is JB Trickfoot. She is the--
Marisha: JB?
Matt: JB. She's another one of your cousins. One that you grew up with, actually, when you were very young, but you haven't seen her in a very long time. As they all begin to approach, this small cluster of Trickfoots have approached. As JB walks up to answer Johann, says, "Yes, indeed. We've heard all about you. I've been so proud to hear that you've done such great good in the world, cousin."
Ashley: I give her a hug. It's good to see you. It's been a very long time.
Matt: "Far too long."
Ashley: Did you guys just come here to see me?
Matt: "Yes." Johann claps his arm on the side of your shoulder. "Yes, of course! It's been-- I can't even remember. Look at how big you are! Last I saw you, you were waist-high to a knuckle-punch. It's been far too long. And so strong!" He's slapping the side of your arm, and they're all doing the whole family gathering, pulling and tugging, and you're starting to feel uncomfortable from all the attention, and the guards are all confused but also mildly amused by this family gathering. The old one now catches up, and you recognize that this is your uncle Ogden Trickfoot, who is the father to both Johann and JB. As he approaches, he has this small walking cane and he's walking at an angle because he doesn't quite see you. He's like, "Are you sure that she's around?"
Ashley: I'm right here!
Matt: "Huh?"
Ashley: Hi.
Matt: "Ah. Yes."
Ashley: How are you?
Matt: "I'm all right. It's so good to see you."
Ashley: It's so wonderful to see you.
Matt: "There you are."
Ashley: I'm here.
Matt: He adjusts his head a little. "They tell me that you slay dragons!"
Ashley: Yes, I did. With my friends.
Matt: "What?"
Ashley: Who I would love to introduce you guys to. My friends?
Matt: "What did she say?"
Ashley: My friends!
Matt: JB's like, "She said yes. She's slayed dragons."
Ashley: I also--
Matt: "What?"
Ashley: I also have a bakery!
Matt: "She says a bakery?"
Ashley: It's called the Slayer's Cake!
Matt: "Cake?" Suddenly you see his face brighten. Between the bursts of facial and head hair, you see a little bit of rosy cheeks poke through with a smile. JB goes, "We'll get you cake. We'll get you a cake, uncle."
Ashley: Come this way. I didn't realize you guys would be coming, but I'm glad that you got my letter and everything else.
Matt: At which point, the blonde one goes, "Yes, of course we did. You are as beautiful as everything they told me. I'm Astra, by the way. I'm Johann's wife. We haven't met, but you are a sight to see." She takes your hands and pulls your hands and goes, "Oh my, and aren't you the strapping young lady. Who's the lucky man?"
Ashley: Oh. Well, no one right now.
Matt: "Oh. Shouldn't be a problem. Or woman. Whatever, I don't know. You can tell me later."
Ashley: We'll discuss later, maybe, but do come in. I would love to introduce you to some friends of mine. Come into town.
Matt: JB's smile creeps, and you see the gap in her teeth once more. "Are these friends Vox Machina?"
Ashley: Yes.
Matt: At which point, they all look at her, and she goes, "I'm so excited. Please?" And they all gather around you, and the guard comes up real fast. "Miss, do you require assistance?"
Ashley: Just walk us into town. That would be great. Just in case there's anything that might jump out and get us.
Matt: "Very well." And the three guards that were at the front shout out, "The carriage?" And Johann goes, "Oh, yes! Well, it's now under the watch of one Pike Trickfoot, so just put it wherever the royal horses go." (chuckles)
Travis: Oh god.
Laura: Oh, I don't like them at all.
Liam: A cart of the Sackville-Bagginses just rolled up.
Ashley: Let me-- you know what? Guards, can you take them to the Slayer's Cake? And I will be right there.
Matt: "Of course! You're a busy woman. Don't worry about it." Astra fluffs her hair a bit. "Besides, I can have a guard escort me any day." The guard just grabs her arm and starts walking along with her. You can already tell she's a bubbly flirt.
Marisha: Keyleth flies down and lands on Pike's shoulder.
Ashley: Hey. Okay, so you just saw that. My family's here, the family I haven't really seen since I was a kid, and they're-- we have the last name Trickfoot for a reason. I'm going to get on the earring and say, whoever is available, I would love to maybe have you come to the Slayer's Cake. Some of my family is here.
Travis: (gasps, running noises)
Ashley: Hold on! Watch your pockets, watch your stuff. Just keep an eye on your things. Yeah, just please come?
Laura: We've got you, darling.
Marisha: I bamf out of my Beast Shape. Whoa! What?
Ashley: Okay, I sent money. I didn't tell them where I was.
Marisha: You sent money?
Ashley: I did. I don't know, maybe I shouldn't have done it. I just wanted to make sure that they were okay. Maybe that wasn't a good idea.
Marisha: You've told us very vague amounts about your family.
Ashley: Because they're--
Marisha: It was surprising. You haven't talked about them too much, just that they're shady.
Ashley: I left when I was very young, so a lot of them I don't really know. Okay.
Marisha: You know, we love you, and family or not, if anyone tries to fucking use you, we will--
Ashley: Thank you. Okay. I don't think it'll come to that.
Marisha: All right. I just don't want anyone taking advantage of you.
Ashley: Right.
Matt: As you're having this conversation, (thudding sounds)
Travis: (shouting) Gnomes! (pants)
Ashley: Okay. Just get ready. Let's go to the Slayer's Cake.
Taliesin: I'm walking from the cemetery. However far that is.
Ashley: They alluded to the fact that they know who Vox Machina is, which I guess in this day and age, people know who we are. Which is weird. Okay, just be prepared, because it's not like I'm embarrassed of my family or anything, I just-- they're great! I just don't really know them.
Travis: You don't know them?
Ashley: Okay, Wilhand took me out of there when I was six, so it's been a while.
Marisha: Have you kept in contact with any of them until recently?
Ashley: Not really? JB, my cousin who you'll meet in a little bit, but not really. Not really at all.
Travis: Yeah, they never came by Wilhand's.
Ashley: No, they have so many things to do.
Travis: Busy. Important.
Ashley: Busy. But just hold onto your butts. Hold onto your things. They are sneaky. Sneaky-sneaky. They like to take things, and they're fast and small and that little sleight-of-hand didn't get passed down to me, but-- oh, I'm so uncomfortable right now!
Travis: Yeah, you're sweating a lot.
Marisha: Here. And I dab her brow off a little.
Ashley: Thanks.
Marisha: Do you need anything? Do you need anything to look cool?
Travis: Do you want some deodorant? You kind of smell.
Ashley: Yeah.
Marisha: Okay. I pull out my oils that I use on Vax. Here you go. You're good. Much better.
Laura: Have we caught up with them yet?
Matt: Yeah, they've been having this conversation with them just standing in the square not far from the Slayer's Cake.
Taliesin: That's never going to get old.
Matt: It'll never get old. Yeah, so you've caught up at this point. Percy, you've just started to see them in the distance.
Taliesin: Yeah. I'm excited.
Matt: Taryon, I don't know if you're--
Sam: I'm at the Slayer's Cake. I am making blondies.
Matt: Okay. So, while you guys are having this conversation, Taryon, you hear what sounds like ruckus, laughter, conversation, voices overlapping, getting louder and louder and then suddenly the front door to the Slayer's Cake, which has been quiet this afternoon, (thud). And then, (laughs) "Oh! This place is amazing! Do you smell that? You smell that, Uncle?" And you watch as the uncle comes in. (sniffs) "Smells like rocks."
Sam: Rocks?
Matt: "He lost his smell when he was very-- it was a terrible accident. Horse hoof in the face. Anyway, hi! We're family of Pike Trickfoot, and we were told to come here and try your wares! So this is a bakery?"
Sam: In Gnomish, welcome to the store. Any family of Pike Trickfoot is family of mine. I am one of her closest friends, Taryon Darrington. Here you go. Blondies on the house for everyone to celebrate your blondie, Pike Trickfoot.
Matt: "She wasn't always blonde, you know."
Sam: Oh, I don't know that at all. What?
Matt: Yeah. I guess she wanted a change of pace. She had dark hair when she was younger.
Sam: Really?
Matt: "Astra, free treats!" And they start grabbing and filling their pockets with blondies and eating them in between.
Sam: I've got more. Sure. You can take all you want. Everything in the store is yours.
Matt: You watch as JB walks up with long, dark hair, and goes, "Do you happen to have any water?"
Sam: Of course! Doty, go fetch some water for these fine gnomes.
Matt: "Tary." Grabs and gets a small bucket of water and sets it down. You watch as JB begins breaking up the pastry and dipping it in the water and then feeding it to the uncle.
Sam: Ugh.
Matt: Occasionally has to right his face, and it's getting caught in the beard a little bit.
Sam: You know, family is everything, and I'm so pleased to meet you. Can you tell me what she was like as a child?
Matt: "Well, (chuckles) she--" At that point, the door bursts open and the rest of you arrive there at the Slayer's Cake.
Travis: Yes!
Ashley: Oh, I see you got some blondies.
Matt: "We did. Your friend here--"
Sam: Taryon Darrington.
Matt: "Taryon Darrington, who apparently speaks Gnomish-- look at you, keeping your culture. Was nice enough to give us the run of the house!"
Sam: I told them they could have anything they wanted in the place, free of charge.
Ashley: I mean, just don't get sick by having too many pastries.
Matt: (chuckles) "Oh, my dear. That's not possible."
Ashley: This is-- guys? Everybody? This is my family. This is part of my family.
Matt: "Johann Trickfoot, random tasker, at your service." He bows. The woman with the curls says, "Astra Trickfoot. This here's my lumpy husband." Elbows him in the side. "And also at your service." And glances over and does a quick scan of everybody and falls on you and gives you a wink. JB, who is currently feeding the older uncle Ogden Trickfoot, goes, "I'm JB. I'm the cousin who grew up with her the most. She's my favorite." At which point, she's been so concentrated on this, she doesn't realize she's been mashing the food into the side of Ogden's cheek. (babbling) "I'm sorry." She wipes him down.
Liam: I'm sorry. What brings you fine folk into town? Are you just visiting Pike here?
Matt: Astra goes, "Well, we travel a lot and we've heard of exploits in various towns all around. I just have not had the chance to meet Pike after all the stories I've heard, and Johann speaks of her often, and JB is pretty much obsessed with your exploits." JB's over there. "I've been keeping tabs." "So we were surprised that we were located by a courier who gave us your letter and your absolutely unnecessary but very appreciated donation to the family, and we thought it would be nice and right of us to come and thank you in person."
Ashley: Well, I'm so glad you did. How in the world did you find out that I was here?
Matt: Johann and Astra turn their heads to JB, and JB goes, "Well, I'm keeping tabs on what you've been doing. There had been word that you not only helped with the reconstruction of Emon, but you've also been traveling to and from Whitestone since the Conclave attacked the continent, so we narrowed it down between a few possibilities, and based on the fact that you, Percival-- this is your city, is that correct? We figured that given that basis, we had a good chance. We passed through Westruun and could not find you. Wilhand, however, did say that you're doing well, and we eventually made our way east, and here we are. It's good to see you."
Ashley: It's good to see you.
Travis: Do me next. What have I done?
Matt: "You're Grog Strongjaw. Yes. You're the one that apparently replaced me."
Ashley: Well--
Travis: Huh?
Matt: "You grew up together once we were not, and you're a strong half-giant of a man. The beard confuses me, but you've done many great things, I suppose. The rest of you, it is an honor to meet you. I've heard so much, and it's rare you get to meet heroes in your lifetime." (shouting) "What? I'm still hungry!"
Travis: They're so nice. I feel terrible.
Ashley: Are you guys just passing through? Where's your next destination?
Matt: Johann pops up and goes, "We're always passing through, my dear, but we figured we'd just stay for a few days. However long it takes to get to know you a little better, and then we'll be on our way."
Marisha: Did he say weeks? Did he slip that in?
Matt: "We could stay weeks, if you'd like!"
Laura: Well, you know, days might be more--
Travis: As long as you need.
Matt: "We've been traveling. We're very tired."
Travis: Pike's family is our family, really.
Sam: Agreed.
Liam: I just want to get a vibe on them. I want to do an insight check and see what I think of them.
Marisha: Can I assist him on that?
Matt: Insight you can't-- you have to make an individual insight check.
Marisha: Individuals?
Liam: Oh, jeebus. Crap. 13.
Marisha: 26.
Matt: Okay. They're hard to read, in general. They're strange. They're interesting. They're unique. But they seem to be jovial and full of personality. You get a very familiar vibe as you did with Dr. Dranzel's troupe.
Travis: Could I request one thing? Could I have a hug?
Matt: From?
Travis: Yeah, all of you at once!
Sam: A bunch of kittens on a man.
Matt: They look at each other. Johann, and then Astra rushes in. They both give you a hug, and then Astra goes, "Uncle Ogden!" She grabs Ogden and (yelps) comes over and, "I'm confused." He's being held against you, really, and you watch as JB approaches and pats you.
Travis: It's okay.
Ashley: JB? Can I talk to you for just a minute?
Matt: "Of course."
Ashley: Just step outside on the outdoor bench.
Matt: She follows you out there. "You look so pretty."
Ashley: Oh, thank you.
Matt: "You've done so many good things. I've heard so many good things. It's so good to see you."
Ashley: It's very good to see you. How have you been?
Matt: "Well, I've been watching Ogden. Traveling and seeing the sights of the countrysides of Tal'Dorei. It's life on the road."
Ashley: I know. I understand that. How are my parents?
Matt: She looks around and goes, "Well, we haven't heard from your immediate side of the family since your bastard father left for Wynandia across the sea. Good riddance. No offense."
Ashley: No. None taken.
Matt: "That was a long time ago. I was young. But no, seriously. You're not missing much with them."
Ashley: Can I insight check her?
Matt: Go for it.
Ashley: Oh no. 13?
Matt: 13? She seems guarded and hard to read, but legit.
Ashley: Okay. Well. Have you guys, in your travels-- you know who Scanlan Shorthalt is, I'm sure?
Matt: She lights up and goes, "Yes, I've heard of him. Is he around?"
Ashley: He's not around.
Matt: "Oh. Okay, but I've heard of him. I've heard of his exploits. (chuckles) As I've asked around, he's left quite a trail of ladies through the years."
Ashley: He definitely has.
Matt: "They have a lot to say about him."
Ashley: Yes.
Matt: "Bit of a scoundrel, that one."
Ashley: Such a scoundrel.
Laura: God, she's so weird. (laughter)
Laura: It makes me so uncomfortable.
Ashley: All right, well, let's go back inside.
Matt: "Of course. I'm glad we had this bonding time."
Ashley: Me, too.
Matt: "You want to come, right?" She grabs your arms and tugs a little bit. You get a very faint sense of mild arrested development that makes you a little uncomfortable.
Ashley: Yeah.
Matt: She walks inside with you with her arm on your shoulder, and as you come back inside, the hug seems to have pulled away from Grog for a second, but the laughter is billowing from the room, and Johann, at this point, is mid-story to Grog. "And that's the craziest thing! She was so small, but could yet poop so much."
Travis: I love it!
Matt: "It's incredible!"
Travis: That's my favorite kind of people. Big pooper!
Matt: "If we could have painted a picture, you wouldn't know where she put it away! But that's another story."
Ashley: Oh, well, we don't need to keep saying these things. You know, if you guys would like to stay just for a few days, because we're going to be leaving.
Travis: No, we're not. We're here for a long time.
Ashley: We have a lot of stuff to do.
Laura: Trip coming up.
Matt: "Of course! Days. Weeks was invited here, of course, but--"
Laura: She doesn't actually live here.
Marisha: I'm a guest, foreigner, just like you. Passing through. Traveling on.
Ashley: I think we have a thing that we have to go fight, and we have so many things that we have to do.
Travis: We just got done fighting all the things. We're settling here.
Laura: (groans)
Ashley: We have some things planned.
Matt: Astra steps forward and takes your hand and she goes, "It's all right, dear. We're not going to stay longer to make it uncomfortable. I'm sorry about these folks."
Ashley: No, no.
Matt: "I married into the Trickfoots. I'm not bound to the same ridiculousness as these guys, so don't worry."
Ashley: Okay.
Marisha: Can I insight check that?
Matt: Sure.
Marisha: I don't trust your "married in this bullshit" shit. 20, total.
Matt: 20 total?
Taliesin: Yeah!
Laura: I bet she's at the helm!
Taliesin: Happy new year, everybody.
Laura: I don't like her winking at Percy!
Taliesin: While we're whispering about things--
Sam: We have a great new shirt in the store. It says Vox Machina.
Laura: (silly accent) If you could get a close-up, you would see all of the Vox Machina's made of a different weapon that Vox Machina uses.
Taliesin: That was amazing.
Ashley: Well, why don't you guys stay in my place, and I'll take care of you guys while you're here? Just explore the town, and when we're getting ready to go, I'll let you know, and you guys can go on your merry way.
Matt: "That sounds fantastic."
Ashley: Okay.
Matt: "It's so happy to have the Trickfoots together again."
Ashley: It's just so great.
Matt: "So where are we all staying?"
Ashley: Well, you can stay at my place.
Matt: "Fantastic! Wondrous. Show us along! We have things to unload."
Ashley: Okay.
Laura: Do you want to grab any of the last bit of pastries for the day? Obviously, free treats today.
Sam: Oh, but don't fill up, because I assume we're all going to have dinner tonight together, right?
All: Yeah.
Ashley: Yeah, let's have dinner.
Matt: "Wonderful. I love it. I love it!"
Laura: Free treats today! Just today. Just today, free treats for the family. After that, no free treats.
Matt: As you're saying this, Uncle Ogden has stepped forward again and JB is like, "Uncle Ogden?" He (grunts) and reaches out and finds the edge of your cheek and chin and he drops his cane, pulls his glasses off, and you see these tiny, dark beady eyes between the wrinkles and he goes, "Pike."
Ashley: Hi.
Matt: "It's so good to see you."
Ashley: It's so good to see you.
Matt: "Thank you. You're a good one." He puts his glasses back on and reaches out, and JB picks up a stick and hands it to him. He's like, "Thank you."
Ashley: Thank you, Uncle Ogden.
Laura: Does it look like he really needs that cane?
Matt: You want to make an insight check? (laughter)
Matt: Sure, go for it.
Travis: Kick the cane out, see what happens. Do you need this? Boom!
Laura: I think it looks like he really needs it.
Matt: You genuinely feel bad for even having that second thought. (laughter)
Laura: I do. I feel really terrible.
Sam: In my broken Gnome, I tell him  it's an honor to mate you. (laughter)
Matt: His head spins for a second. He smiles, and in Gnomish back to you, he says, "Oh. It's been a while."
Sam: I love him.
Ashley: Well, should we get some dinner? Are you guys hungry, or have you filled up on pastries?
Matt: "Oh!" You watch as Johann spits out the pastry. "Always hungry!"
Ashley: Okay, great. Well, let's have a delicious dinner.
Marisha: We could always go hunting for our dinner. Classic way.
Laura: That's how we do it in Whitestone. You have to hunt if you want to eat. That's how we do it here.
Matt: "Is that how you got your pastries?"
Laura: Well, hunting for any kind of meat. Pastries you pay for.
Ashley: For the meat pies.
Matt: "Well, we're not hunters, so I guess we'll stay here until you finish hunting. You know we're not hunters. We've never been hunters. Trickfoots don't hunt."
Ashley: We can-- (sighs).
Sam: Let's go freshen up for dinner.
Ashley: We'll go freshen up for dinner.
Matt: "Not a bad idea. I could use a bath, actually. How about you, Astra?" Astra's like, "Oh, I'd love a bath right now. I've been on the road for so long." And JB goes, "Uncle could really use a bath."
Ashley: Uncle could use a bath, I know.
Travis: He could. He smells like cheese.
Ashley: All right. I'll walk you guys. Let's walk to my place.
Matt: "Very well. Show us along!"
Laura: I want to whisper to you as we walk back to the house: don't give them any more free things, all right?
Sam: What? I thought they were Pike's people.
Laura: Yeah, they're great. They're wonderful, but no more free stuff. Just today, but no more after that.
Sam: Okay. Of course. I'm sorry if I was out of line.
Laura: Of course not. You're so generous.
Sam: I love you.
Laura: I love you so much.
Liam: I'm hooking Kiki by the arm. Hey, you've got that look in your eye.
Marisha: I just don't like it when people try to take advantage of my friends, but they're family, and if anyone is in need, I don't want to potentially put them out.
Liam: But you think they're a little bit hinky? That's a yes.
Marisha: We can just keep an eye out. I'm protective.
Taliesin: Pike, if you need anything, just let me know. And I completely understand the awkward position you're currently being put in.
Ashley: Oh god, it's so awkward! I just don't know. Thank you, Percy. I'll let you know if there's anything that I need.
Taliesin: Keep an eye on the odd one.
Ashley: Which one? Because they're all odd.
Taliesin: JB. She reminds me of me at that age. That's not a good thing.
Marisha: I say to Vax  Just keep an eye on the odd one, all right?
Taliesin: See if you notice an interest.
Travis: Pike, are there any more coming?
Taliesin: If you notice an interest in that one, please let me know. Maybe I could figure out what she's interested in and show her around, maybe.
Ashley: Okay. That's a great idea. So this is all of you, then, that came? You guys have been traveling around, just yourselves?
Travis: Got any more of you coming?
Matt: "Not coming with us. The Trickfoots tend to scatter on their own."
Travis: Like bunnies.
Matt: "Yeah, sure. We'll go with that one. Yeah, not everyone can be trusted in the family."
Ashley: Yeah.
Matt: "It's frustrating. The people that you care for and spend your life hitting behind betray that trust, and good riddance to them."
Ashley: Oh. Well, is there anything you would like to see while you're here?
Matt: They all look back at JB, who lights up again and goes, "Everything."
Ashley: Okay. Well, is there anyone in particular you would like to give you a tour?
Matt: JB is like, "Well, I--" And Johann goes, "I feel like if we don't choose him, we're going to get squashed." (laughter)
Matt: You can see a moment of heartbreak and JB goes, "Very well."
Travis: Yes!
Matt: "Mr. Strongjaw, you may show us around."
Travis: Yeah. You won't regret that choice.
Ashley: All right, come with me. You can come to my place, freshen up before dinner, and we'll have a great time.
Matt: "Great! Great. Now, to the baths. How big are your baths? Are they huge? Are they human-sized baths? Are they bigger than human-sized baths?"
Liam: Not quite big enough. (laughter)
Laura: You don't know.
Matt: "You!" All right, so you show them up to the castle, which I assume is where you're letting them stay.
Laura: They're staying in the castle?
Taliesin: The guards have generally been alerted to be wary, kind, polite, and less important that they stop them from doing anything too terrible, more to the point that they just write it down and report it immediately. (laughter)
Taliesin: Unless anyone's doing something terrible, or going somewhere they really shouldn't.
Matt: Right. Okay. That information is easily distributed throughout the Pale Guard, without issue.
Liam: "I guess that silverware wasn't so important."
Taliesin: Oh, we're bringing out the moderate silverware.
Ashley: That's a good idea. That's a great idea.
Laura: All the good silver is hidden. Hidden up high.
Matt: Because there are only within the castle at any given time, four baths. Four rooms that contain full baths. Occasionally, you have to wait for a person, but they immediately scatter. Three of them are taken.
Ashley: Okay. We might have to wait a little bit.
Matt: You wait a while. Eventually, they one by one start making their way down to the main banquet hall of the castle. Cleaned up. You watch as Johann comes down, wearing his same clothing that appears to have been cleaned. "Wow! I'm appreciative that you have servants here that can do such a nice job with such fine family threads." His mustache is done perfectly. His hair is still slick and wet from the bath, combed over. "Well, thank you. It's in the blood."
Ashley: (chuckles) It sure is.
Matt: He turns around. "Astra? What's taking her so long?" Walks back out to the stairway and rushes past the guards, his little gnomish head dodging by their knees, almost. He goes, (shouting) "Astra!" You hear a voice go, (shouting) "I'm almost done! Wait and be patient!" He goes back. "She'll be down in a moment. Don't worry. In the meantime, is there an appetizer course?"
Ashley: Sure. Why don't you take a seat, and order whatever you want, on me.
Matt: "You're so generous!" He pinches your cheek. He waltzes over to the table, sits down and grabs the fork and knife. "Two bottles of red, and... ooh, what vintage have you?" He begins talking with the servants about what various wines are available.
Laura: I'm just going to pop into the kitchen.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: And tell the staff in the kitchen obviously, you can make whatever you want. I'm just hoping maybe you don't make it too tasty tonight. Nothing too extravagant. You know, nice, but average. Right?
Matt: The servants that are there, the whole waitstaff and kitchen staff go, "Of course, milady."
Laura: Nothing great.
Matt: "A curious request, but one we will fulfill to our greatest ability."
Laura: Thank you so much. Lots of salad, lots of very dry, hard meat. Turnips. Lots of turnips.
Taliesin: Heavy food.
Laura: Yeah.
Sam: I'm going to pop into the kitchen after she's done. (laughter)
Sam: All right, family's here tonight, so everything has to be on its best, all right? The best stuff we have in this kitchen. These are Trickfoots. We have to treat them right, and we have to treat them well.
Matt: The staff stops and goes, "Friend Taryon, I'm sorry, but the lady requested specifically that the meal not be--"
Sam: What lady?
Matt: "Lady Vex'ahlia."
Sam: She was being polite. These are good people. They need to be treated--
Matt: Make a persuasion check. You're asking them to override the word of the lady of the house. SAM One. (laughter)
Matt: He goes, "I am sorry, but--"
Sam: Who's your manager?
Matt: "The lady you're speaking about."
Sam: Oh, you're right. She is your manager.
Liam: Tary, you have Luck!
Taliesin: Back to the pool house with you.
Sam: I do have Luck.
Laura: (groans) No!
Sam: What am I doing?
Matt: Persuasion.
Laura: No.
Sam: That's 24.
Taliesin: Oh!
Matt: He goes, "But if you say it's the word of Lady Vex'ahlia--"
Sam: These are Trickfoots, man. Trickfoots! Treat them as you would your own mother.
Matt: "I'm so confused. We'll do our best. Holy shit." You see this internal struggle. "Everyone! Fine meat's back on the menu. Sorry." And the staff goes, (groans) and starts throwing shit out that they were halfway working on and starting from scratch.
Sam: I go out and grab Vex. Little EG, what are you doing? You told them to give them bad food tonight? These are Trickfoots! We have to treat them with honor and respect.
Laura: Tary! Ugh.
Taliesin: You said what?
Laura: Okay, look. All right. If your father came, and you dislike him very much, right?
Sam: I would give him the best.
Laura: Oh shit. Okay, bad comparison. These people suck. They're mean--
Sam: What are you talking about? They've been nothing but nice. They've showered her with kisses and affection. It's affection that I've never even seen in a family before!
Laura: Tary, dear. Darling. They don't treat her very well, and they'll use her, and they'll stay here and keep taking advantage of her, and we don't want that.
Sam: But I get to practice my Gnome.
Laura: Well, that's true. You can practice as much as you want over the next couple of days, but we don't want to impress them. The more they like it, the longer they'll stay.
Taliesin: They'll figure out that the poor food-- I feel like they're clever enough for that one. Best to feed them well, at least.
Laura: Really?
Taliesin: I know.
Sam: I'll back off.
Laura: Thank you.
Taliesin: Continue to be charming.
Sam: Always.
Travis: I walk into the kitchen. I go, okay. Listen up! I need peanut butter, I need turkey legs, eggs, cheese. (laughter)
Sam: "Those are all the foods I know."
Travis: Chop chop!
Matt: The servants all stop and go, (sighs). "Yes, Grand Poobah." (laughter)
Matt: Throw out what they were finishing and begin to make eggs, getting the cheese ready, and all the hearty pork meats. And the peanut butter.
Marisha: It's a Charlie Brown Thanksgiving.
Laura: Spaghetti-Os.
Marisha: Popcorn.
Ashley: Just great. I run over to Percy really quickly. (whispering) Percy?
Taliesin: Yes?
Ashley: I just wanted to... apologize in advance for whatever may happen in the next few days.
Taliesin: I'm so excited for the calamity that's about to be brought down upon my house.
Ashley: Okay.
Taliesin: There is nothing, short of full dragon apocalypse at this point, that could faze us. We can live through this. We'll be fine.
Ashley: Okay.
Laura: I come up and I give her a hug from behind and say: We will never judge you for your blood, dear.
Ashley: Okay. Again, I'm not embarrassed.
Laura: Of course not. They're great. They seem wonderful.
Ashley: Yeah. Yeah, they do.
Taliesin: To be fair, I've also already started drinking.
Ashley: Oh great. Okay, I'll join you.
Taliesin: I pull out the flask of Courage that I've brought.
Sam: Flask of Courage?
Laura: You got more Courage?
Taliesin: Oh, there's a lot of Courage. We make it every year.
Ashley: I take a big gulp. All the gulps.
Matt: It burns. It burns so good.
Ashley: (grunts)
Taliesin: It burns a lot.
Ashley: It does.
Taliesin: You're going to get drunk, but you're not going to get sleepy.
Laura: Oh, that's going to feel good in this area.
Travis: You won't get sleepy.
Taliesin: Let's do this.
Ashley: Let's go eat.
Matt: As you guys all find yourselves ready, the Trickfoots also begin to fill in to the banquet hall. The servants provide a fantastic spread of heartily cooked pork meats, peanut butter fresh from the jar, piles of cheeses.
Laura: I thought you asked--
Sam: This is not what I asked for.
Ashley: This is comfort food in Whitestone.
Taliesin: We thought we would give you the cornucopia of our experience.
Laura: I take a big spoon of peanut butter.
Matt: Johann gives a curious eye and goes, "Well, who are we to scoff at the cultures of others? Let's dig in, everyone!" And immediately he goes in. Astra begins eating, as well. JB takes a bite and then prepares a bite for Uncle Ogden, who is in the process of staring at the table strangely. Eventually the spoon finds its way there.
Taliesin: Well, that's the next 30 minutes.
Matt: As this is happening, Johann begins asking questions. "So! This is your castle?"
Ashley: Is this my castle?
Matt: JB is like, "No, it's not her castle. It's his castle. She's just staying here, for now."
Taliesin: Technically, it's my sister's castle, but certainly.
Matt: At which point, Cassandra comes in from the back, arms crossed. She wanders in. "Brother?"
Taliesin: That's code. Yes?
Matt: "Everything all right, brother?"
Taliesin: Yes, fine.
Matt: "Very well, I'll be in my chambers if you require anything."
Laura: You're sure you don't want to join us, Cass?
Matt: "I'm fine. I'm a bit tired. It's been a long night. But whoever you are, welcome to Whitestone." She looks back to Percival.
Taliesin: The Trickfoot clan.
Matt: "Ah."
Marisha: And Keyleth goes-- ASHLEY If she looks over at me, I'm going--
Matt: "I would love to welcome you all to Whitestone. You are guests of ours if you are guests of hers. We'll talk later."
Taliesin: Absolutely.
Matt: She makes her way back up the stairs. You watch as Trish, who's her bodyguard on this shift, follows her up.
Laura: She's still here? Trish.
Ashley: Trish the Dish.
Travis: Trish the Dish.
Matt: She's one of two shift personal guards of Cassandra.
Ashley: I'm going to sit next to Ogden.
Matt: Okay.
Ashley: JB, I can feed him for a little bit if you'd like to look around or something, or talk to anybody here? Who do you really want to talk to?
Matt: "You. We have so much to catch up on. It's been a long time."
Ashley: Is there someone in Vox Machina that you really love?
Matt: She looks around. There's this long, awkward pause as she keeps looking over Vox Machina again and again, but not making any eye contact with Grog, and eventually goes, "I suppose Lady Vex'ahlia." Hands the spoon over to you.
Ashley: Okay. Well, I'm sure she would love to talk to you. She's very inviting, very friendly.
Matt: "Should I just go sit?"
Ashley: Sure.
Matt: "Okay." She gets up from the table. Johann's still talking. He's telling stories. "We Trickfoots. For generations, we've been problem-solvers. We rove from place to place, solving problems across the countrysides. If you have a squeaky wheel, we fix the wheel. If you have a squeaky door, we fix the door."
Travis: Amazing.
Matt: "If you have a squeaky tax man, we fix the tax man. That's a joke! That's a joke. You can laugh. See, there you are."
Travis: They kill the tax man.
Sam: Everybody hates taxes.
Matt: As this conversation's happening, there's a small bowl of what looks to be some of the pork, but it's been soaked in some water or wine, and it's been mashed or pre-chewed. You're not quite sure. But you have the spoon there, and you have Uncle Ogden sitting there going--
Ashley: I start speaking to him in Underdark because I haven't spoken that in a while. Ogden? How are you liking traveling with everybody? With Johann and Astra and JB?
Matt: His ear perks up a little bit and he goes, "I haven't heard that talk in a long time." His head turns slightly towards you, but he's still looking off a little bit from under the glasses.
Sam: Is this Undercommon?
Ashley: Underdark.
Sam: Underdark?
Matt: It would be considered Undercommon.
Ashley: It's Undercommon? Okay.
Sam: I'm listening.
Laura: I'm reading their lips.
Matt: Do you understand Undercommon? Okay, then yeah. He looks back and goes, "It's been travel. They take care of me. We're here now." His hand reaches over and grabs your hand and holds it for a second. He goes, "We're here now to protect you."
Ashley: Protect me from what?
Matt: "From the curse."
Ashley: What do you mean?
Matt: "I've been having visions of you. An angel of light swallowed by dark."
Ashley: Okay. Are these just dreams?
Matt: "They come often, and the dreams that come often generally come to pass. There is a curse in our blood, and we wish to save you from that curse." His fingers tighten a little bit on your hand. Not in a painful way, but an emphatic hold. "I'm worried for you. You're the only good one." His hand releases your hand. He drools a little bit and wipes it with his hand. (laughter)
Ashley: I take a spoon of peanut butter. It's a little bit easier. Here you go.
Sam: Like Mr. Ed.
Ashley: Yep.
Matt: It dribbles out a little bit. "Unexpected."
Ashley: Sorry, the mix between the pork and peanut butter. It's an interesting mix, but it's Grog's favorite.
Matt: "It's good."
Ashley: It's a good mix!
Matt: You see him smiling now.
Ashley: Can you tell me about Astra? How did she come into the picture?
Matt: "Astra met Johann about ten years ago. He needed someone to nail him down. Spry, wily, prone to terrible choices. He's a stupid boy. Stupid, stupid boy." At which point, Johann, who's been talking, stops and goes, in Undercommon, "I can hear you, Dad. Anyway!" "She's good to him. If she breaks his heart, I'll kill her."
Ashley: There you go. And any word from my family? My mother, anything? It's been a long time since I talked to them.
Matt: "They absconded east and got in a little trouble."
Ashley: That makes sense.
Matt: "It's just like my brother to do that. He's the one who held the stupid gene on our generation."
Ashley: Yep.
Matt: "I'm tired now."
Ashley: Okay.
Matt: At which point, JB, who's been over there talking with you and asking questions about the castle and what accommodations there are, sees Uncle Ogden get up. "Oh, Uncle, I'll help you. I'm so sorry, Lady Vex'ahlia." She stands up and walks around and grabs the elbow. "Uncle Ogden, are you tired?"
Ashley: I can have someone take him, if you'd like to stay?
Matt: "He's very fragile. If you'd trust anyone to take him?"
Laura: I can do it, dear.
Ashley: Well. Yeah. You would like to stay with him?
Matt: "It's what I'm used to, but if Lady Vex'ahlia--"
Laura: I would love to. I think your cousin wants to speak with you.
Ashley: Great.
Matt: At which point, as soon as you say that, she smiles brightly and goes, "Actually, yes."
Laura: Yes.
Ashley: Okay.
Laura: Be on your guard, dear.
Ashley: Okay, I will. Check your pockets.
Laura: Always.
Matt: She sits down next to you and begins asking about, "I can't believe that you stepped into the same ridiculousness that Wilhand did and it's brought you all this. We just thought he was an old coot."
Ashley: Well, he's all I've known and he's wonderful. He's my family, since I left, and I'm sorry I haven't really contacted you guys.
Matt: "It's all right. We make ourselves scarce on purpose."
Ashley: Yeah. Well, so you've been taking care of Ogden?
Matt: "We've been helping out, but mostly me, yeah."
Ashley: Has he told you anything that he dreams about?
Matt: You can see that she stiffens up a little bit. "So he's already told you."
Ashley: Yes.
Matt: "I don't want to ruin an evening that's going so well, but he's had visions. I'm worried about you. When we got your letter that-- we didn't know how to find you. We didn't think that you were in the area. When your letter found us, we thought maybe you weren't that far away, so we began to search our way along the Silver Cut."
Ashley: Okay. Can I insight check her again?
Matt: Yeah, go for it.
Ashley: I can't figure out what's going on. Ugh, balls. Oh, wait. 16?
Matt: She's hard to read, in general. Even when she was a kid, she was an odd duck. She seems genuine.
Ashley: Okay. Well, how's everybody feeling? Are you tired? Are you full? Is it bedtime? What's going on?
Sam: I could talk to these people all night long.
Ashley: Well.
Sam: But if we should turn in?
Matt: You see Astra, who's been drinking deep of one of the two fine bottles of red wine, is drunkenly leaning with her arm around Johann's arm. He's a little tipsy, but he's still in conversation, talking to Grog. He's telling embarrassing story after embarrassing story, and since you're so eager and no one else really wants to pay him as much mind. He's talking to the table, but he's mainly focusing on you.
Travis: Yeah.
Matt: As you begin helping Ogden, who, as you grab his arm, he's shaking, and he has his cane as he moves along. His skin is very loose.
Laura: Ogden, would you like me to help carry you, or are you all right to walk?
Matt: "I can walk under my own power."
Laura: Of course you can. Feel free to lean on me, though.
Matt: "At the stairs."
Laura: All right.
Matt: He's still looking off. As soon as you get to the stairs, he gets about two steps and has to stop and breathe, and another two stairs.
Laura: I put my arm down so he can put as much weight as he wants.
Matt: He leans into it and you eventually help him up the staircase that spirals up to the second floor and eventually lead him to his chambers.
Laura: All right, and I start talking to him on the way to his room in Undercommon. And ask him: How long have you guys been on the road?
Matt: "Always."
Laura: Always?
Matt: "By nature, we don't really put down roots." Big old smile as he says roots, darkened, some broken teeth. Heinous smell.
Laura: Peanut butter and pork.
Matt: Yep.
Laura: I couldn't help but overhear you talking to Pike about dreams you've been having.
Matt: "Yes. Dreams."
Laura: What kind of dreams?
Matt: "Terrible premonitions."
Laura: Like what?
Matt: At this point, he stops and looks up towards you as you're holding his arm, and he reaches up and pulls the glasses shakily from the front of his face and through his small dark brown beady eyes, you see the whites at the sides are bloodshot. He glances up and goes, "The kinds of dreams that end a bloodline."
Laura: Well, that sounds terrible.
Matt: "We're trying to find a way to stop it."
Laura: Well, that's good. I would like to stop it, as well. We all love Pike very much.
Matt: "Good. Then we came at the right time."
Laura: Can I insight check him?
Matt: Go for it.
Laura: That was almost. 21? 21.
Sam: Whispers!
Laura: Yes!
Sam: So, Taliesin, what's the V? What's the V on this shirt?
Taliesin: The V on this shirt?
Liam: It's a book.
Taliesin: That looks to be a tome of some sort.
Sam: Who is represented by a book?
Liam: The whole top row is reserved for Matthew.
Sam: Oh, okay. And what's the M in Machina?
Taliesin: It appears to be some sort of very naturalistic bow and arrow.
Sam: Who would that correspond to?
Taliesin: Scanlan, I imagine.
Sam: Oh, yeah. That makes sense. And the A?
Taliesin: The A appears to be a bird's mask and a pistol.
Sam: Also Scanlan.
Taliesin: Also Scanlan.
Sam: Yeah, sure. And the C?
Taliesin: The C is some sort of natural wooden crest of some kind.
Liam: That's Grog taint.
Sam: Oh.
Taliesin: In fact, this is entirely Grog and Scanlan, which I think, it's about time.
Laura: Well, Ogden. Are you all right getting into your bed? Do you need any help with that?
Matt: "If you can get me to the edge of it, I can manage."
Laura: Well, of course. I hope you know that we're here for you, with whatever you need, as long as we're all here to help Pike. We love her like family, as well.
Matt: "Good. She can use some family."
Laura: Yes. Dark tidings.
Matt: "Dark tidings, indeed."
Laura: Are we talking like falling into a pit or are we talking like-- I'm going to walk him to the bed and maybe like--
Matt: (raspy grunt) He gets up and leans the stick off to the side, and it (thudding noise) onto the ground.
Laura: I'll crouch down and start untying his little boots.
Matt: "That's all right. I can get that."
Laura: I don't mind.
Matt: He leans back and lets you do it.
Laura: What kind of dark things are we talking?
Matt: "There's a legend in the Trickfoots. Every generation, one is born with the blood curse. One that carries with it the anger of someone slighted when we first became Trickfoots. Maybe it's superstition, but every one of these individuals died a horrible, painful death, screaming of a shadow that came for them. It's a myth, I know, but these dreams are real, and I'd rather be careful and wrong than careless and right."
Laura: Do you see the shadow in your dreams?
Matt: "Shapeless. Dark. Eyes like burning coals."
Laura: Does that sound like the smoke demon that we saw come out of Percy? Anything like that?
Matt: Shapeless, black shadow with red eyes sounds similar, but Orthax was generally black smoke. Had form, and the eyes were more of a yellow.
Taliesin: The John Doe of demons, really.
Laura: All right. How long have you been having these dreams?
Matt: "Months."
Laura: Have you ever witnessed it happen before? Have you had the dreams about anyone else?
Matt: "Only once. I was very young."
Laura: And they died.
Matt: "My brother."
Laura: Really?
Matt: Theobold.
Laura: And do you know who it is the Trickfoots slighted in this myth?
Matt: "I don't know. This whole family is paranoid and guards their secrets from each other. Anyway."
Laura: I wish you a dreamless sleep. And he's out. (laughter)
Liam: Random question. Do we see an obvious family resemblance with Pike and any of them?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Sam: They all have a giant birthmark on their face. (laughter)
Liam: 24.
Matt: As you've been paying attention to them most of dinner. Mannerisms, everything. There are some similarities.
Liam: Facial features, I mean.
Matt: Yeah. They're not direct family. They're cousins, uncle-- they're once removed from her central nuclear family. But you do see similarities in cheekbone structure, at least with Johann, Ogden, and JB. Moreso with JB. It's hard with the mustache with Johann. But there are some similarities between JB and Pike, and you can't help but envision these two cute little gnome children playing together. These two dark-haired female gnomes running around, and there may have been an age when they could have been hard to tell apart from each other.
Laura: Ooh.
Sam: Swapped at birth?
Laura: I know, right?
Marisha: Freaky Friday!
Ashley: Oh man. Okay.
Matt: As Johann picks up Astra. "Anyway, it's been a fantastic meal. I appreciate your hospitality, and I look forward to this grand tour you promised tomorrow."
Travis: Oh, yeah. Anything you want to see, as long as you've got more of those stories.
Matt: "Oh, I've got loads."
Taliesin: I'm going to sneak next to JB really quickly.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: If you want a more proper and private tour of the city, consider the offer open. Just think about where you'd want to start. The offer does stand, though. Have a good evening.
Matt: As you say this to her, she glances back and says, "Very well. Under the needs of being upfront, as well, I want you to know that I'm not interested." (laughter)
Travis: Thank you. That's what it totally sounded like.
Laura: It did sound like you were fucking flirting.
Travis: You want a proper tour of deez nuts? (laughter)
Taliesin: I don't think he's figured out what she's talking about.
Matt: I don't think he has, either, no.
Taliesin: Oh. I'm sorry, I thought that maybe you'd want to see the-- and the-- oh. Very well, then.
Matt: She looks over at Grog and goes, "Perhaps a tour is in order, but just no. I'm not interested."
Taliesin: In the tour?
Matt: "In the tour, yes."
Taliesin: Oh! Yeah. I mean, no. Yes. No. (laughter)
Liam: Smooth as butter.
Matt: She gets up and walks away. "Good night, everyone. Good night, Pike."
Taliesin: How did she do that?
Matt: Eventually, all the gnomes have left and you're all there, dumbfounded, at the dinner table.
Laura: I come back down.
Ashley: Check your pockets! Check your pockets.
Laura: I had no valuables on me at all.
Sam: I have everything that I own on me. Am I missing anything?
Laura: I check my hair to make sure my brooch is still in it.
Marisha: I check my pouch and make sure my antlers are still there.
Matt: You guys scan through, pat yourselves down. Everything's in place.
Sam: I think they're lovely.
Marisha: And I liked seeing you being bested. Regardless of the people, it's still fun seeing you being bested.
Taliesin: Cheap shot, at best.
Liam: You are very different from them.
Ashley: Yes.
Liam: They are quirky.
Laura: I mean, you're quirky.
Ashley: Yeah, but I mean, I haven't seen them in a very long time. Since I was but a kid.
Liam: Why did Pom-Pom take you out of there?
Ashley: Well, because he was different and had a different life plan and because he became a cleric and was the first of-- I don't know how far back. I don't even know.
Liam: And older than all of them.
Ashley: Yeah. And he saw that I was and decided-- we left. He took me when I was little, and we left. There was a lot that happened, but I didn't know where they were because they travel.
Liam: They just got here, but what's your feel on this?
Ashley: I don't know. I heard some things with some discussions I had tonight, and I need to figure out if they're true or not. We'll figure out in the next few days, just to see what's going on.
Sam: This dream that the old one talked about, does that worry you?
Ashley: How do you know about that?
Liam: You don't know that.
Laura: He does. He was listening in.
Liam: Oh, that's right.
Laura: I actually talked to him a little bit about that, as well.
Ashley: You did?
Laura: Yeah.
Taliesin: A dream? What dream?
Ashley: What did he say?
Laura: He said that there was a thing in your family. A blood curse. He seemed honest enough when he was saying it. Said that people paid the price for a slight someone made a long time ago, and certain members of your family are cursed, and he's had these premonitions, these dreams, before. It was his brother who passed away a long time ago.
Ashley: Yes, this is a thing.
Laura: Have you heard about this?
Matt: You haven't because you haven't been with most of the Trickfoots for most of your life.
Ashley: Okay.
Matt: You've been with Wilhand since you were very young. You said six. He's not been eager to talk about the family. You can see he resents the Trickfoot clan, so you haven't heard of this, but you also know very little about them.
Laura: Wilhand never discussed it with you?
Marisha: No premonitions of a curse from Wilhand?
Ashley: He didn't talk about the family. He wanted to be separate from them and he didn't want me to be influenced by them at all.
Marisha: Hang on. I don't mean to question everything, but Wilhand defected from the whole family and became a cleric, but he never mentioned anything of a curse? Why did he become a cleric?
Taliesin: I see your reasoning.
Marisha: That seems like a dichotomy there.
Taliesin: It actually makes perfect sense to me.
Travis: He likes helping people.
Marisha: Or he's terrified of some superstitious curse. Maybe both?
Ashley: Maybe both.
Liam: We trust you, and Wilhand raised you, so Wilhand must have his head screwed on straight.
Taliesin: I'm going to say you're in a room of people who were raised by-- at least 60 percent of the time, ridiculous people who have their head screwed on straight.
Marisha: That's accurate.
Laura: Maybe we should ask him about it?
Liam: That's where I was going. Is there any merit in trying to get a hold of Wilhand right now, while they're here?
Ashley: Can we, from here?
Matt: He's in Westruun right now. It is also late in the evening.
Marisha: I can get us anywhere very quickly.
Sam: Tomorrow we should go visit him?
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: Yeah. I don't think they're going to burn down the castle.
Laura: Maybe while they're taking a tour, we bamf to Westruun for just a minute.
Taliesin: I don't necessarily know if-- do you want to bamf, or do you just want to talk? We can probably just talk to him, or maybe we could have him sent for.
Liam: Do you remember our conversations with Wilhand when we were in Westruun?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Liam: They were a little squirrely.
Taliesin: I'm a little worried about leaving them here unattended.
Laura: Some of us can stay.
Marisha: I think it would be a half-and-half situation.
Laura: Split the party!
All: Split the party!
Ashley: We could. As you guys know, Wilhand is a little-- he's in his older years.
Laura: We'll try to keep it quick.
Ashley: But we could try to keep it quick.
Laura: In and out, ask him a few questions.
Marisha: And Wilhand is the brother of Ogden?
Laura: No.
Liam: No, he's older than that.
Matt: Yeah, Wilhand is older than Ogden.
Marisha: Wilhand's older than Ogden?!
Ashley: Wilhand's older than Ogden.
Marisha: I thought Ogden was as old as life itself!
Travis: No, Ogden did a lot of drugs when he was younger.
Laura: Ogden's had a hard life.
Sam: He's got to be at least 150 or 200 years old.
Matt: Ogden looks like he's older, but his physicality is not based on age as much as it's based on--
Marisha: He had a Mick Jagger lifestyle.
Matt: Something akin to that, I guess you'd say.
Marisha: All right.
Taliesin: Or at least a Tom Waits one.
Matt: Yeah.
Ashley: Let's circle back tomorrow.
Marisha: All right.
Ashley: And while they're doing the tour, maybe we can pop over real quick and I think that would be better than him seeing them here.
Liam: Even as an outsider, that seems a little ugh.
Ashley: Yeah.
Taliesin: Grog, you'll take the loud ones tomorrow and I'll take the quiet ones?
Travis: Wait, what? I thought I get them all.
Taliesin: Do you want to get them all?
Travis: Yeah, don't they want all to be on my tour?
Laura: Maybe you could do the tour together?
Marisha: Maybe you could do a Grog tour and then a Percy tour.
Liam: Or you could assist Grog.
Taliesin: Because you asked so nicely. Also, I was thinking the carpet might be a fine way of moving them around the city.
Laura: Oh! That is actually a wonderful idea.
Ashley: They would be pretty fascinated by that.
Laura: Quite distracted.
Liam: You know, the Grand Poobah needs an assistant.
Travis: Oh. Perhaps.
Liam: It's only befitting of your station that Percival aid you in such a fashion.
Travis: Yes. Quite.
Marisha: The two masters of the city. Of course.
Travis: My history of the city is unrivaled.
Taliesin: I will definitely agree that there are sections of this city I would absolutely agree that you are the master of, at this point.
Travis: Thank you. (laughter)
Taliesin: (sighs) It's going to be a lot of brothels and bars.
Marisha: "And this was my first hook-up, and this was the scene of my second hook-up."
Travis: Yeah. This is a big tree.
Matt: I'm excited for this.
Taliesin: I am so excited for this.
Matt: So, as you all eventually find yourselves resting for the evening, contemplating the plans to take first thing in the morning, we'll go ahead and close tonight's episode there. We'll pick this up next week.
Laura: Wait, you're not going to be here next week?
Ashley: I will. I'll just be a little late.
Marisha: Sprinting from the airport.
Ashley: Yeah.
Laura: Cool.
Taliesin: We'll do the tour first, while you guys are off freaking out with the--
Marisha: Bamfing?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: We'll stall if we need to. We'll make it happen. All righty, guys. Well, thank you so much for watching tonight. I hope you enjoyed it as much as we did.
Marisha: We're all a year older now!
Laura: Oh my gosh.
Marisha: We're older!
Travis: Grog is 14.
Matt: We'll be back here next Thursday, 7PM Pacific, as usual. Until then, have a wonderful weekend and is it Thursday yet? Good night, guys.
Marisha: Go buy t-shirts! [music]

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello, everyone, and welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play Dungeons and Dragons, or are a little late on the draw when shouting the phrase out, Travis Willingham. (laughs) Anyway, before we get into tonight's episode, let's go ahead and jump into our announcements. Let's see here, we've got a new game called Injustice 2 that just came out.
Travis: Yeah!
Ashley: Yeah!
Laura: Wait a minute. What is this Injustice 2 you speak of?
Travis: Is that the shapes and pie-making game that you play in the kitchen bakery?
Marisha: It's like Cooking Mama.
Laura: I watched a video today of you and you fighting, which was pretty exciting.
Matt: Yeah, we have all the Flashes covered, I think.
Taliesin: All of the Flashes are on this show.
Laura: That's crazy.
Matt: So who do you guys play?
Taliesin: I play Barry Allen.
Liam: I play Reverse-Flash. What's his name?
Taliesin: Eobard Thawne.
Liam: Right.
Laura: I play Supergirl!
Travis: I play Tim Garrick.
Taliesin: Jay Garrick.
Travis: Jay Garrick. I wear a tin pail for a helmet.
Matt: It's pretty slick.
Travis: The one Flash I don't know, really.
Matt: Next Halloween, man. Just saying. I'd love a picture of you wearing that hat.
Taliesin: Oh my god!
Ashley: Yes, please.
Matt: Please. It'll be great. And I play Deadshot. Yeah, check it out, it looks really good. They had us all do really intense facial motion capture which is even funnier, considering that my character wears a mask the whole time.
Travis: Did they really make you do that?
Matt: Yeah.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Travis: With a mask?
Matt: Well, not with a mask on my face, but yeah.
Taliesin: That would've been even better.
Matt: I assume there'll be a DLC costume where he doesn't have a mask, or they just did it to fuck with me, which I respect either way.
Travis: They're in the booth, going (whispers) we're not getting any of this!
Taliesin: Don't tell him! Let it roll.
Travis: Just draw a dick-butt on his forehead; it's fine.
Laura: Those bright lights are headache-inducing, yeah.
Matt: So check it out. It's out now, it's fun! What I've seen of it looks actually really cool.
Taliesin: I've played a little; it's fun.
Matt: They got their RPG in my fighting game, and that's right up my alley. All right, also, because it's coming up real fast, reminder, MomoCon, May 25th to the 28th. MoMocon! Taliesin, Marisha, myself, and Brian W. Foster are going to be there for a Talks Machina panel, as well as other events throughout the weekend, so look forward to seeing you there in Atlanta, Georgia, weekend after this one. Also, I will be at A-Kon once again, June 8th to the 11th in Fort Worth, Texas. Come say hello to me there. And then, remember that Talks Machina is live on Tuesdays at 7PM Pacific Time here on Twitch and Alpha. The submission email has changed, so to submit your gif and/or fanart of the week, use submit@talksmachina.com. So that is submit, submit! One submit, not two, that's just my psychosis. Submit@talksmachina.com. Yes. Anything else anyone wants to talk about, are we good? Move on to the game for the night.
Laura: Oh! Farpoint came out. So if you have PlayStation Virtual Reality System, then you can get Farpoint, and I play Dr. Eva Tyson on it, and it's actually a really freaking cool game.
Travis: It's fun, you shoot things with a gun. Do you have to get the gun for it?
Laura: You shoot things with a gun, and it was a really cool script and stuff. I liked the story a lot.
Liam: That's not how guns work.
Taliesin: Are we talking about next week?
Marisha: Are we talking about next week?
Matt: Oh, yeah, we should say that, too.
Marisha: That's a big one.
Matt: That wasn't on the list. So yeah. So we're missing two cast members next week.
Travis: Guess who's not here.
Matt: What? That's terrible.
Ashley: Hey!
Matt: But given the circumstance, instead, we're going to have a non-numbered episode next week, instead it looks like we're going to throw in for a new, higher-level battle royale for those who will be here to see how some of these high-level abilities function.
Marisha: You won't be there to put my face in lava this time! I'll just have myself to do that.
Ashley: I know, you guys, I won't be there, so.
Travis: Will Friedle won the first one, she won the last one.
Laura: I've never done it.
Sam: I've never done it, either.
Laura: Oh no. And you're doing it as Tary?
Matt: It's up to you; you get to choose.
Marisha: Are you going to bring back Scanlan?
Sam: All right, Taryon's going to die in like five seconds. (laughter)
Taliesin: So if we loot Tary's body, do we get all of his stuff?
Matt: It's not in canon.
Taliesin: No, even not in canon, in the game.
Matt: Oh, if you go to his body after he's dead, you can grab any of his shit to use it.
Taliesin: You are a loot drop, oh my god.
Matt: As long as it's not attunement, you can use it.
Laura: Is the helmet attuned? It is, isn't it?
Matt: I believe it is, yes.
Sam: Probably, yeah.
Laura: Too bad. But we can just steal all of his jewels just for the sake of it.
Matt: There you go. In the alternate universe version, you are just decked out.
Sam: Do I get Doty in the fight?
Matt: Yeah.
Sam: Okay. That helps.
Matt: And you'll be leveled up to their level.
Sam: And I'll be leveled up to their level?
Matt: For the battle royale, yeah.
Taliesin: Yeah, we level up for that.
Matt: Anyway, that'll be next week. That pushes our hundredth episode to June 8th. And it looks like we're confirmed for June 1st for our next guest, I believe.
Sam: Yes. Yes, we are. We are confirmed for that. Are we announcing that?
Matt: Yeah, sure. Yeah.
Sam: Oh, well, yeah, on June 1st, our next guest, Jon Heder AKA Napoleon Dynamite, is going to come play with us and roll some dice. Yeah.
Marisha: My mother has never been so proud of me.
Laura: So, did we already say that because next week is a battle royale, that means our hundredth episode--
Matt: Is pushed to the 8th, yes.
Laura: Okay, you already said that? Was I busy rolling dice and talking?
Matt: You were. But thank you, Laura. Good looking out. I appreciate that. So yeah, I think that's all the major news, and given that, let's go ahead and dive in to tonight's episode of Critical Role. [dramatic music]
Matt: Hello and welcome back, everybody. So last time where we left off, Vox Machina, upon working on their bakery, the Slayer's Cake in Whitestone, made a possible new hire who turned out to be a drow bounty hunter named K'rynn, who was sent here to acquire Taryon Darrington and bring him back home to the city of Deastok In Wildmount. You guys all, through a series of high-level magic scrying and transportation, managed to cut off this specific bounty hunter on the outskirts of the city, and in doing so made an agreement to not slay her where she stood, and instead possibly make a transaction down the road. You guys then made your way into the city of Deastok to the Darrington Estate and were led up into the study of Howaardt Darrington, father of Taryon, in which you all discussed the reasons of why he was brought back, the current financial state of the family, and the intent to resolve and remedy long-standing sins of the father, through you standing up and doing your family duty, from his perspective. We left off as you guys had just finished that conversation. You've exited his study and were about to go about your business. Coming off the tension of the conversation, you closed behind you with a clack the heavy wooden doors of Howaardt's study. There you have Bertholt, who's standing off to the side, the dragonborn servant of the Darrington family, waiting patiently, and you all at this moment are at your own disposal. What do you wish to do?
Sam: Just before we move  the names that Dad had told us about to maybe parlay with in the Myriad?
Laura: Korshad.
Sam: Korshad?
Matt: Korshad, yes.
Travis: And how much was the debt? It was 260,000?
Sam: 230,000!
Matt: 230,000 gold debt.
Sam: But wait, wasn't there some other name, the little--
Travis: Lydia!
Matt: Lydia was who you are to be betrothed to, and the location was the Grumpy Lily.
Marisha: I was questioning myself, I was like there was no way something was called the Grumpy Lily.
Matt: Had a stroke while taking notes in D&D. Grumpy Lily!
Laura: The Many is who we want to speak to.
Taliesin: Just as something that happened, during that whole family conversation I was scanning the room and the bookshelves for anything interesting, anything out of sorts, anything out of place.
Matt: Make a retroactive perception check.
Sam: A retroactive perception check!
Taliesin: I didn't want to-- yeah, I didn't see shit. I just rolled a three; that's nothing.
Matt: Rightly so!
Sam: Retrograde! You know they always say that retrograde perception is 20/20?
Matt: What?
Taliesin: I appreciate what you were going for there.
Sam: Anyway, I would love to ask Bertholt if he knows the location of my sister.
Matt: "Well, if you are looking for Maryanne, she's probably in her chambers."
Sam: All right, well, I mean I guess we can all walk to her room and knock on the door. It's a little weird, right?
Liam: You want to go talk to her and touch base with her first? You can introduce us to her after.
Sam: Sure. I'll lead them back downstairs to that main room that was all awful and terrible, right?
Matt: Well, it was just dark and cold and empty.
Sam: So I'll lead them down there. This was our playroom, maybe you should just wait here and I'll go talk to sis. I'll be right back.
Laura: All right.
Travis: Is there like furniture to sit on, or is it barren?
Matt: No, no. There's furniture, and a lot of the furniture here is really well made, dark woods, fine deep red and maroon fabrics. A lot of it has dust on it.
Taliesin: Plastic covers? No plastic covers?
Matt: No plastic covers. But some of the furniture here is for use and some of it is here just as part of the decor, and it's very easy to see which ones are which.
Laura: I'm definitely going to sit on the ones that are just for decor.
Matt: Okay, they're really uncomfortable.
Laura: Cool. Going to rub my butt all over it.
Matt: You leave a little butt-print in the dust. Perfect. At which point, Bertholt acknowledges that you guys will be staying. "Could I get anything for you? Perhaps teas, juice, water?"
Travis: What is this bullshit, no ale?
Laura: Do you have fermented juice?
Matt: "I'll fetch the wine." And he hobbles off to acquire some means of imbibement.
Travis: Should we pay him? We just found out he's dead fucking broke.
Laura: I'd rather not.
Travis: Okay. (laughter)
Matt: Okay. You make your way back to the second floor and off to the far western end of the estate, to what you recall being Maryanne's chambers. So as you enter her room, which has become her own study, as you recall last time seeing her, her room was becoming more and more of a functional office, and as you knock and push the door open like a familiar brother does, not wishing for any patience on her end, necessarily, you can see the interiors. The bed's there for function. Most if it is, I wouldn't say a replica, but it very much resembles the decor and mood of your father's study. You see her currently sitting at a desk in the corner. Her blonde hair is tied back in a tied braid that runs down her back. She wears a coat and pants and seems to be dressed a little formally or businesslike for being casually at home. You haven't really seen her dress like this before, at least not in a casual circumstance. As you glance over past the doorway she looks up from her papers and goes, "Brother!"
Sam: Hello, sister.
Matt: "Brother, what--" She closes the book. You can see she's been looking over ledgers and catalogues. Looks like she's been doing a fair amount of work here at the desk and stands up in a very formal way and begins to step towards you. "When have you arrived?"
Sam: Just today. Father kidnapped me and brought me home.
Matt: "Kidnapped?"
Sam: Well, I'm not a kid, but still works. Abducted. Abducted me and brought me home. Paid someone to do it.
Matt: "Right."
Sam: Yes. Anyway, it's good to see you. Your room is coming along quite nicely. It seems like you're running the show now, is that true?
Matt: "No, not quite, but the responsibilities have definitely been mounting. You look well. How have the wind-tossed roads of Exandria treated you this past year?"
Sam: Well, I have had many adventures and close calls, but I won't bore you with those details. It's been an interesting year abroad, and I would say I'm glad to be back, but for the abduction part and also the fact that I've now learned that we are destitute? Is that true?
Matt: "We're on the path to destitution, yes."
Sam: So it's true; he wasn't just trying to guilt me.
Matt: "Probably both, to be honest. We're in a relatively dire situation compared to our previous long-standing lifestyle choices. We're trying to fix this mess."
Sam: And what would have been your plan had I not arrived today?
Matt: "Well, you were part of the plan. We're trying to figure this out the best we can and given the circumstances, we feel this is probably one of the most viable and least dangerous or risky endeavors in which we can right the family's trajectory."
Sam: By marrying me to some lady I've never met?
Matt: "Oh, you're welcome to meet her. I've met her. I helped to arrange this."
Sam: What is she like?
Matt: "She's very nice. She's very pretty, a bit bookish, which once again would befit you rather well, but let's be honest. This is a political marriage. You do what you want. I mean, there isn't a politician or a lord of this land that hasn't in some way, shape, or form made their own life outside of the family." At that point, you noticed she gets a bit dark and seems to speak with this bit of sarcasm.
Sam: And father's businesses, are they being run the same way? With the same attention to detail?
Matt: "There's been no necessary change to the way business has been done. Other than the transition of some responsibilities, of course." And she gives a slight nod. She's getting a little uncomfortable as this conversation continues.
Sam: Listen, I'm sorry to pop in like this and challenge your judgment, but me marrying this person would solve our problems long-term? Somehow?
Matt: "Marrying into this family, the Truscan lot, would enable us the resources and connections to reacquire the deeds to our land, to reacquire the business elements that we've been in this unnecessary partnership with for some time, and would enable us to once again reclaim complete rulership of our family-controlled lands."
Sam: Do we not own anything anymore?
Matt: "It is a partnership that is quickly sliding into the behest of the Myriad."
Sam: So what is ours now? Anything? Our personal belongings? This home?
Matt: "We still own everything, in partnership. Own solely on our own? Some of the furniture."
Sam: And again, if I do this, what's to say we're not just going to drive up another debt again? Doesn't seem like father or you have been very good at keeping us in the black.
Matt: "I have only been recently brought into this unfortunate circumstance, brother. And you can trust in knowing that in my studies and my time spent here, working with father, being very clear, and very thorough with the mistakes he's made in the past, I will not be doomed to repeat them."
Sam: So you and he are two peas in a pod, yes?
Matt: "Well, he's certainly in need of retiring based on the stress he's put upon himself. It would not be long until I will take over the responsibilities."
Sam: Well, I may poke around and see if there's another way I could help. But before I do, is this fun for you? Do you like running this business, or almost running it?
Matt: "It's certainly a better challenge than many other daughters of lords are given in their time."
Sam: Do you have any friends?
Matt: "Friends come, when the money and power's in place. You know this."
Sam: I do.
Matt: "It's the way the land works."
Sam: Well, I'll leave you to your work, and-- love the decorations. I'm considering the offer and I'll have an answer for you by tomorrow morning.
Matt: "Wonderful." As you begin to make any sort of exit, she catches you and goes, "Brother, your arrival here is a great boon to us. You have the power to change the fate of this family. Consider the respect you have for the people who have worked their entire lives to provide for you what you have been given. Mother and Father sacrificed so much for us. Consider weighing one's selfish interest versus the importance of a bloodline. That is all I ask."
Sam: All right. I'll consider it. With all my intellect.
Matt: "Well, it's good to see you." She steps forward and gives you a half-hug. It's like--
Sam: A pat. The back pat. Good day.
Matt: "Good day." She straightens her coat and sits back behind her desk and waits for you to leave.
Sam: All right. I'll shimmy out. (sighs) All right, I'll rejoin my friends downstairs. Well--
Laura: How did it go?
Liam: Well, yourself.
Sam: As expected. Things are about the same between me and Maryanne.
Laura: Is she still a raging bitch?
Sam: No, she's not raging.
Ashley: I just think it's rather rude that she doesn't want to come down here and meet us.
Sam: She has her work and her--
Liam: Oh, she's not coming down?
Sam: No.
Liam: That's weird.
Sam: I mean, I don't know, she's busy. I guess.
Liam: Okay.
Sam: They're not guest people. They're not dinner party family.
Liam: We picked up on that.
Laura: Not even for people who could help them with their name?
Marisha: Did you mention us or anything else?
Sam: Nope. It didn't come up.
Liam: Did they have any idea what a heavy hitter you are now? The type of people you roll with?
Sam: They said, how have I been? But they don't really give a shit either way.
Marisha: So you didn't even offer up the information?
Sam: If they are not interested in me, why should I be interested in them knowing about me?
Laura: That's a very good point.
Liam: Let's back it up. What are you thinking? Where's your head at? How can we help you?
Sam: I don't know what to do. There's this woman; she's apparently nice and I could go for it and marry her, and then it seems like all my family problems would be okay.
Ashley: Forever?
Marisha: There's no such thing as family problems being okay for forever.
Travis: Really?
Sam: I don't know. I'm sort of curious about talking to the people who are in this contract with my father and seeing if there's any way to wiggle out of it a little bit, but I don't know how to solve everything right now. I also don't know-- I feel a duty, a responsibility to this family, because they are my family.
Marisha: Grog!
Travis: You feel a doodie? The privy is over there! Or over there! Or the front yard beckons.
Taliesin: He may have opened a bottle of wine.
Travis: I'm lost for the rest of this conversation.
Laura: No, we're not drunk, we may have just had a little bit of wine, just a small amount.
Travis: I carved my name into the floor.
Sam: Part of me wants to-- oh god. Part of me wants to turn around and go back with you to Whitestone and forget that the Darringtons exist, but I don't think I can't do that. I am a Darrington and I owe it at least to my name to try and fix what I can.
Laura: That's your plan?
Sam: Yes.
Laura: Don't sacrifice your entire life for this, though.
Sam: Well, I'll try not to, but it seems like a plan B at this point.
Liam: Also, you had no prior knowledge to your family's connection to the mob?
Sam: No? It's way cooler than I thought my family ever was. I knew my dad did shady business with lots of shady characters but I never knew-- I assumed he paid off people. I assumed he had friends in high places and people who you'd have to bribe to turn the other cheek, but I never knew that he was in business with them, owing our whole existence to these terrible people, and I don't know what to make of that
Liam: T, I think we're all prepared to help you do anything you want to do, but are you sure you want to help perpetuate the family business?
Sam: Definitely not. Listen, I think there's two steps to this: there's the short term and the long term. We have to solve this short-term need really quickly. Not this whole 230,000-dollar-- I mean -gold debt. It's a Whitestone term, I mean a Wildmount. Oh my god. My phone rang! I'm confused! Anyway, listen, couple drinks before-- no. We have a short-term problem that we can maybe go alleviate a bit if we go talk to these folk at the Laughing Ninny or whatever it's called. The Grumpy Lily.
Liam: I like the Laughing Ninny. I kinda want to go there instead.
Taliesin: It's a stand-up comedy club. (laughter)
Sam: And then there's a long-term problem which I'll have to solve on another day. There's a long- term problem that my family is awful and needs to be stopped at all costs, and that's something that I'll have to deal with tomorrow.
Laura: Do the Truscans, that's who you are being married into potentially, do they have a son?
Taliesin: That doesn't help! That's almost beside the point!
Sam: You're talking about marrying the sister? Yeah.
Taliesin: Oh, that's still--
Laura: I guess it's not the same, is it?
Taliesin: No! Actually, it's unfortunately the opposite.
Sam: You're royalty. You know this!
Laura: Of course, I know everything about royalty.
Sam: Little royal girl.
Marisha: What exactly is your duty that you are feeling inclined towards? Damn it, Grog!
Taliesin: Lilah? Is it Lilah?
All: Lydia.
Taliesin: Perhaps we should talk to this Lydia as well, because she is obviously in a position of being told what she is going to do with herself.
Marisha: Yeah! Maybe she's also a badass!
Liam: At the very least, we should meet all the chess pieces on the board, right?
Sam: I mean, she lives in another part of the kingdom, right, Matthew Mercer?
Marisha: That's not a problem.
Sam: Oh yes, that's true. But there's the in-town people we can meet first.
Laura: Sure. Let's talk to the mob!
Sam: Yes, of course! You'll come with me? Because I can't talk to the mob by myself.
Laura: Tary, of course we will!
Travis: Wait, when you said we need to stop your family at all costs, are you talking about killing them?
Sam: No, I'm not talking about killing them.
Marisha: Yeah, but Grog does bring up a point that I was trying to make before he started laughing when I said "duty." (giggles) But what, are you committed to keeping your family around? You said you were compelled and you felt like you had a duty but then you immediately started talking about--
Taliesin: Stop it, Travis! God, I can't--
Marisha: Tearing your family apart? And stopping them?
Sam: My family is pretty bad, I've learned. But I've also learned from young Trickfoot that even a rotten family is worth trying to save. And I admire the path that she took with her family, and I would like to at least try to push mine in the right direction and try to make our name a little less shitty.
Liam: That is a pretty big matzo ball, my friend.
Sam: Well, that's why that's long term. In the short term, I just want to get them safe.
Marisha: If there's one thing I understand, it's giving your life to a cause.
Sam: I don't want to die, if that's what you're saying.
Marisha: No.
Sam: Dedicating.
Marisha: Dedicating.
Sam: Thank you.
Marisha: Time is a gift, I would say.
Sam: Sure.
Marisha: So dedicating that gift is, it's a big thing, but I hope you believe in it.
Sam: I don't believe in them, but I believe in the cause right now, and we'll see how far that takes us.
Marisha: We believe in you.
Sam: You guys.
Travis: Can you describe to me this duty?
Marisha: You don't care!
Travis: I think I do now. Is it real hard?
Sam: It's a little more nebulous than that, Grog.
Taliesin: We can pass on this for now.
Travis: Adjectives are not my strong suit, so.
Laura: You know what an adjective is! That's impressive.
Travis: Yeah. No, I got it one time at this tavern. I had it for two nights. It just itched everywhere.
Sam: Listen. When you see my duty, you'll know.
Travis: Copy that.
Liam: It's loose. This duty is loose.
Laura: Should we go to the Grumpy Lily, then?
Taliesin: Please.
Laura: This is going so well.
Matt: As you're exiting the house and Berthold's opening the door, you hear some heavy creaking from the stair that leads down to the main area, and you watch as an older woman in her early fifties or so with her mid-length, curly brown hair in shades of gray, green eyes behind a small set of reading spectacles, stoic of face, wearing what looks to be some sort of a finely crafted silk robe, clutching a book under her arm, comes down the steps and looks down and goes, "Taryon?"
Sam: Mama?
Matt: "Taryon, my boy!" And she sets the book down and walks up, puts her hands out as she says, "Oh," takes you at the sides of the face and pulls you in for (kisses). "Oh, terribly sorry. I didn't realize that we had guests."
Sam: Oh, yes, these are my allies and my friends. This is the team known as Vox Machina. They are a fearless band of adventurers and they have taken me in as their own.
Matt: "Look at you, so rugged!"
Sam: Well. Yes, I am, a bit!
Matt: "So you've had some adventures with my boy, have you?"
All: We have.
Matt: "That's wonderful. Have you spoken with your father?"
Sam: Yes, I've spoken to Father, and Sister, and it's good to know they're healthy. And it's lovely to see you, as well. Have you been happy at all, this last year?
Matt: "I--" And she reaches back and takes the book off the step and goes, "I've been making my way through your library."
Sam: Oh! Oh, my books, in my room.
Matt: "Yes! Well, I've had a lot of time to myself. Been a bit under the weather for some time, and these have kept me fine company."
Sam: Oh. That's lovely. I hope you've enjoyed them as much as I did. What's your favorite one?
Matt: "Well, not this piece of trash." And she sets it down. "There's one. What was it called? The River's Dawn. It was a brilliant--"
Sam: Before the River's Dawn, yes.
Matt: "Before the River's Dawn! That one, yes. It was a continuation of the creation myth of Wildmount, but it turned into the spirits of the gods, these two fauns, and they fell in love but could not be together because the dawn had to rise and the sun would shine. It was very, very beautiful!"
Sam: Yes, yes! No it was, but also heartbreaking at the same time.
Matt: "Very much so. It reminded me of you."
Sam: Yes. That's one of my favorites, as well.
Matt: "Well. I didn't break the binding too much, I hope."
Sam: I'll fix it if you did. It's all right.
Matt: "All right."
Sam: Well, that's wonderful to hear. I'm glad you've been entertaining yourself. I know living with Papa can be very hard, and it's been very hard on you all these years.
Matt: "If you would excuse us for just a moment, please. Just a few moments." And she points towards the door.
Sam: I told you they were like this.
Travis: Yeah, no, we're going out the front door. Front yard.
Marisha: Bottle of wine!
Matt: Berthold is leading you out of the main area, out the front door.
Travis: Yeah, front door!
Laura: Out the house, like get out?
Matt: You guys were on your way out.
Sam: Just wait on the fucking porch!
Liam: We got it.
Laura: Fine.
Matt: As soon as she has some privacy with you, she goes, "My boy, if you could indulge me in some strange honesty, I'm rather intrigued at this idea. I don't wish to undermine anything that we've built as a family. I've lived a privileged life for a very long time, far longer than you and your sister have. I've lived within this house, removed from the world. I do as responsibility asks of me, my wedded duties as both a wife and a mother, and I do so without complaint. I have always seen you fight these same circumstances bravely, and I find vicarious joy in your escape from this place this past year. These books are a reminder of that same bravery. I know Howaardt has said many things, and he may be right. But there's a little part of me that welcomes a little change in scenery and lifestyle. Maybe that's what the family needs. I don't know. Perhaps I'm foolhardy. I know not."
Sam: No, you're right to think this way. This year has been eye-opening for me, and I know that you care for Papa, and you are a diligent and faithful wife. But I know how hard it must have been to live this life for so many years and I wonder what it would be like if you hadn't been with him, what kind of person you would be.
Matt: "Looking at you, looking at your sister, I wouldn't change it for the world."
Sam: Well, things are going to have to change at some point, right?
Matt: "One way or another. I just-- (sighs) I just want you to make choices for yourself. I want you to do what you think is right, that you could live with. Duty and blood is one thing, but... Anyway, I'm talking out of turn."
Sam: No. Thank you. Thank you for that.
Matt: "Could you not tell Howaardt we've had this conversation?"
Sam: Mum's the word. All right. I'll be back, and maybe we'll have time to talk more books later.
Matt: "I would like that very much."
Sam: Good evening.
Matt: "Good evening." As you leave, she's like, "Oh! The other one I was trying to remember was The Mountain Range of Gold. It was a wonderful three-part series--"
Sam: When you think he's dead, but he's not, and he comes back?
Matt: "Well, the second book, you get halfway through it before he even turns and reveals himself!"
Sam: I know! Well, you never see the body in the first one, so that should have been a tip-off.
Matt: "And then the white robes and everything! His renewed power, it's incredible! Anyway, I'm sorry, you have your friends waiting on you. Good night, Taryon."
Sam: Yes.
Liam: I want to adopt her.
Marisha: She's awesome!
Matt: So as you step out to greet the rest of your friends?
Sam: All right, let's go to the Jumping Jimmy, or whatever it's called.
Laura: How's your mother?
Sam: She's better. I mean, she's had a tough time. That was the longest conversation I've had with her in many years.
Laura: Wow.
Ashley: She said she's under the weather. What's wrong?
Sam: I think everybody's super stressed out and heartsick about everything that's happening, and living under a tyrant of a father is not healthy. You should have seen me when I lived here. I was not nearly as dashing or as charming as I am now. It took me spreading my wings and flying before I found my sense of humor. My hair looks better, my eyes look better.
Marisha: I thought you said that was because of the aloe vera.
Sam: Well, yes. We didn't have any at home.
Marisha: Right, yeah. Salt air is better for you.
Sam: I mean, life needs aloe to live. Is something I always say.
Taliesin: That's true.
Liam: I've heard you say that two or three times.
Sam: Moisturizing products in general. Life needs moisturizing products to live.
Taliesin: Life needs moisture to live.
Ashley: I know my beauty regimen's changed.
Marisha: Life needs moisture to live. It's way smarter-sounding.
Taliesin: All right, gauntlet dropped.
Laura: All right, to the Laughing Ninny it is.
Matt: All right. Who's leading this charge? Probably you, Taryon.
Sam: I know the place.
Liam: You are in charge while we're here.
Matt: You've never been to this place. You've heard of it, but you'd never be seen dead in a place like this before. You lead your way in. At this point, because when you arrived the sun was still in the sky, but it was deep in the sky, so by now it's post-dusk. You now see the massive stone and wood structures of Deastok are dark against the ever-dark sky with the windows now aglow, this warm yellows and orange of the candle and lantern-lit interiors. You can see there are hanging lanterns that are put out there, and you can see a number of individuals who seem to work for the city, who go and place these lanterns up in each of these poles, are now finishing their job and are returning to the evening. Following these lamps, along the street, the cobblestones are still really well kept for as old as this town seems to be. For a city that isn't a major metropolis within a kingdom, and what your experience has been in Tal'Dorei, a fair amount of money still makes it way through this city. Eventually, you find your way fairly far north into the city until you come across the exterior of the Grumpy Lily. Asking a few questions to guide you to which building it is, it's much smaller than you expected. You see what appears to be a single-story pub with one window, one door, no more than maybe 30 feet on any given side. It is lit from the inside, though it's dimly lit. As you approach and push past the somewhat ajar entryway, you see before you what appears to be three tables. Three singular, stained, brown tables. One lone patron sits at the center table, an elderly man inspecting a small, clay sculpture that he's enraptured by, and a single barkeep to your right that seems to notice your entry. A healthy, pale woman of brunette hair in her forties, dressed in a simple gray blouse. As soon as you enter and take in the atmosphere, she goes, "Slow day, folks! Happy to have the business! What can I get you?"
Liam: Jeez, Grog, I don't even know if you're going to fit in here.
Travis: Yeah, it's really tiny.
Matt: Your head does reach the ceiling.
Travis: Shit.
Laura: Just dive in then?
Sam: Should we get anything to drink first? Or just dive in?
Travis: Yeah, it's like how you have to buy something to use the restroom.
Marisha: Do you have a shiraz? I was just wondering if you had any imports. Do you have a red wine?
Matt: "Yes! That I can get for you, dear. Don't worry. Red wine we can do definitely." She walks over and slams her hand on the side of the bar and what you thought was once the patron now appears to be the one barman there. "Wait! What! Oh. I missed the conversation."
Travis: Oh the guy with the sculpture?
Matt: Yeah. "Red wine, for our guests." "Oh." He stands up and begrudgingly walks over. You see his back is hunched forward and he's (pained grunting). Leaves the room for a second. "Well, sit down, find a place wherever you like."
Sam: Put two tables together, I guess?
Laura: All three, really.
Marisha: Let's just take them all.
Travis: Wait, this is the meeting place of a dark group, right? A shady group? Shouldn't we check this area for anything shady?
Taliesin: Is there shade in this establishment?
Matt: It's dimly lit, so there's plenty of shadows.
Liam: It's a five-by-five square. Do we see anything amiss? Oh, that's terrible. 24.
Matt: Nothing seems amiss. It seems like a shitty pub. It's the definition of a poorly attended dive.
Laura: Does it look like there's any seams in the ground that would be a trapdoor or anything?
Matt: You can make an investigation check if you want to.
Laura: 17.
Matt: You begin to look around the floor and keep perspective around the area. No. You see some stains, you see some crumbs, and at one point you look over in the corner and you see what appears to be a piece of stale bread that's been left under one of the tables and there are three rats currently eating it. As soon as you lean in, they all stop and look at you and scatter.
Laura: Oh, you can keep going.
Taliesin: Could be worse. They could not be afraid of you.
Laura: That's true.
Matt: (laughs) They just give you the fuck-you look and keep eating their bread.
Taliesin: That's when you know you've really found the right bar. The rats were like: "We reserved this table two weeks ago. You have to make a phone call."
Matt: The elderly barman walks in now and he's got two bottles of red wine and he's shuffling. (grunts, clinks) "I'll get your cups." Turns around and starts shuffling back.
Laura: (laughing) Do you need any help?
Marisha: I mean we have-- Oh, it's fine.
Taliesin: Just let it happen.
Sam: Okay. Who do you think we proposition here? The old man?
Liam: That guy.
Sam: That guy? Really? What makes you say that?
Taliesin: Shifty eyes.
Liam: Shifty yeah, may be an act, even.
Sam: He's just old I thought. No?
Laura: Nobody's just old.
Liam: He's many things.
Marisha: That's true, look at Pike's grandpa.
Liam: Look at Pike.
Ashley: Look at me.
Liam: How old are you, again?
Ashley: 142.
Liam: I said goddamn.
Sam: Is that true?
Ashley: No.
Sam: Oh. (laughter)
Sam: Oh. Well, because you could be.
Ashley: I forgot my birthday. I don't know how old I am.
Sam: Is it in the hundreds?
Ashley: No. I think it's in the 30s.
Sam: Oh, okay.
Ashley: Right?
Matt: Whatever you want.
Ashley: Yeah.
Liam: You ain't no baby.
Matt: The gentleman shuffles back now with a bunch of cups. His hands wrung through all the various handles. (grunts, clicks)
Laura: Impressive.
Matt: (grunts) "Two gold for both bottles."
Laura: I give him two gold.
Matt: "Thank you."
Laura: You're welcome.
Sam: In my earring, I say to Vex  I'm clamming up, you do it.
Laura: Sir?
Matt: You see him walking and he goes like (sighs).
Laura: On your way to the back, could you tell the Many we'd like to speak to them?
Matt: He slowly turns his head over to the bartender, the woman. "What was that?"
Laura: Oh, just a conversation with the Many.
Matt: "What about them?"
Liam: I dip my thumb into some wine and I use thieves' cant and write "discuss" in wine on the bar.
Matt: (click) She gives a click noise to the old man, who goes (groan, thump) Are you going to take your bottles or what?
Laura: No, yeah, we'll definitely keep those.
Matt: "All right, pick them up. Follow me."
Taliesin: Oh, we're going to get to see the real bar.
Matt: He turns around and shuffles out. It's like following a bad, slow NPC in World of Warcraft. You're like, just go fucking faster! His pace is terrible. Yeah, it's awful.
Laura: Running ahead, turning around.
Matt: Exactly, just waiting.
Travis: Over here, adventurer!
Matt: Eventually, he takes you out of the small pub, past the unused kitchen, which has another series of stale bread clumps on the side, down to what looks to be a broom closet. He gets there to the edge of the broom closet and pulls out a key ring.
Laura: I want to pay attention to what key he's taking.
Marisha: Can I take the bread crumbs from the corner and throw it down so the rats could have it?
Matt: Sure. So you walk over to the kitchen and grab some of the bread crumbs and throw them down on the ground and you wait there, because there's no rats present. And you're like, bread crumbs. They scatter a little further out. You turn around and the minute you turn, in the air you hear (skittering) and look over, and there's like seven rats that just scurried out of the shadows and are just going at these crumbs immediately.
Travis: I kill all of them.
Laura: Sploosh!
Liam: I nudge my sister and say, all mine.
Laura: Yes. That she is.
Matt: He pulls one key and unlocks the small closet. You paid attention? (creak) Opens this rickety wooden door, and goes (grunt) and walks past, and he's behind the door, expectantly waiting. You guys glance into the space, and you can see there's what looks to be a low torchlight about every ten feet down a wooden stairway that descends about 30, 40 feet.
Liam: Traps, people hiding, anything that seems out of place or dangerous.
Matt: Traps, or people hiding?
Liam: Traps.
Laura: I'll look for people hiding.
Matt: Perception check, investigation check.
Laura: 24.
Liam: 24.
Marisha: Twinsies!
Ashley: Twinsies!
Matt: Look at that. That's disgusting. All right, so you guys make your way down. No traps in the stair descent, but you make your way to the bottom of the stairs without issue. You don't see anything necessarily fishy. You do see these torches have been burning for a little bit, a couple hours, and are probably needing to be re-upped pretty soon. You guys eventually make your way down, and as soon as the last of you-- who's following up the rear in this, by the way? What's the marching order?
Sam: I'll go toward the front with the twins?
Matt: The hallway here is about big enough for you to go single file.
Laura: Okay. You'll hang behind me, Tary?
Ashley: I'm in front of Grog.
Marisha: Yeah, I'll hang with Grog and Pike.
Taliesin: I'm in the center, as well.
Travis: I'm in the back.
Matt: Okay, so Grog's in the very back. Keyleth, Percy.
Laura: Pike is with Grog.
Matt: Yeah, Pike's with Grog. So we'll say, Grog in the back, then Pike, then Keyleth, then Percy, then Taryon?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: And Vex and Vax. And you have Trinket in your necklace, I assume? Okay. All right, so you guys descend down the stairway. As soon as, Grog, you make your way in, it's tiny. You have to (straining) squeeze in and duck low and even just walking through the pathway, your shoulders are rubbing against the sides of the wall, and your head occasionally (bang, bang).
Laura: It's like you in Japan, baby!
Travis: I know. Taking a shower, I broke like two shower heads. Just turning around, I was like (crash).
Liam: The beds, was that like lying down on a saltine for you?
Travis: Oh yeah. My heels were just over like the--
Laura: We went into McDonald's and his head hit the ceiling!
Matt: You are a kaiju!
Ashley: A kaiju from the deep! A level seven!
Marisha: Okay, wait, before we go any further.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Wait.
Travis: Oh my god. Holy shit. Before we go any further, wait.
Marisha: Do I have to be doing a short rest to do the Inspiring Leader thing?
Matt: It's ten minutes, it takes to do.
Marisha: Oh, never mind.
Laura: Well, no, we could stand here for ten minutes!
Travis: Yeah, no, please. Fucking say some words!
Marisha: I'm new to the being an inspiring leader thing.
Matt: Yeah, it's ten minutes, before you know you're going to go into something, you stop and do this.
Marisha: I should've done that at the bar.
Liam: Wouldn't that be cool if you were just pep-talking us all the way down here?
Sam: Start it now.
Laura: Yeah, start it now! Just do it while we're walking!
Marisha: Okay, okay. As we walk I'll be like  You know what, guys? I've had a lot of time to think over the year that we've been away--
Matt: The door closes behind Grog and you hear it lock.
Marisha: And I feel like we've grown so much as people, and you guys are family. You're a family to me. And I go on for a while. Do you guys remember that time in Stillben? When we very first met, and we all didn't really like each other, and Grog, I don't think you understood me for a while.
Travis: Still don't.
Marisha: Yeah, that's fine. That's fair. Hey Grog, do you remember that one time--
Matt: This is great, by the way, because at the bottom of the stairs it only goes for about 15 more feet before there's a door. There's a man on a stool who's just sitting there going--
Liam: She'll just be another minute.
Travis: I'm about to find out what the inside of a Bag of Holding feels like, I swear.
Matt: He's not stopping you.
Marisha: Do you remember that time-- I think it was the first time I made you laugh, and I turned into an earth elemental, and then pretended to do an "I'm going down the stairs" thing through the floor?
Travis: Oh yeah!
Marisha: Yeah, I just remembered that the other day, and I just love you guys so much, you know?
Taliesin: I don't feel included in this.
Marisha: Yeah, I don't think you were around yet. But I love you so much!
Taliesin: Okay, now I feel better. That's all.
Sam: Any change in our bodies or anything?
Liam: She's going for ten in-game, real-time minutes.
Matt: As you guys are all in the hallway, Grog at the back, you can't move forward, because everyone's stopped, and you're just like-- (groan) All of you who wish to can take 17 temporary hit points. That's by the inspiring leader feat.
Marisha: Oh yeah, you want to mock until you realize you get your hit points!
Matt: It is your choice as to whether or not you felt inspired by that and take them.
Marisha: And I love you guys. I love you guys so much.
Matt: Grog's too uncomfortable to take them.
Travis: No, I just start weeping silently in the back.
Liam: I mean, let's be honest, he wouldn't even feel the difference.
Matt: That's true, yeah. That's what Grog needs, is temporary hit points.
Liam: Grog would just go (sneezes).
Marisha: Not showing your sensitivity?
Laura: Thanks. Thanks, Keyleth. That felt good. That was a nice trip down memory lane.
Ashley: I feel inspired.
Laura: Oh, hey! How's it going there?
Matt: You see this guy, he's tough and surly, looks like a balding man who's just like made of muscle and anger. He's sitting there with one eye open, one a little squinted, he's just--
Laura: Do you feel inspired? No.
Liam: Not the warm and fuzzy type, are you?
Matt: He doesn't seem to respond. You do hear like a series of muffled voices and what sounds like a faint beat of some kind from the other side of the wall, just muffled.
Taliesin: Is the password, "I am what I am," not sure? Too strange a reference; never mind.
Matt: He begins to reach over for what looks to be a small lever that's hidden on the side.
Laura: We're here to speak to the Many.
Matt: Stops. (grunts)
Sam: We're in.
Laura: We're going to just go on in, then.
Sam: That word just gets us in.
Matt: So. As you guys enter this doorway, as it pushes open, you're immediately hit with a wall of voices and laughter and conversation, interweaving in multiple languages. This is far more lively than you expected it would be, it's a large tavern hall. It's almost two stories tall, but it's open. There's a central, circular chandelier that hangs over with what looks to be flickering candles in a circle around it. You can see elements of what are almost like a second floor, but it's more like a slight balcony outcropping. You don't see any doorways, it's just a level platform above, and there before you, you see what has to be three or four dozen people scattered across a number of tables, all in various forms of dress and many of them are drinking, some of them are playing games of chance, some of them are in deep conversation. You can see, the music-- though this is a bad example, but it's what I have-- it's not a full band, per se. It looks like there's a set of three percussionists in the far corner that are all in the process of weaving this rhythmic beat that shifts and changes. Some of them are on more of a hand drum, some of them are more small percussion instruments. It's interesting. It's not the usual bar atmosphere you're used to. It has almost a weird--
Sam: Would you say more like Blue Man Group or more like a subway bucket drummer?
Matt: I'd say it's in between the two, actually. Take a little Blue Man Group and a little bit of subway bucket drummer. It's right in between there. You guys step into the chamber and take in the atmosphere a bit. Whether that be with smiles, awe, or confusion and care.
Taliesin: That's exactly what I said, the real bar.
Ashley: I like this.
Liam: This is like old times.
Matt: As soon as you begin having this conversation and taking in the atmosphere, one of four bar hands sees you approach. You see a jagged smile of a hairless man with ruddy skin that immediately comes up to you. "Aye, friends! New faces are few and far between here in Deastok. Welcome to our little slice of the family. What can I get you?"
Sam: Well, we brought bottles. That's rude, isn't it?
Laura: The good stuff is down here.
Matt: "I don't know where you got that shit but put that away. We'll get you right fucked up, eh?"
Marisha: Do you have a shiraz?
Matt: "I'll see what I can muster."
Marisha: I like these people!
Matt: "Slim pickings for room here. It's a bit early in the evening. That's when it's the busiest. Just find some space, sit down. Folks don't want you to sit by them? Don't fucking sit by them."
Laura: Thank you. Do we see room for a large group?
Matt: You see two tables that have room for half of a large group.
Laura: All right. Split up?
Sam: Why don't we ask them nicely if they would like to move?
Laura: No, let's not do that.
Travis: Yeah, no. You do that. Go by yourself.
Sam: No?
Taliesin: No. This is special.
Travis: How about the talkers go to one table?
Marisha: And then the defenders go to another in case shit goes bad. I like that.
Travis: The Defenders' Table. Yeah, so I'm going to the talkers' table.
Laura: Yeah, obviously.
Marisha: Vex, Tary, I feel like you guys are good talkers.
Laura: Right.
Taliesin: I'll join you.
Liam: I'm actually going to wander the room.
Marisha: I'll sit with Grog and Pike.
Travis: Yeah.
Ashley: Yeah, Shiraz time.
Laura: All right.
Sam: What's our play here? Do we just keep saying the word "many" as many times as we can and see how far it goes?
Laura: This is about as in as we get with the Many.
Sam: This is it? So now we ask for her by name? Or him by name? Korshad?
Laura: Yeah. He or she may not reveal themselves too quickly.
Sam: All right.
Taliesin: We could buy Korshad a drink.
Laura: That is a beautiful idea.
Taliesin: Thank you.
Laura: Care of one Taryon Darrington.
Sam: Of course. I have just enough for a nice drink.
Laura: Oh, we'll cover the drink, darling. Party funds cover the drink. It's just in your name.
Sam: Oh. Oh, okay. All right. All right. I'm slow to catch on sometimes.
Laura: Can we grab a barmaid?
Matt: You split between the two tables. One of the tables appears to be three guys who are in a card game. As soon as you sit down they (grunts) and then keep talking amongst themselves more about taking bets, bluffing each other, giving shit about their home lives, stuff like that. The other table has four quiet individuals that are, look to be elvish lineage. Either half-elf or full elf; it's hard to tell. They're wearing these hoods that show the ears from underneath but then seem to block a lot of the features of their face and guard a lot of the forehead. This silk hood that drips down past the nose on the sides.
Laura: Do we recognize any semblance of that garb?
Matt: Make a history check.
Sam: History check.
Laura: Well, my history is shit, but 19.
Matt: 19. You haven't seen this kind of dress, but you've heard of it. It seems to be of Wildmount but the eastern side of Wildmount, not a part of the Dwendalian Empire. This more stems from Zorhaus, which is the other kingdom on the continent. It's actually in a tense existence along the border of the Dwendalian Empire.
Laura: You said it was to the east?
Matt: Zorhaus, I'm pretty sure that's what it's called.
Laura: It is now.
Matt: It is! It's whatever it's called in the campaign guide.
Laura: Oh! Oh man, that's right. Now you have to stick to what you wrote. That's crazy.
Matt: I know, I'll just have to look it up again. But anyway. As soon as you sit down at the table the four individuals look at each other and then get up from the table and then walk off to find another place.
Laura: Maybe some of us don't smell very good in this group. I'm not one of them, though. I smell amazing.
Liam: I smell fucking fantastic, and I'm over there. I am going to laze about the musicians and listen to the musicians and wait for them to finish a set.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: I guess all of us can sit at the table because of the people--
Matt: All of you guys can sit at the table now that you've forced them off their own space. The guys playing the card game seemed to pay no mind. As you sit around the table, the barhand that met you here approaches and once more goes, "All right, looks like you've found a place to sit, what can I get you? Got you that shiraz you were asking for, eh." He goes ahead and he pulls up what looks to be a dark green bottle, already uncorked and he brings over a hefty metallic goblet or tankard and then pours it in there. It appears to be something akin to a shiraz, I suppose. Fills it to the top, slides it forward. "All right. Drinks for anyone else, eh?"
Travis: Yeah, you got any pies or meat or both?
Taliesin: To drink.
Travis: Do they not have food?
Laura: No, probably.
Matt: "I can get you a meat pie, if that's what you're asking. I don't recommend you drink it, though you could probably squeeze water from a stone, so wouldn't surprise me if you could."
Travis: Yeah, meat pie and an ale, please.
Matt: "All right, coming on up. Anyone else?"
Laura: Whiskey?
Taliesin: Same.
Matt: "It can be done. So whiskey. And you, little one?"
Ashley: Well, you said you have things that will fuck you up right, so what would that be considered?
Matt: "Oh, I mean no offense, lady, but you're a bit small-sized--"
All: Whoa!
Matt: "I mean that respectfully! Look, I'm just looking out for my patrons here. I don't want to go ahead and send someone to the local temple."
Laura: She can drink most people under the table.
Ashley: Bring it!
Matt: "All right. I'll take your word for it, then."
Sam: I'll have another shiraz.
Matt: "Another shiraz."
Liam: Over the earring  Pickle, will you get me one of those, as well, and don't drink it before I come back?
Ashley: As a matter of fact, I want two of whatever that is.
Matt: "All right, coming up." And he leaves the table.
Taliesin: Did you order the drink for when he comes back?
Sam: Oh the other drink? Oh fuck. Wait, before he goes, pardon me. I have one more order to make. I would like to buy a drink for Korshad, courtesy of Taryon Darrington. And I'll slip him a gold piece.
Travis: I thought you were about to shake his hand with two fingers.
Sam: There is a coin between the two fingers.
Matt: "Korshad, you say?"
Sam: Yes.
Matt: "All right."
Laura: I nudge him under the table.
Matt: "You want what he likes, it's going to cost you more than that."
Laura: What does he like?
Sam: Whatever it is, here is another four and keep another one for yourself.
Matt: "Thank you very much. That'll put you up to yours, though. We will go ahead and settle your bills at the end of the drinks. But all right, Korshad it is."
Taliesin: What table did the bartender look at when he said that?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Laura: Oh, I was planning on totally watching that, too.
Taliesin: Yeah, that's a safe 13.
Laura: Should I roll, too?
Matt: Well, you said you were looking, too, so roll a perception, yeah.
Laura: Well yeah, okay. 30.
Matt: 30, okay. You gather the direction that he glanced. It was a cursory look, more to see if the individual in question was still in the room or not. But you got the direction of it, and you know exactly where he was looking-- three tables and that way there. He leaves for a bit, and the laughter is still rising and falling throughout the room. The musicians in the corner, which are two younger human boys and what appears to be a female goliath, who has the heavier drum in the center, who is like the mid-piece, the big (heavy drum noises). The two guys, one of them has a small set of lap drums, (light drum noises) the faster beats. And the guy to the left of her-- they could be brothers; you're not too sure, their features are similar but different enough, the ages seem off. The guy on the left has a series of small wooden blocks and what looks to be some sort of contraption that has three or four different small percussion instruments that are all fixed to it and so he is leaping between them all. For being just percussion, that variety is still making a cool melody. You're still able to find certain notes and certain blends where it still is a very different and unique atmosphere. They manage to bring to this crescendo the piece that you entered on, and it finishes. There is no real-- there is occasionally a couple of claps here and most everyone is busy about their own shit.
Liam: All right, I clap. Excuse me, players?
Matt: As they're both looking over to grab a drink to stop and the younger guy with a scruffy chin and this mop of hair that's a little wild glances over to you: "Yeah?"
Liam: That was a really unique piece you guys just did there. Thank you.
Matt: "You're welcome."
Liam: You know, I have only ever heard music like that one time, and it wasn't here. It wasn't in this city, it was actually in Emon. What was his name? Dranzel. It was a musician named Dranzel-- this is a long shot, but you haven't come across a Dr. Dranzel in your travels? I've always wanted to hear him play again.
Matt: "Can't say I have, sir. My apologies."
Liam: Oh, shit.
Matt: "Sorry. You guys ever heard of Dr. Dranzel?" And the other guy goes, "Nope."
Liam: Orcish. Stylish hats.
Matt: The goliath woman is sitting there and she is just staring off across the room and goes, "No." (laughter)
Matt: "Sorry, friend."
Laura: I'm keeping an eye on the side of the room that he glanced in, looking for anybody going and delivering drinks to the people.
Matt: Okay. You watch the gentleman who has been getting you guys drinks, and he is in the process of getting all of your various drink orders and pouring what you have requested, and he does come to a point where he gets this one fine jewel goblet that he has specifically set off to the side and he takes it and washes it and takes care to clean it entirely and dry it off, and once it's set there he reaches underneath, counting a few bottles and pulls one drink, uncorks it and there is this thick dark brown glass jug and as he uncorks it he pours it into there, glances over, grabs another thing, seems to be mixing it with something else. He is being very careful with the actual amounts he is pouring. He finishes that, takes a piece of what looks like an orange, crushes it in the inside and leaves the rind and takes it and swishes it for a second. (sighs) And walks over to a table across the entire hall, where you saw him glance before.
Sam: One sex on the beach! (laughter)
Matt: He walks over to a table where you see what appear to be about five different patrons at the table. Most of them wealthily dressed. Two of them appear to be older mercantile or business owners, they wear the jewelry on their hands very extravagantly and displaying both wealth and prestige to an ostentatious way that you know most high-end guild workers or owners tend to display. You are very familiar with caste systems that have emerged in a lot of these central metropolitan areas, and so you can very easily pick up some of those themes. Two of them appear as a contrast very simply dressed. No jewelry. You can't make out any details in this distance and there is one man who he hands the drink to, he sets it down in front of him and slides it forward. The man you see there, he has deep brown skin, marked, there appear to be a number of tattoos that curl up his arms and up the side of his neck and touch his ears on each side. He's wearing light, billowing clothes of silver and maroon silks that end about the elbow and are just hanging beneath, leaving the rest of his arm completely visible where you can see the tattoo continues up the forearm and grasps the back of the hand, almost like he has a gauntlet on that is just his skin. You see around him a series of gold and silver bracelets and rings that adorn his fingers. His face is framed by a lion's mane of black and gray dreadlocked hair. Because of your perception check, at this distance and your ranger-like eyes, you can see what you perceive to be a visible scar on his throat from ear to ear. He's currently mid-conversation with the patrons at the table, leaned back in his chair in a comfortable setting and as soon as the drink-- huh?
Laura: Can I read his lips?
Matt: Sure. Well, the drink arrives and gets pushed forward and you read the barkeep's lips as he says, "This drink is a gift to you from patrons on the other side of the place." And this individual, who you assume at this point is probably Korshad, gives a look and goes, (grunts). And he points over, right over to your table across the room. You watch as Korshad sits up, glances over your direction, sees you looking at him directly. Takes the drink, scoots it over next to his side, and folds his fingers and goes back into listening to the conversation of the other patrons. And the barkeep who is standing there is, "Right." And then goes back to the bar, gathers the rest of your drinks and brings them slowly over to your table and passes them out. "All right, got a second shiraz, for you there, sir. We've got a whiskey, and a whiskey. We got an ale and a meat pie for you. And you, well--" (laughs) He brings up these two mugs. They're simple ceramic mugs that are dark and handcrafted, and he sloshes them up to you and as you see inside, most ale has a good liquidy content. This has a very syrupy thick texture to it. He slides both forward and goes, "I don't expect you to drink both those back to back."
Ashley: Well, that's not up for you to decide, my friend. I get on my earring. Hey, String Bean, your drink is here.
Liam: Yeah, and Sarenrae will know if you drink it before I get back, so just hold onto it for me.
Ashley: Well, I can't make any promises.
Matt: And he leans forward and goes, "This here is the Change-Bringer's Nectar. You sip this, slowly."
Laura: The Change-Bringer's Nectar?
Marisha: Write that shit down. Can Keyleth get up and walk past the diplomats' table and run my hands--
Matt: Well, you guys are all at the same table now.
Marisha: Oh, we're at the same table now?
Matt: Yeah, one table got up as soon as you sat down.
Marisha: Oh, so we scootched together? Okay, then I'm just going to lean into Vex and give her an Enhance Ability on her charisma.
Laura: Ooh! I'll take that.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: You get advantage--
Laura: On charisma checks?
Marisha: Yeah. On checks.
Laura: I like it.
Marisha: Her cleavage gets a little nicer.
Laura: It can't get any nicer than it already is.
Taliesin: Very fair.
Liam: All said out loud.
Taliesin: Pike, which one of those two is Vax's? Which one of those two belongs to Vax?
Ashley: This one.
Taliesin: Oh that one? I'm taking a sip of it.
Ashley: Take a sip. It's very thick.
Matt: It's very thick, and it's sweeter than you expected, but it has a definite burn that grows and grows after drinking it. It's syrupy, but because of its syrupy texture, as it goes down it also coats and numbs everything as it touches.
Liam: Percy, I saw that. You have to buy me a whole other drink.
Taliesin: That's fine. I put my whiskey in its place and take the whole cup.
Liam: No motherfucker, that's not what I said! I want to drink that one and the one after it! Oh, you don't want to start with me, Fredrickstein.
Travis: Are you sipping it?
Ashley: I'm sipping it. I'm doing as the locals do. Enjoying it how he told me.
Matt: And you get the sense it's probably a good thing.
Ashley: It burns!
Matt: It's almost like maple syrup Everclear.
Ashley: Ugh!
Laura: Gross!
Travis: How's my meat pie?
Matt: Meat pie's pretty good!
Travis: This is pretty good!
Laura: That makes me want an empanada right now.
Liam: Role-playing, guys.
Matt: Sadly, no empanadas in Deastok.
Sam: Why isn't he coming over here? Should we send another drink? Maybe two this time.
Laura: He's in the middle of a conversation right now.
Taliesin: He has to sit and enjoy his drink.
Laura: Let him take some time.
Ashley: (slurring words) Should we sent him a Change-Bringer's Nectar? Oh no!
Laura: Oh no, Pike!
Ashley: (still slurring) I only had like three drinks. Three sips.
Travis: Keep going.
Laura: Just tiny sips.
Ashley: They were so small.
Laura: Drink some, maybe some water, too, in between each sip.
Ashley: Okay. Maybe some meat pie.
Taliesin: That's whiskey. That's supposed to be-- never mind. Go ahead.
Marisha: Hey, who's the Change-Bringer? Does anyone know? I feel like this drink is inspired. Can I do a check to see?
Matt: Make a religion check.
Marisha: Aw, I'm not good at this. Pike, you know gods!
Ashley: Let me see if I know. Will I know the Change-Bringer?
Marisha: Oh, please. I have no idea. I definitely have zero idea.
Ashley: I'm going to see if I can think of it. 14.
Matt: It's really not that hard. The Change-Bringer is Avandra. Avandra, one of the gods of the pantheon.
Marisha: Oh. Yeah, of course we knew that.
Matt: The Change-Bringer is the deity that looks over luck, looks over adventure, travel, the open road. That's as much as you can glean from your passing knowledge of the deity. Since you are not a woman of faith, obviously, you don't know much beyond that.
Marisha: It just sounded fancy.
Ashley: It sounded so fancy.
Matt: She's also known as "she who makes the path."
Laura: Hey, Tary.
Sam: Yes? Is it time? Should I go over there?
Laura: Just calm down. This is mainly what I'm trying to tell you right now. Stop being so weird.
Ashley: Do you want a sip of Change-Bringer's Nectar?
Laura: It might actually help you just a little bit.
Taliesin: Do what we do any time there's trouble. Sit down, pay attention, and do everything she says.
Laura: And don't look sneaky.
Taliesin: Have a sip of this. It'll help.
Laura: Yeah, seriously. Just have a little sip. A little sip, it's always good to relax your nerves.
Sam: All right.
Ashley: Loosey-goosey.
Sam: I'll take my helm and cock it to the side.
Laura: Yeah, jauntily. That's good, yeah.
Taliesin: Okay, now I feel like I'm on a listing ship.
Travis: What's your confident face look like? More tongue. Little further. Yep. Little higher eyebrow on the right side.
Laura: Okay, maybe stop. I'm just afraid he's going to look over here at any moment. I'm keeping an eye on good old Korshad, and seeing if he looks over here. I also want to see if I can catch his lips and see what he's talking about over on the side there.
Liam: And I would like to look around the room and make sure that other people aren't watching us, or if so, where in the bar they are.
Matt: Make a perception check.
Travis: And I would like to make my way over to the goliath woman.
Matt: Okay. So as you begin walking in that direction, Vex. Couple things. One, you notice that Korshad, while he seems to be mostly being talked at or at least just listening to a conversation, when he does speak, he leans in and does this.
Laura: Of course he fucking does.
Matt: You get the sense he's a very guarded man and this is not his first rodeo. He speaks through his fingers.
Laura: I do, too!
Matt: But he doesn't appear to look over at your table again. He seems to have acknowledged the drink, is enjoying it slowly, and is back enthralled by the conversation at his table. What did you roll?
Liam: 25.
Matt: 25. And what did you say you were going to do?
Marisha: Mimic Vex.
Matt: Okay. You both cover your mouths.
Laura: What are you doing?
Marisha: I'm following your lead.
Laura: You don't have to do that.
Taliesin: Does this one still work? We can do this one.
Laura: Yeah, that one's good. Just this.
Ashley: Is this good?
Laura: That's it, Pike. Pike's got it. He's definitely going to come over and talk to us now, I can feel it. We're so cool.
Taliesin: This is a lot of drink that I seem to have taken on.
Matt: Vax. Glancing about the chamber, remember I said there was a secondary platform, that didn't have any doorways to rooms, but there was just the upper walkway across the room both ways? There are about six figures on each one.
Liam: Six on each one?
Matt: They're all sitting there, wearing leather armor, mostly covered by a cloak. You glance up and you can see underneath at least two of the cloaks what appear to be the shape or outline of a crossbow at the ready.
Taliesin: 12 of them? 12 men?
Liam: I relay to the group quietly, yes. Packing. 12 or so above us all, so no sudden movements.
Matt: The music picks up again, Grog, as you're walking over. The next piece is occurring and you can see now that while the previous one had a frenetic tribal beat, this one has more of a scattered, if I could say percussion jazz sense. It tends to have multiple changes. Yeah, if you could. If you haven't heard the jazz timpani before, it's fantastic. It's more of an improvisational piece. You can see where they're each building off of each other, and then one will make a change and the others will shift with it. You don't notice this, because you really don't care, but anybody who had musical interests would be able to pick up on this. But you walk up and you see the goliath woman. Most of the goliath women you've come across, their lifestyle leads to either very short-kept or very tightly bound hair, as the coarse hair of the goliaths tends to mat up very thickly when living in the wild as your tribe did. This goliath female's hair is really well kept, actually. It's almost shining, which catches you off guard entirely. She's not tattooed and appears to be in a trance as she's in the process of drumming away, not even looking at the two of her compatriots or any patron. She's spacing out and is currently enraptured by the music she's creating.
Travis: Are there any weapons around her feet or where she's sitting or playing?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Travis: Three.
Matt: She has very nice boots. And as a man who has made boots in the past, you can acknowledge, those are very well-made boots.
Travis: Me Grog!
Liam: I just love the alacrity that Travis goes to two, three. It's so good.
Travis: You play good!
Matt: The head slowly turns and the eyes focus for a second in the dim, snow-blind looking pupils, and gives you a nod.
Travis: Nice hair.
Matt: Head turns a little to the side.
Travis: I'll be-- if you--
Ashley: Tell her she has nice boots, Grog.
Travis: What?
Ashley: Tell her she has nice boots.
Travis: Nice boobs!
Matt: (bang) Big drum hit, and her part of the song comes to a halt. The two other bits of music alter but continue the beats, and she just--
Travis: Boots. Nice boots. Bidet. And I go back to the group.
Matt: As you walk back to the group, a little dejected, Vax, since you're the one who's paying attention the most at this point, you notice as the goliath gets this small grin on the side of her face and continues to go back to the drums.
Laura: You charmed her!
Marisha: Look at you!
Liam: Nice work, de Bergerac!
Matt: But Grog doesn't see it.
Ashley: I'll be your Cyrano!
Matt: All right. So what's the next order of business, guys?
Taliesin: Is that conversation breaking up?
Laura: That's what I planned on doing, is waiting out that conversation. I in no way want to interrupt it.
Matt: About 20 additional minutes go by. Another round is bought at the table, with Korshad still slowly, very carefully sipping the drink that you guys bought for him. Doesn't appear to be slowing, doesn't appear to be breaking. You can keep waiting if you want.
Laura: I want to get one of those fancy drinks for myself and see what it is.
Sam: You mean the Korshad drink?
Laura: I want one of the Korshad drinks.
Matt: One of the Korshad drinks, okay.
Taliesin: I would assume you've already had this stuff at this point. We've been sharing a cup around. This is too much for a human being to handle.
Matt: Do you go to the bar?
Laura: I'll go up to the bar. We don't know his name, do we? The bartender's name?
Matt: You haven't asked him yet, no. There are a few barhands that walk around, but the one you've been going with, you can go ahead and catch his eye as you go through the area. "Hey, do you need something?"
Laura: Of course, darling. I didn't catch your name.
Matt: "Oh! Wence."
Laura: Wence, thank you so much. Could I grab another of those fabulous five-gold drinks there, that you brought to our friend?
Matt: "Oh, you want Schlond's Embrace. Okay. If you're sure about that."
Laura: I don't know, what is it?
Matt: "It's an acquired taste. It's made from a very long-distilled, 40-year processing of a heavy mint leaf, and that, when it's been very thickly fermented, is mixed in with this very sour port base that's been repeatedly funneled and sifted until it's become almost thick in its own right. That's mixed together with a few other sugars and a bit of a special fruit. Honestly, I think it tastes pretty shitty, but it's what he likes."
Laura: I'm going to give it a go.
Matt: "All right then! Five gold." He goes and makes the drink for you again.
Laura: Slowly but surely marking little amounts off this party fund, y'all.
Marisha: Need to make some more money.
Matt: However, he does not bring it in the same glass. He brings it in a regular glass. You get the sense that the glass that was filled was his own. But it's delivered and it's different. It almost has a weird, mushroomy flavor to it. The fermentations involved in the processing of this is not the type of alcohol you'd expect. It's a little musty. But it's functional, and it has an aftertaste that comes to a very strong mint, like a wintergreen afterwards. It's a very strange mixture.
Laura: It's like brushing your teeth, only you get drunk.
Matt: Yeah, kind of. In fact, elements of it taste like having orange juice after brushing your teeth.
Laura: Foul.
Matt: Yeah. It's a little rough at times.
Marisha: What are you learning about the man by what he drinks?
Laura: I'm learning that he probably has minty fresh breath.
Marisha: Oh, really?
Ashley: Maybe you should cheers him from afar so he can see you're drinking it.
Laura: Yeah, but mine's in an ugly cup.
Marisha: They didn't give you the same cup?
Travis: I have nice cups. Do you want a jewel-encrusted chalice?
Laura: Do you have one?
Travis: Yeah!
Laura: Pull it out.
Travis: I'm like fucking Bed, Bath, and Beyond in this bitch. Jewel-encrusted chalice.
Laura: Do you really have a jewel-encrusted-- you do, in your fucking Bag of Holding?
Travis: Not anymore, it's getting marked off now.
Laura: Sweet. I'm going to clean that shit out, pour it in.
Taliesin: The interior of that bag looks like the Pirates of the Caribbean ride. It's a little weird in there.
Matt: It is a silver and pewter chalice that contains a number of multi-colored gems embedded along the sides, going to the base.
Laura: This is gorgeous.
Matt: Lil' Jon would be proud. It's beautiful.
Laura: Taryon. You drink out of this one.
Sam: That drink?
Laura: Yeah, you're the one that bought him the drink. Look like you're drinking it, too.
Sam: All right. Pinky out.
Laura: How is it? Do you like it?
Sam: I love it. (whispers) It's terrible.
Laura: I know.
Sam: I'll just laugh, way too loud. (laughs) And then she said to me, that's not armor!
Matt: Another 20 or so minutes pass in the tavern.
Matt: Some folks have entered since then, some have left. The patrons that are here don't seem to be-- there isn't a lot of switching in and out. Seems like most of the folks here come here fairly often at the end of the day, whether to go about their business or to unwind. But no one seems to be approaching you, no one's crossing your path.
Marisha: I'm so bored.
Laura: Can I go over and talk to Wence one more time?
Matt: Sure. You catch his attention. He comes back to the table as you step up and start in his direction, he goes, "Hey. Another round, eh?"
Laura: Actually, no. I give him five gold.
Matt: "All right. You want another one?"
Laura: No, I'd rather not. No, I was just wondering, do you know how long Korshad usually hangs out here every night?
Matt: "Varies. Easily probably another hour or so."
Laura: Always with the same company, or different people?
Matt: "Varies. They've been here most of the afternoon."
Laura: Oh, wow. Would you mind going over to him and just letting him know that the gentleman who bought him the drink would love a moment of his time.
Matt: "Oh, all right."
Laura: Taryon Darrington. He needs to know the name.
Matt: "Okay. I will." He looks at the gold and goes, "All right. I will."
Laura: No rush. But make sure it happens.
Matt: You see he noticeably gets a little nervous. Walks over. Do you go back to your table to join your compatriots? Okay. As you're watching, he actually has to psych himself up. He approaches and then turns around and stops for a second, and goes up to the table again and stops himself and gets the gumption up this time and goes to the table. And you see him talking to Korshad, who at this point has his hand on the tip of the drink, glances up at him. Looks over at the table again.
Laura: I walk over and put my hand on Taryon's shoulder and keep eye-contact with Korshad.
Matt: You see a smile creep slowly across Korshad's face. Puts his hand up and immediately you can watch as Wence, who's in the middle of talking and expressing this goes, "Yes." And quickly darts away. Korshad gives a point to the rest of the guys and you watch his lips say, "Excuse me a moment." He stands up.
Sam: Make some room. Grog, leave!
Marisha: I scoot with Grog.
Travis: We get up. I get up.
Marisha: I get up with Grog, too. Oh, I have to pee. Do you want to go pee?
Matt: As Korshad's walking across the room, Vax, you do watch as all the individuals that are on the upper platform all watch him go through the room and are now seeing the table and where they are standing. The attention is very strongly on what is about to transpire.
Liam: So far just eyes, though?
Marisha: Yeah, I start paying attention to the room as well, with Grog.
Liam: Grand Poobah, here.
Laura: You said that over the earring?
Liam: That was Liam.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: Korshad walks his way over to the table and you can see, as he walks through, occasionally somebody at a nearby table will stop and watch him him. Very quickly to you, you get the sense that he's definitely one of the more powerful figures that seems to come in and out of this establishment. He approaches the edge of the table, still holding the cup from the upper lip. There's like a lip at the very edge that he keeps clasped with his fingers as it drifts there in front of him, and he occasionally sips from it that way as he walks towards you. Comes up to the edge of the table. "Do you mind if I sit here?"
Laura: Oh please, join us.
Matt: He sits down and places the cup on the table. (muffled) "So." (laughter)
Matt: "My man Wence tells me that you are requesting my presence."
Laura: Yes. For the sake of this. I'm going to move my hands but just know my hands are here the whole time. Okay?
Matt: Okay. (laughter)
Laura: I'm sure you're familiar with Taryon here.
Sam: Taryon Darrington, of the Darrington family.
Matt: I have not had the pleasure, but I know of you.
Laura: And you are familiar with his father as well?
Matt: "Quite."
Laura: We've heard tell of recent situations with his family and you.
Matt: "And?"
Laura: And we were hoping we could come to an agreement.
Matt: "What agreement do you have proposed?"
Laura: Well, I don't know if you've heard of Vox Machina?
Matt: "We trade in a great many things. Information being one. And I am well aware of who you are."
Laura: And I'm well aware that someone like you could find a good use for someone like us.
Matt: "Are you offering your services?"
Laura: Potentially. If it could help clear the Darrington name.
Matt: (sighs) "You are not wrong. I, myself, am the keeper of the deeds. I consider the Darrington estate a long-growing loan that is now ripening. You see, our community here thrives on a principle that other syndicates in Exandria lack. Patience. I have been letting this stew for a very, very long time, so if you wish to make any sort of dent in this debt, your task will have to be equally monumental."
Sam: Well, I can make magical items, if there's something that you need made or enchanted. We have other members of the group that do different things. We have a fine tinkerer, if you need something made for you. Vex here is an excellent shot. She could put on an archery show or something, if that would be something worthwhile to you. You know, if that will help ease the debt. I know my family owes you quite a bit of money.
Laura: 230,000 gold. If we're hearing correctly.
Matt: "You are correct. For the time being."
Sam: And might I inquire, as it is my family's debt: what is the timetable on that? Will you be coming to collect anytime soon?
Matt: "I have given your father a date of six months to pay this debt. If it is not paid, then the deeds, as agreed upon many years ago, transition to my name entirely. I am not going to kick your family to the street; I am not a terrible man. But I will be possessing all of your belongings."
Sam: Will they be in any physical danger?
Matt: "No. Not unless they put up a fight."
Sam: Well, I don't know much about you, but I assume you would much rather have the cash than have to own property and manage it.
Matt: "Both have their uses."
Sam: All right.
Laura: So would the Darringtons simply work for you?
Matt: "The family, I will happily give them time to find whatever place they can afford to live or leave the city entirely. It is not my business. However, I will be taking over the farms, I will be taking over the business, I will be taking over the estate. Most of the assets within, they will become property of the Myriad."
Taliesin: Well, there. That's where I think we could come to an arrangement. We're not particularly invested in the power structure here. We're here for sentimental reasons. The estate and just enough property to maintain a modest comfortability. We don't really care what happens to the fortune so long as your family's taken care of.
Sam: Yes, I guess.
Taliesin: You keep your house, you keep your things, you keep a little bit of property to manage.
Sam: Sure.
Taliesin: What do you think? I mean, they did make this bed. I'm suggesting to you that maybe it is not your job to save your family's power and allow them to keep going as the way they have. But just to give them enough that even if they-- that they can continue with reasonable means. Maybe not necessarily living the life that they were living before but living far more comfortably.
Sam: Even that would be a step up, but it seems like we would have to do something in order just to earn that much.
Taliesin: Oh, I imagine so. It's just, there's a difference between saving everything and saving enough to keep them comfortable.
Matt: "If I am to understand you correctly, you are willing to offer your service to us?"
Taliesin: Possibly.
Matt: "And in exchange, we would still be taking the land-based assets from the Darrington name, other than the estate and enough means to live comfortably."
Taliesin: And enough income property for them to be relatively comfortable. Reasonably comfortable. I'm sure we can take a look at the assets and come to a very, very reasonable arrangement. And you, in turn-- well, we could have a discussion about what that would be worth to you. I have no interest in making an arrangement that doesn't please you. We're only here, again, for sentimental reasons. We are not invested beyond that.
Matt: Make a persuasion check.
Taliesin: Please, god. You've been terrible today. 15.
Matt: He goes, "Comfortable living is a relative thing. To maintain my comfort of living, well, your estate is but a drop in the bucket. But, and I mean no offense--" as he looks about the rest of you-- "Comfortable living for some of you, well, that could be as much as my drink would cost."
Sam: My family would require their main property and all residential rental property.
Matt: "That is not a deal. The residential and the farm territory is to become mine. I would leave for them your estate and enough gold to live a comparably comfortable lifestyle than living on the street for years to come. They could then strike out on their own, start a new fortune if they wish. Perhaps land barony was not their strong suit. You seem to have found other pursuits, maybe you could lead them in a new path."
Laura: And past that point, they would be in no debt to you?
Matt: "Past that point, and a task done in our favor by the famed Vox Machina. Maybe."
Sam: Would they get to maintain possession of their personal property? Artwork, statues?
Matt: "Everything that remains within the estate home itself would be yours to keep. The rest is mine."
Sam: And what is this task?
Matt: "Roughly 120 miles east of here lies a sinkhole. It has swallowed the core of the platinum mines of Herethis a few months back. Now, those mines are a very lucrative point of business for my employers. And every time we've sent scouts to inspect the source of this erosion, none have returned. Many very capable and proven men, unheard again. One of our greatest diviners has since spoken of a powerful force within this mine. Ancient. Birthed improperly. But now seems to grow more and more mad. We're at a loss, so we've put out a contract or two, but nothing has taken a bite yet. If you were to go to this mine, find this entity that has ruined our mining operation there, return with proof of its demise, and we confirm its destruction, I will consider our task complete."
Taliesin: We'll also need some operating capital for this. It sounds dangerous, so we will take the job, but we will need to also charge a very reasonable fee, I think, on top of this.
Matt: "That is entirely understood. And we will keep track of each fee, and we will deduct it from the materials in the Darrington estate."
Laura: If we take care of this for you, it does seem like a monumental task.
Matt: "It may not be. But it would seem to be something of your skill set."
Laura: From what we've learned, ancient beings tend to be quite powerful. We would ask that you don't slander the Darrington name. That when they stay in their estate, everyone believes they are still the Darringtons as they have always been.
Matt: "I would agree to that. I have no interests in your family's public image. I believe that damage has been done well enough on your own."
Sam: Yes. Are you sure you don't have a cloak I could just enchant and then we could call it square?
Matt: (chuckling) He takes another sip from his drink. "When all this is said and done, Taryon, we'll be in contact. I think there is much business we could do in the future."
Sam: All right. I suppose we have no choice.
Taliesin: We do.
Laura: There's always a choice, dear.
Marisha: You could marry the girl or we could go kill an ancient being.
Taliesin: I'm feeling pretty good about this one.
Marisha: Yeah!
Sam: All right.
Laura: Do we need to decide at this moment?
Sam: Seems like we do.
Taliesin: We will also need all of the information you have on this creature in the mines, and if you have anybody who has access to that--
Laura: The diviner would be wonderful to speak to.
Matt: "The information I have given you is what the diviner has found."
Sam: I'm not going to ask you all to risk your lives for my shitty family, so I will pursue this matter on my own if I have to.
Laura: Good. Yeah. You're going to go by yourself.
Sam: Well, I would hire a couple of people to come with me, but if you'd like to accompany me, I'd be okay with that too.
Travis: We could watch you do it. That'd be pretty funny.
Sam: Well, I mean, you've taught me a lot, so maybe I could do it.
Laura: I think you're good.
Ashley: You won't find anybody as good as us.
Sam: Of course not.
Marisha: You are very skilled in hiring talented mercenaries. That might be your strongest suit.
Sam: I am one for two on that count.
Taliesin: And we do have another mercenary at our beck, if we need. That's actually very fair. You're already one up.
Sam: Should we vote on it then? Grog, do you want to go kill something big and scary?
Travis: Yes.
Sam: Pike, are you drunk?
Ashley: I think you should marry whoever you want. So that's what I think we should do. Yes. Yea. I vote yea.
Sam: Twinsies?
Laura: Always have your back, dear.
Sam: Oh, Vax isn't here. Hey Vax. You want to go help me save my family by risking our lives in almost certain death?
Liam: What does that entail?
Sam: I'll take that as a yes. Keyleth?
Marisha: Vax says yes, and so do I! Aye!
Sam: Science bro?
Taliesin: Vex says yes, and I am so in the mood to kill something. (laughter)
Marisha: I think we've all risked our lives for each other at one point and another, so it's your turn, Tary. Welcome to the family.
Taliesin: Cheers. This stuff burns.
Matt: And this whole conversation he's had his mouth covered, he takes his fingers away from his mouth and he takes the drink. "Do we have an accord?" Picks his drink up and clinks it. "Return when the deed is done." Slaps the table and stands up and walks back. And at this point, that you notice, the tables nearby, everyone's been just quietly watching in on this. As soon as he leaves they go back to their business and drinking.
Taliesin: Everyone, on the count of three, we're going to stand up very quickly.
Marisha: Okay.
Sam: Why? Okay.
Liam: Wait! No, I'm just fucking with you.
Laura: Three! Let's go!
Matt: As you do that, about half the folks get startled by it. The music's still going.
Laura: On the way out, can I grab Wence again, one last time?
Matt: "Hey."
Laura: Most of the people here, are they local patrons or do they come from all over?
Matt: "Most of them are local and come from all over."
Laura: Great. Thank you.
Matt: "Sorry."
Laura: It's all I needed.
Matt: "I just serve the drinks, miss."
Travis: Can I make my way back over to the players?
Matt: Okay. She's sitting there. (drumming)
Travis: Can I have your name?
Matt: (drumming)
Travis: (louder) Can I have your name?
Matt: As she's still drumming her head slowly turns around and she goes, "Camilla." (drumming)
Travis: Thank you, and I leave.
Matt: (laughs) All right. With that, we're going to take a break. Try and get back here in a minute guys, see this next bit of interesting fun.
Marisha: To Camilla!
Matt: All right guys, so we have tonight's Wyrmwood giveaway: this awesome butternut wood and leather dice tray. Giveaway from our friends at Wyrmwood. Come on over, jump into the Twitch chat to enter for the possibility to win this, the word for the night is Myriad. That is M-Y-R-I-A-D. If you don't know, look it up on Google.
Marisha: You'll win it if you spell it right.
Matt: Exactly. Butternut up or shut up with your Myriad spelling. All right guys, be back here in a few minutes. See you in a second. [break]
Matt: Hello, everyone. Welcome back to Critical Role. Which, timing works out interesting sometimes. Yeah, welcome back to the game. We had our break. Going to go ahead and jump in here.
Liam: I feel cheated. I didn't hear any of that.
Sam: (belches)
Laura: Nice.
Sam: Thanks.
Matt: As you guys have found your way out of what seems to be this strange subterranean bar beneath the Grumpy Lily, you've agreed to, at least for the time being, to make your way east to this mine, which currently seems to be under the-- what's it called? The Platinum Mines of Herethis. Herethis. Which you, Taryon, you understand. Herethis is a region, a regional forest area over there. The Herethis Wood. About 120 miles east. You guys decide: What's your best means of travel? How do you intend to get there?
Sam: We have to misty there, right? Because you don't know any trees in the area?
Marisha: I could scry on the area if I knew enough about it.
Taliesin: If we misty there we could also camp for the night.
Laura: Yeah, we need to camp because we need to rest and get our shit back.
Marisha: That's fine. It's 120 miles.
Matt: It's not terribly far, as the mist flies.
Marisha: Yep. I'm pretty fresh.
Taliesin: We can misty there, camp for the night.
Travis: (repeatedly, getting deeper) Yeah. (laughter)
Travis: Character voice.
Matt: Well, I'll go ahead and by the way, because I totally forgot. We do have a winner in the chatroom. Besolis8926, you won the giveaway.
Liam: You got the Nutter Butter box!
Matt: Yeah, Denova will contact you for your information to get it shipped to you, so congratulations. All right, so. What are you thinking about for travel? You're just doing the Wind Walk?
Marisha: All right, before we leave, is there any type of research we should potentially do?
Travis: Nope. Headlong. (laughter)
Sam: I don't know what we'd be researching. The guy who sent us on the mission doesn't even know what it is.
Liam: It's not even nearby, so it's not like we could ask people what the mine is like. It's 120 miles away.
Travis: Yep.
Liam: The mines of "hear this."
Laura: Herethis.
Travis: This is right up our alley. Like this is literally what we've been training for our whole lives.
Marisha: I mean, just in case there's maybe some ancient deity that rules over the forest of Herethis and some sort of goddess? Fuck it, let's go.
Laura: I mean, do we know anything? Have we ever heard about the woods of Herethis or the Platinum Mines of Herethis?
Matt: You guys haven't. You have. They're woods that lead into this small rocky-- it's almost too small to be a mountain range and more just large, rocky hills. But there's no historical significance to the location that you know of. Go ahead and make a history check.
Travis: Roll high.
Taliesin: That'll do.
Sam: Oh yeah! 21.
Matt: 21. You do know a number of the large-scale battles that took place towards the end of the Age of Arcanum took place on Wildmount. In fact, Zorhaus, the other kingdom that we were discussing before is largely a badlands, barren landscape because that was where the final battle between the Betrayer Gods and the Prime Deities took place. And the sheer volume of, the sheer intensity of that battle laid waste to the landscape there, so you have the Dwendalian Empire and the whole western side of Wildmount, which is fairly lush and functional, then towards the Zorhaus Kingdom is, and that whole eastern side of the continent, a lot of it is just barren, cracked, destroyed. But you do know that Herethis, the name, at least, stems from a hero that fell in a battle long ago. You can't recall the specific details of it, but there is some significance to the title or at least the location there to something ancient and old. May have to deal with this time period of entities battling gods. That's the best you can make out. The mines are well known. The Platinum Mines are well known. They're not well attended. They're not a public space, and they're definitely under the control of a number of companies that are shadow corporations under the control of the Myriad. You can see where the connection and the necessity for it to be reopened again is important. Platinum is not a very common metal.
Travis: Anything we should be worried about?
Sam: Gods attacking us.
Travis: Nope.
Marisha: Trial run.
Laura: Oh man. No, but really, that's where the battles took place, huh? So this ancient being could be from, potentially--
Sam: Or it could not.
Taliesin: Whatever it is, it's not leaving the mine.
Liam: We're running off on a lark, but we've raked ourselves in the faces before.
Laura: Yeah! If we die, we die.
Sam: Oh god, I don't want to die.
Taliesin: Well, no one wants to die.
Marisha: Well, once again--
Laura: Don't say it, Keyleth. Do not fucking say it.
Travis: Don't incant that shit again.
Laura: Don't say it about all of us and doom us to your fate.
Travis: Goldfish.
Marisha: Duty. (laughter)
Travis: Better.
Sam: Before we go, was there something you wanted to tell the drow woman?
Laura: Oh shit.
Liam: If we're talking about what we were talking about before, I don't think it's a good idea.
Travis: Why?
Liam: If you want to go and find him, us, and say hi, that's a different story.
Laura: I would like to point out that this same person you are so adamantly protecting from our scrying or our spying or our finding is the same person who shit in the middle of a temple so that he could watch Pike.
Liam: Well, A) he did that, not us, and B) we were all very much friends and happy with each other when he did that, and he is not happy with us. It's not exactly the same thing, dear. But if you want to go with me and find him and check in and say hello, I'd be very happy to do that with you. But to send the woman who threw our friend, drugged, over the back of a horse, and took him off to his family? I don't really want to send her after Scanlan, to look in on him or follow him or watch him or anything him. It didn't sound like his father wanted him dragged back on the back of a horse, and it happened anyway. She doesn't seem very trustworthy to me. Yeah, she's cool. So what?
Laura: I just realized I have the other half of the stone. The traveling stone.
Marisha: That we gave Scanlan.
Laura: I could pop in on him anytime I want.
Taliesin: Or he could pop in on you anytime.
Marisha: But he hasn't.
Travis: If he has it, still.
Marisha: Yeah, maybe he threw it into the ocean for all we know.
Travis: Ooh, that would suck because then we'd be in the ocean.
Laura: That would be really, really shit if he did that.
Marisha: It would be a massively dickish move.
Liam: That was very smart, Grog.
Travis: Hey.
Taliesin: Wow, that happened.
Travis: In your face.
Liam: Oh. Anyway, my point still stands. Once we wrap up here if you want to go find him I will go with you.
Marisha: And do what? Convince him to come back?
Liam: No.
Marisha: See if he's okay? Ask him how his year's been?
Liam: Yeah.
Travis: What about just a location and she has to stay unseen? You know, I know Keyleth can scry and stuff but--
Taliesin: We could make her walk first into the mines.
Marisha: Yeah, you didn't want me to even scry on him and now we're talking about just popping in on him? I feel like there's a weird crossing of the lines.
Travis: Yeah, but that was a year ago. I'm over that sentiment.
Marisha: Oh man, Grog.
Travis: Yeah. Yep.
Marisha: You guilted me very hard on that. You made me feel kind of shitty.
Travis: This is Grog evolved.
Marisha: No, you kind of got it right. Just go with it.
Taliesin: Exalted?
Laura: Exalted?
Travis: Absorbed. Yep.
Liam: You done been woked.
Travis: Woked.
Liam: So woked.
Laura: No, but seriously. What are we doing? I don't think we use that mercenary to walk into a mine. I'm not sending her to her death.
Taliesin: I am perfectly content to hold onto that chit for as long as we need.
Liam: Save that for a rainy day. We don't need to punch that ticket now.
Sam: Should we at least ask her to stay in town? For a to-be-determined mission later?
Travis: Well, I think she needs to keep up her employment, right?
Sam: We can give her a little money to keep around, a retainer.
Laura: No.
Sam: I can give her a little money. I might need her.
Taliesin: She was employed. She's reachable through employment. We can just find out how to reach her.
Travis: Oh, yeah, that one!
Sam: She might be gone.
Taliesin: You have to be able to hire her. I'm sure there's a system.
Sam: We have no idea how she was hired in the first place.
Laura: We go ask her how to hire her.
Sam: All right, well then let's do that.
Marisha: And no one has heard from him at all over the course of the year?
Travis: Who?
Laura: Oh. Well, he writes me all the time, but outside of that.
Travis: What? Really?! Scanlan does?!
Marisha: She's messing with you.
Travis: That was very mean.
Taliesin: You promised you'd keep that secret.
Liam: She has a mean streak.
Laura: (laughs) I have so many secrets to keep, dear. So many.
Travis: I'm mad for an (stutters) a long time.
Liam: I know one of them. When she farts it sounds like a duck.
Laura: It really does.
Marisha: That's kind of cute.
Laura: We go find-- (laughs)
Taliesin: You're going to fart awkwardly and we're going to yell "imposter!"
Matt: All right, so you find K'rynn. She let you know that she was just around the corner from where the estate was and let you know where to find her, and it's like an open tent/lounge area. She's just currently drinking water and eating a little bit of dried meat, and as you approach, she stands up. She still has her illusion on. She still has her pale skin. You get the sense that drow in general are not-- they don't have the easiest time walking through large societal establishments. "You returned. So what did you need?"
Sam: We have no mission at this moment, but we may call on you shortly after we return.
Matt: "Very well."
Sam: Can we find you here or will you be gone?
Matt: "I have no interest in staying in this city in particular. I generally prefer to stay around Vashlow."
Sam: Where's that?
Matt: "Vashlow? It's to the west of here. About 25 miles southeast of Port Demali."
Travis: Port Demali.
Matt: "If you wish to contact me, you can send a missive to Vashlow, or if you have access to a practitioner of the arcane arts, perhaps a Sending would be sufficient."
Sam: Sending, okay.
Laura: Definitely.
Sam: All right. Well, stand by. We'll call you. Thank you for your time, and we'll be in touch.
Matt: "Very well. It was just business."
Sam: Sorry about your horse.
Matt: "Eh. Fair trade." She gets up and gathers her little satchel over the side of her shoulder. "Until we meet again." She nods and then walks out into the darkness of the night.
Laura: Never to be heard from again because we'll forget that we have that connection. (laughter)
Matt: All right, so what are you guys doing?
Sam: Let's Misty Step. Let's Wind Walk.
Laura: Misty Step tonight and then that way we can recover everything?
Taliesin: In the morning.
Marisha: Yeah, what time is it?
Matt: You're in the evening now.
Laura: Let's Misty Step there--
Matt: Misty Step is a very different spell.
Laura: Oh, sorry.
Liam: We go 30 feet. (laughter)
Sam: We're going to be windtalkers.
Matt: Yes. All right, so you guys go ahead and transform into your misty forms via the Wind Walk spell and begin making your way to the east, towards the Herethis Wood. Travel is pretty rapid. It's a clear sky. The moon's still pretty-- it's only been a few days since the last full moon when you guys had the ritual up at the top of the mountains with the Trickfoots, so it's very easy to see the details, especially those of keen vision. Rather rapidly, you find yourselves to the outskirts of the Herethis Forest, and after doing a couple passes overhead, you can see there is a portion of the forest that is open, and there you can see there are a couple of stone towers set up. There appear to be large ropes and cables fastened at the edges of what looks to be a large circular ravine, some sort of an entry port, a very large hole in the ground. And as you approach and get close you can see that, while there are two standing towers, there appear to be remnants of two other towers that have fallen in, and looking at some of the cables and the way that some of the equipment is set up, it appears that this sinkhole that he spoke of that consumed a portion of this entryway, whether it be a quake or something, a lot of the structure that was placed around the outside of the mine has fallen in, and is precariously being held either dangling over the inside by cable work or has crumpled somewhere at the bottom of this abyssal hole you see before you.
Marisha: What do you mean by--
Matt: When I say abyssal hole, that's just a descriptive way of saying it is pitch black from this distance. You cannot see anything past the top.
Sam: And it's connected to the Abyssal Plane.
Matt: It is actually a doorway to the Abyss. Hey guys! Orcus tonight!
Marisha: Finale!
Travis: Do we have any glow sticks that we could throw in and watch fall?
Taliesin: Yes, we actually do.
Matt: Have you guys transitioned back to your physical forms to have this conversation?
Marisha: Yeah. Well, we can float down.
Taliesin: If we're doing our little circle, I would say that a little bit of a distance.
Laura: Yeah, I don't want to camp right next to the--
Taliesin: About half a mile away.
Liam: I'm looking for cooties around the outside.
Matt: Okay, make a perception check.
Liam: Cooties.
Laura: Did you get it?
Ashley: No, it's right here.
Liam: Dang it. 24.
Matt: 24. Okay, you start coasting over the edge, and you can see there are broken carts and crates. You can see the remains of what seem to be a couple of humanoid bodies, mostly picked away to the point where there's just slightly pinkish bone from whatever dried bits of muscle or blood that remain, the rest of the flesh and organs pulled from or dissolved. You're not sure.
Laura: I think a Cure Wounds, a light Cure Wounds would probably help.
Sam: Dead talk?
Taliesin: They don't talk back, but yeah.
Sam: Let's do that.
Travis: Oh yeah, you can do that!
Ashley: We can talk to the dead. I have it.
Laura: We'll land a little bit away.
Travis: We didn't land yet, right?
Laura: Let's land a little bit away.
Liam: Getting some Baldur's Gate vibes here, man.
Matt: So you land about half a mile out, and you guys transition back to your physical forms. Vax shares the information and what he spotted.
Laura: Were the bodies on top or were the bodies down below?
Liam: On the edges, right?
Matt: They were on the edges.
Marisha: And when you mean seared, like acid? Or like heat?
Matt: Like white and pink bone. Like just whatever flesh was on there has been picked off.
Ashley: Like something was eating them?
Taliesin: Can we speak to dead?
Laura: Pike can do that.
Taliesin: Why don't you two misty there, somebody start setting up camp for tonight.
Laura: I'll go with Pike and we can stealth in.
Marisha: I'll start setting up camp.
Taliesin: You can still misty. We're still misty-able. You can fly in, talk to them, and fly back out.
Laura: She can't talk to them as mist.
Taliesin: I mean, land and then--
Laura: Oh, okay. I'll cast Pass Without a Trace, anyways, so we'll be stealthy going in. So I do that.
Matt: All right, so. Is it just you, Pike? Who's going with you?
Laura: And me.
Liam: I'm already standing by the bodies, yeah.
Matt: All right, so you go back to the bodies with them?
Laura: Okay, you're still out there?
Liam: No, I--
Matt: All right, so the three of you are turning back to mist and making your way back toward the entrance.
Taliesin: I'm going to set up the tents.
Matt: Okay. You guys land near the edge of this crumpled rock and you see where the ground itself has curled in and collapsed inward, and there are a number of cables or ropes that go across and various large structures, the stone towers that sit at the edge of this opening. You can see there's tension on these ropes and either the rope's going to snap at some point as the weather gets harsher over here, or the rock is going to crumble in if the ground keeps eroding. You're not sure if it's done, or if it's a slow crawling thing. There before you, you see a body. You can see elements of clothing, torn and dried, crusted with old blood. You see a boot that's left off to the side. The foot's been removed, but it looks like the edge of it's been torn and ripped a bit. The skeleton's been picked clean.
Ashley: Okay. We only see the one body?
Matt: There are three bodies around the whole exterior, but you've landed next to one.
Liam: When you said picked clean, do they look like they've been chewed upon?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Liam: It's fine. 18.
Matt: Looking at the bones, you can see signs of what appear to be scratches or grooves across the bones... It's interesting. A lot of the bones have a very smooth texture to them. You're used to seeing very porous, but it looks like elements of the bones have melted slightly.
Laura: Oh, gods.
Liam: Slimes, jellies. All right.
Laura: I'm going to get my broom ready. And while Pike is doing her ritual I'm just going to keep a hand on her, that if anything happens then I can just take off with her in tow.
Matt: Okay. Pike, you're casting Speak with Dead?
Ashley: Yes.
Matt: All right. It's easy enough for you to cast it. It's quick. Ritual complete, you go ahead and you burn some incense.
Ashley: Okay, I get three questions.
Matt: And at which point, the skeleton, which is face down on the ground by the way, the skull (bone creaking) creaks up and looks over. Like, turns around and faces you as it reaches. It curls upward, almost in like an upward dog--
Laura: Like downward dog? Oh. What's that called?
Matt: Cobra position, but the head's turned completely around and curled up.
Liam: Oh, I get down close to it and go (groans) and I flip it over.
Matt: (rattling thud) It flips over on its back and the head (bone creaking) turns back around to its right.
Liam: Sorry.
Matt: You get five questions.
Ashley: Five questions.
Marisha: Five?
Ashley: Good day, sir. It's not a good day for you. Sorry.
Travis: Wow.
Laura: It's okay. Good start.
Ashley: What happened to you?
Matt: (raspy, strained) "Something in the mines we found. It hatched. Or woke. And its anger shook the halls. I tried to run, but the skittering beasts got me first."
Laura: Skittering beasts?
Travis: Godzilla.
Liam: That's more than one.
Laura: (whispering) What did the skitterers look like?
Ashley: What did the skittering beasts look like?
Laura: Oh, in my drink?
Liam: It flew away.
Marisha: Yeah, it's a dick.
Matt: (raspy, strained) "Large. Hard carapaces. Pincers. Many legs."
Ashley: (whispering) It's like spiders.
Travis: Umber hulk?
Liam: Umber hulk with many legs.
Marisha: That could be a glabrezu, which fucking killed you the first time. They have pincers.
Laura: Yeah, but that's really big.
Marisha: I don't know. Skittering beasts?
Ashley: Is there anyone else alive?
Liam: Did anything work against it?
Ashley: Oh, yeah that's a good question. (louder) Was there anything that you guys could tell of your knowledge-- did anything seem to damage it or work against it?
Matt: (grunts) He seems confused about what you're referring to. The skittering creature or the--
Ashley: Oh. The skittering creature or the big thing?
Laura: The skittering creatures?
Ashley: Both, because we still have--
Liam: Against them
Ashley: Against them! Against the skittering creatures
Matt: "The skittering creatures, we just ran. I didn't look to see."
Laura: That's already three questions.
Ashley: Okay. Oh god, this is not-- (whispering)
Ashley: How big were the creatures?
Matt: "They were rather large, maybe eight foot end to end. They burrow, they spit. But they were awoken by the smaller one."
Ashley: Wait, he said they spit?
Laura: I didn't hear, something about his spit. What did he say?
Matt: You gather, what he said was-- (laughing)
Matt: No, the skitterers bite, they spit. But they were awakened by the smaller one.
Marisha: The smaller one?
Laura: What's the smaller one?!
Liam: What can you tell us of the smaller one?
Sam: They spit. Maybe acid, probably.
Liam: Yeah, they're smooth, that means they were just like (slurping noises).
Ashley: Is there anything that you can tell us about the smaller one?
Matt: "It was like a baby, and it cried out and everything fell around us. I barely made it out, but the skitterers found me." (deep exhale) The enchantment leaves that embodied the skull, falls to rest, the bones now motionless.
Sam: So it can emit a cry that shakes everything.
Ashley: A baby, like a baby?
Liam: Mandrake?
Matt: I would say, Marisha--
Marisha: Does it sound like anything we have encountered? A nature check?
Matt: We'll say a nature check for both you and Vex.
Marisha: Would I have an advantage with my little book?
Matt: Not for this in particular.
Liam: It will be like the creature back in Stillben?
Laura: Yeah, I don't think that's what it is.
Liam: And we have heard tales of mandrakes, and they scream.
Laura: Yeah, did the pincers sound like something we have fought though, before?
Matt: No, it's not something you've encountered before, necessarily.
Marisha: 19?
Matt: 19, okay. And Vex?
Laura: Nature check?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: Do I get advantage because I'm standing in the woods? Six!
Taliesin: You know you're standing in the woods.
Matt: You have heard of a creature that does exist in subterranean and sometimes forested areas, referred to as an ankheg.
Marisha: An ankheg?
Matt: An ankheg. They generally tend to snatch cattle and beasts of burden in the night. They are large and insect-like. They spit an acidic fluid. Some of the things this corpse has described makes you think of that.
Liam: Isn't that what our bug juice is made out of?
Matt: You bug juice is made of sandkheg, which is a desert-based variant of that creature.
Laura: Oh. I wonder if we could sprinkle it around us and they won't bother us because we'll smell like their brethren.
Travis: I ain't wasting that shit!
Laura: Hey, man, it's an idea.
Marisha: So they snatch cattle--
Sam: So we should all be cows.
Marisha: Oh my god, you guys. Perfect opportunity!
Liam: Throwback Thursday!
Marisha: Throwback Thursday!
Matt: If only the person who could cast the spell was in your party anymore. He's elsewhere in the world right now.
Liam: That asshole.
Sam: We just talked to him. He was the dead body. (groaning)
Matt: All right, so what are you guys doing?
Sam: Well, we're going to rest for the night, and then go in at first light.
Laura: Yes, we definitely should have a Heroes' Feast.
Marisha: Yeah, let's have a Heroes' Feast, which-- okay, hang on, let me check here.
Travis: We don't need it.
Marisha: I can do a Heroes' Feast.
Taliesin: Protection from acid would probably be very--
Marisha: Okay, but my Wind Walk-- I already Wind Walked, so I can do a Heroes' Feast at a higher level. I also want to do a 5th-level Commune with Nature.
Matt: Okay. 5th-level Commune with Nature.
Marisha: What should I ask? What should I ask that we don't already know?
Sam: I mean, is there any nature down there? It's a mine. It's all rocks.
Marisha: Well, I can see in a two-, three-mile radius.
Travis: How deep does the hole go?
Marisha: I was thinking that.
Matt: Instantly gain knowledge of up to three facts of your choice about any of the following subjects as they relate to the area: terrain; bodies of water; prevalent plants, minerals, animals, or peoples; powerful celestials, fey, fiends, elementals, or undead; influence from other planes of existence; or buildings.
Marisha: Okay.
Matt: Choose three of those.
Marisha: First and foremost, influences from other planes of existence.
Matt: Okay, so as you focus and Commune with Nature, the plants speak to you in this series of images and thoughts that essentially get the idea across to you that there is something planar involved here, but it's very old and long-dormant, recently awoken.
Marisha: Okay. Planar, long dormant.
Taliesin: Recently awoken.
Travis: If it's a fucking baby ancient dragon I'm going to be stoked.
Marisha: Okay, so something planar.
Liam: Didn't Drez Vina send us to a fetal thing?
Marisha: Yeah, that was our first fight.
Sam: Oh, we can't do how deep is the mine? No?
Marisha: No, I can, it's a terrain question, so terrain. Yeah. How deep does this mine go?
Laura: Maybe you can ask where the thing is in the mine.
Marisha: Is. I think I can, right? Can I sense the location of where--?
Matt: You can ask whereabouts this thing is.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: Nature tells you this sinkhole goes down for about a quarter-mile, and it lies at the very bottom.
Laura: It's just straight down at the bottom of it?
Travis: That's 400 meters, y'all.
Ashley: So it's like this and then the little baby thing at the bottom?
Matt: Apparently, yeah. The whole ground just collapsed inward.
Marisha: 400 meters and the entity lies at the bottom.
Sam: We can just jump. We're like gods.
Marisha: Yeah, we're gods!
Taliesin: We're golden gods.
Marisha: It's only a little bit more than 1000 feet.
Laura: Yeah, then you might survive that one? Only if you turn into a goldfish and fall onto the ground. It's fine.
Marisha: Now I know Looney Tune physics doesn't work in this world.
Liam: Always go earth elemental.
Laura: Always Keyteor.
Marisha: Always Keyteor.
Sam: So what's our last question?
Travis: Something from another plane. We know it's 400 meters down.
Marisha: It lies at the bottom.
Taliesin: How many of these creatures are there?
Travis: Of the crawly ones?
Marisha: Ankhegs. Can I get a sense of how many and whereabouts the ankhegs are?
Matt: One of the two.
Laura: What are ankhegs? Are they fiends?
Liam: They're beasts, probably. They're big bugs.
Laura: Aberrations?
Marisha: How many?
Travis: Yeah, because if there's hundreds, then--
Marisha: That's a problem.
Taliesin: Then this is a stealth mission.
Matt: They are monstrosities, and that's what they look like right there.
All: Oh!
Taliesin: I love Starship Troopers. I'm excited.
Laura: We're about to fight some big, armored vaginas.
Marisha: About how many? Do I know about how many there are? Sensing their skittering movements under the surface.
Matt: Using the nature's essence to let you know somewhere in the neighborhood of about close to a hundred. Throughout the network of caves--
Marisha: Because this is a three-mile radius, right?
Matt: Yeah, so this is spread out amongst what would essentially be a subterranean anthill of these ankhegs.
Marisha: There's a lot.
Travis: We're going to need a fast exit. He wants us to take care of what the problem was.
Sam: We've just got to kill the big boss. One little baby big boss. The boss baby.
Laura: Did we understand correctly that it's the baby that cried out is the big monster? The big boss?
Matt: It seems to be the source of where all this started.
Laura: Okay. And that's the thing that woke up the skitterers?
Matt: Or at least brought them to start attacking the surface.
Laura: Okay. I just wanted to make sure it wasn't like, there's a big boss and then there's skitterers and then there's also little babies that cry out.
Matt: You don't know. This is all the information you have.
Ashley: But do we know why the baby woke up? What woke the baby?
Laura: No, we don't know what woke up the baby.
Ashley: We didn't ask that? Okay.
Laura: Maybe we should talk to another dead person.
Travis: Nah.
Sam: I don't think they'll know.
Taliesin: I don't think they'll know.
Laura: They're not miners.
Ashley: They did something in the mine that awoke it. And we can redo it.
Taliesin: I think anybody who was there who saw it probably died at the center of it.
Liam: Sorry, we're trying to remember the very first game of D&D we ever played and Keyleth, twins, Grog were there.
Matt: Yeah, that's right. That was what was essentially a dead or stillborn deity. A demigod, essentially, in its own pocket plane.
Marisha: So does it have anything to do with this?
Matt: Roll a religion check.
Marisha: No. I'm bad at this! (groans)
Liam: I'm religious!
Matt: Yeah, if you want to, whoever's having this conversation you can make a religion check.
Liam: Luck of the day. Yes!
Laura: Natural 20.
Marisha: Are you serious?
Laura: No, I haven't rolled. I'm trying to make myself roll it.
Liam: I got a 19.
Laura: (gasps) Oh my god I rolled a natural 20!
Marisha: Shut up!
Travis: She really did.
Laura: It's like Run Lola, Run where she's doing the roulette thing and she's like--
Matt: Okay. You recall a while back that you battled with that entity, you-- what was it called? Crysa-Thul.
Laura: How?
Matt: (sighs) This is all I do with my free time, guys. Make up shit for fun. But that was not tiny. That was a very large entity. Like, to the point where you remember there was a 20-foot-wide well and a giant fleshy baby arm that slapped out and crawled it out Akira-style. Everyone kept saying small on this one, so you don't know if-- maybe related in some way? But you're not entirely certain. It doesn't appear to be the same kind of thing, necessarily. Not by the descriptor you've heard.
Liam: Corpse called it a small one, right?
Matt: It called it a small one.
Travis: We're good. We've still got to camp for the night, right?
Laura: Yeah. We're camping. But we should camp in the trees, y'all. Not in the ground, in case the things come up out.
Matt: Yeah, the thick forest of Herethis surrounds the mine.
Laura: Oh man.
Marisha: Can I Druidcraft some web hammocks?
Taliesin: I mean you can, I mean we've gone to all this trouble, but if we want to add to it. I mean, this is just what we've been doing.
Marisha: Look, I really like elaborate tree houses.
Taliesin: No, I understand. I respect the art form.
Marisha: I can have a rope bridge here.
Liam: Hammock bed.
Matt: We'll say Druidcraft, which is a very localized and cantrip-based magic, you could, over the next couple hours craft a single web hammock. (groaning)
Matt: It's a cantrip, yo!
Marisha: I'll pass. We'll just sleep with the ones we have or whatever
Liam: A third-grade diorama.
Matt: Yeah. This is what it would look like if you were to build to scale. Okay. So you guys find a place in the trees? Who's helming finding that spot? All right. Go ahead and roll an investigation check.
Laura: 15?
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Oh wait! I honestly don't know anymore what my favored terrain does for me.
Matt: No, this is exactly where to use it because forest is your favored terrain. This is exactly the kind of thing it would help with.
Laura: I always feel like I'm bullshitting it now. What am I rolling? Investigation?
Matt: Yes.
Laura: 24.
Matt: 24. You find one massive tree. The trees here can get pretty big, and there's one thick tree that the branches are pretty easy to climb, and up top it branches out and all the various branches that make up the canopy. It's almost like this little bowl at the very top, just underneath where the heavy foliage descends, and it's a perfect place for you guys to make a camp higher up off the ground.
Laura: Hey, this is a place! Let's do it here!
Taliesin: I'll unload everything.
Matt: All right, you guys make camp. Who's making first watch?
Travis: Me!
Laura: All right.
Liam: Me, too.
Ashley: Oh! Heroes' Feast.
Laura: Heroes' Feast.
Marisha: Heroes' Feast.
Matt: All right. We'll say as a note, this the last of the chalices you have prepared. If you want to do any more Heroes' Feasts, you'll have to specifically go and purchase the chalices or go look for it in town.
Liam: Let's do it!
Marisha: Is this including or not including the chalice that Grog gave to Vex earlier to drink out of?
Matt: That chalice, while it looks quite delightful, is not worth a thousand gold pieces.
Taliesin: It's from Medieval Times.
Matt: (laughs) It's a little gaudy.
Marisha: It's got Michael's. Michael's crafts.
Matt: Yeah, every time you drink from it you get glitter on your hands and you're like, shit.
Marisha: How do you turn it off? Cover it in blankets.
Laura: Yay, Heroes' Feast.
Sam: We're immune to fear?
Matt: You're immune to fear, immune to poison, and--
Laura: Advantage on wisdom.
Matt: Marisha, you want to go ahead and roll the additional hit points for Heroes' Feast?
Marisha: Yeah 2d10, yeah?
Matt: 2d10, I believe.
Laura: We're losing our 17?
Liam: Lose our 17 from the speech?
Matt: You do.
Travis: That's why I didn't take them.
Marisha: (gasps) Ooh! Wait, yeah! Ooh, that's amazing! It's a nine and a ten!
Matt: So 19 additional hit points to all of you guys.
Laura: If you give us a speech, how long does that last?
Matt: Temporary hit points last until they go down or you take a long rest, I believe. Let me double check.
Marisha: But this is going to be a long rest?
Laura: Oh wait, but does that mean we lose our temporary hit points on the Heroes' Feast?
Matt: Well, no. They're different. The Heroes' Feast is in addition to your maximum hit points. Temporary hit points are different. Technically, those two stack. You're about to lose the temporary hit points.
Marisha: But then at the top of the morning, I can give us another speech.
Matt: Should you be so inclined, yeah.
Laura: Tight.
Marisha: Do I have to do it?
Travis: No, you don't. You don't.
Marisha: Fuck you, Travis. Fuck you.
Matt: You can give the essence of a speech.
Marisha: Right, I can do an interpretive dance.
Travis: That's better.
Taliesin: Only if you actually do the interpretive dance.
Ashley: Wait, 19 extra?
Laura: He's giving you a look.
Marisha: A laser light show. With fireflies. It's like in a Disney Imagineer show.
Matt: It's a speech.
Marisha: All right, well, it's a speech.
Matt: You can give the essence of it, but the idea here is just you honing your public speaking skills.
Laura: You're going to get better at it, Keyleth.
Liam: It's like public debate in high school.
Sam: Toastmasters.
Taliesin: I love Toastmasters.
Matt: Temporary hit points. They last until they're depleted or you finish a long rest. Yes, I was correct. Cool.
Marisha: So in the top of the morning.
Laura: Top o' the mornin'!
Marisha: Top o' the mornin'!
Matt: All right. We'll say for the purpose of brevity, because even at your guys' level if you did encounter anything in this forest that was indigenous, you'd splatter it in a round. But you don't have any issues. Nothing really sees you up in the branches. You occasionally get caught off guard by the sound of a nearby (hooting). It's an owl in the trees. But nothing seems to bother you during your evening slumber. You complete your long rest. You still maintain your benefits from the Heroes' Feast, and as morning comes, Keyleth gives a rousing speech.
Sam: Just give us a topic.
Matt: You can just describe the topics you talk about. You don't have to give the actual speech.
Marisha: That's great, because one can only bullshit so much in a four-hour fucking game. I talk about the smell of our breakfast. It's bacon in the morning. And taste and smell the fleshy essence of the pork.
Taliesin: Is bacon what we're fighting for?
Marisha: No, bacon is definitely worth fighting for. Bacon is worth fighting for, and when we kill that celestial baby we will have the godliest bacon one could ever imagine.
Sam: I do like bacon.
Taliesin: This is the most Burning Man thing that's ever happened on this show. I'm flashing back.
Matt: Keyleth, Voice of the Tempest.
Taliesin: Bacon. Speech.
Matt: All right, guys. There you go. Take your 17 temporary hit points.
Marisha: She's not a great talker and has never been one. Just want to point that out. You guys all know this.
Matt: No, it's just her level.
Laura: Just add that to the 19 then?
Matt: No, because the 17, once the 17 goes it's gone.
Laura: But the 19 we can heal to?
Matt: It's still your maximum. You can heal to it, yeah. That is the difference.
Taliesin: I always imagine occasionally Keyleth gives a speech that's like what's-his-name from Animal House.
Sam: Matthew, I'm going to prepare some spells that I'm going to inject into various coins.
Matt: Yes, what are you doing?
Sam: I'm going to drop another 300 gold and give Vex another Revivify.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: Grog, you're already a good jumper, right?
Travis: Yeah.
Sam: How far can you jump?
Travis: You gave me a Fly coin.
Sam: No, that's gone forever. That's gone. It doesn't last forever. It lasts a couple hours.
Travis: Well, that's bullshit. Yeah, I can jump 15 feet vertically or 20 feet horizontally. So not great. Like three squares.
Sam: I'll give you a Jump coin, so that will triple your jump.
Travis: Will you sing "Jump" from Van Halen?
Sam: Sure. When you do it. Let's see here. Who needs things?
Ashley: (singing) Jump! For my love.
Sam: Oh no, you guys all cast things now, right?
Taliesin: Not really, why?
Liam: T., give me something! Show me some magic. Give me a doodad.
Sam: Can you turn invisible?
Liam: I used to be able to, but I--
Sam: You gave away your ring.
Laura: Kerr bear. Oh no, it wasn't Kerr bear. It was Tova.
Sam: I'll give you a Blur coin.
Laura: Don't you already have that with your--
Liam: That cloak that I gave away?
Laura: Oh yeah, that one.
Marisha: That's the one that Kerr bear took.
Liam: That's right.
Laura: That's right.
Matt: Yeah. (laughs) The inventory of the items you've lost to guests.
Liam: Lost? Gave away.
Matt: Lost and gave away.
Sam: I'll give good old Percival a Cure Wounds coin.
Matt: What level?
Sam: Just one.
Matt: Level one. You got it.
Taliesin: Yeah. It will hopefully not come in handy.
Sam: And also I'm going to change my Robe of Many Things to my new Robe of Many Things.
Matt: Okay.
Sam: And that's it.
Taliesin: A Vest of Several Items now.
Matt: (laughs) The Kigurumi of Useful Trinkets.
Laura: Oh, hey. Well, no. Maybe would this be a bad idea? To shoot an Oracle Arrow down into the bottom?
Taliesin: I think that's been working out very well for us. It is pitch black down there, though, isn't it?
Laura: Well. We have this method that we used to do. Light the arrow on fire, and then send it down. So I can see by the light of the fire on it.
Liam: Would that make your actual eyeballs burn?
Laura: I don't think so.
Sam: Oh! And I'm going to do one more thing. I'm going to pull out a healing draught bottle, and give it to-- no, you can heal things.
Marisha: Yeah, I'm all right.
Sam: You don't need to heal.
Travis: Other people, I normally do.
Sam: I give it to Vax.
Travis: I turn into Nurse Betty almost in every fight. What are you talking about?
Taliesin: Yeah, that's actually true.
Laura: That's true, he does. He does heal people a lot.
Travis: But that's cool, you give it to somebody that, you know--
Liam: Well, he can give it to me. I've got 50 things I can do a turn. It was what kind of potion?
Sam: A healing draught. It's not a potion; it's a bottle of healing shit.
Liam: Oh shit.
Sam: It's 8d8.
Ashley: 8d8?!
Liam: 8d8?!
Liam: I will never give this up. Ever. Thank you. Thank you, Taryon.
Sam: Sure.
Taliesin: I think that that's a really good idea, shooting an arrow down there.
Liam: I'm going to set the Deathwalker's Ward to necrotic.
Marisha: I'll light my hands on fire so that Vex can light her arrows on fire.
Taliesin: So when we're ready we've got something to light the--
Laura: Wait, should I cast Pass Without a Trace on us? No, I'm going to do the Oracle Arrow first. Oh. What if we wake it up when I shoot it down and things come out?
Liam: Well, that is a very real possibility.
Taliesin: Well, then they'll be easier to kill up here than they will be down there.
Marisha: They'll be 400 meters down. I could theoretically drop some awesome Fireballs on their face, potentially.
Laura: I like this idea. I'm going to cast Pass Without a Trace on all of us, just to be safe. So we can stealth and be quiet. Yeah, but they'll just keep falling, won't they?
Marisha: I don't know.
Laura: How does that work?
Marisha: That's a weird magic question.
Taliesin: This is why magic freaks me out.
Matt: What's the question?
Marisha: If I drop a Fireball, how long it'll go--
Liam: Does gravity continue to carry it down?
Matt: Drop a what? A Fireball?
Taliesin: Fire a Fireball into the abyss. Will it just eventually stop?
Marisha: Will it keep going?
Matt: Well, a Fireball is a small bead of magic energy that has a range. So if it reaches the end of the range, it has no effect.
Taliesin: This is why magic's weird.
Marisha: But I could Keyteor to the bottom.
Matt: You could.
Travis: We're just spoiled for choice.
Matt: You take half bludgeoning damage when you impact.
Marisha: Yep, advantages to both.
Liam: Dropping a great height did not go well for you.
Travis: Keyleth, did you roll 17 or 19 on your--
Marisha: I rolled 19, but then you get an additional 17 because my weird speech about bacon.
Matt: Bacon points. 17 bacon points.
Laura: It will make the most glorious bacon!
Matt: To be fair, I've eaten some bacon in my time that's given me some temporary hit points. Just saying.
Marisha: Look, it was inspired, okay?
Matt: Oh, completely.
Marisha: I'm not wrong.
Liam: We will not go bacon-less into the night.
Marisha: Bacon has saved many a people.
Laura: All right. I'm setting my arrow on fire, and I'm shooting it down into the pit.
Matt: Okay. Oracle Arrow. You fire it. It's a big pit. The radius of a small flame on an arrow doesn't seem to light up the walls. It's not bright enough, so it just descends and descends, and the wood is catching and burning, and eventually it hits the stony, earthy floor at the bottom (arrow impact) and it clatters and breaks a little bit. It's burning pretty heavily, and you glance around the space inside and you can see what looks like some broken mining equipment on the ground, jutting out in places. You see what appears to be some sort of stony platform that is carved, but mildly forgotten or eroded steps, and the rest of the arrow burns up and you lose your vision.
Laura: That was helpful. Super helpful.
Taliesin: Worth it. It was worth it. It didn't cost us anything.
Laura: That's true. I didn't see the great baby beast down at the bottom.
Taliesin: And that's information we didn't have. And now we know. Great baby beast is not at the bottom--
Laura: Potentially. In that small circle.
Taliesin: It's not at the bottom of the topless pit.
Laura: Okay, so we could take the flying carpet down. A couple of people could fly. We can take the flying carpet down.
Taliesin: Two flyers, plus the carpet.
Travis: The circumference of this thing is massive. The diameter.
Matt: Well, the diameter of the actual hole is maybe about--
Travis: Football field?
Matt: Not quite that big. I'd say it's about 150, 200 feet across?
Travis: Stay away from the walls.
Laura: You think? The skitterers are going to come out of the walls?
Travis: Yeah, do not come anywhere near the walls.
Sam: When we descend, do we want light to be able to see? Or we don't want things to see us?
Liam: Good chance they can see in the dark.
Taliesin: Let's have the flashlights ready, but not activated.
Marisha: I mean, I have a few Daylight spells.
Laura: It may be good to blind them if they dwell under the surface.
Travis: You know, if we're not in a rush-- (deeper) if we're not in a rush, it might just be nice to send a little mini nuke down into the hole and see what comes out.
Taliesin: Did your voice just crack?
Travis: Yeah, no, it's like reverse puberty.
Taliesin: Becoming a man? Okay.
Marisha: I'm down with that mini nuke. It extends a lot of our magical ranges, unless I want to Keyteor down.
Taliesin: I think it's better, especially-- have we seen a tree that we can port to in case of an emergency? Or some sort of object that we can port to?
Marisha: There are definitely a lot of trees, yeah.
Taliesin: But there will not be a tree down there.
Laura: No.
Matt: No.
Taliesin: Do we have an escape route if we need it?
Laura: We have a flying carpet, two brooms, a set of wings. Up and out.
Taliesin: Well, all right.
Travis: Just a reminder that I can't ride the carpet.
Laura: Yes, you can.
Liam: It's a big one.
Travis: Is it? Is it bigger than the first one?
Taliesin: Yeah, it's bigger than the first one.
Travis: So I can get on there with everybody else?
Laura: The only people we need to get on it are Percy and Pike. Everybody else can fly. Unless Keyleth is out of--
Marisha: Well, I can Polymorph him.
Taliesin: How much weight can the carpet take?
Ashley: I mean, you could technically just go on it alone and I could--
Laura: Hop on the broom.
Liam: We are versatile as shit.
Ashley: Hop on Vax's back.
Matt: Okay, the flying carpet, the one that you have? 800 pound capacity.
Travis: Okay.
Sam: It's you, right?
Taliesin: You're 300 pounds, right?
Travis: No, I'm... it's arguable. I'm definitely over 300.
Taliesin: Okay, so three of us on that carpet  one big one, one little one, and a medium.
Matt: You can fit Grog and one other person.
Travis: He's a big bastard.
Sam: We can take someone on a broom.
Laura: Yeah.
Taliesin: I'll join you on the broom.
Laura: All right.
Matt: I think you could probably fit Grog, Percy, and Pike.
Taliesin: Yeah, okay then. That solves it.
Sam: Well, then let's descend slowly and quietly? Is that what we're doing?
Marisha: Hang on. Before we go, there's a few things I want to do. Let me double-check-- I don't want to be a dumbass.
Taliesin: No, this is very clever. I see what you're going for.
Marisha: Hang on. Wait. I might need the book. Okay, one of the things I want to do is I want to use my staff to create an air elemental? So I want to take a minute to use my Spire to conjure an air elemental.
Matt: Conjure an air elemental.
Sam: By the way, can I just remind everyone, this whole year I've had one half of a communications bracelet and someone's been watching us the whole time.
Travis: What?
Sam: Remember that thing I found?
Laura: Because you got that down in the fucking Nine Hells, right?
Sam: Yeah. Someone's watching us. For a year.
Taliesin: Oh my god, they're right there.
Laura: That is so crazy.
Marisha: What?
Travis: Yeah, watching you make fucking blondies. All right, this channel's boring.
Taliesin: The blondie channel.
Travis: He's making armor. Ugh.
Liam: (guttural, growly) I want a blondie so bad!
Marisha: I'm going to conjure an air elemental, and then I'm going to go over to Grog and I'm going to give him a big hug and say, for the next hour, no one can keep a hold of you. And I'm going to give him Freedom of Movement.
Travis: What is that?
Taliesin: Target should now spend five feet of movement to automatically escape from non-magical restraints such as manacles or creatures that have grapple.
Marisha: You can't be grappled.
Travis: So I just spend five feet of my movement?
Marisha: You're also unaffected by difficult terrain. And spells and other magical effects can neither reduce the target's speed nor cause the target to be paralyzed or restrained.
Taliesin: You are parkour.
Marisha: You're parkour.
Travis: I'm Chevy Chase in Christmas Vacation.
Marisha: Because I feel like you've been restrained a lot.
Matt: As you finish the conjuration with the staff and slam it into the ground at the edge of the entranceway, you watch as a nearby cloud starts to swirl and descend, and you hear this cracking sound as the planar shift between your plane and the Elemental Plane of Air briefly hiccups open and then summons forth an air elemental that (whoosh) rushes down under your control. It is concentration. Keep that in mind.
Marisha: Yes.
Matt: All righty.
Taliesin: Let's go.
Travis: Do it.
Matt: So. Two brooms of flying, magic carpet, wings.
Laura: (singing) And a partridge in a pear tree.
Taliesin: (singing) And a partridge in a pear tree.
Matt: And you are...
Marisha: I know. I'm wondering if I should ahead and go elemental, but I can't cast. Can I get on the carpet? Is there room?
Matt: The carpet's full.
Taliesin: I'll hop on the broom. You hop on the carpet.
Matt: Okay, we can do that. All right, so you guys slowly begin to descend down this heavy, open tunnel.
Laura: This is just the stupidest. We're sticking to the middle.
Marisha: Did you cast Pass Without a Trace?
Matt: Yes. So I would like all you guys to make a stealth check, please.
Travis: Natural 20.
Laura: Oh shit! Flying carpet! Ooh, shit, and add ten, y'all.
Taliesin: 27.
Sam: 21.
Liam: I rolled a two, but it's a 37.
Ashley: That's ridiculous.
Laura: 39.
Liam: Built into the rules, man!
Matt: Yep, reliable rogues, man. That's what rogues are good at.
Marisha: 37.
Ashley: 28!
Travis: 30.
Matt: 30, okay! As you guys all descend, you get about halfway down the tunnel, and you can hear this occasional echo (clicking). And for those of you that have Darkvision, you look off to the side and you see there are these small openings, these tunnels in the sides, and occasionally you see a large insect-like creature skitter out (clicking) and then into another hole. None seem to see or notice your presence. You continue delving deeper and deeper and deeper. Looking up above, you can see the slowly vanishing circle of daylight above you, and as you continue further and further down, those of you with Darkvision, you begin to see a floor begin to approach.
Sam: Don't land?
Laura: Don't land.
Sam: Do we need light?
Travis: No, not yet. I halt the carpet 20 feet off the ground.
Matt: Okay. You halt the carpet.
Laura: And we're whispering. We're whispering, but we're not whispering so that people can hear. We're definitely whispering over--
Ashley: Can we see any little creature in the middle of anything?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Laura: Can I look, too?
Sam: I have some sort of a cloak over my helm, since it emits light always.
Matt: Okay. It doesn't block all the light because it's the Helm of Brilliance. As you guys are being somewhat stealthy going down here, Taryon is still a slight beacon of fire. His helmet just emits a glow at all times.
Travis: Cool. Because insects don't love lights in the dark.
Marisha: I know.
Ashley: 25 for perception.
Laura: 22.
Matt: Okay. You glance about and you can see this opening at the bottom. There's some warping to the earth here. It's one large chamber that's almost peanut-shaped, it pinches in the center and closes around, and there's a small tunnel that leads off and then closes at the end. It appears to be what may have been some sort of mine shaft that has then collapsed on the opposite side, but the center here looks like there's some fallen barrels and chest pieces, and there are pieces of rods and rope and cords strewn about. And there's this ancient stone platform that rises up in the center, and what appears to be some sort of a small recess in the stonework there. It looks like it's the size of a football carved downward.
Sam: I was wrong. It only emits light when there's undead around.
Matt: Oh.
Laura: Is it emitting light? Is it like an orc?
Matt: It is currently not emitting light.
Laura: Should we just nuke it? Should we just nuke that thing?
Travis: The ancient platform? No, don't do that.
Laura: Oh, it was like a coffin. Does it look like a coffin?
Matt: You could probably get closer.
Taliesin: Let's get a little closer.
Laura: A teeny bit.
Matt: Okay. Because you're a ways from it and you have no light down here. Even with your Darkvision, you can make out some details. The closer you get, you see a number of small carvings in what looks like some sort of language that I don't believe you understand.
Taliesin: Celestial?
Matt: You don't see it. It's pitch-black for you, Mr. Human.
Laura: Abyssal? Draconic?
Matt: Nope.
Marisha: Primordial?
Matt: Nope.
Travis: Common.
Matt: Nope!
Taliesin: That would be amazing.
Ashley: Dwarvish. Gnomish.
Matt: Nope.
Travis: Giant?
Laura: Yeah, they're human. They can't see shit.
Matt: The humans are sitting there in pitch black, seeing this tiny little bead of light above and just hoping that someone's going to give them some indicator.
Laura: Should we cast some light down here?
Sam: Sure. We said that we had prepared our flashlights before, didn't we?
Taliesin: Oh, we have that low-light version! We have the red-light version of it.
Sam: Yes, we do. I'm going to mark off two of these.
Liam: I can get around very fast. Why don't I go look?
Sam: You want to borrow a flashlight?
Liam: I have a flashlight.
Taliesin: You don't speak Celestial.
Marisha: I can also just cast Daylight, by the by.
Sam: Well, that's what we have going in our flashlights, are Daylight spells.
Taliesin: Except they're lensed and contained.
Matt: It's contained, but it's still a single beam.
Taliesin: A beam of red light.
Matt: So you go ahead and get close on the broom.
Taliesin: And just start to see if I can make out what it is.
Matt: Right. You open up the hood of the light, and it immediately beams this stark red beam down on this portion, and you look at it. It is Celestial.
Taliesin: What does it say?
Matt: It appears to be runes of gestation and protection. It speaks of a seed, a guardian for ages to come: Symphior.
All: Symphior.
Taliesin: It's an incubator. This isn't a coffin. It hatched.
Ashley: So this is the opening of-- this is where it was.
Liam: Is it a guard cherub?
Matt: You notice as this pale white light begins to slowly appear a little ways ahead of you in the other side of the chamber. This light is emanating from some--
Taliesin: I snuff. The second.
Laura: And we back away from the thing.
Matt: You guys begin to drift back on the carpet, and you see this beacon of light hovering maybe ten feet up off the ground, about the same height that you guys were to the platform. And you see there what appears to be a cherub. It's a baby, or an infant, but it appears to be withered and gray, and its arms and legs hang limply, and it has these small, white angel-like wings, but the feathers are tattered and broken in places, and the head's lolled back, and as the glow grows from it, it goes (wheezes, screams) and gives out this heinous scream that echoes throughout the whole hall. You can't help but instinctually grab your ears. I would like you all to make a wisdom saving throw, please.
Laura: Advantage on!
Matt: Which, actually, you are immune to fear, so it does not affect you. However, it shakes the interior and you watch as small stones (thud) hitting the ground around you. You guys, looking up above, you can see that this scream is affecting the structure a little bit. I need you all to roll initiative.
Marisha: Oh, that's good!
Sam: Oh, that sucks.
Laura: Oh shit.
Matt: So we have, up here by the platform.
Liam: I rolled a 20 on the wisdom save we didn't need to make, and threw it away, and thought, "well, I wanted to keep it," and then I rolled again and I got another natural 20.
Marisha: Oh shit.
Sam: Whoa, look at that! There's a map.
Laura: Wow, it's cool-looking! Oh shit, we're right by the baby.
Liam: Where's the baby?
Matt: There it is.
Laura: Oh, that's the baby?
Matt: It's very tiny.
Laura: Oh, it's a mean baby. I feel like it could be saved, because it's--
Liam: When you say saved, do you mean killed?
Laura: I feel bad because it's a baby.
Matt: All right. Initiatives. 25 to 20, anybody?
Liam: 25.
Marisha: Holy shit.
Matt: Who rolled what?
Taliesin: 30.
Matt: Jesus Christ, Percy.
Liam: So what did you roll?
Taliesin: I rolled a 19, and my initiative is 11.
Ashley: Jeez.
Liam: Wow.
Taliesin: I am going to debate hard how dumb I'm about to be.
Liam: The dumbest.
Matt: All right. So 20 to 15.
Ashley: 20.
Marisha: 19.
Ashley: What did you get?
Liam: 25.
Ashley: You got a 25, okay.
Matt: All right. 15 to 10?
Laura: 12.
Matt: Ten to five.
Sam: Oh yeah.
Travis: Eight.
Sam: Six.
Matt: All righty. All right, guys, we're going to keep this coming at everyone fast, because we're going to make this happen. All right, first and foremost, as this creature emerges and you guys are in your respective places, Percival, you're up first.
Taliesin: Where am I?
Matt: You're up here near the top of the platform, where you saw the recess.
Taliesin: Goddamn it! Okay, so I'm far away from that little bugger, aren't I?
Matt: Yeah, it appeared on the opposite side of this double chamber. It's all up from there.
Taliesin: Okay. I'm going to hop off the broom.
Matt: Okay. So you hop off of there.
Taliesin: Actually, no. You're going to move towards it, I assume?
Laura: I'm so far below you in the initiative, though.
Taliesin: Okay, that's fair.
Sam: It's glowing, right, so we can see it even if we don't turn on flashlights and things?
Matt: You can see it, yes, but you cannot see the terrain around you.
Travis: I'm sure we're going to try and talk to it, right?
Sam: Yeah. Maybe it knows my family's name.
Matt: So Percival, what are you doing?
Taliesin: I'm going to hop off the broom, activate my boots and activate my gloves, and start running through that little choke point, and I'm going to get as close to and possibly on the wall of that choke point as humanly possible. The other side of the choke point.
Matt: Oh, this side? You can get about there. You don't quite get to the wall.
Taliesin: Okay. I can get about there?
Matt: You can get further, but currently the creature is out of your view.
Taliesin: That's fine. That's as far as I can get right now. That will be just fine. The gloves are charged, the boots are on, and I'm heading towards the wall.
Matt: Okay. That's your turn?
Taliesin: Yep.
Matt: All right. Vax?
Liam: Okay. Boots on, I'm going to arc over to ten feet away from the baby.
Matt: All right. About there?
Liam: Yeah. Where I am, is it straight up, or am I covered over here?
Matt: It's straight up. Where you see the walls are right now, even this is collapsed about here. In fact, I'd say, to keep it easier, I'll say that's a collapsed entrance there. But this is all a straight-up hole in the ground. It slowly funnels as it gets to the bottom.
Laura: Whoa.
Liam: All right. So action, action, bonus action. I'm going to cast Vow of Enmity on it.
Matt: All righty.
Liam: Then I'm going to throw Whisper at it.
Matt: All righty.
Liam: That is a 33 to hit.
Matt: That hits.
Liam: I'm going to cast Divine Smite on it.
Laura: Good job! Kill that celestial baby!
Liam: There's a lot of dice here.
Laura: Get all the bacon!
Liam: This is ten, plus psychic damage is 11. That's not very good. 11 plus Divine Smite is 12, 19, plus sneak attack damage. 19, 21, 26, 28, 29, 34, 36, 38. And there's nothing extra because it's celestial, not a fiend.
Matt: Correct.
Liam: All right. So that was bonus action, action, I'm going to use my action to then just fly away from the fucking thing, a hundred feet away diagonally up into the tunnel where I can still see it, hopefully. I'm hasted.
Matt: Right.
Liam: Movement was to get there. Bonus action for Vow of Enmity. Action to attack, and then my hasted action I can use for dash, hide, disengage.
Matt: Correct. Dash is your full movement, which is--
Liam: 60 normally, 120 feet hasted. I didn't make these rules or these items. (whoosh)
Matt: Cool.
Liam: Diagonally up. I'll fly by my sister, how's that?
Matt: You fly by your sister? Okay. No worries. That ends your turn. All right. Pike, you're up.
Ashley: Okay. I'm going to cast Beacon of Hope.
Matt: Actually, sorry. Before the end of your turn, it's going to go ahead and use a legendary action to use a terrain shift.
Travis: But it's just a baby!
Laura: Oh no! We're in its lair!
Matt: Yep. As you stab the creature, it (gasps). There's a horrible sucking sound as you dart back. It looks over in your direction. The wings flutter once and it brings its arms up, and as it does and you land next to your sister, you feel the air around you begin to freeze in cold. This energy's just (crackling). You feel ice crystals condense around, and both of you feel the air in your lungs suddenly begin to freeze up. I need both of you guys to make constitution saving throws.
Laura: Thanks for coming right next to me on that one. Goddamn it.
Liam: Natural 20.
Matt: Nice!
Laura: What am I doing, a constitution?
Matt: Constitution saving throw.
Laura: Nine.
Matt: All righty. 19 points of cold damage to you, Vex, and that is nine points of cold damage to you, Vax. And while you manage to pull out of this space of condensed cold, Vax, your sister, however, becomes stunned for one round as your body is frozen and locked in place.
Sam: Do we see any of this happen?
Matt: You watch the air coalesce into this frozen area, and while the broom is still holding you aloft, thankfully, you are standing there in place and the ice falls, clatters, and slams into the ground below you, sounding like the shattering of a hundred pieces of crystal across the stonework. Pike, now it's your turn.
Ashley: Okay. I'm going to cast Beacon of Hope. And for my bonus action, I'm going to pull out a spiritual weapon of a giant big greatsword.
Travis: Yeah!
Laura: A giant baby rattle that's directly in front of it.
Travis: Don't fight, play with this.
Matt: It's a level two spiritual weapon. Where are you putting the spiritual weapon?
Ashley: Right in front of the baby!
Matt: All right. I believe you get to make an attack with it, then, if you do.
Ashley: Yeah.
Matt: All right. So.
Ashley: Oh, but I don't know if I want to hurt the baby. Did you do any damage?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Once again, roll for attack on that.
Ashley: Oh, that's not very good.
Matt: So you roll a d20 and add your spell attack modifier.
Ashley: 13.
Matt: 13. (whoosh) It swings, and the creature flaps out of the way and avoids the blow.
Ashley: Stupid piece of dice crap.
Matt: Are you going to move or stay where you are?
Laura: Oh yeah! I'm resistant to cold, Travis just reminded me! I have cold resistance because of my Vorugal armor.
Matt: You do.
Laura: Does that mean I roll again for--
Matt: No, you take half the damage, but you're still stunned.
Laura: Oh, okay. So that was 17?
Matt: You would take nine damage instead of the 19.
Liam: Nine instead of 18 is what you would've taken for it.
Laura: Okay, so add nine back.
Matt: So do you want to move with your turn?
Ashley: No, I'm going to stay.
Matt: Okay.
Ashley: I'm going to stay. Because we're on the carpet, right? Grog, Percy, and I on the carpet?
Taliesin: I'm not on the carpet.
Ashley: You're not on the carpet anymore? Oh, the three of us. I'm going to stay on the carpet.
Taliesin: You can move the carpet forward, though.
Laura: Did Beacon of Hope get everybody?
Matt: Beacon of Hope. The range on that is 30 feet. 30-foot range gets everybody except for the elemental.
Marisha: That's cool.
Taliesin: What do we get?
Matt: Beacon of Hope, you have advantage on Wisdom saving throws, death saving throws, and you regain the max number of hit points possible from any healing.
Marisha: Sick.
Matt: All righty. That end your turn?
Ashley: Yes.
Laura: Death saving throw is huge. And healing is huge.
Matt: At the end of your turn, the creature goes (raspy breathing) and you watch as the ground right beneath the carpet explodes. It peels back as molten lava suddenly begins to spill up in a column beneath you, splattering up and to the back and over the top of the carpet. I need everybody in this cluster, this ten-foot-by-ten-foot section, to make a dexterity saving throw.
Sam: Not good, but maybe I'm lucky. Oh, am I not in that? Where am I?
Taliesin: You're over on the corner.
Sam: I have no idea where I am.
Laura: You're next to the big white thing.
Sam: I am?
Matt: So Grog, Pike, and Keyleth.
Sam: Oh, well then, never mind.
Travis: Danger sense 18.
Matt: Danger sense 18.
Marisha: 17.
Ashley: Natural 20.
Matt: Natural 20 plus, what's your--
Ashley: One! 21!
Matt: Pike's the only one who made it.
Ashley: What?
Matt: Pike, you suffer 21 points of fire damage, halved because of your armor, so you only take ten. Ten points of fire damage.
Ashley: Okay.
Matt: I need you to go ahead and make a concentration check on Beacon of Hope.
Laura: You got this. You got this, Pike.
Matt: Just roll a constitution saving throw.
Travis: Fucking molten lava!
Matt: Keyleth and Grog, you guys both take 42 points of fire damage.
Travis: Oh, it was nice being over 250 for a little while.
Ashley: Fucking fuck.
Matt: The ground below you right now is currently in flames, and you guys have to stick around that space there. The open ground is billowing flame and lava now, and the area around that platform is searing hot. So what did you roll?
Ashley: Five.
Matt: A five with your--
Ashley: Yes.
Matt: Yeah. You lose Beacon of Hope. Sorry.
Laura: What is it? You have to get above half of the damage you took, is that what it is?
Matt: You have to get above half the damage you took or ten, whichever is higher.
Laura: Oh.
Travis: Do we stay on the carpet or are we knocked off?
Matt: You guys can choose to stay on the carpet. You pull out of the way, and now the area is just billowing with lava and flame. Keyleth, it's your turn.
Marisha: Okay. I'm going to take and control my air elemental and send him over.
Matt: All right. You took how much damage? 42?
Marisha: 42.
Matt: Make a concentration check. Constitution saving throw.
Marisha: So I have to get over-- I have advantage on these.
Matt: Yes. You have to get over a 21.
Sam: Over a 21!
Matt: A 21 or over.
Marisha: What's 17 plus four?
Sam: 21.
Matt: 21. You just maintain concentration.
Laura: Good roll!
Marisha: Thank you, Gil! All right. So (boom) I send him over with my staff. It has 90-feet fly speed.
Matt: 90-feet flying speed? Yeah, he gets over there easy. Plops on over.
Marisha: And he's going to go ahead and do a Whirlwind. The creatures in his space have to make a DC 13 strength saving throw.
Matt: Okay. Nope. This is not a very strong creature.
Marisha: That's what I hoped. They take 3d8 plus two bludgeoning damage.
Matt: Go ahead and roll the damage on that, yeah.
Marisha: Oh, that's nasty. 12 plus seven is 19 plus two, so 21. And they are flung up to 20 feet away from the elemental in a random direction and knocked prone.
Matt: Random direction, I'll roll for that. Okay. That's going to fling him 20 feet into the five, ten, 15, 20 into the wall right there, and prone.
Marisha: And are knocked prone.
Liam: Stupid baby.
Marisha: Do I still have line of sight?
Matt: To it right now, no. You would have to get off the carpet to go.
Marisha: Yeah, I'm going to get off the carpet and walk over just to where I have line of sight.
Matt: Okay. At the top of your turn, by the way, you suffer eight points of fire damage by the proximity to the flaming platform there.
Marisha: Even though my mantle allows me to ignore the penalties of dangerous weather effects?
Matt: It's not so much a weather effect. It's more that there's a heaping column of molten rock.
Travis: Your old friend, molten lava.
Matt: Eight points of fire damage. And I need you to make another concentration check.
Sam: Oh no, another concentration check!
Marisha: I'm a warcaster, though, man! Because that's eight, so I just have to get over a ten, right?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: What is this considered, Underdark, or a dungeon?
Marisha: Rolled a 13.
Matt: This is considered subterranean, not Underdark. Cavern. All right, so you've done that. What do you want to do, Keyleth? You're over here.
Marisha: Okay. Can I move over to where I have line of sight?
Matt: Yeah, so you leap over and you get line of sight on him right there.
Marisha: Okay, can I do Blight?
Matt: Sure. What's the DC on that?
Marisha: I think my spell level, so 20.
Matt: And it's a constitution saving throw, I believe?
Marisha: 8d8.
Matt: Six plus ten, so it's a 16.
Marisha: No, fail.
Matt: Yeah. So roll your 8d8 necrotic damage.
Laura: Get it!
Matt: Yeah, no. Even with advantage on the save, it rolled a six and a four.
Marisha: One, two, three, four. Give me two more. One more, and another.
Taliesin: I don't know if I have another.
Marisha: Give me a d8. Okay.
Taliesin: And you reroll ones, right?
Marisha: No, on elementals. Four, five, nine, 14, plus eight is 22, plus four is 26, plus two is 28. 28 Blight damage.
Matt: Nice. As you reach, it's on the ground. It's trying to get back up, and its wings are flapping, and all of a sudden you watch as its gray, withered skin turns dark black on one half of its body and it (screech) shrieks out and gives another scream (hoarse scream) from the ground, and the area quakes again, and you feel the ground shimmy a bit. The ground beneath you, as its last legendary action, begins to give way. Keyleth, I need you to make a dexterity saving throw.
Marisha: Fucking lava!
Taliesin: Didn't you move? Wait, no, you moved, didn't you?
Matt: Yeah, this is a different area.
Marisha: That's not bad. 19. No, 18?
Matt: Nope. So as you finish casting this and you hear it scream, you cover your ears, and suddenly the ground moves out beneath you. You watch as the actual floor (whoosh).
Marisha: I turn to everyone behind me and I go, aw, fuck!
Matt: As you watch Keyleth plummet into a pit below. You take eight points of bludgeoning damage and the ground (whoosh) covers over her.
Marisha: It's fine.
Matt: Keyleth vanishes. The ground seems to swallow her up. Keyleth, the entire pit collapses in on you, and you're currently restrained underground, and you cannot breathe.
Marisha: All right.
Taliesin: That's fixable.
Sam: But can you cast things while you can't move?
Matt: I need you to make another concentration check.
Marisha: On my elemental?
Matt: Yes.
Marisha: Yeah, 13 plus my constitution, right?
Matt: Yeah.
Marisha: Yeah, I'm good.
Matt: Okay. That ends your turn, Keyleth?
Travis: Matt, can you point to where the cherub is?
Matt: I am, because it's his turn. The cherub creature, this Symphior, begins to fly up off the ground and make its way back in this direction, out into the open once more.
Liam: Keeps everyone from getting a good night's sleep.
Laura: He needs a nap.
Ashley: He has a dirty diaper. He's mad.
Liam: It's been a thousand years!
Matt: As it floats upward, it looks over towards where-- let's see, because all it sees is you two. You both are still in the flames right there. It's not worried about the fire at the moment. It sees you, Taryon, and goes (hoarse wheezing) and lifts its hands up. I need you to go ahead and make a dexterity saving throw.
Sam: I'm feeling lucky. Natural 20! Plus one.
Matt: That's great. So you only suffer 11 points of piercing damage.
Sam: Hey, that's not bad.
Matt: As you leap out of the way, you watch as the ground suddenly turns into a series of earthlike spikes underneath, and some pierce you and scratch you and you roll out of the way. You barely move off to the side, where now you see this giant, jutting series of spike-like pillars forcing up from the ground. All right, that's going to end that attack, and it's going to use the rest of its movement to move back (whoosh) over to there in the corner. That brings us back to Vex. It's your turn now.
Laura: Yeah, I'm frozen.
Matt: Yeah, so you're stunned, and that's your turn.
Laura: Yay.
Matt: You eventually break the ice off at the end of your turn, and you're breathing heavily and trying to get the feeling back in your skin. That's your go. Grog, you're up.
Travis: What does it take to activate the coin?
Sam: You have to slap it on yourself.
Matt: It's an action.
Travis: Yeah? Just an action?
Matt: Which spell do you have?
Travis: It's the Jump coin, three times my--
Matt: What's the casting time of Jump?
Sam: It's touch.
Matt: What's the casting time of Jump?
Sam: It lasts a minute. It's instantaneous. You just touch, right?
Taliesin: No, is it a bonus action?
Matt: So that would be your action to use it on yourself.
Travis: Oh, damn. It's that whole shit, yo. All right. (grunts) I'm going to jump! And I would like to rage as my bonus action. And with my new Jump coin, I would like to jump with my Boots of Feral Leaping. It's three times my horizontal jump speed, which is 20 feet, so 60 feet.
Matt: Okay. You also take seven points of fire damage at the start of your turn, because you're by this flame.
Travis: Oh, got it. Nice, that's fine. And can I jump towards the baby? Actually just to the right of the-- just over here.
Matt: Over to this side there?
Travis: Yeah, right there.
Matt: Okay, yeah. You run (whoosh, thud) land next to it.
Travis: Nice. Do I have any movement left?
Matt: With the run and the jump, you have maybe ten feet.
Travis: Okay. I want to get right up on him.
Matt: Yeah, you're right up on him.
Travis: Never mind. I'm good. Rage, jump, no more action. Titanstone Knuckles? Next round. Okay.
Matt: You have an action, still.
Travis: Oh, I do?
Matt: Well, no, because you said it's a bonus action to do the leap? What's it say on that? Just to do the leap, right? It was the run. You still have an action.
Travis: I want to hit him.
Matt: Go for it.
Travis: Great weapon master, reckless attack.
Matt: Okay!
Travis: That's a 26.
Matt: 26 with the minus five? Yeah, that hits.
Travis: Nice. 12. Where are you? I should have gotten this beforehand. Nice! Plus ten. 37.
Matt: All righty. That's your first strike.
Travis: Oh, I get another one!
Matt: You have extra attack, man!
Travis: 11, 24.
Matt: 24 does not hit. It's a tiny size. It's hard to swing at, and as your axe almost catches it, it (whoosh) out of the way.
Travis: Okay. Good to know. I whiff. That's it. I just have the two.
Matt: Yep, that's your turn. At the end of your turn, because it's reset back to its ground, it's going to go ahead and look to you in front of it and go (hoarse breathing). Make a dexterity check.
Travis: Okay. Saving throw or just dexterity?
Matt: Dexterity saving throw, sorry.
Travis: I get two of those. That's better. 19.
Matt: The ground crumbles beneath you and you suddenly (whoosh) fall below. You are raging. It would've been 12 points of bludgeoning damage, but it becomes six. But you are suddenly buried and restrained underground.
Liam: Got that slick stuff on you? Crisco oil?
Travis: But that's my next turn. That happens on my turn.
Taliesin: Yeah, you burn five feet of movement to get out of it.
Travis: Can I get out of it if I'm buried in soil, though?
Matt: Freedom of Movement. I'll say it doesn't have--
Marisha: That's why I cast it on him, man.
Taliesin: You parkour around the rocks as they try and--
Matt: Well, he's buried in the ground, regardless. That's the effect. He didn't avoid the burying. So I guess you'd just, if you want to use your action to try to escape, you do so.
Laura: You could enlarge, maybe. You can enlarge and come up out of it.
Matt: All right. That ends that go. Taryon, you're up.
Sam: Me? Oh god. All right. I don't have anything I can do. I will click my Boots of Speed, making me faster, and then I will move. Full movement of 60 feet towards him-- or her. We don't know, do we?
Laura: Is it wearing a diaper, or is its dangly bits hanging out?
Liam: Is a peeper hanging out?
Sam: Is it naked?
Matt: You've got a pretty close look, if you wanted to take a moment to inspect.
Liam: It's a boy!
Sam: We're trying to kill this thing, yeah?
Travis: Yeah!
Sam: I guess I'll punch a baby. It's going to miss, though. That's a slippery baby, right?
Matt: At 60 feet of movement, you're not quite within melee range of it.
Sam: No, I was going to use my Ring of the Ram.
Matt: Oh, that'll do.
Sam: But I'm probably not going to hit, because it's got an amazing AC.
Liam: Got any Luck left?
Sam: Yeah, I do.
Taliesin: See what happens.
Liam: Got to do something.
Sam: Is this going to be a long fight? I'll do all three charges of the Ring of the Ram, and punch a baby.
Matt: Okay, go ahead and roll for an attack.
Sam: Eight. Not good enough, I'll use Luck. 13 plus nine? 22.
Ashley: Wait! Can I War God's Blessing?
Matt: What's the range on War God's Blessing?
Ashley: Let's see. 30 feet?
Matt: No, he's out of range for that, unfortunately. Sorry!
Liam: I wanted that baby to be punched so bad.
Matt: As you (ring firing), it (whoosh) out of the way and the fist goes by. Slamming into the wall. (crash)
Taliesin: One day, it's going to be epic.
Sam: It worked once.
Matt: It got you a kill. The marid.
Liam: That little baby just Zatoichi-ed out of the way.
Matt: Yeah, so you're just like, (ring firing). No effect. It dodges out of the way. And now you can see its weird, lifeless white eyes turn towards you once more.
Sam: Oh, great.
Matt: That end your turn?
Sam: Yep.
Matt: All righty. Let's see here. It's going to go ahead and use another ability now. As it sees that you're closed in, it glances over, and you watch as suddenly, a bunch of stonework just (rushing noise) up in the center of the area, as now--
Marisha: Oh, fuck. One of these guys. What? A wall?
Matt: A giant stone wall suddenly shoots up above to about 40 feet.
Sam: We got this, guys. Don't worry. Me and Grog got it. Me and buried-Grog and buried-Keyleth, we got this.
Marisha: Wait, you're buried, too?
Sam: No, you are and Grog is.
Marisha: I'm under the wall, right?
Matt: You're underneath right over here. You're on the outskirts of the wall.
Sam: It's just me and the baby right now?
Matt: Yeah, you and the baby, and an air elemental, and a giant sword that's swinging.
Marisha: Yeah, my air elemental is there.
Sam: Oh, great. I'm fine, then.
Matt: But you lose vision entirely, Pike. Just (rushing noise) wall's in front of you. Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: So is the wall hitting the roof?
Matt: No, the wall would have to go way high. It's about 40 feet up.
Taliesin: I'm going to run up to the top of that wall.
Matt: Your movement will not get you to the top. Because you only move 30 feet.
Taliesin: How far will my movement get me?
Matt: It'll get you about there.
Ashley: Parkour!
Travis: Like some unmotivated Spider-Man.
Taliesin: In that case-- oh fuck, I've got nothing I can do.
Matt: I'll put you right there to remind us, but you're almost at the top of the wall at your full movement.
Taliesin: Well, then I will burn my action to dash up.
Matt: Okay. You get to the top of the wall, there, and you can now see it.
Taliesin: And I assume I can get part of the way down the wall as well with my action?
Matt: You can get partway down the wall, yeah.
Taliesin: Yeah, so I just want to start making my way, I'm going Spider-man.
Matt: So you get about, I'll say, there on the opposite side.
Taliesin: That was definitely irritating.
Matt: That's your turn, Percy?
Taliesin: That, and I'm going to cast Hex on that little baby. And he has disadvantage on, let's make it his wisdom checks.
Matt: Okay. All right. At the end of your turn, Percy. Let's see, it's going to go ahead and use--
Taliesin: That's a lot of actions, this creature.
Matt: It's legendary actions. It manipulates the area around it. Because you are currently standing on the side there. No, you know what, it's going to hold off. It's not going to do anything. Vax, you're up.
Taliesin: I haven't actually technically attacked it.
Liam: I know what I want to do. You tell me what I can do. First thing I want to do is cast Bless on-- I grab Vex, cast Bless on us and Pike, I have a range of 30 feet on it.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Is that bonus? No, I don't want to do that. I don't want to do that. I fly straight at Pike and I'm going to lift her up.
Matt: Okay, you immediately take eight points of fire damage by getting close to the flames to grab her. It's like (fire noises).
Liam: Sure. And then is it an action to grab and an action to lift and carry over?
Matt: I'd say it would be an action to grab her enough, and you're going to move at half speed with her.
Liam: Which is still a ton at this point.
Matt: Yeah.
Liam: And that's all I need is the action to grab her and movement to go over?
Matt: Action, and your movement there was about there, I'd say you'll get your action and your movement will get you to up above the wall.
Liam: Okay. Action and movement will. All right, then I will leave her on top of the wall, and I will use my bonus action to fly within range of baby, and I should have one action left, yeah? Action, action, bonus action, hasted.
Matt: Right. Hold on, no. You used an action to pick up Pike. You brought her up there, you moved, you have another action and a bonus action. You have an action and a bonus action. But the extra action that you have is from your haste, which means it can be used for either a melee attack or ranged.
Liam: Great. So the bonus action I will use to dash towards baby. And my final, hasted attack action, I will stay 30 feet away from the baby, though, in the air, and I will throw Whisper with my last, hasted action.
Matt: Okay. There you go. Put you down there.
Liam: And that's a 25, which hits, yeah?
Matt: That hits. That just hits, yeah.
Liam: One, and can I dump Smite into this?
Matt: If you'd like to, yeah.
Liam: I would like to. There's nine plus psychic damage is 16 plus-- 20, 26, and here comes the sneak attack damage, 26, 27, 29, 30, 33, 37, 43, 47.
Matt: 47? Nice. As you swipe down to (whoosh) fling Whisper out, it slams right into the chest of the creature and it impales it off the back side and there's the burst of divine energy inside, but you see the divine energy matches its own, and what looks like a blow that would've killed the creature, it's like, (raspy inhale). Turns back towards you, and gives another scream as the dagger returns to you. End of your turn?
Liam: That's the end of my turn.
Matt: All right, at the end of your turn, it's going to use its last legendary action. It's going to use another cold snap. You feel the air around you, familiar, (whoosh) condense, and the ice cling to you. The air in your lungs freezes solid, it seems. Go ahead and roll a constitution saving throw.
Liam: Going to use another Luck. 25.
Matt: 25 will succeed, all right. So you shrug off the stunned effect, but you do still suffer the halved damage. 13 points of cold damage. All righty. Pike, you're up. Top of your turn, you suffer no damage, because you got out of the fire. You're at the top of the wall now.
Ashley: All right. If I climb down there, it's an athletics thing?
Matt: Yes.
Ashley: Oh, okay. I'll climb down.
Matt: Roll an athletics check. It's 40 feet down. So that's going to be a long climb.
Ashley: Okay.
Laura: Oh no.
Travis: Oh, is it really? Is it fucking really?
Matt: It's a natural one?
Ashley: Yeah.
Travis: Who put her on the top of a 40 foot wall?
Laura: Just picked her up and dropped her there.
Ashley: Wait!
Liam: She can see and cast spells!
Ashley: I have Feather Fall with my shield.
Matt: You do. So you use your reaction to cast Feather Fall on yourself as you stumble off the side, and as you plummet about 20 or so of the 40 feet (whoosh, soft impact) and you land unscathed on the ground.
Ashley: Okay. Is that just my action?
Matt: That's your reaction to do that. With the shield.
Ashley: Okay. How close am I to the baby? Can I get to the baby?
Matt: Not physically. It's over here and you're at the base of the wall.
Liam: It's like 50 feet.
Ashley: All right.
Matt: You can get within range to it.
Ashley: So you know what? I'm going to (sings) Guiding Bolt the baby!
Matt: Okay, what level?
Ashley: Let's do five. 5th-level.
Matt: Oh, shit, okay. Go ahead and roll for an attack on that. Wait, is Guiding Bolt an attack? No, is it a saving throw? I think it's a saving throw, isn't it? I always forget that. No, it's a ranged spell attack, so you have to roll to hit it. Go ahead and roll a d20 and add your spell attack modifier.
Ashley: It's not enough I don't think. 19? I will use Guided Strike.
Matt: Because you can do that! Guided Strike, you get to add that to your own attack?
Ashley: Yep.
Travis: Channel Divinity.
Matt: (laughs) Still checking it. Guided Strike. Yeah, plus ten to the roll. That'll do it. 29, boom. Go ahead and roll damage on that.
Ashley: How many sixes? Let's see.
Matt: Well it's four levels above that, so it's 8d6 radiant damage.
Ashley: I'll get five, six, seven, eight. Okay, so we've got six, 12. Help me out here, guys. 18. Oh, wow.
Laura: You rolled a lot of sixes!
Ashley: Whoa!
Travis: She rolled six sixes.
Matt: Six sixes?
Marisha: What do you mean?
Liam: She rolled a ton of sixes.
Ashley: 42.
Matt: 42 points?
Travis: I'm looking at them.
Laura: They're all sixes.
Ashley: We choose to kill this celestial baby not because it is easy, but because it is hard!
Matt: So as you land gently on the ground after plummeting head over heels. (thuds, fire blast) Holding your holy symbol before you, you watch as this beam of condensed divine energy rockets across, and this tiny, floating, withered planar baby (fire blast) gets blasted. You watch as the wings get pushed back. It's holding itself in place, but you see the dark shadow outline as the energy is blasting through it. As it hits, its wings recoil, and it's still floating there, but you can see this sparkly outline of divine energy, because the next attack on it has advantage.
Ashley: Do I still have a bonus action?
Matt: You do. Your sword's still up.
Ashley: I'll use the spiritual weapon.
Matt: Spiritual weapon, you can move 20 feet as a bonus action. It moves up and takes a swipe. Go ahead and roll an attack.
Ashley: Oh crap, my boots are stuck together. How is this happening? Okay. Yeah, the hook on the top there.
Laura: That's how she fell off the wall.
Ashley: Ooh. That's a 29.
Matt: 29 hits! Yeah, so go ahead and roll the damage for the spiritual weapon, which is 1d8 plus five, I think, for you. Whatever your wisdom modifier is.
Ashley: Sorry, guys. I don't know what I'm doing. Oh, that's not a lot. Seven.
Matt: Seven points of damage. It all helps. All righty. Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: I'm underground, right?
Matt: You're underground, you are restrained, you are blind. You cannot see anything.
Marisha: (growls) I'm going to go earth elemental.
Matt: Okay!
Taliesin: I'm amazed he didn't already have it out of the bag.
Matt: And with that ability, you get an earthglide, and this is a non-issue for you. All righty, Keyleth. So you are an earth elemental.
Travis: Damn!
Marisha: Do I have enough movement to earthglide to them?
Matt: What's your speed?
Marisha: I think 60, earthglide?
Matt: 60, earthglide? Yeah, totally. You're moving into melee with the baby?
Marisha: Okay, can I come up from underground, grab them, and then beat them into the ground?
Matt: Sure. Go ahead and roll a slam attack.
Taliesin: Puny god!
Matt: Make two slam attacks, so roll twice. It's plus eight to attack each time.
Marisha: That's cocked. Natural 20 on that one, and a four on a second one, which is 12.
Matt: Yeah, that misses. MARISHA; Okay, but that one is a natural 20.
Matt: As you reach up out of the ground from underneath, (impact noise) your fingers clasp around the celestial baby and (whack) slam it into the ground as hard as you can. Go ahead and roll damage on that. 2d8 plus five, so roll the 2d8.
Marisha: And then you double the 2d8.
Matt: You double whatever you rol for the 2d8 and then add plus five. Crit that baby. It's our next t-shirt: Crit that baby!
Marisha: Six doubled, which is 12, plus five doubled, which is ten, so that's 22.
Matt: The bonus isn't doubled. Just the dice.
Marisha: I know. Just the dice is 22, plus five. So 27.
Matt: That's great. 27 points of damage. (wham) Slamming onto the ground. As your hand retracts up, you can see the wings are-- as it starts to fly up, it (gasps).
Marisha: And I just want to hold onto it and be like, yo! Yo, air elemental! And then let my air elemental come over and do its thing. Double slam attack.
Matt: Go for it.
Marisha: Slam attack. No, I'm going to do a multi attack. Two slam attacks. So 2d8 plus eight, once again. That's an 18 and a 17. Plus eight.
Matt: 18 and 17 plus eight?
Marisha: Yeah, so 26 and 25.
Matt: Both hit. Go ahead and roll damage.
Marisha: Which is 3d8 plus two. So the first one, oh! Six, seven, eight, plus seven, which is 15. For the first one, 15 plus two. 17. And then the second one is eight, plus two fives, which is 18 plus two, so 20.
Matt: Nice.
Taliesin: And he gets flung in a random direction?
Matt: No, this was just hitting it. (impacts) All righty. That's the end of your turn? All right. As it comes back to the entity's turn, it's looking really, really rough. And as part of that, it's going to reach into itself. Its hands push into its torso, and as it screams, (raspy scream) it gives out this horrible scream as it tears some of its chest open, and from the inside, where you imagine it would be a ribcage, it's this impossibly bright light that echoes out in a shockwave, affecting everybody except for Vex, actually. I need everybody else to make a constitution saving throw.
Taliesin: All of us?
Matt: Yes.
Sam: Oh boy. That don't look good.
Taliesin: We don't have advantage on this, do we?
Matt: Nope!
Taliesin: I'm going to burn a Resolve.
Marisha: Constitution  that's part of my physical stats as being an elemental, correct? It's con, strength, and dex. Never mind. Yeah.
Matt: So?
Sam: 22.
Matt: 22. That succeeds.
Taliesin: 17.
Marisha: 15.
Liam: 24.
Matt: That succeeds. Pike?
Ashley: 11.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: 25.
Matt: Succeeds. Everyone who succeeds, you suffer 48 points of radiant damage.
Sam: Radiant damage?
Matt: Yes.
Liam: 48 on a success. Whoa.
Matt: If you failed, you took 96 points of radiant damage.
Taliesin: Wait, that's magical. I have advantage. The cloak wouldn't--
Matt: The cloak doesn't say a spell effect?
Taliesin: Against spells and other magical effects.
Matt: Technically, because it's not a leveled spell, it's just a radiant blast, it would not affect it.
Taliesin: It wouldn't have given me advantage on that save?
Matt: No, it wouldn't.
Ashley: 96, you said?
Matt: 96 points of radiant damage. So Keyleth, I need you-- your elemental has gone berserk.
Marisha: There's no way.
Matt: Aside of rolling a 20. Go for it. Just try.
Marisha: Unless I roll a nat 20? They just do their own thing if you fail.
Travis: What do you got to roll, a 20? Percy, bless that shit.
Matt: Even so, I'm letting you have this opportunity.
Marisha: I rolled a 19.
Matt: Nope. So as the Conjure Elemental spell fails, the control of your elemental shifts, and now it's aggressively turning its attention towards you and the rest of your party.
Marisha: Can I not fade it after this? Oh, I can drop concentration on it and then it will go away, right?
Matt: No. That's not how this works.
Travis: Did you just put--
Liam: A new enemy on the map.
Sam: A new opponent enters.
Marisha: To be fair, didn't it also get affected by the blast?
Matt: Yeah, actually. Roll a constitution saving throw for the air elemental. It's a plus two.
Marisha: I rolled a 13, plus two, so 15.
Matt: The air elemental is actually destroyed. To your advantage, strangely.
Marisha: It only has 90 hit points, so it's fine, guys! It's fine.
Matt: All right, so the entity looks like it's barely hanging on, and you see parts of its internal body falling out from where it tore its chest open. It's going to use a bonus action to Misty Step out of this vicinity over to here. It's going to use its movement to fly high up, almost trying to escape the cavern now. It's up in that region right there. We'll say, here. On top of this. Turn that away.
Laura: Oh, look how teeny! I can finally see it.
Ashley: Above a fountain.
Liam: It's a faerie dragon.
Laura: It's so teeny.
Matt: All righty. Vex, you're up.
Laura: I guess I'll fly up so I can see over the wall. I have no idea what's going on.
Matt: You fly up and you see everyone below is wrecked, the ground is charred with some sort of a radiant blast. You watched it flash over the wall itself, like a small, rapid recreation of the intro of Akira. (boom) This big, arcing ball of white energy.
Laura: Wow. Can I Hunter's Mark the baby?
Matt: Sure.
Laura: And then I'm going to try to shoot the baby with my Blazing Bowstring. That would be a 30. And I'm going to make it a bramble shot.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Ball of vines in the air.
Laura: DC of 17.
Matt: Strength?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: I actually rolled a natural 17.
Laura: Motherfucker. Okay, well.
Matt: But it still takes the damage.
Laura: Still 4d8 extra. Well. 17, plus five is 22, plus eight is 30, plus two is 32, plus 1d6 lightning damage... 35, plus 1d6 for Hunter's Mark is 40.
Matt: 40, nice! So as it hits, you watch as the brambles try and wrap around it, but it actually flies free.
Laura: Oh wait! Plus the blazing bowstring, another two fire damage.
Matt: 42 total. You can see more of it's just falling out of its small, decomposing torso, and it's trying to fly upward now, towards the light. It's on the edge.
Laura: I want to try to do the same thing again.
Matt: Okay, go for it.
Laura: With a Blazing Bowstring again. 28.
Matt: 28 hits. Roll damage.
Laura: Okay, bramble shot again, because I get two, motherfucker! That's ten for my Blazing Bowstring. Oh, Jesus H. Macy. 19, plus five is 24, plus eight is 32, 36. Oh my god, 34. 38, plus ten is 48.
Matt: How do you want to do this? (cheering)
Travis: Frozen no more! Freeze me at your peril!
Laura: Be free, little angel baby. We shall feast tonight! That's so gross. And I just shoot the baby.
Matt: All right. As you pull back as it's fluttering up, you take aim and release, and as the arrow strikes it, you can see, the same way the dagger hit the baby, it hits it, and throws it, the sheer force of the arrow against the wall, and pins it there like it's stapled to the rock. As it reaches over to try and pull the arrow out, and it begins to, suddenly the arrow (whoosh) breaks into a bunch of bramble vines that begin to wrap around it, and you watch as the tiny baby arm and wing try and reach out (choking) as it constricts and twists and slowly constrains it until you see it (crack) pop and go limp on the inside of the vines. And as the vines unfurl, what was physically there is slowly dissipating into a glitter-like powder. The body dissipating and falling apart.
Laura: I mean, it was an evil baby, right?
Travis: Yeah, nobody likes glitter.
Marisha: Yeah, glitter gets everywhere.
Laura: Should we get out of here?
Travis: (muffled) I don't mean to be rude!
Marisha: I run over to Grog. I'm still an elemental, yeah? I am still an elemental. Where is he?
Matt: You don't know, actually.
Sam: I saw it. I'll point down.
Marisha: You point. I earthglide and I find him.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: And I can do double damage to structures. Can I beat him out?
Matt: I'd say you could probably, over time, yeah. You have enough constitution to be fine.
Marisha: I don't want to kill him by suffocating.
Matt: No, he's fine. He can hold his breath for six minutes. He's got a really high constitution, so you're fine. You slowly pummel the rock out from his way and pull Grog out from the interior of the stone floor.
Taliesin: Yeah, we should head out and bug bomb the place.
Travis: Don't we need proof?
Taliesin: Grab the body. Let's go.
Sam: There's no body!
Marisha: I go over to the glitter and I get some of my potion bottles from my alchemy to-- Oh, I'm actually good at this. I try and harvest some, sweep some glitter.
Matt: Okay. So you gather some glitter in.
Taliesin: Really quick, just look around, is there anything of value to grab before we run?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Sam: I'll look, too.
Laura: While she's doing that, can I just look over the ground and see if there's any platinum deposits?
Sam: We could do a quick mining.
Matt: I mean, there are a number of visible edges of veins.
Liam: Is there 230,000 gold worth?
Sam: Probably. We could stay here for a couple months.
Matt: In this whole mine, there's a lot of platinum, but you have to mine it. And as you guys are having this moment, you begin to hear the loud sound of hundreds of large insect-like creatures climbing their way down the walls.
Laura: Oh god. Get to the middle and get in the air.
Marisha: Okay, so I get everybody in the middle. Is everyone ready?
Travis: I need help.
Taliesin: We pulled you out.
Marisha: What do you mean, you need help?
Travis: I'm on the other side of the 40-foot wall from the carpet.
Marisha: I go (boom) and I pull Grog through.
Laura: No, the carpet. We just got to get the carpet. I can go down and grab the carpet.
Marisha: Oh, the carpet. I take a few minutes as my earth elemental self to beast through...
Laura: We don't have a few minutes.
Marisha: I can do double damage to structures.
Laura: You don't have to do that. I can go get the carpet. I'm right there.
Marisha: Oh, okay. Go get the carpet.
Matt: Okay. So you rush over and grab the carpet. And you guys begin to make your way back up through.
Laura: Are we bamfing out or are we flying up?
Taliesin: I think we're flying up and if we see anything we'll just take shots at anything that's rolling around, if anything is visible. Let's just do damage on our way out.
Marisha: Oh, we're doing damage as we fly out.
Liam: Or we could Tree Stride out?
Taliesin: We can't Tree Stride. There's no trees.
Laura: Or we can Plane Shift.
Matt: There is a small tree growing out of the side of the wall from where you killed the creature, but it's not large enough for that spell.
Laura: But still really cool!
Matt: Yeah, it grows and twists out, like a bonsai curves upward.
Laura: I hope that it slowly becomes a forest underground.
Travis: They're going to chop it down as they mine the platinum.
Matt: All right, so you guys are coasting up through the shaft?
Marisha: Oh, are we just riding up?
Travis: Straight up.
Marisha: Broom and carpet? Broom and carpet.
Matt: Okay. You guys begin heading up through the center column of this opening. As you're moving up, are you staying in the darkness?
Laura: Can you Daylight or something, like up and out?
Marisha: I can. Do we need to?
Taliesin: You know, at this point, it might be.
Marisha: On the top of my spire I cast Daylight.
Matt: Okay. So (boom) this light now emerges from this area, and as you can see now through this cavern around you, there's about a dozen or so of these large ankheg creatures, about every 30 feet or so, 40 feet up. You're in the center of-- you look up and you can see easily the hundred that you saw earlier have all been drawn to the surface by the screams of this creature. And as you begin rocketing up with this Daylight spell, you watch as some of them start hanging upward in your direction. You start hearing this sound, (hiss).
Marisha: Are they attracted to the Daylight?
Matt: They're apparently attracted to your presence. It is a line shot. I'm going to go ahead and have, let's see here. Percy and Vex, I need you guys to both make a constitution saving throw.
Travis: Oh shit. Oh god, we did not-- pretty sure you said that last time, before you turned into Chef Boyardee.
Matt: Sorry, sorry, not constitution. Dexterity, my apologies.
Laura: Dexterity saving throw? That is so much better.
Taliesin: Should I reroll? Yeah, I'll reroll.
Laura: Should you reroll?
Matt: Yeah, roll again; it's fine.
Laura: 27.
Taliesin: 18.
Matt: Yeah, you both make it. So you both suffer eight points of acid damage.
Taliesin: I want to start taking shots as high up as I can see, I want to start taking shots at these things.
Laura: Yeah, I'll do the same thing.
Matt: There are over a hundred. And they take more than a few shots to go. We'll say you start picking them off, a few as you go, but you watch them fall past you. There's just such a mass number of them. As you guys get up another 40 or so feet, (spray sound) again. From three different ones. All right, I need Taryon, Percival, and Vex again to make dexterity saving throws.
Sam: Natural 20!
Matt: Nice!
Travis: Nice!
Taliesin: I'll live with that. 17.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: 23.
Matt: Okay, six points of acid damage to the three of you.
Sam: Halved to three for me.
Matt: You make your way up even further. You're about halfway up this tunnel at this point and now you're getting to the heavy cluster of these creatures. At this point, a large cluster of them begin to spray all across. I need all of you guys to make two dexterity saving throws. Anybody get lower than a 13?
Taliesin: Nope.
Ashley: I did.
Travis: I did.
Matt: For one?
Travis: For the second one.
Marisha: Lower than a 13?
Matt: Yeah. That would be all of you except for Pike and Grog take a total of 14 points of acid damage. Both of you guys, for the purposes of this, take 21 points of acid damage.
Sam: You okay there, Pikey-pants?
Ashley: Yeah, I'm fine!
Travis: I'm okay.
Matt: As you're shooting and you hear the gunfire (gunshots) going off, you fire the arrows. More and more of these ankhegs are falling and crumbling off. You hear the (screeching) as they streak past you, plummeting into the darkness below. Even more so, throwing streams out. However, their numbers are starting to thin because you've gone past the thick part of it. Vax, Pike, and Grog. The three of you guys roll dexterity saving throws, please.
Travis: 12.
Liam: 19.
Ashley: 18.
Travis: 12.
Matt: All right. Six points of acid damage, six points of acid damage, 12 points of acid damage.
Laura: How much further do we have to go up?!
Matt: You guys, with the brooms and the carpet, it's not super fast. Putting up there again. You get about three-quarters of the way up.
Sam: What is Pike riding on?
Matt: She's on the carpet.
Ashley: I'm on the carpet. I'm okay.
Laura: You should heal yourself!
Ashley: I know.
Marisha: Can I do a Wind Wall to protect us from around us?
Matt: Wind Wall is stationary. It might help with one round of the spray.
Marisha: Are we doing one more round?
Matt: You'll find out. You don't know.
Marisha: If we are, I will prep my Wind Wall spell to encompass us for one more round.
Matt: Okay. As you guys are heading upward, now you're about three-quarters of the way out. The numbers are thinning a little bit. They start spraying once more. You go ahead and create a Wind Wall that you've been preparing. As you watch, these jets of extremely acidic burning liquid shoot toward you, suddenly a column of wind gets conjured upward from the darkness and deflects the spray into a mist that is thrown back against the wall harmlessly. You're almost to the exit, and you see a handful more towards the very top of this cavern. Keyleth, Percy, and Pike. Make a dexterity saving throw, if you can.
Sam: Pikey.
Marisha: I'm good. 21.
Taliesin: I'm going to burn a reroll. It's the end of my resolves!
Ashley: Oh! Natural 20.
Taliesin: Ten.
Matt: Okay, so eight points of acid damage. 16. Keyleth?
Marisha: 21.
Matt: All right. That's eight points of acid damage. You took the--
Ashley: Eight.
Matt: The eight, yeah. As you guys just crest out of the top of the dark column below, you can watch as the creatures are starting to skitter out from the edges, but you are far above and a few of them are spraying, but you're above the range and it's coasting over and disappearing below. You've now emerged into the night sky, the moonlight above you. You're all fairly beaten.
Taliesin: Is there anything we can throw down there to really piss them off?
Sam: I'll drop a bead of Firewall.
Marisha: Yeah, and I can drop a Fireball on there.
Sam: I'm sorry, a Wall of Fire.
Matt: You're going to throw a Wall of Fire on the edge of it?
Sam: Yeah.
Marisha: Yeah, and I'll throw a Fireball. Burn the place down. Extermination.
Taliesin: Bug bomb.
Travis: I spit in the hole.
Ashley: I was going to see if I could put a Blade Barrier on top of the hole, so once the fire's in there, they can't get out.
Matt: What's the radius on Blade Barrier?
Ashley: 90 feet.
Matt: Okay, we'll say as you come out the top, you throw down the Blade Barrier-- what's the radius of it, though?
Ashley: I don't think it says.
Matt: I'll pull it up real fast.
Ashley: Oh, it does say.
Laura: 60 feet in diameter. No! You can make a straight wall of 100 feet or 60 feet in diameter.
Ashley: Yeah, ringed wall up to 60 feet.
Matt: Okay, so you can make a wall around the one side of it. Not the whole thing.
Sam: Wall of Fire around the other?
Matt: You don't get to get the whole radius, but between the Wall of Fire and the bladed wall, you blast the opening there. You coast away, watching and hearing as dozens of ankhegs that are climbing up to the top begin to (screeching). Eventually, they all begin to burrow back into the rock and stone and vanish. The ones on the surface begin to burrow below. And a calm stillness comes over the exterior of the mines. As you all coast up, hundreds of feet in the air over the forest, licking your wounds. So you removed the glitter and you removed--
Laura: The little coffin.
Matt: The little stone placard. You had to wedge it out, but you got it up there.
Laura: Okay.
Matt: And that's where we'll call it for the night.
Travis: Nice!
Marisha: That was awesome!
Taliesin: I'm at 57 hit points. Yay.
Travis: Add 100 to that and that's somewhere Grog.
Taliesin: Where were you at? I feared for you, man.
Ashley: 11.
Laura: Oh my god!
Travis: That cherub was a bitch.
Matt: Aw man. That was also created by the chat.
Travis: Was it?!
Laura: The baby was created by the chat?!
Travis: Why you do this to us, chat?
Taliesin: Why you make us kill a baby? That was great.
Laura: That was a really cool villain.
Matt: That was a tiny celestial.
Liam: Like beating up a Kewpie doll.
Matt: Was the prospect of doing something that attacks via the terrain instead of--
Ashley: Was he an evil baby?
Laura: Yeah, was it evil? Or could we have saved it?
Matt: The actual title for it is Symphior the Withered Planetar. It was essentially a celestial seed that was placed to eventually emerge as a guardian in a future time, almost a Ragnarok-type circumstance. But the land around it became corrupted as it gestated or was held in stasis, and then was awoken prematurely. And as such, became this horrible monstrous version of what it was supposed to be. It was neutral, but it was dangerous. It seemed pretty far gone. Thank you guys so much. We'll be back next week with the battle royale. That'll be fun.
Travis: Everybody kill Keyleth.
Laura: Yeah. Go for Keyleth to begin with. Try to kill her.
Marisha: I am going to be looking at all of my spells.
Taliesin: These two have to be the first to go down.
Marisha: What? Why?
Taliesin: Because loot drop.
Travis: Yeah, we've got to get Hunger Games with this shit. Defend the cornucopia of loot!
Marisha: I'm going for the machete!
Sam: But Vex, you're my best friend!
Laura: No, you're my best friend. I won't kill you.
Sam: Okay! Like, within five minutes.
Liam: This one shoved my face into lava at the end of the last battle royale.
Marisha: I love you! (sizzling)
Matt: It was pretty good.
Marisha: Then Pike did it to me immediately the next round. I love you! (sizzling)
Matt: Yeah, it was pretty slick. Exactly.
Marisha: Yes, it was.
Laura: Tight.
Matt: Awesome. Thank you so much for watching. We'll be back next week, Thursday, with our battle royale. Hope you have a wonderful night and weekend. And is it Thursday yet? Good night! [music]

[END OF EPISODE]

[START OF EPISODE]
Matt: Hello everyone, and welcome to tonight's episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play Dungeons & Dragons. (cheering)
Matt: For our special 100th episode, which is crazy. (cheering)
Matt: So, you may have noticed, we have a new set. Our crew's been kicking ass and working hard to get this done in time for this episode, and we're pretty keen on it. so welcome to the visual upgrade to Critical Role. That includes the glasses, the hats, and the various accoutrements. I should probably put mine up too.
Laura: They'll be here forever.
Matt: Perfect, that's what was missing. Right in my lav. Anyway, welcome. The start of the episode. All day, the energy from the community on the internet has been just overwhelming. The stories, the messages, the art. It's been intense. That's because of you guys, all of you. There are so many people to thank for the fact that we've been doing this as long as we have, and enjoying it as much as we have every step of the way. Thank you to everyone here at Geek & Sundry that brought us in, and had faith in this weird little show. Thank you to my incredible cast that really make the show. I set the table, you all actually make the dinner.
Travis: Eat it.
Matt: You all eat it. Thank you to everyone who's been a part of it. Thank you to Orion Acaba and Tiberius, who started this adventure with us before going off on his own, thank you to all of our amazing guests we've had: Wil Wheaton, Felicia Day, Will Friedle, Mary Elizabeth, Chris Perkins, Patrick Rothfuss, Noelle Stevenson, Jason Charles Miller, Phil Lamarr and Ashly Burch who we had on one of our one-shots, which was fantastic. And tonight, returning to this next chapter of the story, we have Jon Heder.
Laura: Kit Buss!
Matt: And Kit Buss who came in! Our fantastic artist, Kit Buss. We've had a few guests.
Liam: Tom Hanks was great.
Laura: He was wonderful. Renee Zellweger was phenomenal.
Sam: You guys missed the Dalai Lama. (laughter)
Liam: Such a min-maxer though
Matt: Barbarian the whole way, I wouldn't have expected it.
Marisha: And of course, the latest, Jon Heder.
Matt: Jon Heder, who will be here. But thank you, everybody, and more than anyone that I just mentioned, the community. You guys, you guys who have somehow taken our crazy adventure into your hearts and come along and laughed and cried and tensed your butthole at the moments we did.
Travis: Tensed. Your buttholes.
Matt: Yes.
Liam: Never stop.
Matt: Never stop. You guys, it is an honor, it's a privilege, it's overwhelming, it is humbling. It is truly magical, of anything I've experienced outside of this wonderful girl here.
Laura: Who's that?
Sam: I think he was talking to you.
Matt: I was pointing at Taliesin.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: But no, thank you all so very, very much. We're all so happy to have you here. And let's get into our announcements for the evening. (cheering)
Marisha: There's so many.
Matt: First and foremost, our hundredth episode tonight is sponsored by Marvel Puzzle Quest, returning once again. Thank you so much for being our amazing sponsor. Sam? If you want to.
Sam: I'm going to do a super fast throw out-- well, I'm not going to rush them, 'cause they are our sponsor. Marvel Puzzle Quest, everyone, great game. Download Marvel Puzzle Quest, available on the App Store, Google Play, and Steam. New characters are added every two weeks, and you can play as heroes, villangers-- Villangers? Villains, the Avengers, X-Men, Spider-Man, and more. Speaking of the characters, I'm going to do a quick trivia quiz with Taliesin Jaffe here. Master of comic books. I'm going to read a list of characters available on Marvel Puzzle Quest game. Some of them of them are real, some of them are yoga positions. You tell me which is a character and which is a yoga position. Ready?
Taliesin: Yes.
Sam: Spider-Man.
Taliesin: Marvel character.
Sam: Flying-man.
Taliesin: Uh, yoga position.
Sam: Firefly.
Taliesin: Marvel character?
Sam: Yoga position. Devil Dinosaur.
Taliesin: Devil Dinosaur is definitely a Marvel character.
Sam: Invisible Woman.
Taliesin: Marvel character.
Sam: Wild Thing.
Taliesin: Both?
Sam: Yoga pose. Medusa.
Taliesin: Marvel character.
Sam: Bird of Paradise.
Taliesin: Yoga position.
Sam: Yes. Cow Face.
Taliesin: Marvel character?
Sam: Yoga pose! The Hood.
Taliesin: Oh, Marvel character.
Sam: The Warrior.
Taliesin: Yoga position.
Sam: Yes. Ares.
Taliesin: Marvel character.
Sam: Extended puppy.
Taliesin: Later. Yoga position.
Sam: Correct, yay! Marvel Puzzle Quest, everybody. Get it wherever you get your games, today.
Marisha: Watch him on the Wednesday Club. Shameless plug.
Taliesin: There will be another shameless plug later.
Matt: We all laugh now, until the announcement of the Extended Puppy comic series at Comic Con in a few months.
Sam: We're also supposed to give a quick shoutout to Backblaze for sponsoring the first set of episodes of...
Matt: Of, if you want to go ahead and discuss this-- who wants to pick this up? We have--
Sam: Did I skip? Did I skip? It says on my page! I'm sorry!
Marisha: No, it's okay. As a lot of people already probably know, we announced it in our press rollout, but in honor of the hundredth episode, we now have episodes zero-- which is all of our backstories-- through ten in podcast form. Critical Role podcast. And then what's going to start happening is, towards the end of the month, we want to start rolling out one a day, on work days. Five a week. Don't kill us. All right? Every day to catch up, 'til we get back on track.
Travis: (sings) It's the end of the month.
Travis: (sings) Wake up, wake up, wake up, It's the end of the month.
Matt: (sings) Wake up, wake up, wake up, It's the end of the month.
Travis: Bone Thugs? Thank you, Matt.
Marisha: There's a podcast.
Taliesin: You can find it on iTunes, you can find it on Google.
Matt: Google Play Music, or the Geek and Sundry website.
Laura: Yeah, there's definitely-- all the links are on geekandsundry.com.
Marisha: Yes, and Google Play, and yeah. The stuff like that.
Laura: Can we talk-- can we talk about this thing now?
Matt: Yes, we can. So, getting into our merch and part of the celebration of the hundredth episode, Laura. What have you got in store?
Laura: Oh, well, thank you for asking, Matthew. Well, number one, we have our amazing Scanlan concert tees.
Matt: Yes.
Laura: As being worn by the buff and glorious Sam Riegel. Gorgeous. Just gorgeous, with all the tour cities on the back and everything. And then, also, a commemorative item for the hundredth episode. We worked with David Mack-- Who is, like, this amazing artist. He's-- you know him. Tell some of his work, 'cause--
Liam: Oh my gosh, he does covers for everything. Daredevil--
Laura: Jessica Jones, I saw Jessica Jones work. Kabuki. All of it. So he does this amazing watercolor work and he did an amazing art print for us, so--
Liam: Here it is.
Laura: Without further ado. (cheering)
Liam: (sings) Look at this motherfucker.
Sam: The intensity. The glamor.
Liam: The splatter.
Laura: I mean, I'm so excited about this. Number one, just because it looks so freaking amazing. But then, he incorporated all of this amazing stuff like quotes and everything that has to do with the characters, and things that mean so much to us as the characters. And he just worked with us nonstop to try to make the most amazing thing for you guys, and I'm so proud of it and so happy.
Liam: It's farkin' beautiful.
Laura: And we have this amazing gold emblem in the bottom. I don't know if you can tell, but it's like extra shiny and fancy. It's a special Vex. And the paper's really heavy, and so it's super, super special. So--
Ashley: It feels like it was-- like it's a one-of-a-kind watercolor. Like that's what it-- up close, it's crazy.
Laura: It looks like he painted it on the page.
Sam: 400 thread count. (laughter)
Matt: And we're only selling the one.
Laura: Venetian silk.
Liam: Also, like our shirts that you can't tell how soft they are until you're wearing them, like the Joe Mad poster that was so beautiful but until you saw it in person you didn't get it. This thing in person is unbelievable.
Laura: So yeah. This will be available for one month and one month only in the Geek and Sundry store starting today. And then after that, it is gone. And we're doing the same thing that we did last time, which is also offering a limited edition signed version, so if you guys want to check that out, that's only available for three weeks so we can try to get as many signatures before Ashley has to leave.
Ashley: Sorry.
Travis: (sings) Sorry.
Laura: So yeah, three weeks from today you can get the autographed. Starting today, only for three weeks, and then it's gone forever from the store.
Travis: We already got copies, right?
Laura: We already have copies, yeah.
Ashley: I love it so much.
Laura: Thank you David. Thank you for being amazing. We love you.
Travis: Yeah, it's so nice.
Matt: Thank you, David. Really appreciate it, man. Awesome. And what else you guys got?
Marisha: So, The Slayer's Cake-- the members of The Slayer's Cake-- Yes, have a new product they have just released.
Sam: Is it a baked good of some sort?
Marisha: Well...
Laura: We should show them.
Marisha: I think, you know, they worked so hard on making a commercial, so we should let them--
Laura: We should let them talk about it.
Marisha: So here is a commercial from The Slayer's Cake.
Sam: Oh, hello there. I'm Taryon Darrington of The Slayer's Cake. The Slayer's Cake, your pals in a pastry pinch. Go now? Okay. (clears throat) Heading to a fancy banquet and not sure if your hosts are undead? (gasps) Slayer's Cake. Say it's Winter's Crest, and you don't know what to get your secret Sarenrae. Possibly because you've never given a gift before. It could happen. Slayer's Cake! We even have miniature cakes for that special gnome-one in your life.
Laura: Those are cupcakes, Tary!
Sam: Oh, okay, well, I mean, mm! But hey, if I still haven't convinced you, don't take my word for it! Are we still--
Laura: Mm, delicious.
Ashley: Wow, so light, and I would know, I'm a cleric. Er, what?
Sam: So come on down to the Slayer's Cake, located in downtown Whitestone. Look for the big unsanitary bear. You can't miss it! And don't forget, don't step in bear shit!
Marisha: Bumper VO. The Slayer's Cake, open till 6PM, 7 on weekends. Closed Thursdays for adventuring. Slayer's Cake aprons available now. What? We have aprons? Tary, you didn't tell me we have aprons! (cheering)
Laura: Wait, wait, can you see me? There it is! So we had the aprons made, which we're so excited about. I didn't do it, Ben did it, and he's amazing. Ben did this! He made cupcakes with the Slayer's Cake logo for us for the 100th episode. We can eat them! So I'm passing them around.
Ashley: What if we save them forever?
Laura: I'm just so excited about this, you guys! I kind of just wanted to get the apron made so I could personally have it.
Marisha: I know, I know!
Travis: She's not lying. She wanted to have the apron.
Taliesin: Oh! Cupcake down!
Marisha: It's fine, it's fine. Don't worry about it. I'm taking that one.
Laura: I don't know if I want to wear this the whole episode. I might. I'm going to hang out. Oh yeah, save a cupcake for Jon. Wait, Matthew!
Taliesin: Matt, Matt!
Matt: I don't want any of your shit! Don't want it! Brian, eat it. I don't want it. Don't! I have things to do!
Marisha: Give it to Heder, give it to Heder!
Taliesin: Heder's got one.
Matt: All righty, so, thank you very much for those announcements, guys. Other cool things coming up. Our fine friends at Wyrmwood, we have an awesome spot to show during the break today, showing some of their awesome craftsmanship and their partnership, showing off their products as well. There's an amazing giveaway at the mid-break that we'll show you guys when we get there, so stick around for the mid-break when we get to that point to see the process of what they do and how they do it and all the awesome things they produce there. You can find their stuff, by the way, at wyrmwoodgaming.com/criticalrole for free domestic shipping with the promo code-- Liam?
Liam: Yes!
Matt: What's the promo code?
Liam: Oh. Uh, I don't have any of the shit in front of me! Critrole? Is it Critrole now? It's Critrole again? It's back?
Sam: Wyrmwood's has always been Critrole, hasn't it?
Liam: Critrole.
Laura: It's hard to remember because it's been such a long time since you said it.
Liam: No one told me.
Matt: That's okay. Anyway, thank you very much. Looking forward to that at the break. Also, those asking about campaign guide information, for the Tal'dorei campaign guide. All that is up on the Green Ronin website. You can go there, go ahead and find out when it's coming out, how to find it, all that fun stuff, and I hope you like it. Soon, I guess. Also, we have an awesome infographic up on social media and the website, put together from our friends at CritRoleStats, Andrew and all you awesome guys. So they're awesome, go check that out, a lot of fun trivia elements about how long we've been running the show, and apparently how many nonexistent characters live in my brain. We're in the 500s.
Liam: It's just the tip of the iceberg, Matt.
Matt: That has to be certifiable on some level.
Liam: Campaign four, I'm waiting for it.
Matt: Give it time, I'm sure.
Sam: Matt, that soda pop looks like you're drinking it out of a wine glass.
Matt: We are running out of receptacles for soda pop, Sam.
Sam: Okay.
Matt: Also, I'm going to be at A-Kon tomorrow. Fly out in the morning to Texas. So, looking forward to seeing you guys in Dallas.
Laura: What were you thinking?
Matt: I agreed to this a long time ago! And it all just coordinated.
Liam: Freakin' Willy Loman, man.
Ashley: Do you at least have a late flight?
Matt: No.
Travis: Does it start with an 'AM'?
Matt: Yes.
Liam: Take a break. Run away upstate, for the summertime.
Travis: Take a break! Sing it, Liam.
Liam: Take a break!
Matt: Nonstop.
Sam: Halfway through announcements.
Laura: Our infographic is no longer valid!
Marisha: Completely outdated, immediately.
Matt: That's okay, it was nice while it lasted. So see you guys at A-Kon in Dallas, Texas. Talks Machina, always live, Tuesdays, 7PM Pacific time on Twitch and Alpha. Talk about this crazy episode next week. Hosted by the fantastic Brian Wayne Foster. Thank you for eating my cupcake. Still, surprisingly. All right, Signal Boost, new episode, with?
Marisha: Jeff Lewis. Everyone knows him and loves him from the Guild. Check it out.
Matt: Or as Waluigi in "There Will Be Brawl."
Marisha: Or as Waluigi. He's been so many things. Everyone knows who Jeff Lewis is. Go watch it.
Matt: There you go. And we have some other cool announcements coming up in the coming weeks, so keep an eye out and an ear out for each episode. We'll have a few more fun things that we can announce as the month goes on. So, that, I believe, will bring us to --
Liam: Well, I have a little thing, I just have to share this. Friend of the show, Kiki-- not our Kiki, the other Kiki who's made so many vestiges-- brought me a little something today. (laughing)
Liam: There it is. Got to lose those. Oh yeah.
Laura: No, no, no, maybe Vax needs glasses to see in the dark.
Liam: Maybe he does! Maybe he does. Look at my shoulders! I'm like Travis Willingham! Is this what it feels like, Travis?
Travis: Yeah, I have to put them on under each shirt. It's a real bitch.
Liam: Man, I've been Crossfitting all day! That's like stitching knitwear, right? Crossfitting all day.
Laura: Ah, you're hitting me with your shoulders.
Liam: Cacaw!
Laura: That's amazing.
Liam: Thank you, Kiki. Thank you. Oh my god.
Laura: You're phenomenal!
Liam: This will sit in my office and scare my children. Yeah.
Matt: Appreciate it, Medhiv. All right, guys. We ready? Let's dive in now to tonight's episode of Critical Role. [dramatic music]
Matt: Welcome back, everyone. So. You all right, Jon?
Taliesin: He's jacking in.
Sam: He's jacking in.
Matt: And the lava's connected. Welcome back, Jon! Glad you could join us again. (cheering)
Matt: All righty. So, picking up where we left off last time, Vox Machina had just completed their adventure in the distant countryside of Wildmount, interfacing with the Darrington family and apparently their long-acquired debt with the Myriad, a criminal syndicate on that side of the world. After making a deal that would salvage elements of the Darrington family, you made your way back and encountered a half-orc bardbarian by the way of Lionel, who was there on behest of his boss, Aes Adon, or, as you were immediately referred to as, the Meat Man. Immediately. You were brought to a nearby tavern in Whitestone where the vicinity had been rented out entirely and you met with a large, intimidating-looking gentleman. Scarred, pockmarked, ready to go ahead and wheel and deal some business with you. After some interesting conversation and some sly insights by Vex'ahlia and Keyleth, it was discovered that the Meat Man was indeed your old compatriot Scanlan under an illusion, to attempt to notify you that he'd discovered something quite dangerous on his side of Exandria. You discovered that this fantastic bardbarian Lionel had been working for him under his Meat Man guise in Ank'Harel for the better part of a year, and while set on a mission with a number of other compatriots of his, Lionel had stumbled upon an area called the Smouldercrown, a mountain range not terribly far from Ank'harel, what seemed to be a cavern structure that led to an underground pyramid, similar to the ziggurat that you guys had been keeping an eye on underneath Whitestone, which also contained its own small black spherical orb in which they were feeding magical items towards, it looked like. However, they were discovered in that tunnel and Lionel was the only one to escape with his life. The rest fell behind and were left for dead. Upon notifying Scanlan, or the Meat Man, of this information, he knew it was pertinent to return and get this to you in person. After which, apologies were made; some were accepted, some were not. But it was generally decided by the team that, based on this information, you needed to make your way to Ank'Harel post-haste and discover what exactly resides beneath the mountains of the Smouldercrown. You gathered up the following moment, well rested, all met up at the base of the Sun Tree in the center of the square, and that's where we left off. So, as you've gathered your materials, your weapons, your armor, what you think you may need for this trek, you've all gathered around the base of the Sun Tree. Some shade has been thrown, but you have gathered. So, what do you wish to do?
Sam: We've gone through the Sun Tree or not?
Laura: No, we're right outside the Sun Tree, just before we've left Whitestone.
Taliesin: I just want to make a point that I've alerted everybody in the government-- everybody reasonable-- where we're going, why we're going, and that there should be people watching the Ziggurat underneath Whitestone 24/7 while we're on this mission. Anything happens, be prepared for anything.
Laura: You're so brilliant, darling.
Marisha: I don't understand. There's not a lot of shade. It's noon.
Taliesin: We've been throwing it, it's not here.
Liam: Thrown from a distance.
Laura: I think we should probably head out.
Marisha: Yeah, yeah. Where in Ank'harel?
Laura: Where are we going, Scanlan, again? Shadowy Mountain?
Marisha: Do I know anyplace that's near?
Matt: You've been to Ank'harel, you've been around quite a bit, and you've seen a number of trees. The city itself, within the walls, through magical means or otherwise, there is an interior oasis within the city itself. There is the sand and dust that blows in from the outside desert that surrounds it in Marquet, but there are a number of ponds and rivers and large palm trees and other types of trees that are risen. There are small clusters that form almost minute forests throughout the city, whether they be a park to wander through or a means of harvesting whatever the trees have to offer for the people that live there. But you've seen a number of trees and it's easy enough to make your way there.
Marisha: Okay. I'll do the oasis.
Matt: Okay. As Keyleth reaches out, Lionel, you watch as the small half-elf red-headed girl reaches out and touches the tree, and suddenly the trunk splits open at the base, and you watch as what seems to be a glowing doorway of divine energy appears.
Marisha: Go, go! Six seconds, go! Go, go!
Taliesin: I help shove.
Sam: I should note that Doty is coming with us as well.
Liam: Hey, quickly!
Laura: Sure, I'll note that Trinket is coming as well, even though it's a fucking given.
Liam: I shove my sister through the tree.
Travis: Warming up.
Laura: I mean, just kidding, I love you Tary.
Liam: You're not here, I just shoved you through the tree. I made it up, I created it, right there on the fly.
Travis: We all go through the tree, yeah?
All: Yeah!
Matt: After an incredibly long, well-stretched six seconds, you all eventually make your way through the doorway into the center of Ank'harel. The temperature difference is stark, it's immediate. Whereas you had a gradual transition to Ank'harel last time you were there, going from the Whitestone colder, more damp climate to the immediate dry heat of the central Marquet desert is just immediate, it's uncomfortable-- it may be comfortable for some of you-- and your mouth immediately dries out for a moment, and you have to adjust to the new atmosphere. Looking around you, you've emerged from the outside of one of the central oases, which is kind of near the Lux Run where you originally entered the city. There, you see the streets are bustling and busy. It's starting to get closer to later in the evening now, on this part of Exandria. You can see the sky's starting to get a little darker. There's an element of dusk that will probably be setting in about an hour. But here you are.
Laura: Well, Scanlan?
Jon: Why didn't we do this before? It's so much faster! Why did we take a 500-day journey?
Sam: It was just ten days, first of all.
Jon: Again, I don't get days. Why don't we just make that tree open up?
Sam: I am very powerful, but there's some things that I can't do, all right? Ever since you found out I was short, you're much snappier and snippier with me.
Jon: You're just much smaller, I mean, I didn't realize. Why don't you just go back to looking like Aes?
Sam: Maybe I should.
Travis: Maybe you should.
Sam: Yeah, because I'm known around these parts, so that would probably be better.
Laura: Does Aes wear this stupid headband? Because it's really fucking distracting.
Jon: What headband?
Matt: Perfect.
Sam: I'll put on the hat and become the Meat Man.
Matt: So you step off to the side to a point where you're not being noticed and take on, once again, the illusory facade of the Meat Man. Stepping out into the sunlight once more, you see the imposing figure of the Meat Man now amongst you.
Laura: You're so scary and big. Do you have a place that you always stay?
Sam: I have many places.
Laura: That's what I figured.
Liam: I try sticking my fingers through the fake head a little bit.
Sam: Get off! Get off! Stop it!
Jon: No wonder you said hands off!
Laura: You didn't touch him this entire year?
Jon: He always said hands off. No matter how many times I tried.
Ashley: You never went to brothels or anything like that then, I guess.
Taliesin: Probably not together.
Marisha: Have you been hugged in a year? Has anyone given you a hug? I give him a hug.
Jon: Are you trying to go through me to him?
Marisha: No, I'm just giving you a hug!
Jon: That gives me, like, 50 extra attack points or something, right? I feel like something cool when someone hugs me.
Marisha: Can I use my Inspiring Leader feat?
Matt: If you would like to take a moment to give everyone hugs as part of your Inspiring Leader, sure.
Marisha: You know what, guys?
Sam: Oh, she's speeching.
Marisha: Human contact's important, you know? So come on, come on, let's all group hug! Group hug!
Taliesin: No! No!
Jon: Can I hug everybody else?
Sam: The Meat Man does not hug.
Travis: This is a ten-minute huddle?
Matt: It's a ten-minute, like, hug it out.
Laura: Ten minutes is so awkward!
Matt: I know! And not in Keyleth's bailiwick at all!
Travis: Are we attracting any awkward looks?
Laura: I feel like I would have abstained from the ten-minute group hug.
Taliesin: I would have brought you into it.
Marisha: I keep trying to grab Vex. Come on! Come on, hug it out!
Matt: So, you brought Scanlan and Tary for this.
Sam: Yes.
Matt: Are they both?
Sam: Scanlan stepped out. Tary's in.
Matt: So everyone except for Scanlan gets 17 temporary hit points.
Laura: Thanks, Kiki! No, no, no, Percy brought me in.
Marisha: Brought her out of her comfort bubble.
Matt: As you all slowly begin to realize the slight display you've given in the center of the town, especially those of you in your darker, heavier leathers amongst this very warm, open air.
Laura: Oh, I thought we knew we were going to Ank'harel so we dressed for it. That's what we said the last episode.
Matt: Did you?
Laura: That's what you said, actually. You said "you all showed up dressed for Ank'harel."
Liam: My armor is fire set.
Matt: Okay, I'll trust you on that.
Laura: I feel like you said it?
Matt: You would've, it's fine. But it's less the attire. You're still wearing your armor, I assume.
Laura: Yes, yes, yes.
Matt: So, you're still in heavy leathers.
Liam: Yeah, we're just doing the whole Lawrence of Arabia.
Matt: So you're still a display of people in heavy leather hugging for ten minutes in the middle of this open thoroughfare.
Liam: Yeah, we're still very awkward. At all times.
Matt: So it's not like all of a sudden there's a crowd gathered around you. But occasionally there's a few merchants across the way that are like, "So, anyway, as I was saying..."
Liam: Bidet!
Laura: Be pleased!
Matt: "Be pleased."
Travis: You guys are all saying it wrong. I don't know why. Vax can pick it up, it's not that hard.
Liam: I am very smart.
Laura: Where do we go?
Sam: Come with me.
Matt: You watch as the Meat Man leads you down four or five different streets, dodging through a couple of alleyways and off onto the southern-eastern side of Ank'harel. There is a modest-looking tobacco shop that is in a poorer district, it's a little run-down. Run-down compared to a lot of Ank'harel, which is pretty colorful and very well-kept. So, it's pretty decent, average fare for Emon, considered the poorer side of Ank'harel. But you-- (laughs)
Sam: Was that a fart?
Matt: It's one of the various beasts of burden that you're walking past in the streets of Ank'harel. (fart sound)
Laura: That was awesome.
Matt: To be fair, sometimes the Slayer's Cakes get a little...
Liam: They're rich.
Laura: We're working out the ingredients.
Matt: Adventurers can't get it right all the time. So you come to this modest tobacco shop. As you lead them into the interior, one of your employees, Doran, who is a rather scrawny-looking boy maybe of 22, 23, completely shaved head, tanned skin, a little sallow, but he's sitting there, balancing a long, thin, almost like a railroad-spike-type metal rod. He's just kind of balancing it over the wood, and as soon as the door opens, he fumbles. "Ah. Aes. It is a pleasure to have you back."
Sam: How are things in my absence?
Matt: "They have been well. You've only been gone for a few hours, but they've been uneventful."
Sam: Oh, yes, yes, that's right, yes. Any new reports of the hooded people?
Matt: "None within the town, not since last-- oh, hi, Lionel!"
Jon: Hey, what's up?
Matt: "It's good to see you. Anyway." (laughter)
Jon: You want a hug? It makes you, like, super-strong.
Matt: "Really?"
Jon: Yeah. At least, that's what I--
Sam: No fraternizing.
Matt: "But anyway." And he reaches down and pulls a small wooden lever, and it's like you see he's having to struggle with it. And as he does so, you hear the scraping of wood, and a chain-winch going. You watch as one of the small furrows in the back corner slowly lifts up and reveals a narrow staircase that leads down into a subterranean area.
Liam: This is kind of cool.
Jon: It's really awesome. You guys should-- we should go. This is like our cool hideout.
Marisha: What was the guy's name again?
Matt: Doran.
Marisha: Doran.
Travis: Doran, you known Aes long?
Matt: "For a number of months, yes."
Travis: Yeah. Good guy?
Matt: "We don't converse often, but he pays well, and the work is-- the work is very rewarding."
Travis: Right. Does he have a firm handshake?
Matt: (stammers)
Travis: You should find out. Yeah, no, shake his hand. No, go ahead, right now.
Matt: "I do not presume to want to-- I mean, unless you would want to?"
Sam: No.
Matt: "Okay, yes, I am sorry, I do not mean to--"
Travis: In his custom, 'no' means 'yes, I crave it deeply'.
Matt: Make a deception check.
Taliesin: Your voice got really high during that.
Travis: Oh, shit.
Laura: What'd you roll? What'd you roll?
Travis: 19.
Matt: 19. (laughs) "Uh. I mean, if you--"
Travis: Known him for years. Really.
Sam: I will just walk by him and go down into the hidey-hole.
Matt: Okay. "I think you have some incorrect intel, my friend."
Travis: No, I think you're probably gonna need a new job pretty soon. That was a diss. It's all right. Just look elsewhere. That's all I'm saying.
Matt: He sits back on his stool and takes his little rod and jams it into the wood and huffs as you guys all make your way down there. Which, both Lionel and Grog, you guys have to cannonball up real tight to make it through the corridor. You drag your way through by pulling on the little bits of wood and earth that mark the exterior walls of this descending staircase. The smell is musty. It's not damp, but you can sense that there is a smell of tobacco. You thought, oh, this tobacco shop's a front. As you go down, you see about ten feet down there is a large storage room that contains barrels of dried tobacco of all sorts, and has a very rich, pungent, but also like a nice spice scent to it in places. Spice. Ah! You lead them on down to the far end of the hallway. There is another door that is locked. You pull out a set of keys, unlock it, open it. It leads down another hallway, and then eventually what looks to be some smaller sets of barracks rooms. You see a few doors that are ajar and empty with some beds inside. You lead down another 20 or so feet to another chamber. And as it opens up, inside, you can see there are three tables arranged in a triangular pattern, and at the far end of the table, there is a single-- what looks like a throne-like chair. It's very well-crafted. It's gold-leafed in places, it has intricate scrolling on the sides and where the armrests are, and there you see an individual with a hooded cloak and a deep, bluish-purple color with what looks like a red crimson slash design around the back, a number of jewelry, and they're facing away, speaking towards the chair, for there on the chair sits an identical large, looming human male with long, dark hair and mustache, pockmarked skin, and is mid-conversation.
Laura: You guys really should plan this out better.
Sam: Bit of warning. Don't use her name. All right, so I'll just walk up to them.
Matt: You walk up to the two of them?
Sam: Yeah, sure.
Matt: All right. The cloaked figure is in the middle of conversation, and speaking Marquesian, which you understand, to the effect of, "We've been looking, and apparently all the shipments have been diverted and held off until--" And hears the footsteps and turns over and sees you. "Oh." (confused sounds)
Laura: (clears throat) Twins. Funny.
Liam: What are the odds?
Matt: Deception check.
Laura: Motherfuck. Oh, you know, like 11.
Matt: "I, um." Begins to pull a small blade out to the side. "I am under the impression that perhaps one of you is a doppelganger, and whoever my boss is, would you please raise your hand?"
Sam: I do not raise my hand.
Matt: The other one does. "Aes, what do we do?" And puts the blade forward, and you watch as the other Meat Man on the throne just says, "We do nothing. I know this man, and we will do our business. Tell no one what you saw here, but if two more leave, I have been taken by its will and you'll have to kill us both. I'm just kidding, that's a complete joke. But no, seriously, you really-- go, go." And the--
Jon: Should I go kill him?
Sam: No, no.
Matt: The person with the cloak kind of--
Jon: It's fine, I won't kill you.
Matt: "Thank you. Be pleased." And darts out of the room real fast. The other Meat Man on the throne goes, "Oh, Verath, I'm gonna work real hard to try and convince him other of that."
Sam: Sorry about that.
Matt: (clears throat) "It is all right."
Laura: Good to see you again.
Matt: "Good to see you as well. You all look... spry. You look alive."
Sam: Is anyone in the room, now, Matt, besides--
Matt: Besides you guys? No, it's just you guys and Lionel.
Sam: All right, so. We can drop all of the illusions. They all know what's going on now.
Matt: Looks earnestly at Lionel.
Sam: Even Chod.
Jon: Lionel.
Matt: "Aye, very well." And you watch as the Meat Man on the throne suddenly diminishes into a smaller, gnome figure as well, only female, with short, almost buzzed sides of her dark brunette hair that poofs into a curl there. You can see she's also much tanner than you remember. She is wearing what looks to be a leather tunic that's straining against her rather large muscles for a small gnome, it looks like she's been making sure that nobody messes with her while she's in the city.
Laura: Shit. Is she buff now?
Matt: She's pretty buff.
Laura: Shit.
Marisha: You got a haircut! I love it.
Matt: "You know. The hot weather around here is a bit of a bitch this time of the year, so best to get it taken care of. Anyway. What the fuck are you all doing here?"
Sam: I went to get them to tell them about the thing that we found.
Matt: "Right, okay. Great."
Sam: I was going to escort them there. Do you think you have things handled if we go for a day?
Matt: "Oh, that's fine, I've only been dealing with this for the past two and half weeks without you just fine, no one's noticed, until you came up inside looking the same as me. That's great!"
Sam: Sorry, I didn't know you were throning.
Marisha: 'Throning'.
Travis: Yeah, is that a thing?
Sam: Well, when we're in command, yeah.
Matt: "It's not called throning, don't listen to him."
Laura: How long have you been here?
Matt: "Been here? Ank'harel? I've lost track of time. Better part of maybe eight months, nine months?"
Travis: We've heard you've risen through the ranks. Very successful, you are.
Matt: "Not too bad, if I do say so myself."
Travis: Well done.
Matt: "This one's almost ruined us a few times."
Travis: That's not surprising.
Liam: How are things with the old man?
Matt: "They're fine. Talks about you lot an awful lot."
Liam: Oh, really?
Sam: Not true, not true.
Ashley: Did you have a good year together? Sort of, I guess. That was the last time we saw you. Have things been good?
Matt: She pats the side of her coin purse, which you can see is rather thick and makes a heavy (clinking) of clinking coin. "Not been too bad, if I say so myself. More than I ever made playing violin."
Taliesin: Profit suits you well.
Marisha: I don't know if she was referring to monetary wealth, but sure.
Travis: Well, if you can't have an earnest relationship with someone, at least she's got money.
Taliesin: It's also very hard to put an earnest relationship in a coin purse.
Matt: "Anyway. So. What can I do for you, or have you just come by to say hi?"
Sam: No, I didn't, I came to make sure you were all right, and is everything all right? Have we heard of any other attacks or incidents?
Matt: "None yet, before you came in and rudely interrupted my update from Verath over there, but it seems that there hasn't been any more activity. All the hooded ones we've seen have all absconded over towards the mountain range again."
Taliesin: Hooded ones?
Sam: Yeah, the ones in the mountain, in the cave. What about buyers? Have we had any new interest?
Matt: "No, not too bad. Carthol's been working around the clock. I believe he's working on a new game set. Something ivory and Issylrian in nature. Supposed to go for a pretty penny, if we take it across over up on Wildmount, but it'll take a little longer to make it. You know, one-man job. He's good. He's not that good."
Sam: Just remind him to put some imperfections in it. He always likes to make things too beautiful.
Matt: "I will, I will."
Laura: Why don't you want to sell beautiful things?
Sam: We want to sell real things, not things that look like they're brand-new. If things are really old, they have dents and scuffs on them.
Jon: Wait, so you're lying again.
Matt: "Modifying the presentation."
Jon: I don't know who to trust anymore.
Sam: You should trust me because I pay you.
Matt: "I don't know. Looks like he might be growing up." (laughter)
Jon: I have been eating more.
Matt: "Oh, I can tell that." (laughs) She sets off the throne and comes up and leaps and smacks you on the shoulder. Pretty good hit.
Jon: That's awesome!
Matt: "I know. Anyway."
Sam: All right, so we'll be gone-- we've rested recently, right?
Matt: Yeah, the night before.
Sam: So we'll be going for a while, and just hold down the fort while we're gone. Also, I know it sounds stupid, but can you look into getting a few ducks? Just as pets?
Matt: "Sure."
Sam: Yeah, I know. It's just a thank-you.
Matt: "Ducks."
Sam: Yes.
Jon: They have awesome information.
Matt: "Right, okay. Ducks it is. I'll get right to it. I'll talk to my duck distributor."
Sam: Just ask, just ask us and that would be fine, too.
Jon: Yeah, but ducks will know things that you don't!
Matt: "I'll send some word to the Fowl District of Ank'harel to provide the proper--"
Marisha: There's a fowl district?
Matt: "No, there's not a fowl district! I'm fucking with you."
Sam: You should always assume she's fucking with you. Every time.
Matt: "You traveled with this one long enough. Figure it out."
Liam: Wonder where she gets it from?
Matt: "Don't you say a goddamn thing or I'll cut your tongue out."
Liam: Promises, promises.
Matt: "All right. Go about your business. I've got it here. Don't die. Any of you. Especially you. I've got ducks coming for you, don't know what to do if you don't show up back here to pick 'em up."
Jon: I won't die.
Matt: "Good. Don't."
Sam: If he does, we'll just eat the ducks.
Matt: "I don't care, then. Ducks are pretty tasty."
Jon: They'll tell you where to bury me. (laughter)
Jon: They know all the proper spots.
Sam: Sure. Okay.
Matt: "All right, then, shoo. Night's about to come. You can travel over the cool evening air."
Sam: Do any of you need any supplies or anything before we go? Are we good to travel on foot?
Laura: What kind of potions you got available? Healing potions?
Sam: Healing potions? I can heal with my words. Why would I need healing potions?
Laura: Just in case you run away.
Liam: Is that a no?
Ashley: Just in case you decide to leave again, which is probably highly probable. I don't know. Just in case.
Sam: No, I don't have any of those. But it can be arranged if you are short. I can have my second here look into it for you.
Laura: I have three regular healing potions and that's it.
Taliesin: Cleared out.
Laura: I think we're pretty much out.
Sam: Crutch, will you--
Jon: I have 375 grams.
Sam: That's gold.
Laura: You have 375 grams?
Jon: Gold, I guess.
Laura: Grams of gold?
Jon: They look the same. But I can buy lots of potions with that, right?
Sam: No, you cannot buy any. But the Crutch here will look into it while we're gone. We won't have any until we get back, though.
Travis: He calls you the Crutch?
Matt: "The Crutch is my work name. It's what the Meat Man calls me 'cause of my height."
Laura: Oh. I see.
Taliesin: So it's a name for when he's ribbing you. Ribbing. I'm just so excited by all the puns that are available.
Laura: So no healing, then? Let's just go?
Sam: No, we have to just go.
Matt: "Hold on, hold on." She walks over and starts rummaging through a few small crates that are to the side. She's like, "These haven't been organized properly." Grabs a little crowbar and wedges it in. Pops off the top, starts rummaging through, tossing various things out the side like small metal cups roll across the ground, come to a stop. Pulls out a small, looks like a leather satchel of some kind that's wrapped over the top and the side with twine. Unwraps it. "There's a few something for you." Sets it down. Pulls a necklace off. "You're borrowing this, but you're bringing it back when you're done."
Sam: Of course.
Matt: "All right. Now, which one of you but him wants it?"
Jon: Oh, I do, I do!
Matt: "Okay." Throws it to you.
Jon: It's really cool-looking.
Matt: It's a heavy, somewhat tarnished silver chain that smells of old ale-stained wood.
Jon: Oh, I don't like it, someone else take it.
Laura: No, no, no, I called it.
Liam: Give it to me, give it to me, I called it as well! Dad, make us roll for it.
Jon: Why don't you guys just cut it in half?
Laura: Tickle-tickle-tickle!
Matt: Both of you guys make strength checks.
Laura: But I don't wanna break it! Don't pull so hard that you break it!
Liam: Why would I do that? I have so much finesse. That's cocked. It was cocked, you say cocked eighty thousand times, and now I'm gonna use Luck, because I wanna beat you.
Laura: You motherfuck!
Liam: Oh, it's the same thing! So what is this, strength?
Matt: Strength, add the strength modifier.
Liam: I will.
Laura: Oh, no.
Liam: You go first.
Laura: Nine.
Liam: Oh, she beat me! (laughter)
Matt: You rip the chain from his grip.
Laura: What did I get? What is it?
Matt: "It's an Amulet of the Drunkard."
Laura: What's that mean?
Matt: "You wear that, you drink yourself some fine, fine alcohol, might heal you a bit."
Laura: Do you already wear a necklace? I already wear a necklace, so I probably can't wear it, huh? You can get up. It's okay, you can go. You've got 30 feet!
Sam: Jack off, jack off, jack off!
Matt: The umbilical! There you go.
Marisha: You're good, you're good.
Taliesin: It turns spirits into potions. That's pretty solid.
Travis: Beer, ale, mead, or wine will cause you to regain 2d4 + 2 hit points.
Laura: Oh jeez, that's so cool. Do you already wear a necklace, Grog? Do you have to attune to it?
Matt: It is not attuned. But there is a limit to it, if you read it.
Travis: Yeah, you can only once until the next dawn.
Matt: So once a day, you can just drink a pint of some alcoholic drink, and it'll heal you like a basic healing potion.
Travis: Fucking awesome.
Marisha: Who was out of healing potions?
Taliesin: I'm out.
Laura: I've got three for the party, it's not for me. I have none for myself.
Sam: I know I've been rather quiet this journey, but I could just provide us with a few more, if that would help things--
Travis: Tary, that is very considerate of you, yeah.
Jon: Is this Taryon?
Sam: Yeah, sorry, it's odd for me. I will rip off my last remaining potion patch on the robe, which has four small healing potions.
Matt: There you go, so you have-- and the satchel that you received from the Crutch has three more additional regular healing potions.
Sam: So we have seven regular healing potions.
Laura: Okay, okay, okay. So everybody take one?
Marisha: I have four on me.
Laura: Oh, jeez. Everybody but Keyleth take one?
Marisha: I made a few over the break, if we want them.
Taliesin: Well, as long as I've gone one in there.
Marisha: I'm gonna hand another one to Percy.
Taliesin: I'll take two.
Liam: Hey, T., are you feeling sentimental, being back in Marquet?
Sam: The weather is certainly dry.
Liam: You've come full circle.
Sam: Yes. I certainly have. It's good to be back, but I'm a little nervous. I don't know why, really.
Liam: New setting.
Sam: Yes. New dynamic.
Travis: Your hair's holding up well in the heat, though.
Sam: Only because it's under the Helm. Believe me, it's a nightmare in there if you look underneath.
Ashley: I'm sure you look beautiful.
Liam: Does it retain the shape of the helmet?
Sam: Unfortunately, yes. (laughter)
Laura: I'm just holding this necklace. I have a necklace on, I can't wear it.
Jon: I thought you were giving it to him.
Laura: Can you wear it?
Jon: To Gog over there.
Liam: No, I'm not wearing a necklace.
Laura: Well then, let me give it to you.
Liam: I didn't actually want it. I just wanted to best you.
Laura: Well, now you have it.
Taliesin: You can actually use it, though.
Liam: Can I have the thingie?
Travis: You're not giving it to me?
Laura: I thought you said you already wore a necklace!
Travis: No. No! I mean, I wear, like, ears and fingers and toes around my neck, but you can always accessorize some more, fuck, shit! I'm the only one that walks around with alcohol on me all the time, anyway.
Marisha: So wait, can he combo-use that and be like fine wine and chug it?
Matt: Any relatively alcoholic drink labeled on the thing, he can drink a pint of.
Liam: A pint, though, Grog? A pint? You'd snort that up your left nostril, right?
Travis: Yeah. It's like a little traveler's bottle of soap.
Liam: Yeah, that's like you sneezing into a bottle.
Jon: Do you have an extra necklace that turns chocolate milk into, like, healing?
Matt: "I'll put the word out for you. See what we can find."
Laura: Are we heading out immediately?
Sam: There's nothing to wait for.
Marisha: I actually do have a necklace. I have an old necklace.
Sam: What are we talking about now?
Jon: Everybody went from no potions to, well, I've got this, I've got this.
Laura: I don't know why I asked for potions when we had four fucking potions.
Taliesin: It might be that thing that I got rid of.
Marisha: I had an old card that was the necklace that gave +1 to attack and damage while--
Sam: That's an attunement item. We don't need that shit. Let's go.
Marisha: All right. Sorry your employer overruled me, Kord. Or Card. Or Chode.
Laura: Lionel.
Matt: "All right. Please. Out of my space." And you watch as her form shifts back to that of Aes Adan, the Meat Man.
Travis: That's impressive.
Matt: "Thank you. Treat that well. If you lose it, I'm making you pay for it!"
Travis: Oh, no, it's in good hands.
Matt: "All right, then. Good luck! Don't die."
Laura: The Crutch.
Matt: "I'm the Meat Man now."
Travis: Yeah, she changed back.
Laura: Sorry, I was looking at necklaces.
Sam: All right. On we go.
Travis: Yeah. We head back out the cramped little tunnel.
Matt: All right. Make your way back up through the tobacco shop to the streets of Ank'harel. You are aware that the Smouldercrown mountain range is about 290 miles southeast of Ank'harel across the desert.
Jon: You guys, it's gonna be a really long hike, so let's find another burning tree, or Sun Tree or something that we can just walk into. 'Cause that was way easier than traveling.
Taliesin: Misty Step.
Laura: Not Misty Step. Wind Walk.
Travis: You can do the tree thing too?
Jon: No, I've never seen that. I can show you how to get there, but it seems--
Travis: Have you ever tried?
Jon: Tried through the Sun Tree? What do I do? Do I just--
Laura: You have to ask him.
Jon: I'm good at-- okay.
Liam: Absolute conviction.
Jon: So I go over to the nearest tree.
Matt: Okay. About maybe one block up, there's--
Jon: About one block, guys, come on. Leading the way.
Matt: All right. Solid trunk palm.
Marisha: He likes it when you're super chill and casual with him, so be cool.
Jon: He? So the trees are like dudes?
Laura: All of them?
Marisha: (mouths) Just go with it.
Jon: He likes it when you're what?
Taliesin: Chill and casual.
Jon: Oh. Okay. So I go up to the tree. Do I touch it? You're the tree. Hey, can you open up and take us to Crown-- what was it? Smouldercrown entrance, just 'cause. Wait, it would be way easier to just go straight to the pyramid.
Liam: Yeah, but it's more like a stroking thing. You don't just leave your hand in place.
Jon: Okay, so hey, I'm chill. Can you just take us? Be cool?
Travis: The bark's a little dry. Maybe it needs a little moisture. There you go.
Sam: (screams)
Jon: So yeah, it's cool, we're cool, if you want to take us there. If not, we get it. Is that pretty chill?
Marisha: That's pretty chill, yeah.
Laura: I'm surprised it's not working, honestly. That's the most chill I've ever seen.
Sam: Why am I playing the tree?
Jon: Are you guys--
Marisha: You know that intimate hug we had earlier? Kinda do that.
Jon: Aes? Now I'm talking to Aes.
Sam: Oh, okay. Yes.
Jon: This reminds me of times when I was a kid and kids would-- are they making fun of me?
Sam: They are definitely making fun of you.
Jon: Oh, come on!
Liam: What're you telling him lies for?
Taliesin: We do this to everybody. It's all right.
Jon: You do?
Marisha: It's part of the initiation.
Taliesin: But yes, we are making fun of you.
Jon: Sorry, tree. Wait, are the trees really alive?
Laura: No, they are.
Jon: Okay, sorry, tree. But that was kinda fun, stroking it.
Marisha: The tree appreciates it.
Jon: Anyways, why don't you guys just do the Sun Tree thing?
Sam: We can't really do that. We need to know where the tree is that we're going to be going to.
Liam: There's a lot of tree science involved.
Marisha: If you could maybe potentially help me, Meat Man.
Sam: I haven't been there, have I?
Matt: You haven't been to Smouldercrown, no.
Marisha: Why were you just talking like the Meat Man?
Sam: I have not been to the place we are going. I do not know of any tree.
Matt: Yeah, the only one who's been there is Lionel.
Marisha: You've been there.
Jon: Yeah, I'm the one who saw it and told you guys about it.
Marisha: Were there trees?
Jon: Yeah, there were a couple dead-looking trees, not huge ones. How big do they have to be?
Marisha: They looked dead?
Jon: They looked a little dead-ish.
Marisha: They were dead? Like very dead?
Jon: Do they have to be alive?
Marisha: I think so? Right?
Jon: I really wanted to see that Sun Tree thing.
Travis: We'll use it to go back.
Marisha: Would you prefer to be a cloud?
Jon: I can be a cloud?
Marisha: I could be a cloud, but I'm gonna blow a 7th-level spell for it.
Laura: Wait, but how many people can you do, because we also have Doty.
Marisha: Ten? Let me see.
Liam: Can you turn an automaton, a robit, into cloud? Did we do that already?
Sam: Not too many. We're ten exactly.
Travis: Really?
Laura: Yeah, Trinket's in the necklace.
Travis: Doty, Taryon, Scanlan.
Laura: Oh, shit. Taryon and Scanlan.
Sam: That's ten, isn't it?
Ashley: But that's blowing a 7th-level spell. How long does it take to hike up there?
Sam: 290 miles.
Matt: Wind Walk is a 6th-level spell. Not a 7th.
Marisha: But I've already used my 6th-level spell to Transport Via Plants. That's what I'm saying. So I'm gonna have to use a 7th-level spell to do it.
Matt: This is true.
Travis: It's worth it.
Liam: Does that work on Doty?
Matt: So you'd be able to get all of you.
Taliesin: Would it work on Doty?
Matt: Willing creatures. Technically he's considered a creature for the targeting reason of spells and effects, so yeah.
Liam: Tary.
Marisha: So we can do that, but then we might wanna rest. Or we can do some scouting, take a look. I won't be completely tapped out.
Liam: We can camp it up if we need to.
Taliesin: It'll take more than a day to get there anyway, so this way we'll just save some time and we'll take a day to take a look around.
Laura: Let's go!
Liam: Lionel, this is really awesome. For real, you're going to like this.
Marisha: Ready? Ready? Everybody join hands, join hands, join hands.
Laura: Do we have to join hands for this?
Sam: We don't at all. Not at all.
Jon: Can we still do it?
Marisha: Poof!
Matt: All right, you guys feel a warm, magical effect go through you. As you're concentrating, consider yourself being a cloud, you are the cloud. You open your eyes, Lionel, and you look, and you are a fucking cloud! You're like 20 feet up!
Jon: Oh, check this out! (spits)
Matt: As you do that, you watch as more cloud spit goes (fft) and just more cloud. Your body is moisture. When you try and talk, it just goes (exhale).
Jon: So you can't really talk.
Matt: Can't really talk. You're a cloud. So if you wanted to, you could spend a minute to concentrate and revert back, and you can do that-- you have an eight-hour period where you can just turn back and forth.
Laura: We should probably concentrate for just a minute. I'm gonna turn back, just so I can shout out, we should all follow-- you know how to get there, right, Lionel?
Jon: (wind noises)
Laura: Bob up and down if it's a yes. Okay. We're going to follow you, all right? And when it's ready to land, then just hover down, and we'll all follow your lead.
Jon: (fart sound) (laughter)
Laura: That's totally normal. We all do it. All right.
Matt: All right. So you all go into your mist forms and begin to follow after Lionel's lead. As you guys coast over the upper areas of Ank'harel, it's a beautiful view looking down at this gorgeous city, just this glittering jewel of color and architecture, one of the older cities in Exandria that portions of it seem to have survived elements of the Age of Arcanum and the Calamity, and one of the first societies to spring up thereafter. And it's beautiful to see this history, far longer than that of Tal'Dorei, or at least the human societies of Tal'Dorei, just standing obstinate against the dark oppression of the surrounding desert. You continue to head in that direction, with you leading. Lionel, I need you to roll a survival check.
Laura: Survival check. We might get lost?
Taliesin: Add that to your survival.
Jon: 14.
Matt: 14. All right. So you're traveling at an incredible speed. Like you're used to walking speed, running speed sometimes, maybe horsey speed. This is a very, very fast speed. You're coasting through the air right as the sun begins to set, and the night begins to hit. You keep relatively low to the ground, so you have your Darkvision to see the topography and get an idea of where it's going and the direction. You can look up and see the stars above. You've traveled, and you've been amongst this desert most of your life, so you have a good sense of how to follow that, and because of that, you're able to maintain your directional position towards the Smouldercrown Mountains. You push on. About halfway through the journey, you can see some little flames occasionally in the distance, what looks to be either caravan camps or bandit camps or various nomad circles that are set up for the night where different campfires are placed, whether it's beacons, traps, or just people to stay warm for the evening. You know, best not to stop whenever you see a flame in the middle of the desert. The winds are picking up and getting colder, the stark contrast between the temperature of the day and the night here is immense, and your moisture form takes on the cold fairly quickly, and you feel, even though you're in this form, the chill still captures you a bit as your condensation begins to slightly crystallize in places, but you push on. Roll one more survival check, please.
Laura: Don't get us lost!
Jon: 15.
Matt: 15. And without an issue or any sort of a loss of step or position, eventually you watch as the ominous spire-like jagged dagger-topped Smouldercrown Mountains begin to break the horizon and make their way towards you. You're now, at that speed, it hasn't been that long since you left, maybe a few hours out of Ank'harel. So you're maybe around ten o'clock in the evening or so, 10:30. Going to go ahead and move over here to a non--
Taliesin: I was gonna argue that since he has the Duck Totem, that technically he would have a natural migration sense of what direction he was gonna go.
Matt: That's a good argument to make, but not necessary, but good for holding on to that.
Taliesin: Yeah, just thought I'd put that out there. I feel like his duck sense would be tingling. Always knows where South is.
Matt: Not denying. Recognized, but unnecessary in the moment.
Taliesin: Unnecessary, but worth noting.
Matt: Worth noting, indeed. But yeah. So the spires of the mountain are surprisingly steep. They're steeple-like, almost, in a lot of places. They're all just jutting up like these gargantuan spikes that were pressed out of the earth from some sort of landmass shift or some volcanic activity long, long ago. But you can see the densely packed rock formations, and the mountain cluster is maybe, at most, I'll say three miles, four miles across. It's not a very, very big mountain range. And it's called Smouldercrown because the circular pattern of the oval-like pattern of the mountains that rise up and resembles at a distance like a king's crown in the way that it circles around itself. You recall one of three different entrances, the one that was safest that you guys took when you entered, the central portion of the mountain range from the outside, and you guide the rest of them to the exterior of this space. You can see it's a small valley between two of the exterior mountains that collide together, and there is a valley path, where you see a number of dried trees. Some do appear to be alive, Keyleth, though they're designed to weather extreme droughts. They seem to have some sort of weird fruit that they're bearing, dripping off some of the branches, but the leaves themselves are brown and withered and you haven't quite seen plant la-life-- plant life like this before.
Laura: Plant la-la-la.
Matt: Plant la-va-la-fl.
Marisha: Does it look like it's natural decay?
Matt: If you want to go and approach it and inspect it, you can.
Marisha: How far-- we're still clouds?
Matt: You guys are maybe 100 feet up or so, and you've just now hit the edge of the Smouldercrown mountain range.
Marisha: Starting to go into the entrance.
Matt: Yes. The entrance of the mountains. You haven't found an entrance to the actual mountain rock itself.
Marisha: Are we going to go on foot from here?
Matt: That's up to you guys.
Taliesin: I think we'll get a little closer.
Marisha: I'll wait 'til we get closer. From up here, does the mountain formation look like it's naturally formed, or like some sort of other event? Is it seismically formed?
Matt: Make a nature check.
Marisha: Oh, not good. What's my nature? Okay, 16.
Matt: 16, not bad. They appear to be seismically formed. You can see some of the rocks, the way they rise up in the smaller areas, are at an angle where it's smooth on one side, and you can see the layers beneath where portions of the earth seem to have been jammed, cracked, and pushed upward. But because it's so localized, it isn't like there's tectonic plates shifting or anything, it's not a mass range. Most mountain ranges are long, driven locations that mark where those various boundaries are. This is just a central formation, so you're uncertain as to what the nature of this creation was, but it seems natural.
Laura: I'm picturing beautiful Bob Ross mountains. Just lightly touch.
Marisha: Happy accidents.
Taliesin: Happy little TPK.
Matt: Yeah. Percy, can I have you roll a perception check, please?
Taliesin: Yes. I'm not gonna roll that, 'cause you've been-- I feel like that's yours. It landed on other dice. I'm gonna let it be there, though. Actually, yeah, it's 20.
Matt: Okay. You, Mr. Human, with no actual Darkvision, do not get lost on the path. Taryon, could I have you also roll a perception check?
Sam: 15 plus something. Minus one. 14.
Matt: Okay, so you fall a little behind the group.
Sam: Doty has low-light vision, I think.
Matt: Doty has Darkvision. We'll say that Doty manages to get you caught up a little bit. You fall a bit behind, but you do manage to find the rest of the team. You don't get terribly lost in the middle of the dark, desert sky of these small wisps of cloud with no light other than starlight there to guide your path forward. They begin to just pull ahead and vanish into the horizon. You freak out but Doty eventually finds you as a cloud and you swear you hear the wind go, "Tary." (laughter)
Matt: You continue to push forward, eventually leading into the outside of this entrance of Smouldercrown, where the rest of them have gathered. You guys begin to slowly push into the valley that makes its way towards the center of Smouldercrown, following Lionel's leads. These trees that you notice, Keyleth, they're sporadic in places, and there is scrub brush, sparse, there are areas of the ground where it's dried and cracked. The badlands here, the sands of the deserts, the big storms largely don't make it into the center of the valley because the mountains protect it. While there are elements of it here and there, you can see the topography and the landscape here is very dried, cracked, red earth. Little moisture seems to be contained here. The plant life that exists here is designed to subsist on very, very little water. You eventually come, Lionel, to the area where you believe you found the last entrance. Make an investigation check, if you don't mind.
Jon: 21.
Matt: 21, okay then. You very quickly look around and recall some of the landmarks.
Jon: I'm still in cloud form.
Matt: You're still in cloud form. But you see some of the landmarks that seem to triangulate where you originally found the entrance. However, to truly search in this area, you'd have to get low and probably go to your physical form to seek it out. All right, so. You take a minute to concentrate and you revert back into your half-orc form.
Laura: I go down and do it, too, 'cause he did it.
Matt: Okay. Everyone else joining him?
All: Yes.
Matt: All right, so the rest of the party goes, and they take their physical form. (laughter)
Jon: That was awesome, guys.
Laura: Is this where it is?
Matt: You're able to see in the dark for a decent amount. You walk the perimeter of this space where the first cavern was, and you feel around, and you gather that there was a path here, but it looks like there's been a small cave-in. A lot of the rocks appear like they've been recently fallen in, and there's some sort of a grade to them where you watch loose rocks have recently been tossed around that are of a deeper-set red color and haven't been quite as weathered as the exterior of the mountain appears to be. So apparently the entrance that you originally used either has collapsed on its own, or was intentionally shut.
Jon: I could've sworn it was right here, you guys. I don't know what's with all these rocks.
Laura: It looks like it was caved in, actually.
Liam: This is 100% the spot?
Jon: Pretty sure. I mean, I don't have the best memory or knowledge or brains or really any skills, but I'm pretty sure this was it.
Laura: Don't be so hard on yourself, Lionel.
Marisha: Does it look deliberate, or does it look natural?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Jon: Well, it could be. I have an idea, you guys. Let's ask the ducks!
Laura: Are there ducks here?
Jon: There's no ducks here?
Marisha: Natural 19 from Gil. 22.
Jon: We can see if there are if we Commune With Ducks.
Matt: The cave-in is not natural. The rocks you can see, the portion of the archway where the natural mountain rock becomes the rockslide that seems to have filled the space, there is no damage that seems to be seismic or quaked, and you can see what appear to be some cleft sides at the edge of this entrance where it appears like elements of it were actually hacked or damaged until it eventually fell in.
Laura: Are there any kind of tracks around, or footfalls that look like it was recent?
Matt: Roll a-- for you, it would be a survival check, 'cause you're a tracker.
Laura: And it's a mountain!
Taliesin: I honestly think they might have trapped it.
Laura: I can roll that one again.
Liam: I'll wait until she has looked, and then I'll take a look.
Laura: Yeah, that's way better! 27!
Matt: As you guys are having this moment, and you get low to the ground and begin to read the patterns of the different rocks that have tumbled and left small grooves and a little bit of dust and sand that does reside over this dark, caked dirt and rock, and you do notice a number of footprints. They're scattered a bit, some older, some newer. There's been a lot of foot traffic in and out of this cavern fairly recently, like a week or so ago. And you begin to follow the tracks. Some lead back the path you came, some seem to circle around further into the valley around this mountain.
Laura: I think I've picked something up. Should we follow it now or should we--
Sam: It's dark.
Laura: -- camp out and do it in the morning.
Marisha: Cover for me. I'm gonna drop down and do a Commune With Nature.
Travis: How do we cover you?
Taliesin: She talks to non-ducks.
Marisha: Can Lionel and I commune together and do bonuses? Can I be like, can you call your ducks?
Jon: That's what I was trying to do.
Marisha: All right.
Matt: I'll say, as you begin to cast the spell, you take Lionel's hands and focus, and Lionel, you close your eyes and you imagine before you the most beautiful desert duck that could ever exist. And for a good 45 seconds, 50 seconds, 60 seconds, nothing. And that sadness in your heart sinks a bit, that perhaps Aes, or Scanlan, as these weird people keep calling him, said, there are no ducks here. And you hear, in the darkness, (flapping wings, squawk, impact sound). It runs into the side of the mountain, tumbles down onto the ground. (duck sounds)
Sam: It's a miracle!
Taliesin: It certainly is.
Jon: The duck!
Laura: Wait, you can call them to you?
Jon: I mean, I just, normally that happens.
Laura: That's a power, that's amazing.
Taliesin: Do they obey you, or is it a partnership?
Laura: Could you call multiple to you and they pick you up and fly you through the air?
Jon: You guys are confusing me. Look, I just talk to them.
Marisha: You know, it's okay.
Taliesin: Let's not question this.
Matt: So which of you wants to commune with the duck?
Liam: Let the expert.
Jon: Okay, what do we wanna know?
Marisha: How deep is the cave-in?
Jon: How deep is the cave-in? Okay.
Sam: To the duck?
Taliesin: They knew about the others.
Sam: Sure, sure.
Jon: I ask the duck, how deep is the cave-in?
Matt: Okay, the duck, "20 feet". (laughter)
Travis: That's a chill-as-fuck duck, y'all!
Jon: You couldn't understand that. I was like, you guys, that duck was really chill. (laughter)
Laura: No, I can tell, his body language is super chill for a duck.
Jon: 20 feet. What else do we want? Do we wanna ask if he recognizes who did this?
Marisha: That's a good one, that's a good one, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Jon: Hey, greenie. How-- who did this? What caused the cave-in?
Matt: "People."
Marisha: You know, I have a similar problem when I try to talk to cows. They have face-blindness.
Laura: I'm just gonna stealthily start following the path around.
Matt: Stealth check.
Marisha: Is there another entrance into this cavern?
Jon: That's good, that's good. Should we ask the nearest? Where's the nearest entrance?
Laura: 29.
Jon: Or the safest entrance?
Marisha: Are there other entrances?
Jon: Hey, Greenie, how many other entrances are there to this, about?
Matt: "Two."
Jon: Two. Uh-oh, that was two questions.
Marisha: Is that two including this entrance?
Matt: (flapping wings)
Jon: Wait, wait, wait!
Travis: Duck Hunt! Shoot it! Vex!
Jon: Meant to ask where the entrances are. Sorry, you guys.
Marisha: Well, there is another one. It's good, it's fine, it's good. In fact, I can double down on this. Can I now do my Commune With Nature and see if I can map out this cavern and find the other entrances?
Matt: Okay, so as you've now sat down, and you focus, you can sense the guardian duck that was temporarily summoned is now wandering out to the desert, probably to dehydrate and die horribly when the morning light comes.
Jon: I don't know about this, I don't know about this. Aw, he's going home to his family.
Taliesin: In a way, yes.
Matt: However, you connect and you can feel your spiritual essence connect with the land here. The landscape is something you're not used to. Elements of it remind you of Pyrah, though not as visceral and volcanic, but the general heat and barren aspect of the landscape is familiar in some ways. So as you extend yourself, you can breathe and you can feel the land breathe with you, and as that communion hits, you feel you could ask some questions of the terrain.
Marisha: Where are the other two entrances to this cavern?
Matt: You get, as is the essence of answering these questions, you sense that there is one near the top of the spire and there is one not terribly far from where you are, kind of continuing inward towards the valley. But it doesn't specify directly where, it doesn't put an 'x' on your map for you. You just know that one's towards the top, and one's further around the path you're going.
Marisha: Can I-- hang on-- around the path. Okay. How deep is the Ziggurat from here? Can I sense the other Ziggurat?
Matt: You focus, and you sense that there is almost like a cyst in the ground. You can sense some subterranean cavern. Maybe about 400, 500 feet into the heart of the mountain from where you currently sit. You can sense there this kind of pulsing darkness, almost like a terrible, cancerous heartbeat in the center of this land.
Marisha: Okay. What else? What's the last one? What should I do?
Sam: Are there any people around?
Taliesin: Has anybody been through that upper passageway?
Marisha: Yeah, yeah, yeah, can I sense any other maraudering douchebags?
Matt: Well, you can ask questions about people, powerful celestials, fey, fiends, elementals, or undead, influence from means of other existences.
Marisha: Humanoids? What about humanoids?
Matt: You want to try and sense humanoids? You ask about it. Your attention is shifted back towards that weird cyst-Ziggurat area in the center of the mountain, and the land seems to give you the idea that there are a number of humanoids there right now.
Marisha: Shit. Do they look like cultist-y people?
Matt: You don't have a visual. Your vision isn't brought there, you just kind of sense that they're there. They're inside the mountain.
Marisha: What?
Jon: I could've told you there was people at the pyramid.
Taliesin: Well, last time. Who's here now?
Jon: Well, why would they leave?
Marisha: I don't know. I said there's all these cool cult people. Yeah, they could leave.
Jon: It's good to know that they're still there.
Travis: Were there people inside?
Marisha: A decent amount of people.
Matt: So Vex is gone.
Travis: Where's Vex?
Liam: What did you find out?
Marisha: A lot of people. There's another entrance nearby, I think further down this path. It's close.
Liam: Well, Vex went this way. Is it in that direction?
Marisha: What? What do you mean? She went where?
Matt: You actually didn't see the direction she went.
Liam: Do we see footprints going in a direction, though, you described?
Matt: Nobody else did. Only she was tracking. Literally, you all turn around and Vex is just gone.
Marisha: I think there's also an entrance at the top of this spire, if we want to do a downward approach, but that seems risky.
Matt: You follow the tracks, and about 200 or so feet around the edge, and you have to follow them between a few smaller rocks that are jutting out at the base of the mountain, and the terrain itself rolls a bit, and cracks in places. There are small fissures from recent rains that caused the earth to well up and tear in places, and eventually the tracks curve in towards the mountain and end, and it's just sheer mountain. There's no sign of an entryway visually.
Laura: Can I search for one?
Matt: Make an investigation check.
Laura: Do I get advantage because it's a mountain?
Matt: You do, actually, yes. Favored terrain.
Laura: Fucking balls. Perception?
Matt: Investigation.
Laura: No, I want perception.
Matt: You're getting investigation.
Laura: 11.
Matt: 11? You have no idea where the entrance is. The tracks end in this general vicinity, and it's just rock. It doesn't even look like there's handholds.
Laura: Weird. I wonder if it's an illusion. Can I put my hand on the rocks and see if there's an illusion?
Matt: Okay. You put your hands out to feel against the rock, and your hand passes through.
Laura: What-what! I feel like Vex is really good at finding illusions. Oh, shit! Okay, well, can I put the front of my face through the wall and see what I see?
Matt: Sure. You poke into the darkness, and it is pitch-black on the inside. As you poke past the illusion, it's about two inches or so of this rocky, heavy orange-red stone, and as you peer in you can see a cavern about ten feet wide or so and about 12 to ten feet tall. Natural along the walls, you can see the ground itself is smoothed over, and it's straight. It's a straight tunnel. It's not a rocky natural formation, it's like it was pushed and carved into the rock, like something heavy or something very focused drove through. You glance over to the side, and you catch what appears to be a face in the wall, about that big around. It's featureless, you just see two eye sockets, a mouth, and a nose. You see a flash of green light. I need you to make a constitution saving throw.
Laura: Well, it's too late. Constitution saving throw?
Travis: Can we also say that we put our earrings back in the next day?
Matt: I assumed you did.
Travis: Because we're professionals.
Laura: That was almost so good, but then it wasn't. Ten.
Matt: Ten. No, that does not succeed.
Travis: Curious little cat.
Laura: I'm a rogue now, you guys!
Taliesin: Had to poke it.
Matt: You take 61 points of necrotic damage. As a familiar sting, as the green light flash turns into a piercing beam of life-draining energy, one that once almost brought you to the edge of death before, and as it hits you, you feel your breath and life essence sucked out of your nose and mouth and ears like a giant vacuum is pulling the essence out of your body. The veins bulge, you can't breathe, and you pull yourself back out of the illusory wall, and have to gasp for a moment. You guys hear the gasping as you begin to approach that side, and you find your sister there grabbing herself.
Laura: (coughing) Jenga. Not full Jenga.
Ashley: What happened, what happened, what happened?
Laura: Don't go through the wall. Can I heal, Pike?
Ashley: Yes, yes.
Laura: There's a thing in there. There's a face, and it sucks your life out. I found a door, though, guys!
Jon: Where's the door?
Laura: Don't. I'm not even going to tell you where the door is. I'm not going to tell him where the door is.
Travis: We don't see a door.
Jon: I don't see a door.
Laura: Nobody touch the rocks!
Liam: But there's a bad door somewhere around here?
Laura: There's a bad door. Just listen for a moment. Bad door. Right in front of me: fake, bad door. If you go through it, there is a very bad face that sucks your life out.
Liam: A bad face.
Laura: Yeah.
Taliesin: There's a door you cannot see, and a bad face sucks your life away.
Laura: Yeah. I'm going to take my Oracle Arrow and crouch down.
Sam: Wait, wait, wait, before you do that, are you sure that's--
Liam: Yeah, slow down, you're doing all the shit.
Sam: You're going to just shoot something in there? What if they see it fly in?
Laura: That's why I was going to crouch down and shoot the arrow super low to the ground.
Liam: What if they still see the arrow fly in?
Laura: Well, when I peeked my head in, before I got my life sucked out, I didn't see anything in front of me. Did I?
Liam: I'm going to assume that before we heard her gasping, Keyleth was filling us in.
Marisha: You know, I think it's right around that direction. Follow the gasping. It feels like it's really close to the gasping.
Liam: I'm going to go check out the top. (mist sound)
Laura: Give me shit, and then take off on your own.
Liam: Well, I'm not going to stick my face in something.
Matt: All right. So you fly up. (flapping wings) 60 feet a round. It'll take you a good five minutes or so to make your way towards the top end of the spire. As you're going, make an investigation check.
Liam: Can I stealth as cloud?
Matt: Oh, you're going cloud! Sorry, I thought you were doing your wings. As a cloud, you get there really fast. So as you make it up there, you cannot-- I will say, for the purposes of this...
Liam: I'm wind. I'm not going high, I'm going through the treetops.
Matt: Yeah, so make a stealth check.
Liam: All right, I will. That is very good. That is a 35.
Matt: 35, okay. As far as you understand, no one seems to see you. Make an investigation check as you make your way up the mountainside to check for any sort of entrances.
Laura: You should mark off one of your Lucks because you already used it for the day.
Liam: I did, it's on the plastic.
Sam: Keep him honest.
Liam: Oh man. I love you so wholeheartedly, and on a regular basis you kick me in the goolies. I don't understand it.
Sam: Good old four-Luck O'Brien.
Liam: Seven Luck. It's not per game, it's per day, so if we go to bed, it resets. Fart knockers. I'm doing investigation? That's 18.
Matt: 18. You glide around there for a good ten, 15 minutes or so, scouring the edge. All you know is it's near the top, and you see no sign of an entrance.
Liam: Okay. So it's not a volcanic hole or anything, there's just a secret entrance.
Matt: No. She told you there was supposedly an entrance, but you see nothing. Sheer rock. There are a couple of indents that could be cave entrances, but when you get close you see it's just a small alcove that ends.
Laura: Maybe you should try sticking your face against some of the sheer rock face.
Liam: I return to my loving sister, kind and good. I land, and say, I saw another face, but I didn't stick my face in it, because that would be stupid.
Marisha: I wonder if there's another face behind the cave-in.
Laura: You know what, I should probably find out! And I shoot the Oracle Arrow.
Matt: Okay. You shoot the Oracle Arrow and--
Marisha: Wait, into the cave-in, or the illusory wall?
Matt: How far do you fire it? Is it full strength, is it a lob?
Laura: No, I don't want to go crazy far. I want to get in, a little bit further to see if I can find any more traps, and see how that face works.
Travis: What percentage of your strength do you shoot it at? 70? 50? 25?
Laura: 65 percent of my strength is used.
Matt: Okay. (whoosh) As you release it, it's still a good distance. It (whoosh) continues through. As you go past the face, the one that shot the green light, you can see the front of it is darkened now, from where before it was untouched. It cruises past. You see the formations. It looks like there's some cool designs here and there. The arrow eventually comes to rest. You don't see anything of interest as you pass by that quickly. You do see a very, very faint glow down the hall. You can see the glimmer of light, and as you watch, it's shifting ever so slightly, flickering like firelight.
Laura: I think there's a fire further in.
Travis: Was the face there?
Laura: The face is in there.
Travis: Was it doing the life-sucking thing?
Laura: Not to my arrow. But it was there on the wall.
Travis: I'll go in.
Laura: No, no, no, Grog, don't!
Ashley: She got hurt!
Travis: Yeah, but I'm stacked for days.
Laura: We should dispel it or something.
Jon: I got your back, Grog.
Taliesin: We've got another entrance.
Marisha: I can Dispel Magic still.
Laura: Yeah, see if you can dispel the magic!
Taliesin: Let's see if there's a second entrance.
Marisha: Well, there is a second entrance. One is up top.
Taliesin: Well, they're going to think we're coming in through here, because they know about this entrance. Maybe they don't know about the other one, so we could maybe be super tricky and take an entrance they don't know about at all.
Marisha: I can clear out the cave-in. I imagine if someone is trying to cause an intentional cave-in, they're anticipating no one going through that cave-in, and we can start there.
Jon: I at least know my way in, if we cleared that.
Taliesin: If I were expecting people, I'd expect them through the entrance I take or the cave-in, not a third entrance I don't know about, though. Assuming they don't know about it.
Marisha: But they do know about the up. He said there was a face.
Jon: No, he's talking about the third entrance, that's lower.
Taliesin: Higher.
Jon: No, I thought that was the higher one.
Marisha: Hang on, hang on. There are three entrances: the cave-in, the one where Vex just got exploded, and one through the top of the spire.
Liam: Which I could not find.
Taliesin: Should we take a group look for the top of the spire?
Marisha: If we go through the cave-in entrance, I can clear it out. I will clear one of my last high-level spells, but Lionel knows his way through that way.
Laura: Yeah, but we shouldn't go in the night. We need to rest.
Marisha: But I can clear it tonight.
Taliesin: We could just make a tiny hole in the cave-in and become smoke and go inside. Is that not possible? He asked.
Matt: That may be quite possible, actually.
Taliesin: So that they wouldn't even know that we had cleared it. It would just be relatively untouched.
Marisha: Can we camp out inside?
Matt: It's a gaseous form, so yeah.
Laura: We would have to camp inside the cave-in.
Taliesin: It's either that or camp right in front of the front door after just triggering a spell.
Laura: Oh, Scanlan! We've been so long without you, I forgot we had it!
Marisha: Oh my god, we have the mansion!
Liam: I mean, only if you want to. I remember that being a sore spot.
Sam: I don't even know if you guys want me to come in with you. I've taken you this far. But if you need me in there, I'll come.
Ashley: No, you'll be coming.
Sam: All right. Let's make a hole and go in, and then we can camp the night inside.
Jon: I think some of my dead comrades we could use as pillows. They're probably still in there.
Taliesin: That may not be necessary.
Ashley: Body pillow.
Taliesin: I'm so proud of you! That was amazing!
Matt: So what's the plan, guys?
Laura: We're going to go back to the cave-in. Oh, wait, wait, wait! I did have a question. I feel like it might be smart to get my arrow out of there, in case anybody comes out and sees an arrow.
Ashley: That's a good idea.
Laura: But I don't know how to do that. Is there an Unseen Servant or something?
Jon: I'll run in real fast and get it.
Sam: No, do not do that. I, Scanlan Shorthalt, can go get it, if you'd like.
Laura: No, Scanlan, that's not what I meant.
Sam: I can go get it if you'd like.
Laura: No, I don't want you to go in! It fucking sucks your life out!
Sam: It's easy. I'll be there and back in two seconds.
Jon: But there's a face-sucking thing.
Laura: Do I know how many feet in it went?
Matt: You're not entirely certain. I'd say a couple hundred, maybe. 150.
Travis: You did 65 percent of your...
Sam: You're an expert marksman, you know. Within 100 feet? Yeah, how about this? Why don't you shoot an arrow right now, outside the cave, same strength, and see how far it goes?
Laura: You got it.
Matt: Okay. So what's the range on your bow?
Laura: Oh, that's a good question. Fenthras, exalted.
Matt: It's a longbow. It's just a general longbow's range. Do you have that written down?
Laura: What? Like 120 feet? Is it that, or is it more?
Matt: 150 is your first increment, and then 600 is your second increment.
Taliesin: 65 is like 400 feet.
Matt: Approximately, yeah.
Taliesin: Or the closest wall. Did it hit a wall?
Matt: It did not hit a wall.
Taliesin: 400 feet.
Laura: That's really far. No, but how would you do it? How would you do it?
Sam: I have ways.
Liam: Could you see through the mouth of this face that you saw, when you were in there?
Laura: I saw eyes.
Matt: There was no eyes. There was empty sockets, a mouth, and a nose, and then suddenly the sockets began to glow green for a second, and then the hit.
Laura: The sockets glowed green and then I got hit.
Liam: So you couldn't see through the mouth, it was just a dark maw.
Laura: Right. But the eyes glowed.
Ashley: You're just going to go in there, Scanlan?
Sam: You want to come?
Ashley: How are you going to do this?
Sam: The way I always go. Dimension Door.
Laura: What if it can reach you that far in?
Sam: It can't.
Ashley: How do you know?
Sam: I assume.
Ashley: Well, I'm not going with you!
Sam: Great.
Liam: I'll go with you.
Sam: You can't.
Laura: You're too big.
Sam: I'll just go. Dimension Door 400 feet straight in.
Ashley: Wait, I'll go with him. I'm going to go with you. I'm keeping my eye on him.
Matt: All right. (poof) You guys appear inside the cavern. Darkness. You can see the firelight ahead, the flicker at the end of the tunnel, and you can see the tunnel, the straight portion of it, maybe 100 feet forward, begins to shift and bend a little bit. It starts to turn into more of a natural cavern as it goes. Whatever drove its way in here has merged with a natural path on the inside of the mountain, possibly even merged with the cave-in path. You look on the ground, and both of you guys make investigation checks, if you don't mind.
Ashley: Investigation, did you say?
Sam: 30.
Ashley: I'm sure he found something. 11.
Matt: In the time it takes you to go, "Okay, we're looking..." He's like, "Found it!" You find the arrow. A little dust drifts off of it, and as you're walking you can see that there's a softness to the ground here. You get the sense that the formation, whatever rock was pushed through here, was... There's no pile of rock outside, there's no symbol of the earth that was carved out of this tunnel, recently it seems, placed anywhere. There's just an absence of rock, and there's a heavy layer of dust on the ground.
Laura: Do either of you have Dust of Tracelessness?
Ashley: No. Well.
Sam: Go back?
Ashley: Yeah. Let's go back.
Sam: Will you hold my hand?
Ashley: No. No, don't push your luck.
Matt: (poof) You guys bamf back out of the outside. You watch as Scanlan and Pike reemerge from the outside, Scanlan holding your arrow triumphant.
Laura: Oh, it's dusty. Was it dusty in there?
Sam: It was very dusty in there.
Liam: Any footprints?
Ashley: None that we could see.
Sam: Soft un-tread earth.
Liam: Weird.
Laura: Thank you.
Marisha: Oh, no.
Liam: What is it, Kiki?
Marisha: Maybe this is the unused entrance. Maybe the cave-in is the more recent.
Laura: No, I see tracks coming in and out of this place. I know there's people that use this.
Matt: Yeah, fairly recent tracks.
Liam: But you saw no footprints inside?
Ashley: Did you, Scanlan? You should've seen something. Did you look?
Sam: No, I forgot. I was looking for the arrow. That was our mission.
Ashley: Well, I was just making sure you weren't going to run away, so I was preoccupied.
Jon: So you guys both accomplished your missions! Awesome!
Laura: Maybe we should go back into the other side, then. Unless somebody can just fucking dispel that face, and then we can just go in this way.
Marisha: I could attempt it. I have Dispel Magic with me right now.
Travis: Do it!
Marisha: All right. I'll do it.
Liam: Is the plan to camp out tonight? In the mansion, by a fire, whichever?
Laura: In the mansion.
Taliesin: I'm going to point out, I've already been looking for a way into the cave-in while you've all been being ridiculous.
Laura: You've already gone back?
Taliesin: The minute he suggested that he get it, I didn't want to be a part of that, so I just immediately went in to start testing to see if there was ways we could just meld through the cave-in, or if we actually had to make a hole.
Matt: So you're inspecting?
Taliesin: I misty-ed out of that the minute that he started working on it.
Matt: So you're over, currently looking for a way through?
Taliesin: Seeing if I can find ways through.
Matt: You manage to squeeze through a few crevices between the stones and rock, but it's pretty densely packed. You get maybe five feet in before you can't really find a way to get your whole mist form through.
Taliesin: I'm going to start, back to normal, at the very top of the pile, looking to see if I can start scraping through using my sword to make a crevice.
Matt: Okay, so you're working on that. What are you guys doing?
Sam: Are we trying to dispel the magic or are we going in the other way? Maybe we should just make a decision.
Marisha: I'm trying to dispel the magic.
Matt: Okay. So you walk up to the illusory wall.
Marisha: I'm having Vex be like, tell me where it is. Can I prepare it so as soon as I poke my head in, I can be like (dink)!
Matt: Okay. You poke your head in, and as soon as you glance off to the side, you can see the stone face in the wall.
Marisha: (poof)
Matt: Cast Dispel Magic... Doesn't seem to have an effect.
Marisha: Bail. Bail! Bail! Out!
Laura: Did it hit you that fast? It didn't hit you?
Matt: There was no attack from the face, either.
Taliesin: I get the distinct impression, perhaps, that you used it up, and probably alerted them that somebody was at that entrance.
Laura: Let's maybe move away from the entrance.
Marisha: Can I peek my head back in and do a...
Matt: You glance in. No trigger, nothing. The face seems inert.
Laura: I peek my head in. Does the flickering light in the distance seem brighter?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Laura: It's too many choices. Too many dice. Fucking shit, motherfuck! Wait, wait, it's a mountain.
Matt: It is a mountain. You get to have an advantage. That's what rangers do, man!
Liam: Was the light seen by the arrow?
Matt: The light was seen by the arrow.
Liam: So you're looking at the face.
Laura: No, I'm looking in the fucking tunnel.
Matt: The face is on the side of it. It's beyond.
Liam: Oh, it keeps going?
Matt: Yeah. So depending on how high her perception is, she may, now that she sees the flicker at the end, she may be able to see something. So how high did you roll?
Laura: 31.
Matt: That would be high enough to just barely focus your half-elven eyes and glance down. You get to see the very faint bead of light at the very tip, and it doesn't seem to change over the next 30 seconds, next minute, next two minutes while you focus intently. You don't see any shift or change.
Ashley: Should we just go in?
Laura: We could.
Jon: So you think the face is recharging?
Laura: I think I might have used up its only charge, potentially. Or it's recharging.
Jon: It's like a booby trap, used once.
Liam: I will take a look at it, and look at the area and see if there's anything left to it or other traps further down.
Matt: Okay. Make an investigation check.
Sam: Well, if he's going in, Taryon will go in and Identify the thing.
Matt: Okay. Go ahead and make an arcana check.
Liam: 19.
Matt: 19, okay. You glance by, you check it. As you both are looking at it, both Taryon and Vax approach the face, and the carving is rudimentary. It looks more like it was prepared as the basis of-- what did you roll?
Sam: 17, but I've got Identify.
Matt: Yeah. There's no magical essence to it any longer, but your arcana check shows that you can see that there are certain small carvings in it that look to be some sort of sigil or glyph that is designed to hold a spell until triggered, and then it's released. Actually, Pike, you've used this once before. It's an actual Glyph of Warding spell that is utilized to hold a spell in and release it upon some sort of a trigger.
Sam: So it's one-time use, so we're good to go in this way if we'd like.
Laura: Does the Glyph of Warding alert you once it's gone off?
Ashley: I don't think so.
Matt: You don't recall. You didn't know your glyph went off until you found the destroyed body of the prisoner that you had released in Westruun long ago.
Laura: Oh, right. The guy that was stealing all that gold.
Ashley: And then I think we also put one on the top of the loot for the dragon?
Matt: That's the one that got him. He tried to get some money on the way out, and you found his body blown up and dragged about 20 feet off before he expired.
Ashley: Yeah, I don't think it alerts anybody.
Laura: Okay, good. Then we are probably safe going in. I'm going to cast Pass Without a Trace on us. I'm going to see how many people I can cast it on. Every creature I choose within 30 feet of me! So, sweet, it's everybody.
Matt: Yep. All right. You notice, Lionel, as you guys step in, even in your Darkvision-- which, by the way, for your two human companions, it is complete darkness. You had a little bit of starlight, and your eyes had adjusted to it where you could see the edges and rims of different shapes within the mountain range, but once you step past the illusory barrier into the interior of the cavern, it is just darkness.
Laura: Is Percy back yet?
Taliesin: Yes, I just got back.
Laura: Percy, hold on to my waist, dear.
Sam: Should we use our flashlights or no?
Taliesin: No, I don't think so.
Liam: I'm going to stay 30 feet in front of the group and continue to check for traps.
Matt: All right, so everyone roll stealth.
Laura: And add ten to it because of Pass Without a Trace.
Sam: Doty's going to click his boots of whatever. His boots of elven...
Matt: That give him the bonus on stealth checks?
Sam: Yeah, elvenkind.
Travis: 26.
Ashley: 30! That's never going to happen again.
Matt: Vex?
Laura: 25.
Liam: 37.
Matt: Pike is more stealthy than Vex right now!
Laura: It's because Percy's holding on to my waist.
Matt: I understand. Keyleth?
Marisha: 26.
Taliesin: 21.
Jon: 28.
Sam: Scanlan got 29, Taryon got 25, and Doty got a two, but with his boots-- what do his boots do? Shit!
Matt: The boots give him advantage on stealth checks. He gets to roll again.
Sam: Okay. 17! Plus ten, yeah.
Matt: There you go. So you guys silently make your way in. I would like a marching order on this, because it is about ten feet wide, this tunnel, and you guys can only go in there two at a time, shoulder-to-shoulder.
Taliesin: Who's got the best night vision?
Laura: Actually, Doty has the best night vision. He's got complete Darkvision? Oh, we all have Darkvision.
Matt: Okay, so Vax and Pike in the front.
Liam: Check for traps, check for traps, check for traps.
Laura: We didn't take a nap.
Sam: Do you want to stop and camp?
Laura: Maybe in a little bit.
Taliesin: I'm all right with the notion of getting a little deeper in.
Matt: All right, so. Pike and Vax at the front. All right. Who's after them?
Laura: Me and Percy.
Ashley: I tug on Vax's shirt just to let him know I'm there.
Sam: I feel like good old Chod should be near the tip of the spear since he knows the inside of this place a bit.
Laura: That's true. What did he roll for stealth?
Matt: He rolled a 28 I think.
Jon: Have I been in this area?
Matt: You have not been in this specific tunnel. You haven't seen anything that looks familiar. The path you went before was a natural cavern. This one is pushed straight through.
Jon: Yeah. But I can see how, I'm the only one who's been in this mountain, so there's maybe a little trust. I got this! I haven't been here, but I got it!
Matt: All right, so do you push your way towards the front?
Jon: Sure.
Matt: All right. So, Pike and Vax, as you guys are moving forward, your bardbarian friend pushes aside and muscles up to become the point at the tip of the sphere.
Jon: I crop-dust all of you as I go in front of you.
Matt: After that, after Percy and Vex?
Marisha: I'll go.
Matt: All right. Keyleth, and we still have Taryon, Scanlan...
Sam: Taryon next, with Doty with him.
Matt: Taryon with Doty behind. Doty is going to be two people in the cavern. So who's behind Doty?
Travis: Me.
Matt: All right, Grog. And...
Sam: Scanlan will be in the rear.
Matt: All right, so Scanlan is alongside Grog. I imagine you have Trinket in your necklace?
Laura: Yes.
Matt: All right. So at the very end, Grog, you're walking, and Scanlan's there at your side, and Doty walking in front of you, lumbering, surprisingly quiet. And you get the sense the reason you're so stealthy in here is because as you step, it's soft. It's like stepping on a bunch of very, very fine powder. (heavy footsteps) It helps cushion your footfalls.
Marisha: Like snow? Or ash?
Matt: Like ash, almost. Like a very, very fine dust.
Marisha: Can I dip down and grab a bit of it and do a nature check on it? Is it ash?
Matt: Sure, make a nature check.
Laura: It's cocaine!
Matt: First she eats the soul, then she just does a line in the middle of the tunnel. Keyleth's gone off the end, it's really bad.
Marisha: 15.
Matt: 15's not too bad. You taste it, and you smell it. It's not ash. It's very, very, very fine powder. It has an earthy rock taste to it.
Liam: And are there any tracks or footprints ahead of Pike and I?
Matt: Make a survival check.
Liam: Survival. Ooh, that's good. 19.
Matt: 19. You do see some tracks stepping up and down, yes.
Liam: Both ways?
Matt: Both ways.
Liam: Shite.
Matt: All right. So pushing forward, another 30 or 40 feet, roll another investigation check.
Liam: Not perception?
Matt: Not for checking for traps, man, it's investigation. Always been.
Liam: 21.
Matt: 21, okay.
Sam: Fine, if Matt wants to change the rules 100 games in, I guess so.
Matt: All right, so you continue moving forward. You do not see any traps, anything that catches your attention.
Marisha: Can I just do a little, I'm going to scoop up a little bit and say, Percy, can I get a little bit of water added onto this? Can I do another nature check on what this is?
Travis: You are fucking fascinated with the god damn ash.
Matt: I'm not going to tell you to make another nature check. You can't keep making rolls until you get a better one. It turns into an immediate mud. It's a very, very fine silt, almost.
Taliesin: What color is the rock?
Matt: The powder, you mean?
Taliesin: I can't see anything, can I? Never mind.
Matt: You can see nothing. In fact, when you say, "Percy, get some water on this," you're like, "What? I don't-- where?" You have to guide his hand.
Liam: And is it dead silent in here?
Matt: It's dead quiet from where you currently are. You can make a perception check to listen in to see if you hear anything ahead.
Liam: 24.
Matt: 24. You listen carefully and you hear faint sounds of footsteps and scraping stone. In one little, sounds like a (whistle), like a brief sucking sound, and that's it.
Liam: Over the earring, not alone. Not alone. Something up ahead. I don't think we're camping.
Laura: If we camp, then they won't find us. They can't see the door.
Liam: What do y'all want to do?
Travis: You're on point. Keep going.
Ashley: I say we keep going. If it's an emergency, we can all jump into the mansion, maybe.
Taliesin: I'll activate my boots.
Ashley: Is everybody okay to keep going?
Matt: Okay. You continue another 40, 50 feet down the path. Make another investigation check.
Liam: Natural 20.
Matt: You go a little further ahead and you come upon what appears to be two more of those faces, that are facing the inside of the wall maybe 30 feet ahead. And you stop. You can see they're both facing outward, towards the center of the hallway.
Liam: Kiki, a couple more faces. Can you shimmy your way up here, please?
Marisha: I get down on my hands and elbows.
Laura: Percy, spread your legs! I let her crawl through us.
Liam: Left hand green!
Marisha: Where are they?
Liam: Right over there, right up ahead, 30 feet. Both sides.
Matt: He points it out to you, and you can just barely see the smooth walls, the almost oval, circular passageway, you can see the slight lift of the side rock where the faces form a very faint profile.
Marisha: I scootch a few more inches and use my last two 3rd-level spells.
Matt: Okay. Roll a d20. Add your wisdom modifier, please.
Marisha: Just my straight modifier?
Matt: Yep.
Marisha: Don't fuck me Gil! Okay, that's good, that's good. 19 on the first one.
Matt: Okay, roll again on the second one.
Marisha: 18 on the second one.
Matt: Okay. As you take a moment (whoosh), the first one releases, and you watch as the face suddenly begins to glow with this dull, grayish, black crackling energy, and then (poof). The energy seems to vanish and disperse, with the one on the left. You turn and release Dispel Magic on the one on the right, and you watch as the same effect happens. (poof) Disperses as well.
Marisha: Okay, we're good!
Laura: (sings) You're the best around! Okay, keep going forward.
Liam: Grab her shoulder, move slowly past, pull Pickle along, and continue to carefully search.
Matt: Okay. As you approach and step toward the space right between where the two faces are, you make one footfall between the two of them, and nothing happens. You successfully dispelled the effect.
Ashley: You sneaky.
Matt: Wanted to fuck with you. You continue pushing forward for another 50 or so feet. You're starting to get fairly close at this point to where the arrow may have dropped.
Laura: Oh, shit, you were right by fucking other faces when you popped in before!
Matt: You moved just a little bit beyond them. Make another investigation check. You're not there yet, but you're getting closer.
Liam: 18.
Matt: 18, okay. You don't seem to notice any strange or different elements of the topography that worry you. You push on for another 40, 50 feet or so, and you're just now on the cusp of where the arrow dropped. Make another investigation check.
Laura: Roll super good.
Liam: That's at least an 18. Oh, it's better than 18. It is 26.
Matt: Okay. You don't notice any traps or any issues in the vicinity. You do see the footprints of Pike and Scanlan where they first arrived earlier before, venturing into this cavern, and pushing forward about 20 or so feet, the smooth cavern begins to turn into more of a natural, almost a volcanic tube-type physicality to it, and you can see to the left, another tunnel merges with it. You begin to recognize this. It looks like this carved tunnel is now dovetailing into the path that you guys found your way in, the one that was collapsed on the exit. Now the path that you know and the path you're traversing have finally merged into one singular path.
Jon: I know this place, you guys! Let's go down the left one.
Laura: Shh!
Taliesin: Left?
Jon: Yeah. There's one that's-- we can either go straight, or there's one at the...
Matt: The one that's on the left will lead you back to the entrance where you first came in, but it was collapsed, the one that you knew. If you keep going straight, it'll lead you towards the light and where you saw these people last time you were here.
Jon: If we go left, it's going to take us back the other way, so that's safe, but we could keep going straight where the light is.
Liam: We're here for your friends, right?
Jon: Yeah, they might still be alive. And I call out, hello?
Matt: Okay. It echoes. "Hello?" Everyone make a perception check.
Sam: Right now I'm looking at the back of Grog's ass. But I got a 19.
Marisha: Natural 19.
Travis: 10.
Ashley: 22.
Laura: 22.
Jon: 21.
Taliesin: 13.
Matt: 19, you got, right?
Marisha: Yeah. That's a 34 total.
Liam: 32.
Matt: All right. Everyone over 20, you listen and you can hear very faint voices (whispering), and it sounds like movement moving quicker.
Laura: Scanlan? Maybe now is the time for that door.
Sam: For the door? The mansion?
Laura: Yeah.
Sam: Okay. It takes a minute to cast.
Liam: That's not going to work. We've got company coming.
Laura: How near do the voices sound?
Matt: They don't sound like they're getting louder. Doesn't sound like they're getting closer, you just hear voices.
Sam: Do you want me to?
Laura: Let's backtrack to the caved-in tunnel.
Jon: Maybe it's my friends. Should we go?
Laura: No. Let's backtrack to the caved-in tunnel and set up the door.
Marisha: You guys go. I'll wait here just in case.
Jon: I'll stay with you.
Taliesin: Be quiet.
Matt: Okay. You guys make your way towards the caved-in entrance.
Taliesin: I'll stay with the two of you because I can't see shit and I'll slow you down. If things happen, they're going to light up. It'll be all right.
Matt: Okay. So you guys make your way back to the entranceway.
Liam: I actually stay halfway between both.
Matt: You stay halfway between, okay. It's roughly about 150, 200 feet this direction. It's a shallower cavern to this area than the one you came through. It's a longer way in, but you manage to find the other end of this cave-in. It's rocks that have tumbled in and clustered. Keyleth, you glance over and you see shapes moving in the light, and as you glance up ahead, about 30 feet ahead of you, you see six figures heading your direction. Humanoid.
Sam: That's 100,000 dollars, yo. Six figures, moving your direction!
Marisha: Holy shit, a brand new Tesla is coming this way! Okay. Hey, we have people. We have people coming this way, about six of them. Just letting you know, probably going to be some fighting coming up, and that is your update from the Voice of the Tempest.
Liam: I'm creeping back.
Matt: All right. So you go ahead and you meet up with Keyleth. The rest of you are back by the doorway. Scanlan, you're taking a minute to cast this?
Sam: I mean, you told me to do this, right?
Laura: I thought we were not going to fight, but it's up to everybody else.
Taliesin: We may need a place to disappear to, so yes.
Marisha: It's not a bad idea. We can hold them off.
Sam: Okay. I'm out of the fight, then. So I'll start casting and singing.
Matt: Okay, so Scanlan begins working on casting the magnificent--
Sam: (sings) When people keep repeating that you need a place to sleep, when everybody starts retreating but you need a really cool keep, let Scanlan open the door. Let Scanlan open the door! Let Scanlan open the door to your house!
Matt: So as this is commencing-- Oh, I've missed that.
Jon: I've never heard music. I want to stay back with him. No, I'm kidding, I want to stay. I'm still with her.
Matt: All right, so we have Lionel, Keyleth, and eventually Vax, and the rest of you are still back at the entranceway.
Marisha: And Percy.
Matt: Oh, Percy's there.
Laura: I'm going to stand at the entrance of the tunnel and guard Scanlan.
Matt: Okay. Keyleth, you keep an eye out and you watch as they approach. They're in a sprint, a wild sprint. You notice the humanoid figures, there's a lot of clacking sounds, and you immediately notice they're thinner than a fleshed-out human. These are skeletal. They are skeletons in armor with shields and weapons, and they're (snarling) scattering through the hallway towards you at a very fast pace.
Marisha: I'm just going to say, Pike? Pike, I think we've got some undead coming our way. Probably going to need some Divine Smiting.
Ashley: Coming right up.
Matt: Pike's little legs start making her way. It's going to take you a while to get there.
Marisha: As I call Pike, I'm going to go ahead and be like, here we go. (boom).
Matt: What do you do?
Marisha: Fireball.
Matt: A Fireball!
Marisha: I can see them, right? They're close enough?
Matt: For a Fireball, most definitely.
Marisha: Okay. Out of the spire.
Matt: So. Keyleth, I want you to go ahead and roll your damage.
Marisha: Okay. Fireball is... Hang on, wait, I'm not a sorcerer. I should've had this prepared. I admit I should've had this. It's something d8? d10's? Fireball. 8d6 fire damage.
Matt: One of them rolled a natural 20.
Marisha: One, two, three, four, five, six, give me two more.
Matt: That was a 19 and a 20.
Marisha: A 19 and a 20? That's a lot.
Matt: Your spell DC is what, 21?
Marisha: 21, yeah.
Matt: All right, so two of them make their save.
Taliesin: You re-roll.
Marisha: I reroll ones. (counting) 34 damage.
Matt: 34 damage. All right. You watch as four of these skeletons explode, their bones detonating and exploding all over the cavern. You watch as it bounces around and breaks and shatters, and you hear them all clattering into the dust below. Two more push through the flames. You can see the armor, the leather they have on is now burning behind them and is causing this glow in the alley. You see this, Percy.
Taliesin: How loud was this Fireball?
Matt: It was pretty loud. It's a Fireball.
Taliesin: I'll take two shots at the two that came through.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: We're here.
Taliesin: I'm going to curl up to the top and upside-down, take two shots.
Matt: Okay.
Jon: This is with your rifle?
Taliesin: Yeah, with my big rifle. That's not bad. A 20 and a 27 to hit.
Matt: Both hit.
Taliesin: Actually, even more than that.
Matt: Don't even worry about rolling damage because even your minimum damage, with what damage they'd taken from the Fireball? Both shots, you hit them both in the ribcage, in the sternum and the back of the spinal column and they fold into themselves and crumple into spinning pieces of bone. You watch as the momentum of their movement causes them to scatter across the dust. Both of them. (gunshots)
Marisha: Hey, Pike? Hold that order for that divine smiting. We're going to need it probably in a second.
Ashley: I'm here. Did you save any for me?
Taliesin: There will be more.
Marisha: I think there's going to be more.
Ashley: I take out my mace and get ready.
Jon: I want some now.
Matt: All right, as you guys are waiting there... 30 seconds passes. 30 seconds pass. Scanlan, you finish your spell. The doorway appears up. There doesn't appear to be anything else currently coming down the hall after you.
Laura: (singing) Scanlan, open the door.
Marisha: (singing) Scanlan, open the door.
Travis: We going in or what?
Laura: You guys want to camp? Let's go.
Taliesin: Can we leave something here? Is there some sort of alarm that we can set?
Laura: Like a glyph?
Ashley: A Glyph of Warding?
Taliesin: Like a Glyph of Warding.
Ashley: Yes, we can.
Jon: Can you put it on the faces that already exist so that they think--
Ashley: Ooh. Chod!
Sam: And an idiot shall lead them.
Jon: What's an idiot?
Liam: Broken clock. Twice a day. Well done.
Taliesin: Let's take a long rest and see if we can get two more.
Matt: You do notice, Keyleth, that the flickering light, the firelight, is getting brighter. The firelight is now becoming more of a white light, and it's a flickering white light.
Marisha: How hot does a campfire normally get? Not that hot, right?
Laura: Not that hot.
Marisha: Oh no. Something bad. Hey, Pike? Fire. Fire is very white. White fire.
Ashley: Huh.
Laura: Feel like coming to the campsite? Maybe?
Taliesin: Let's start backing up.
Ashley: Okay.
Marisha: Okay.
Marisha: Back up a little bit.
Ashley: Are we close to the faces at all, still?
Matt: You're maybe about 70 to 100 feet.
Ashley: On the way back?
Matt: You're backing up through a different tunnel, so there's no faces that you've seen on this side.
Taliesin: Let's leave it at the shift, so if they go up our tunnel, we'll know.
Ashley: Great. I throw up a Glyph of Warding right there.
Matt: Glyph of Warding. What's the casting time on the glyph?
Ashley: A gift for someone.
Matt: What's the casting time on the glyph?
Sam: A gif of cording.
Matt: Yes, that one.
Laura: We can't find the card.
Ashley: Give me just one second. I don't know if it slipped underneath.
Sam: Probably a minute.
Taliesin: Everything fun takes a minute.
Matt: All right. Glyph of Warding is one hour casting time.
Taliesin: Oh, never mind!
Ashley: You know what? We don't have time, so maybe we can just hop into the mansion.
Taliesin: Watch an episode of House of Cards, and by then Glyph of Warding will be done?
Laura: Keep an eye. Hop in the mansion?
Taliesin: Let's hop in the mansion.
Matt: All right. You guys hop into the mansion. You all make your way into the center of Scanlan's magnificent mansion. Lionel, you step through this weird sparkling purple doorway that wasn't there before, and as you go through, the temperature becomes very comfortable-warm. It's well-kept inside. It's climate-controlled. There's these beautiful marble pillars. There's this royal red and gold carpet that spreads out over this dual staircase that winds up to a second floor. It's a gorgeous mansion. The interior's immaculately designed, and you watch as about a dozen or so spectral people suddenly float in with their arms crossed and give a bow and a nod to you as you arrive.
Laura: Before we go in, will you throw down the Dust of Tracelessness?
Travis: No.
Laura: Grog.
Travis: Yeah. (laughter)
Matt: All right. You guys are all inside the mansion.
Laura: Well. That was fun.
Marisha: It's been a while. You've redecorated.
Sam: I put some new art pieces in here. They're all counterfeit, but still good.
Liam: How's the menu?
Sam: The menu's changed quite a bit.
Taliesin: Oh, do tell.
Sam: Kaylie got sick of chicken about two weeks in, so she's got me on this vegan thing. (sighs) She says it'll make me last longer and feel healthier and stuff.
Laura: Last longer?
Sam: Well, you know. Live longer. She said all that meat was probably bad for me, so it's all salads now.
Marisha: Only salads?
Sam: Yeah. Different kinds of salad.
Laura: That's it? That's all they make, is salad?
Sam: That's what she told them to make, and that's what they're making now.
Laura: But you run the place.
Sam: Well, I don't want to cross her. She has me on a diet, and I'm trying to stick to it. It will be all salad.
Taliesin: Is it more tasteful in here now?
Sam: Tasteful?
Taliesin: Is it more tasteful in the mansion?
Matt: Is it more tasteful in the mansion? No, I didn't think so.
Laura: Is the picture still up that Pike commissioned?
Sam: Yeah, sure. It's there.
Travis: You didn't replace that?
Sam: Maybe we should all retire to our rooms for a while and come back for dinner.
Laura: Is Tary-- does he have his own room, as well?
Sam: Oh, that's the fancy fellow you've brought with you.
Laura: Yeah. Tary, Scanlan. Scanlan, Tary.
Sam: The new Scanlan. Yeah, right.
Travis: Tary, say hi.
Sam: Hello! I'm Taryon Darrington. I've been quite pleased to spend some time with your friends for the last year, and it's-- you have wonderful friends. You should honor and cherish them. They are the best people I've ever met in my life, and this is a lovely home you have.
Travis: Scanlan, don't be rude. Respond.
Sam: (sighs) It's nice to meet you, too. Thank you for looking after my friends. I guess any friend of Vox Machina is a friend of mine. You can use the downstairs. The basement room.
Laura: Scanlan, you can add a room at a thought!
Taliesin: He can have my room.
Laura: He can have your room.
Taliesin: That will be fine.
Jon: Do you have any bunkbeds?
Sam: No. I don't have bunkbeds.
Jon: Do you have a hammock?
Sam: No, I don't think I do, but there might be some spare cots and stuff downstairs.
Travis: Lionel, there is a war room down in the bottom of this bitch.
Jon: War room?
Travis: Yeah. It's got all the things people like you and me need. We're covered.
Jon: Sweet.
Travis: Sand pit, fighting dummies.
Jon: Dibs on the sand pit.
Travis: Shit. (laughter)
Jon: It'll make me feel like I'm at home.
Travis: Fair enough.
Ashley: There's also the spa, right?
Sam: Yeah. It was destroyed but rebuilt. It's lined with iron now, in case there's an explosion.
Liam: Wise.
Sam: Yeah.
Matt: Do you guys all scatter to your rooms for a moment to take a rest?
Laura: I guess so.
Liam: Do you want to play some cards or something?
Sam: Sure! That will be great.
Liam: Want to go back to, what, your room?
Sam: That will be fine, yeah. Let's go.
Matt: All righty. You guys head back to Scanlan's room? We're going to take a break here. We'll return here and pick up from that exact moment here, in just a few minutes. Real fast, we do have a Wyrmwood giveaway. It is the black walnut complete dice tower system and tabletop dice tray with leather rolling surface.
Laura: Should we open it and see what color that is?
Matt: I'll open some of it. I'm not going to open all of it.
Laura: Just one, because it's all black walnut.
Matt: Black walnut is this really nice dark color. The leather interior is really nice. This will be going to the person who wins in the Twitch chat. Enter the code "hundred." The word "hundred" is the code for the evening. Put it in there. Good luck to whoever wins, and we'll see you guys back here in a few minutes. (cheering) [break]
Matt: And welcome back, ladies and gentlemen, to Critical Role. First and foremost, we have our winner in the chat: AJSparks08, congratulations, you won the fantastic Wyrmwood package. Denovo will contact you shortly to get your address and shipping information. Congratulations, on our 100th episode Wyrmwood giveaway! Also, it's come to our attention that the chat room and the Internet is convinced that this is not a real set and we are apparently on a green screen, so I wanted to show you guys how incredibly real this -- no, I'm kidding, it's actually real. It's a real set, it's actually here. It's a real set.
Laura: Don't fuck up the wrinkles, they look so good in the light!
Matt: But I do understand illusions are prominent in magical realms, apparently.
Travis: Because of the beautiful spot behind you, can you give us one Vidal Sassoon wave of your--
Laura: Yeah, because you have a backlight!
Matt: No.
Laura: And a halo around you, because of the shield!
Travis: It's kind of magnificent. Yeah!
Matt: I hate you all so much.
Laura: Now your hair is extra fluffy because you did it.
Matt: God damn it. All right! Why do I listen to these people?
Sam: Maybe he's born with it.
Jon: Maybe it's--
Matt: "Tary?" All right, so leaving us back where we left off, you guys had all scattered to your various rooms in Scanlan's magnificent mansion. Vax, you had gone off with Scanlan?
Liam: Catch up, play cards.
Matt: All right, so you make your way to the chambers.
Liam: Boy, it is more extravagant in here than I remember.
Sam: Well, to be fair, you hadn't spent a lot of time in my room.
Liam: No, but there was just one mirror on the ceiling, and now there are three.
Sam: I need to get every angle, don't I?
Liam: Yeah, that's weird. Do you want to play cards?
Sam: Sure. Rummy gin? Gin rummy? Pinochle?
Liam: Yeah, I'll pretend to know what those are.
Sam: Spades? Hearts?
Liam: Let's do hearts.
Sam: Okay. I'll deal.
Liam: Okay. No idea how to play this game. But Vax does!
Sam: I will win.
Liam: All right, so catch me up, man!
Sam: I mean, there's a lot to talk about in a year. We--
Liam: What happened in the beginning? What happened right after you left? First couple of weeks?
Sam: We went on sort of a walkabout. Me and Kaylie went off to the woods, did some camping. We found some travelers and sang to them, and told stories like we do. Entertained some folks. Some nights were spent alone, some nights in the company of people who wandered by. We weren't too far away from Whitestone.
Liam: So how did you get to Marquet?
Sam: After about a month or two of being hobos, I guess, she wanted to do something. You know, anything. She was getting bored, she's young. So I told her, I don't really have anywhere to go, but I do know of two fuckfaces I have to get revenge on. I asked her if she'd be interested in that, and she said, fuck yeah! So she came down with me. We got a boat, went across the sea, and we went back to that casino. It was really the only piece of unfinished business from our time together that I had to deal with.
Liam: And that somehow stumbled into all this?
Sam: Well, when I got my revenge on them, I learned a bit about what they were up to. They weren't really drug dealers. It's embarrassing, but the drugs they sold me were not real. I know that's hard to believe, but I was swindled by them.
Liam: That is hard to believe. I don't think it's true.
Sam: It is true. They sold me a bunch of shit.
Liam: Oh, surely not, no.
Sam: But they were in this other game, of selling counterfeit stuff. So I did the thing that I knew would hurt them most. I took away their counterfeiter, and now he works for me. So I put them out of business, and I put me into business. And since then I've been doing that for a while, and it turns out I'm very good at it.
Liam: That actually is not surprising.
Sam: We don't try to swindle people who are innocent. We started off by taking down-- well, not taking down, but ripping off a few guys who were corrupt officials in the city, and built from there. It's not a big operation, if I can be honest with you. It's just me and Kaylie and a few other people.
Liam: I mean, I'm not going to lie, I think it's pretty cool.
Sam: Thank you. It is kind of cool. I have this persona, and people know who it is, and when I go places, they're scared of me a little bit.
Liam: I mean, you did save a fucking continent, you are scary.
Sam: That's true.
Liam: It is true.
Sam: I helped, a bit.
Liam: A bit? You've had a year to clear your head, you think it was just a bit?
Sam: I don't know, maybe. We all did our part. We all did our part!
Liam: You know there are multiple times we'd all be dead if it weren't for you. You know that. You know that! And the same could be said for any of us, that's true, but you take any one piece away, and the tower falls. Jenga, man.
Sam: I don't know what that game is. But, I know, I know. Listen, I did a lot of thinking over the year, and I-- Yeah. I appreciate you all much more now than I did, and I realize that you probably appreciated me, too, but at the time I just didn't know. I was so used to being a loner that I didn't know really how to behave in a group, that's all. So I left.
Liam: You know, it was ugly, on all sides, when you left, but I've always understood why you left. I admire it.
Sam: Really?
Liam: I wish my dad gave half as much effort as you have this year. Or I used to. Anyway, you know, we've missed you. Everybody has.
Sam: That's not true.
Liam: It is true. And I certainly have, and if I did anything or said anything to make you feel lonely, I'm sorry. I really am. Fucking missed you, man.
Sam: You don't have to apologize for anything. It was me. It was me, and I don't know if we'll ever have what we had before, but I can tell you that fighting alongside you all was the best time of my life, and not because of the glory, or the fortune, or the fame that we got. It was just to fight alongside you, and to see the looks on your faces when I did something really cool in battle.
Liam: Fucking every time. I know I miss that flair.
Sam: But you've got this new guy, and he seems really-- He's very handsome.
Liam: Well, I don't know. Yeah, he's good looking. That's true. I don't know that we have-- I mean, we've scattered a bit. I live in Zephra now.
Sam: Oh, really?
Liam: I'm on holiday, yeah.
Sam: Zephra Heights?
Liam: Pretty much, yeah. It's all Zephra Heights. No, I'm very happy right now.
Sam: You are happy?
Liam: Yeah.
Sam: That's so weird.
Liam: I know. I was happy for a long time.
Sam: But still with the black. You're not giving that up.
Liam: I mean, this is, no! This is part of the bargain.
Sam: I mean, some turquoise could pop it up a little bit.
Liam: Yeah, but you know I have sunshine in my life every day, so it's all right.
Sam: That's true. How's that all going?
Liam: Fucking the best, man! It's the fucking best!
Sam: Yeah?
Liam: Yeah. But, you know, all I care about is that you're happier now than you were. You seem a little happier.
Sam: I'm certainly better off than I was when I left you all. I don't know that I'm happier, just better off.
Liam: Well, that's a step up. And Kaylie, is she better off?
Sam: Most certainly.
Liam: Well, that's great.
Sam: Listen, thank you for coming up here and stuff. I don't really know what to do with the others.
Liam: Well, again, a lot of hard shit was said on your way out, in many directions, and the way I look at it, it's to be expected. We went through hell together, that's going to have an effect. But even the ones who are angry at you, they did miss you. And family doesn't break apart that easy. Don't scare away. Just be patient.
Sam: I'll try.
Liam: Clap him on the back of the head.
Sam: I can't reach.
Liam: I can. I love you, man.
Sam: You too. I'm sorry.
Liam: It's good to see you.
Sam: We're not going to play cards, are we?
Liam: I don't know how to play this game.
Sam: Yeah, okay.
Liam: But thanks for the conversation.
Sam: Sure.
Liam: That's been about an hour, I think.
Sam: Yeah, you should just go.
Liam: Yeah.
Sam: I mean, yeah.
Liam: I walk away.
Matt: All righty. All right. If anyone else wants to do anything else before dinner, or after?
Marisha: I take all the mirrors off the roof of our bedroom while he talks with Scanlan, and then we go to sleep.
Matt: There are mirrors in yours as well?
Marisha: I assume.
Sam: I hadn't intended on it, but there's definitely a mirror in there.
Matt: All right. Your wonderful expos on salad types are presented to you by the spectral servants. A fantastic dinner of greens of all shades--
Travis: Where's the meat?
Sam: There's lima beans.
Taliesin: Do they serve meat for guests, or is it just Scanlan that's barred?
Liam: Not even chicken salad in this mansion?
Sam: No, the closest we have is lima beans.
Laura: They know how to make chicken, though, I know the servants know how to make chicken!
Sam: If I have them make chicken, they'll tell her, and I'll get in trouble.
Taliesin: Tell her you didn't have any.
Travis: That's true. I have an idea. Bring me a cow. No, I'm kidding.
Matt: The spectral servant's like--
Sam: Don't do it.
Travis: It worked once before.
Sam: Listen. They make a great cucumber salad. They've got an excellent endive.
Travis: What?
Laura: Fabulous.
Sam: A couscous. And a tabbouleh.
Ashley: So, basically, it's one of those meals that you're still hungry when you eat it all.
Sam: Yeah, it's really not filling at all. It's terrible.
Matt: And he's not lying.
Taliesin: Do we lose hit points from this meal?
Laura: Oh, shit, did we say that we have to buy chalices before we have any more fucking feasts?
Matt: Yes.
Laura: Shit balls.
Liam: Said Vex.
Laura: We're out of chalices!
Ashley: Do we have any chalices in here?
Sam: For what?
Matt: They're referring to the Heroes' Feast meal, but no. Stuff like that, you stock up on.
Laura: We've got to remember. We've got to do it.
Matt: All right. So the meal is filling to varying degrees of enjoyment, but you find rest at your disposal. Relatively early into your day, though it is night in Ank'harel. You guys have been awake for approximately five hours. Do you go to rest?
Sam: I mean, if we all rest, when we wake up, those things are gonna be swarming outside the door, right?
Laura: Yes, potentially, or they could have given up. What if we just peek out the door and see?
Sam: We can do that.
Laura: Yeah. I'm going to peek out the door.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: Very stealthily open the door a little bit and see. Yeah, I'm going to stay inside the door but just look outside the door.
Matt: You peek outside the door, and right as you glance through, you see about 13 or so skeletons that are all clustered right there at the door going (zombie groans).
Laura: Ah, fuck. Shut it.
Taliesin: I feel like that can wait till morning.
Laura: I think it might keep getting worse, I'm not sure.
Sam: Maybe we should sleep.
Liam: We wait till morning and we throw Pike out the door.
Ashley: Yeah, that's fine. I'll volunteer.
Jon: Can they come into this magic door?
Sam: No, they have to be invited.
Jon: They can't? Are they vampires?
Liam: They're all bones.
Jon: Okay. So we're okay. They can't come in.
Sam: For a while.
Jon: Is there a back door to this place?
Sam: Oh, no.
Jon: So if we wake up in the morning and there's 200 of them, then--
Sam: We're fucked.
Marisha: We're okay. We have Pike.
Taliesin: We have options.
Jon: What's Pike going to do?
Ashley: Undead is my favored terrain.
Jon: Are you going to talk to them?
Ashley: I could. But what's the point?
Jon: Well, maybe they have secrets. Do you have Commune with Skeletons?
Marisha: Not all skeletons are like ducks.
Laura: Yeah, some of them are a lot meaner.
Ashley: If we find your friends, I can talk to them if they're dead.
Jon: Maybe they're unhappy with their employer. Maybe we can find their good side.
Laura: We could turn some undead.
Ashley: That's not a bad idea.
Jon: I'm sorry, I never talk so much. I'm just really hungry after that stupid meal.
Ashley: Same, it's okay. I feel starving.
Taliesin: Let's have a nightcap.
Sam: They can make you a fruit smoothie.
Laura: Yes. I want that. I do want it. Yes. Bring it.
Taliesin: That may be breakfast.
Travis: That'll give you the runs, you don't want that.
Marisha: Can we put some rum in it?
Ashley: Can you have eggs, or is that not vegan?
Sam: She said vegan. No eggs.
Laura: This fucking sucks.
Taliesin: A shallow ghost of a dinner served by shallow ghosts of people. I'm ready for a nightcap, and an end of the evening.
Matt: So you pull out the various bottles you've stored amongst Grog's Bag of Holding. Scatter a nightcap amongst those who wish to partake, and find yourself resting for the evening within the mansion.
Taliesin: To a death in the morning.
Marisha: To a pina colada.
Laura: As we're walking towards the rooms, can I pull Pike aside for a second?
Matt: Sure. So as you guys are heading off--
Laura: How are you?
Ashley: Well, I'm fine. I'm just finding myself a little angry.
Laura: Well, I think it's reasonable to be angry.
Ashley: And I'm trying not to be.
Laura: It's a different side of you.
Ashley: I know. I don't like it. But I can't help it. What should I do?
Laura: Well. Your emotions are justified. But you found it in your heart to forgive your family, and they did terrible things to you. Maybe it's harder with people that are closer. They cut deeper.
Ashley: Yeah. I think it's just because I didn't really know them. Maybe it was easier to just let them go, and I wasn't as angry as I am with him.
Laura: Have you talked to Sarenrae about it?
Ashley: No. I'm just nervous. I know what she'll say, and have me do, and I just want to be--
Laura: You don't want to do it yet.
Ashley: I don't want to do it! I just want to be mad for a while, I guess, but... I don't know. I guess just seeing him again. Slowly but surely, I'm not as mad, but--
Laura: He's still charming.
Ashley: I know, I just feel like now I'm acting like I'm mad, almost, around him. I don't know. He's making me feel so many different kinds of emotions. I'm confused.
Laura: I don't know what tomorrow will bring. Probably a battle of some sort, which is usually life-endangering. Just ask yourself if you would want to die without saying how you feel.
Ashley: Okay. That's a good idea. I would feel very bad if something happened to him and I didn't say anything. I mean, if I died, then I just wouldn't know, I guess.
Laura: You'd know a few minutes later when we tried to bring you back. I just spit on you, I'm sorry.
Ashley: It's fine, I don't care. Okay. Well, that's true. Thank you.
Laura: It's hard.
Ashley: I know. It is hard.
Laura: Well, you know, if you feel like staying up and wandering around and talking to some people--
Taliesin: I come running up. No, now. We're going. Good night. Good night! Now! Now. No more. Good night!
Ashley: Well, good night.
Taliesin: Good night!
Ashley: Okay. Well, good night, you two.
Laura: We haven't been here in a while.
Taliesin: I know. I kind of want to break a few things. You've earned it, fucker.
Ashley: I go and I knock on Grog's door.
Matt: Okay. Grog doesn't have a door, Grog is currently staying in the war room area.
Ashley: Oh, that's right.
Matt: So as you head down, you see, curled up on the sand pit, this half-orc snoring loudly, like a golden retriever that had rotated twice and passed out in the sand. Grog, what are you doing?
Travis: I'm like the dog that's staring at the cat that stole its fucking bed.
Jon: Can't argue with the dibs policy.
Travis: It's supreme. It's absolute. It's binding in all planes.
Jon: All barbarians understand it. It's the law.
Ashley: I stand next to him and stare at Chod-- Lionel in the sand pit.
Travis: This is bullshit, right? Everything I had, everything I was, right there. Just another one.
Ashley: Grog, I know that you probably feel replaced, but there's no way he could fill your shoes.
Travis: I mean, he's big! Look at those feet! It's like clown feet! I bet he's a great swimmer.
Ashley: He could-- I mean, but his feet are a little bit too big, you know.
Travis: Yeah, too big.
Ashley: Your feet are just right.
Travis: Right. Mm-hm.
Ashley: I have an idea. How about we go get a bunch of blankets, the ones out of my room. We'll just make a fort by the fireplace. We'll make a better spot.
Travis: A new spot. Yeah, okay.
Ashley: I just talked to Vex, and she said that maybe if something were to happen tomorrow, maybe it would be better to just say some things, so that you're not, you know, thinking about it if somebody dies.
Travis: Is somebody dying tomorrow?
Ashley: No.
Travis: Are you going to die? Pike, you mean the world to me. Listen, I couldn't go on--
Ashley: I'll be fine, I promise. Just, I guess, Scanlan.
Travis: What?
Ashley: Maybe, do you feel like you want to talk to him?
Travis: No! Yes. No!
Ashley: I think I'm angry with him, but I can tell you're also angry with him.
Travis: Yeah!
Ashley: So I'll stay mad at him as long as you are.
Travis: Really?
Ashley: But I feel like maybe he feels a little bad.
Travis: Are you sure? I can't tell. He changed the inside of the mansion. He's got a new dog sleeping in the sandpit. He called him his best man. You heard it. I did.
Ashley: That was weird.
Travis: Yeah. It's fucked up, is what it was.
Ashley: Well, you know what we should do? We should just tomorrow--
Travis: Kill him.
Ashley: That's definitely an option, but I feel like maybe we could just try to be better than him. Maybe you could really show off, and show him that you are better, and that we're better, and we're better friends, and you know, that he should come back and hang out with us.
Travis: Yeah! No, I like this idea. This is really something we can roll with! Yeah! He should miss us! In fact, he should be coming to beg us to be like, I miss you! You're so cool!
Ashley: He should!
Travis: Yeah! We've got to make him remember.
Ashley: We've got to make him remember.
Travis: Yep.
Ashley: We've got to make him remember how great we are and what he's lost.
Travis: Yeah. So tomorrow, all the tricks out the bag, throw caution to the wind, you and me, it's a show.
Ashley: All the tricks.
Travis: Yeah.
Jon: I suddenly wake up. You guys, I'm used to sleeping alone. You guys are talking so much.
Ashley: Oh, sorry, we didn't realize you were awake.
Travis: Just roll over. If you pile the sand up, you make little earmuffs.
Jon: It's not working, I'm used to silence, and you guys are like two alarms.
Travis: We're going to go. We go make a blanket fort.
Ashley: We make a blanket fort by the fireplace.
Travis: Yeah.
Jon: Thank you!
Matt: All right. As you guys go make a blanket fort, curl up and sleep takes you. The next morning, you come to consciousness, are greeted with a fantastic, spiritually brought, vegan breakfast.
Laura: Ooh, but like an acai bowl?
Sam: Yeah, sure. Yeah, that's a thing.
Matt: There you go, so it picks up the second day! There you go.
Laura: Is there granola?
Travis: It doesn't pick up. Don't defend this shit!
Matt: Comparatively!
Travis: Just because it's sweet doesn't mean that it's savory or satisfying.
Matt: Fair enough.
Jon: There's nothing sticking it together, so it's just loose.
Taliesin: It's only the things that make granola good that make it not vegan.
Jon: Exactly. It's just all loose.
Travis: Any proteins that used to have a heartbeat, in any way? No? Yeah, fuck it.
Liam: This is a world of magic and delight!
Laura: It's going to catch up when you burp really good.
Marisha: But we have a sound guy who's like--
Laura: But what if I want it to catch when I burp?
Marisha: That's what sound guys do.
Matt: That's how it works? Okay. So what's the plan, guys?
Liam: Stay in the mansion forever.
Matt: Yeah.
Jon: Let's take a look again.
Ashley: Can I peek out the door?
Travis: Pike and I go to peek out the door, because we're not eating shit vegan breakfast.
Matt: Okay. You peek out into the hallway, and there before you, you see about 20 or so armored skeletons that are all clustered into this hallway, maybe five feet between a few of them, but they're scattered throughout, they're just in this holding pattern.
Travis: What do you see?
Ashley: There's just 20 or so skeletons out there.
Travis: This is the perfect opportunity!
Ashley: This is the perfect opportunity. Maybe we take care of it ourselves?
Travis: I'm saying! You lead the way!
Ashley: Let's do it.
Travis: Do it.
Sam: Oh, shit.
Taliesin: Oh, shit.
Marisha: I approve of this so hard.
Sam: Wait, we're all still eating breakfast?
Matt: You guys are eating breakfast, wondering where Pike and Grog are.
Travis: Before we break through the door, I should yell something like, Pike, don't be so brave!
Ashley: Okay, you can yell, Pike, don't be so brave, and then I can say something like, but Grog, you're too strong! I don't know, let me workshop it.
Travis: Yeah.
Ashley: Grog, you're too strong! You're too strong, you're just going to kill them all anyway.
Travis: This is true.
Ashley: Should we just wing it?
Travis: Yeah, just what happens.
Ashley: Okay, ready?
Travis: On the count of what?
Ashley: On the count of three.
Travis: I can do that.
Ashley: I know you can!
Travis: All right.
Ashley: Okay. I'm going to get my mace ready.
Matt: Okay.
Travis: I have my blood axe.
Liam: Back at the breakfast table, just before they make whatever loud sound they're doing: It's good, it's almond milk, but I like cream a little bit (explosion).
Matt: Yep, suddenly you guys hear-- What do they hear?
Travis: One.
Ashley: Two. Three.
Travis: Oh, that's it, yeah. Three!
Matt: All right. Scanlan, because this is your mansion, you feel the door, suddenly, you sense the breaching of the front door opening.
Sam: Oh, God. The door's open.
Ashley: Grog, you're so strong!
Travis: Oh, Pike, you're so brave!
Laura: Oh, shit.
Travis: You put yourself before others!
Laura: I take off running.
Ashley: I'm going to start swinging my mace.
Matt: You guys all of a sudden drop your meals and start charging out. The door's already open, and it's vacant. You guys, as you charge out, all of a sudden you watch as ten of these creatures (zombie snarling) and leap towards you. What are you doing, Pike?
Ashley: I start swinging my Mace of Disruption. Can I just do this as I go through?
Matt: You'll still do attacks, but they'll get attacks on you as you go back and forth.
Ashley: Yeah.
Matt: You rush forward. Go ahead and make your attack. Is it, as a war-- do you have two attacks? As a bonus action, you can attack, right?
Ashley: Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah! I forgot, I haven't done this in a minute with undead! Okay.
Laura: What does the Mace of Disruption do to undead?
Liam: Area of effect, y'all.
Matt: No, no, it just hits targets. It's the other one does.
Ashley: It says when you hit a fiend or undead with this magic weapon, the creature takes an extra 2d6 radiant damage.
Matt: Yep.
Ashley: So. Oh, okay. So 17 and 22.
Matt: 17 and 22 both hit. Go ahead and roll damage for each, with the additional disruption damage.
Ashley: Okay, so, I don't have all of the dice out.
Laura: See, this is why you take the time at the beginning to organize.
Matt: I know. Grog, while this is happening, you're also charging in with her and you're attacking?
Travis: Yeah, Great Weapon Master with the blood axe.
Matt: Go ahead and make your two attacks with it.
Ashley: So with undead I also roll an additional 2d6, so am I doing four? How many?
Matt: You would do additional damage as part of your cleric's war--
Ashley: Okay, so 1d6, plus 2d8.
Matt: Is the additional disruption damage?
Ashley: Is just one strike. Sorry, I haven't done this in a while.
Matt: All right, so as a war domain cleric, you can make a weapon attack as a bonus action, up to your wisdom modifier per day, so that's one use there. And you deal an additional 1d8 weapon damage on the attack, so it's-- How much damage does your mace do?
Ashley: 1d6 plus six and 2d8 is what I have written down.
Laura: For Divine Strike.
Ashley: For Divine Strike.
Matt: Correct, yes. Yeah, because you reached 14th level. So yeah, it's plus 2d8. You got it. 1d6 plus 2d8 plus whatever the disruption damage is.
Ashley: Okay, so 18.
Matt: 18 damage on the first hit? You slam the mace into the side of a skeleton, and it crushes a lot of the bone, and a lot of it just seems to erode away as the divine flash impacts it, and you watch as the bleached white turns to gray and black. However, it still stands, largely wrecked, but still (zombie snarling). And your second attack, you hit the same one?
Ashley: Yep.
Matt: All right, go ahead and roll damage for that one.
Ashley: Okay. 14.
Matt: All right, that one (whack) you hit the side of the skull, and the head just turns into dust to the side. The bones collapse into a pile. You destroyed one skeleton out of about 20 or so. Grog, what are you doing?
Travis: I did my first attack, it was a 26, and so was the second one, both with Great Weapon Master.
Matt: Both hit with Great Weapon Master. Go ahead and roll damage.
Travis: The first one was 26 damage.
Matt: You completely destroy a skeleton in one hit. It turns into a scattering of bone (shatter) across the wall.
Travis: That's what up.
Ashley: Grog, it's so crazy how strong you are! They're all dying!
Travis: I know, but I only do it to protect my friends! And the second one is 39 points of damage.
Matt: And with that second hit, a second skeleton that's leaping towards you, with a giant scimitar in the air and a buckler around the side of its wrist, (zombie snarling), you just batter-up swing it, and it explodes across and rains down upon you. Pike, a couple of the bones hit your armor, fall to the side.
Travis: With my bonus action, can I go into a rage and go, I kill these skeletons because I would never replace a friend like you!
Ashley: I know, Grog!
Matt: All right, and so as you guys are rushing into the doorway, the skeletons immediately turn and swarm in. That's going to be five attacks on each of you within this range here. So, against Pike.
Laura: Quick, use your spells!
Matt: All right, so it misses Pike. Misses Pike. God, misses Pike. Misses Pike. And a 20. What's your AC?
Ashley: My AC is 23.
Matt: 23. All of them leap onto you, but they can't get through the armor. They're all clustered up around you, they're piled up almost, like you're just being dogpiled by skeletons, and while none of them are getting to your flesh, there are all these skulls biting in front of your face as you're holding them back with your shield and mace. Grog. Miss. Natural one, miss. Two, miss. 20?
Travis: That hits.
Matt: And 21?
Travis: Also hits.
Matt: All right. So, you take 22 points of slashing damage, reduced to 11, from the two attacks together. As both of these skeletons just start hacking into you with their weapons. One has a long sword, one has what looks to be some sort of a war pick and is just, both of them, jamming into your flesh, and you just take it without an issue. All right. You guys all rush to the door and you look out and you can see this group of undead there, swarming your two friends. You get there just-- Well, you start preparing for the round. They're going first. Pike, what are you doing?
Ashley: I'm going to Guiding Bolt down the hallway. Towards the rest of the skeletons.
Matt: Guiding Bolt can only hit one target.
Ashley: Oh shit!
Matt: Yeah, the area effects that you have are your Turn Undead or Destroy Undead, or any of the spells that you have.
Laura: Destroy Undead!
Ashley: Oh yeah, Destroy Undead. Fuck, I forgot about-- Sorry, it's been a minute since I've been around them. Okay, yeah, Destroy Undead.
Liam: Come on, cleric.
Matt: Okay. So you are--
Ashley: It's been a minute.
Matt: Yeah. You're a 17th level cleric now? 16th level? What level are you?
Ashley: I think 16th level. I don't know if I've leveled.
Matt: Yeah, 16th level. So, CR 3 or lower. These are definitely there. All right. All righty. So, you're going to affect with that, in a radial area here, which is a radius of 30 feet. That's going to affect 15 of these undead.
Laura: Nice!
Matt: Within the ones that are piled on you, that piled on Grog, and the ones that are swarming behind. What's your spell DC?
Ashley: 18.
Matt: Okay. Rolled an 18, but it's a minus one.
Laura: Yay. Do you roll for all 15?
Matt: Mm-hm.
Liam: Here he goes. Math. Still math.
Matt: Oh, no, that one survived.
Liam: More math.
Laura: Don't confuse him. It's a lot to keep track of. Hey guys, we have these amazing art prints by David Mack.
Matt: Almost done.
Ashley: Oh fuck, are they all making it?
Matt: All right. So, out of the 15, two survive. As you're held down by all of these skeletons, suddenly this beacon of divine, bright flame begins to burst from you. And you watch as the flaming wings of Sarenrae swirl up out of her like a phoenix. And as it does, you see above her the image of the dark skin, light flaming hair Sarenrae embodying her like a JoJo stand, as it takes this pose. And as soon as Pike brings her arms out and screams (yells), the image bursts out and you watch as every skeleton practically in that radius just turns to ash and dust in the vicinity, leaving two skeletons there, that are like (breathy groan). So there's maybe four of them left in the whole tunnel, from that one burst.
Travis: Damn!
Laura: I nudge Scanlan.
Travis: That was amazing.
Ashley: Do you think Scanlan saw?
Travis: Yeah, how could he miss it?
Sam: I'm at the door.
Travis: (voice breaking) You and me against the world, huh?
Ashley: You and me, Grog. We're so loyal to each other.
Travis: Yep, to the end. Best friends.
Ashley: Best friends till the end.
Matt: Grog, what are you doing?
Travis: I'm hitting things.
Matt: All right, so you rush up to the two.
Liam: I walk back to the kitchen and start clearing people's plates.
Matt: Okay. (laughter)
Sam: I'll step out into the fray just to watch.
Travis: A regular strike, 25.
Matt: Hits.
Travis: Ooh, and a 17.
Matt: Yeah, they all hit.
Travis: That's as low as I can roll.
Matt: 17 is a low for you.
Travis: I know. 16 points of damage on the first one.
Matt: All right, first hit, it smacks into the side and breaks part of its upper shoulder and upper arm. It cuts off one of its arms, but it's still standing there in front of you.
Travis: That's embarrassing. I use the second strike on the same skeleton and hope Scanlan didn't notice.
Sam: I saw. (laughter)
Travis: Fuck. 15 points of damage.
Matt: 15 points of damage does destroy the skeleton, the one that's giving you a hard time. This time you just cleave through the center of its spinal column and torso. It tumbles over and just scatters into a pile of bones.
Travis: Yeah. He saw it, didn't he? I fucked it up. He saw it and my whole plan's gone to shit.
Ashley: So much is happening at once, he can't see, he didn't see.
Matt: All right, so. Vex, you're at the door. Scanlan, you're at the door. You're at the door, Lionel. What are you guys doing?
Laura: I sh-- I'm going to hold it.
Matt: There's three skeletons still standing.
Laura: All right, I'll shoot one of the skeletons.
Matt: Go for it. Roll for attack. Lionel, what are you doing?
Jon: I'm just like  it's cool. I'm just watching. I forget, you know--
Matt: Okay.
Jon: But then I see and I'm like  Oh, I got them. So I think it's now time to impress Grog a little bit, because he knows-- He goes into a rage.
Matt: All right, so you go into a rage. Pull your great sword?
Jon: My what? (laughter)
Matt: All right, so you're charging out. What did you roll?
Laura: Oh, I just decided maybe I shouldn't hit them, though.
Matt: All right, so you go to fire and then pull the arrow back.
Laura: Because I rolled a one. (laughter)
Matt: Oh.
Jon: Wait a second.
Laura: Oh no, it's the chicken-Scanlan incident all over again.
Matt: So what happens is, you go and release it, and you just mis-strung it (sound of rope snapping), and you're like: Oh, I just didn't--
Laura: You know what? I'm going to leave it. It's for them.
Travis: She's got the bruise on the--
Matt: Yeah. So you rush up alongside Grog at the three skeletons that are there.
Laura: I got a blood blister on my arm.
Jon: I roll this?
Taliesin: Yeah, and you add the attack bonus of your great sword, which is right in the center.
Jon: Plus 12.
Taliesin: Oh, natural 20!
Matt: Oh, critical hit on the first hit?
Travis: Motherfucker.
Matt: All right, so that hits. Roll the second attack.
Sam: He's so strong.
Laura: Don't say that!
Taliesin: Another?! What?! What?!
Jon: Another 20.
Matt: Did you roll two 20s in a row?
Taliesin: Oh my god.
Jon: He's raging, dude, and he's had a really great sleep in the sand.
Sam: I've never seen anyone so strong and powerful before.
Taliesin: He doesn't even understand what just happened.
Jon: Are you getting turned on?
Sam: Yes!
Matt: You're honing Vin Diesel right now with this crit power.
Jon: Well, he's finally-- He likes these guys, he wants to finally show off and do something cool.
Taliesin: Travis just aged a year.
Laura: Oh no.
Matt: So you rush forward to the first skeleton. Roll 2d6.
Taliesin: Roll 4d6.
Matt: Yeah, roll 4d6.
Taliesin: Roll four of these.
Jon: Which ones? Okay.
Taliesin: And I think you get to reroll.
Jon: I have to roll the two dice.
Taliesin: Yeah, roll those and add two more. Or roll them twice. Yeah, there you go. Four of those.
Matt: And then you get to reroll any ones or twos.
Taliesin: Oh my god!
Travis: What? Are they all fucking sixes?
Jon: Is that a six?
Taliesin: That's a six.
Jon: Six, six, three, three.
Matt: Okay, so 12, 18 plus?
Travis: Percy, take your hand off of him.
Jon: No, he needs the help.
Matt: So as you rush forward with your greatsword, big smile on your face, next to Grog. Whack! You just shatter one skeleton with the first attack. Roll damage for the second attack.
Taliesin: All four.
Matt: All four again.
Sam: Six. That one's cocked, reroll it. Six. (laughter)
Travis: I'm leaving. I'm going away.
Jon: And I'm like  Grog, look at this, this is awesome! I think I'm channeling you.
Travis: (strained voice) Yep. Real impressive.
Matt: You just, one skeleton, the other comes jumping at you and you just grab it in your hand and crush its skull in your hand.
Travis: (strained voice) That was real cool.
Jon: And then I go  Look, I'm a gymnast! (laughter)
Jon: With all the chalk and everything.
Liam: You've got to appreciate that, Travis.
Travis: (strained voice) It was a good moment. That was really impressive.
Matt: Percy. You want to do anything?
Taliesin: I'm just going to sit next to Vex and I think we're just going to stand and let this happen.
Matt: So Pike, Grog, Lionel, you're right there, there's one skeleton left that's like (breathy hiss). And it leaps at you, since you just crushed its friend. And it hits you on your breastplate and just goes (metal ringing out sound) (breathy hiss). That's all it does. It's a sad sight.
Jon: Look, it's doing the Duck Flail to me. It's not as good, but that is what he's doing.
Matt: All right, who wants to finish this poor thing?
Ashley: Finish him, Grog, finish it.
Travis: I'm broken on the inside. Did you see that display?
Ashley: Grog, I need your help!
Travis: (yells) Reckless, Great Weapon Master. (laughter)
Matt: Go for it, Grog.
Travis: A one?!
Taliesin: Yes!
Travis: A one?!! (laughter and yelling)
Ashley: Can I War God's Bless it?
Matt: A natural one is an auto fail. I cannot-- I cannot--
Travis: What is going on?! (laughter)
Matt: As you look at the one skeleton, just feeling this embarrassment, you swing with your axe and the skeleton (metal impact sound) stops it with its own blade and parries the axe to the side. The one that just didn't barely dent his armor.
Jon: And then I say  It's okay, Grog. Everybody messes up sometimes, let me get this one. (laughter)
Jon: Can I roll?
Matt: Yeah.
Taliesin: That's a nine.
Sam: As he rolls, I will inspire him.
Jon: Nine plus 12, that's 21. 22!
Sam: I'm going to sing-- Oh well, that's fine, that's fine.
Matt: So that hits. Go ahead and roll damage. Just 2d6 plus seven. Well, plus your--
Taliesin: Just two.
Jon: Oh, okay.
Sam: Okay, that's not as good.
Matt: Well, it's plus seven, plus your rage damage. So it's plus ten.
Sam: To this? 15.
Taliesin: No, plus seven also.
Matt: Plus ten to whatever he rolled there.
Sam: Five plus ten.
Matt: All right, so 20 points. So as you hack down this other skeleton, you cut into it and it destroys part of its torso. Its arm that's holding its weapon is hanging to the side, but it's still standing. Its jaw is unhinged.
Taliesin: You get another shot, don't you?
Matt: Yep. So you attack again.
Taliesin: Yeah, attack again.
Jon: Four?
Taliesin: 16?
Matt: 16 still hits. It's a skeleton. That's enough. You finish it off. You destroy the other skeleton in two hits.
Jon: That was kind of a tough one, I get it. It's okay. That was a really hard skeleton. But he's dead now. Let's go--
Ashley: We had it. We just-- We had it.
Jon: Can we eat these skeletons, because that breakfast is still blowing.
Ashley: Yes you can. Give it a bite. Give it a bite.
Jon: Is there any meat left on those bones?
Sam: Chod, that was amazing. You slew those skeletons like they were nothing. Incredible.
Jon: Oh, I just do whatever I can for my friends. You guys are all awesome and I'm just glad I could be of service and help.
Sam: Yes. It's good to have someone like you by our side.
Jon: Awesome!
Ashley: I walk back inside of the mansion.
Travis: I take out the giant cask of ale and I just...
Matt: Just chug it.
Sam: Are you drinking it or just pouring it all over you?
Travis: Both.
Liam: I come out with fresh coffee for Percy and Keyleth. What happened?
Taliesin: It was beautiful, terrible. I'm not entirely sure.
Ashley: Chod saved the day. Chod saved the day.
Taliesin: Well, really, he cleaned up after you two finished it all off.
Ashley: He did. He did.
Taliesin: He swept up.
Laura: That was a lot of skeletons that you killed, Pike, with that spell. That was really good.
Taliesin: You and Grog were most of the skeletons, easily.
Ashley: Yeah.
Sam: Are we all back in the mansion?
Matt: You're all back in the mansion, now.
Liam: Why is it so tense in here all of a sudden?
Sam: I think I know what's going on.
Ashley: I don't know what happened.
Sam: Grog. Grog, Pike, can I say something? I feel like there's some tension between us and we need to clear the air if we're going to go fight today. You guys are really bad today. Well. And I think it's because I haven't made you feel at ease. So can I please just take a moment before we go out there and just, for once and for all, say I'm sorry to you guys for what I did and how I left things. I said things that were really cruel and meant to hurt you, and that's wrong and I'll probably regret it for the rest of my life. But I needed to go and I just didn't know how to express myself. And I'm so sorry that I insulted you. Pike, I've said awful things to you for as long as we've known each other, and I can't take them back, but I can at least try to be a better person. And can I confess something to you? During the last year, I've-- I think I've been praying. I mean, I just talk at night and nobody hears me, but I guess that's praying, right? And sometimes I talk to Sarenrae, because that's the only one I know. And she seems cool. And she seems like someone who could be a good guide. And it feels good. And I even wrote a little poem about her and about her teachings. It's very simple, but can I tell you it?
Ashley: Let's hear.
Sam: It's really simple. It goes  "Everybody people, everybody bleed, everybody need something. Everybody love, everybody know, how it go." I know it's stupid, but there's a certain Logic to it.
Ashley: Certain Logic to it. That actually makes a lot of sense.
Sam: It makes me feel connected to you guys, even though you're not there. So I say that to myself every night before I go to sleep.
Ashley: It just makes you feel connected to Everybody people.
Sam: Yeah.
Ashley: Yeah.
Sam: And Grog.
Travis: No, stop.
Sam: I can't apologize to you, because words don't work.
Travis: So, let me get this straight. You think you can go away for a year, and come back, in a disguise, and apologize to this group, and that's going to be good enough for me? And then when I'm still pissed, you're going to give me a combo apology with Pike, and that's going to be good enough for me? I'm still pissed. You came back in a costume. A costume! I'm not even really that smart, it's not hard to trick me. And I'm a big guy, but you made me feel small. I don't know if you missed us; I don't know if somebody is making us go down into this Zigga-fuck.
Ashley: (whispers) Ziggurat.
Travis: Ziggurat. I don't even know why we're here. I thought maybe you'd come back and be like, oh my best mate, the guy that would do anything to keep me alive, there he is, I missed him. No. You come back, you've found yourself a brand new idiot. One that does amazing strikes, twice in a row. And talks to ducks. Has all sorts of new tricks, brand new model, new and improved in every way. I bet you do all sorts of fun things with him. So no. You do not get to apologize to me.
Sam: I wasn't going to. I was just going to give you a gift. Because the times we had together were the best times ever. You might be a little slow. But you're the best friend I ever had. And our times together were great, not because of our conversations, or our witty repartee. It was because of the fun we had together and the experiences we had. So last night, I wrote something for you. I know you can't read, but--
Laura: He can read.
Travis: No, Vex. He doesn't know that.
Sam: I just got you a gift. Because if you won't spend time with me now, maybe you'll be able to spend time on your own. So I wrote you this. Maybe someone else can read it for him.
Ashley: He might be able to read it, Scanlan.
Laura: It depends on if there are long words.
Sam: There's really long words.
Travis: It's a big word. It's a bit--
Ashley: Well, just give it a try.
Travis: Aoo, ooh, shh.
Sam: Nope. Nope.
Travis: (whispering) I'm really embarrassed. I'm really embarrassed.
Ashley: (whispering) I'll whisper it to you, then you say it out loud.
Travis: (clears throat) Yeah, I don't feel like showing off my powers. I can't read the dirty hand of betrayal.
Ashley: All who read this, let it be known, by order of Aes Adon-- it's a stupid name, Scanlan. But it's fine.
Sam: It's Elvish.
Liam: It's a stupid name.
Ashley: AKA the Meat Man, AKA Vicoul the Vicious, AKA Reddish the Bold, AKA the Little Paws, AKA Franois Bertrand Jean-Luc Australia, be aware that the bearer of this note, Grog Strongjaw, shall be entitled to any libation of his choosing at any pub, tavern, restaurant, inn, alehouse, brewery, or house of lady favors within the city limits of Ank'Harel. He shall be allowed to drink until drunk, and enjoy no molestation by any employee of said establishment, unless he requests it. All charges and bills related to his drinking, cavorting, or violent behavior resulting from drunkenness, shall be forwarded to the Meat Man for timely payment in full. By complying with this request, you are hereby under the protection of the Meat Man, and shall receive all the benefits and goodwill accompanying such association. The Meat Man always remembers. Sincerely, Aes Adon.
Travis: Probably best to test it out. See if it's even worth anything.
Sam: Grog, I love you. I'm sorry that we won't get to hang out, because you hate me now. But I would never replace you. And if you ask me right now--
Travis: You'll kill him?
Sam: I will kill him.
Jon: Who? (hushed laughter)
Taliesin: (quietly) I wouldn't worry about it.
Jon: Okay. I really like this job.
Travis: He's all right. (hushed laughter)
Sam: Will you go drinking with me some time?
Travis: We'll see. By the way, I want you to know when you died, I sang a song I would never sing for anyone else, and I'm sorry you didn't hear it, but it was really hard.
Sam: Is that true?
Laura: Yes.
Liam: Yes.
Sam: He sang?
Taliesin: Yes.
Jon: Do a truthful check.
Laura: Do you know what he sang?
Sam: A truthful check? Sure, I'll roll a truthful check.
Matt: An insight check? Okay.
Sam: Natural 20.
Laura: Whoa.
Matt: Honest as the day, or Grog dick is long, he apparently sang.
Travis: It is, I can just lean forward.
Marisha: Happy 100th.
Matt: Happy 100th. (laughter)
Laura: Grog, I didn't hear it. Maybe you should sing it, and let him know what it was.
Travis: Oh, you know, it's like the face of death in the hallway, once it uses up its power, it's done.
Sam: I'm so sorry I missed it. And I hope someday we'll sing together, in a drunken stupor together. Maybe that will remind you.
Travis: Maybe.
Sam: I was an asshole, Grog, I'm sorry. I would never, never replace you, ever. You're irreplaceable.
Ashley: And he could've read this, by the way.
Sam: That's incredible.
Travis: I would've gotten the name right.
Marisha: Wait, did you frame it like a coupon book? That's very impressive.
Sam: I had some time last night.
Ashley: Coupons, that you can sort of pick out of it like a--
Laura: A free massage.
Marisha: Like a couple on Valentine's Day. Who forgot it was Valentine's Day.
Ashley: It looks like there's a free steak.
Sam: Listen, we need to go kill some things right now, but I just want to say to all of you, I'm so sorry the way I left, it was awful of me. Percival, I said awful things to you, I said awful things to all of you. But just know I've done and said worse things to Kaylee, and she's forgiven me, and I've done and said worse things to myself, and I've managed to forgive myself, and I hope that someday, you'll all be able to forgive me. And until then, I'll just keep trying, and that's all I can do. And after this fight, if you want me to stay, and you guys go home, that's fine. But if not, maybe we can start over.
Matt: Vex, Vax, Keyleth. At this moment, you hear what sounds like footsteps making their way up the tunnel. Not where the light was before, but the path you previously stepped from.
Marisha: Does it sound like skeletons, or heavier?
Matt: From just your passing hearing, it just sounds like patterned footsteps.
Laura: I cast Pass Without a Trace on everybody.
Matt: Okay.
Liam: Everybody quiet down.
Marisha: We're inside a glowing door, I think they know where we are.
Matt: So, you guys all close the door to the mansion.
Laura: Well, I don't want to close the door to the mansion, but turn out the lights in the mansion so you can't see.
Marisha: No one's home! We're out of candy, no trick-or-treating.
Matt: Up the hall, you watch as two humanoid figures with hoods are carrying each side of what looks like a chest or a crate that has handles. They just pass and then continue going.
Sam: (whispering) You've seen that? You've seen that? Those are the guys?
Jon: (whispering) Those are the guys.
Sam: (whispering) We should kill him. Let's go kill them.
Liam: (whispering) Can I murder one first?
Taliesin: (whispering) Yes.
Liam: (whispering) Thank you.
Laura: (whispering) Wait, I shoot--
Matt: You're still inside the mansion.
Liam: I thought she said the door was just barely open.
Matt: Yeah, but they're not walking by; you made the door way back in the tunnel. You see them up toward the T-juncture. So you guys would have to leave the mansion and get there quickly.
Laura: Shit. We sneak out. We sneak out and shoot them from behind.
Matt: All right, stealth check for those who are moving forward.
Sam: Maybe we should all go.
Liam: Now, wait a second.
Laura: If you feel like it, you can go. This is a team.
Travis: You Pass-Without-a-Traced us, right?
Laura: Yeah.
Matt: Those who are moving forward, stealth check?
Liam: 43.
Matt: Happy hundredth.
Marisha: 24.
Laura: 27.
Matt: Anybody else moving forward with them?
Taliesin: I'm a little bit behind them. 28.
Sam: Wait, are we all going?
Matt: Up to you guys. Whoever's going?
Sam: Did everyone else leave?
Jon: 20.
Sam: If he's going, I'm going.
Taliesin: I'm behind you guys.
Sam: Natural 20.
Liam: Twins are in the front.
Taliesin: Yeah, we're letting them go first.
Jon: Oh, I'm behind, but I'm going.
Matt: You do have advantage on your stealth checks because of your boots, Pike.
Marisha: Table right is hanging back behind the twins.
Ashley: 16.
Laura: Plus ten?
Ashley: Oh, 26!
Matt: All right, everyone got above 20.
Sam: Taryon's still asleep.
Laura: No!
Matt: Taryon is still asleep. Okay. All right, so. You carefully move forward. The twins, you, at full stealthing pace, make it up to the corner, and as you crest around the side, about 20, 25 feet up, you see the two humanoid figures with hoods that come to a underoff point that hangs to one side. Looks like a leathery or rubbery substance from the little bit of light that's coming through, it's hard to really tell. They're wearing long black cloth, like a tunic, and what looks to be dark leather or thick black cloth, pants and boots.
Laura: Pants and boots and pants.
Matt: Boots and pants and boots and pants. Not gloved hands, but they're both just carrying this chest along, they're just quietly moving along.
Laura: I bramble shot one of them.
Liam: (dagger throwing noise)
Matt: Okay, so, roll for your attack. On the one that's closest to you, or further?
Liam: On the left.
Matt: Well, they're both moving away from you.
Laura: Oh.
Liam: Oh.
Liam: Well, you're further.
Laura: I'll go for the further one.
Travis: Please both be old people. (laughter)
Laura: Should I roll two for attack?
Matt: Yeah, because they do not know you're there, so you have advantage.
Laura: Ooh.
Liam: 29.
Matt: That hits.
Liam: And this is assassinate, critical hit.
Matt: Yes it is, it's an auto crit.
Laura: So, Oh! I'm an assassin too!
Matt: Correct.
Laura: So I get an automatic?
Matt: Auto crit. If you're a level three, you do. So both you guys auto crit.
Laura: Sweet!! Ooh, so I double all my dice?
Matt: Yep, including the bramble shot.
Laura: Oh shit!
Taliesin: That's the end of both of them. It's going to be a cadaver and a fern.
Marisha: Oh, new chest. We could put our blankets in it.
Taliesin: I'm working on a quilt.
Marisha: I was going to say, the quilt from your grandmother.
Jon: This thing must be worth them dying for.
Laura: 66 on the first hit.
Matt: 66 damage?
Laura: For the arrow, yeah.
Liam: 78 on the first hit.
Laura: Oh wait, I didn't do my sneak attack damage! (cackling)
Jon: They can just obliterate anything?
Taliesin: Yeah, they're monsters.
Liam: And I use a bonus action for an offhand attack. And I got a critical on it. I rolled a 20.
Matt: You rolled a 20 on the second one? Okay. Roll damage on that.
Laura: 76 for the first hit.
Matt: Okay. In an instant-- don't worry about the second attack, critical damage. Both of them just go-- (footsteps) (thud) (laughter)
Ashley: What's in the box?
Travis: What's in the box?
Matt: You lift up the box--
Laura: We check it for traps.
Matt: Okay, investigation check.
Liam: Let's both check.
Laura: Okay.
Liam: Natural 20.
Matt: What the fuck? You guys tonight. Talk about the hundredth episode mojo here. Unless you're Grog. Sorry, buddy.
Travis: Fucking leave it in the past!
Matt: All righty, so. Who rolled investigation on that one?
Laura: He did.
Matt: What did you get?
Liam: 20.
Matt: 20. Natural, oh that's right, (blows raspberry) I'm stupid. Yeah, no, it is not trapped, it's not locked, it's just closed.
Liam: Spick and span.
Matt: Inside you see what looks like a polished stone of smooth jade that is affixed to a grey leather band that loops in the back. You see a scimitar, a very well-made scimitar, that has a series of pearlescent gems across the hilt, it has a very Marquesian flair to it. And you see what appears to be a rusty iron sphere that is about three inches in diameter and weighs about a pound. It has a bunch of really strange shapes and design, almost like it was made from condensed chains that were then melted down into a single sphere. It has a really rough texture on the outside.
Laura: We need to have Tary Identify it. Can we drag the box back to the mansion?
Matt: Yeah, you drag it back (dragging noises). I mean, the box has some food and blankets that are meant to keep it hidden, so you search through as you find them. Those are the only things of interest in the box, the rest of it just seems to be to fill the space.
Laura: Can we hide the bodies?
Matt: Sure. You guys drag the bodies back?
Laura: Yeah. And Dust of Tracelessness to hide where they were dragged.
Taliesin: I'm going to take their cloaks.
Travis: You want me to hide the bodies?
Laura: Yeah, Grog.
Travis: I put the bodies in the Bag of Holding. (laughter)
Matt: Okay. The opening is about that big, so it takes you a second, just like when you had to put Dork the Ox in there, it's like trying to fit a king-sized pillow in a twin-sized pillowcase.
Taliesin: I fully support it. Whatever you need to do to feel better, man.
Travis: I'm trying to get over these double ones, man, I'm working it out.
Taliesin: I'm curious about a couple things here.
Laura: Don't touch any of it, until we get Tary to look at it.
Marisha: While they drag the bodies back, Percy and I take the robes.
Taliesin: We're going to strip the cult members of their culty pants.
Matt: So, Percival and Keyleth are currently wearing--
Marisha: Can I study one of the guys' face, and take that for Alter Self?
Matt: Sure, easy enough. You also find that both of them have what looks like a dark iron symbol hanging around their neck, hidden beneath their robes. It resembles a four-pronged pitchfork that has a single rod beneath it that forms a loop.
Laura: Do you have a picture?
Matt: I'm going to sketch it for you.
Sam: Dickbutt.
Laura: I spilled coffee on my paper, and it looks like David Mack watercolor.
Marisha: Yeah, yeah, it's aged a little.
Liam: Mack spatter.
Sam: Hey, in the store tonight, we've got lots of--
Matt: It looks like that.
Taliesin: Angry happy face with a goatee.
Matt: Kind of, yeah. So you have the corpses both being stuffed into the Bag of Holding, you guys find the whatever symbols are hanging, and the robes are on you.
Laura: We go back to Tary.
Matt: You go back to Tary.
Sam: (as Tary) 34, 35. Other side, Doty. One.
Laura: Tary? We're in the mansion. Tary?
Sam: Hello? Yes? I'm not decent yet.
Laura: Tary. I've seen you naked.
Sam: Come in, come in. Hello.
Liam: Thank you. We have a box of crazy shit, will you look at it and tell us what we're looking at?
Sam: Of course.
Laura: What are you doing in here, why didn't you come down with us?
Sam: I'm doing my daily preparations. I had to pluck my eyebrows, I had to comb my hair. My unmentionables needed to be washed and--
Jon: Waxed?
Sam: Yes. I will identify these objects.
Matt: Easy enough to do as a ritual for each. The scimitar is a Scimitar of Speed.
Taliesin: I'm excited.
Sam: Oh, oh. I'm jacked in.
Laura: You can go, you can go, you've got 30 feet of jack.
Matt: All right, don't go so far. These are the other two items you've got.
Sam: Oh my god, there's so many items.
Laura: Whoa, go us!
Sam: What we have here is a Scimitar of Speed. You gain a +2 bonus to attack and damage rolls made with this magical weapon. In addition, you can make one attack with it as a bonus action on each of your turns.
Laura: Shut up. Is it attunable? Do you have to attune it?
Taliesin: Yes, you do.
Sam: But maybe this guy can do it. We've also found the Third Eye of Awareness. A single polished stone of smooth jade is affixed to a grey leather band that loops in the back. The wearer gains advantage on initiative. (gasps)
Sam: Not attunable. (louder excited gasps)
Laura: We're in the room, we're in the room!
Liam: Tary, I am an assassin of the highest caliber.
Laura: Tary. I'm your best friend.
Sam: Oh. Little Elf Girl.
Laura: Oh wait, is it a necklace?
Sam: No, it's a leather band.
Matt: It's a headband.
Sam: Of course Vex gets this. All the times we've had together.
Jon: What are the other Eyes of Awareness? Have you guys come across the others? It says that's the third one.
Sam: The last item is called the Iron Bands of Bilarro. This rusty iron sphere measures three inches in diameter, and weighs one pound. Like my dick. (laughter)
Liam: It says that on the paper, Matt?
Matt: I didn't-- no-- I didn't-- Wait-- No.
Marisha: Wait, does that require attunement?
Sam: You can use an action to speak the command word and throw the sphere at a huge or smaller creature, like my dick, that you can see within 60 feet of you. As the sphere moves through the air, it opens into a tangle of metal bands, like my dick. Make a ranged attack roll with an attack bonus equal to your dex modifier plus your blah blah blah, if you hit it, the target is restrained until you take a bonus action to speak a command word and release it. Doing so, or missing, causes the bands to contract and become a sphere once more. So it's like a trap ball. Trap ball.
Matt: It's like, you know in Doctor Strange, that prison exoskeleton it threw on him? It's like that.
Sam: Once the band is used, it can't be used again until the next dawn, like my dick.
Laura: Tary, you've never been quite so obsessed with your dick before.
Sam: It's just that gnome, he's so weird and he rubs off on people, like my dick! Oh, I'm doing it again!
Laura: You're doing it! How are you? You've been hiding a lot!
Sam: Well, it seems like you guys are working through a thing, and I should really be getting back home, anyway. I don't know, I don't feel quite as needed any more.
Laura: Oh no!
Jon: You're not, I don't think.
Laura: You're not there!
Sam: How did he get in here?
Matt: You turn around and realize that Lionel has followed you into the room.
Jon: What else do I have to do?
Sam: After this is all done, I'll say my proper goodbyes. But I should be going. He's your best guy, right? You need him. He's part of the team, he always has been.
Laura: You're my best guy!
Sam: I love you both. I'm definitely poorer for having known you, though.
Laura: I mean, you were poorer without knowing us, you just didn't realize it.
Liam: I mean, poorer, but richer.
Sam: That's true.
Travis: Your family's actually poorer because of you.
Laura: This mansion disappears in 24 hours, so you can't just hide in here.
Sam: All right, I'll come outside. Doty, get my armor ready. Spritz it!
Matt: "Tary." Doty pulls an arm up, and you can see one of the slight changes that they had made in his construction is a slight mister on the other hand that goes (water spraying).
Travis: For your face or for your armor?
Sam: His armor!
Travis: Oh my god!
Matt: Depends how hot the day is.
Liam: Freddie! Where's Fred?
Laura: I feel like Percy would like this a lot. We found something that you might enjoy.
Liam: What's this?
Taliesin: Scimitar of Speed.
Liam: Well, I think you might like this thing. You could come up with very creative solutions with that.
Taliesin: This could go-- (interested noises) Yes. Yes, I think I could do something with this.
Sam: Let's go kill some shit, shall we? Come on!
Taliesin: I've even got a codeword for it!
Sam: Codeword?
Marisha: There's a codeword?
Taliesin: You have to speak a word to make it work.
Matt: A command word, yeah.
Taliesin: Can I program the word? I've programmed it. Perfect.
Laura: I put this on.
Matt: Okay, you put that on. All right. Who is going where? What are you doing?
Liam: Wait, hold on. Would you like this, either of you? It's not my bag.
Ashley: Gain a plus two bonus to attack... It's a weapon.
Matt: All right, so what's the plan, guys? What are you doing?
Liam: We should go.
Laura: We should go attack things.
Travis: Campfire!
Liam: Well, let's go quietly, you and I, take point.
Laura: And head deeper in, see where the people have been.
Liam: Twins are in the lead.
Matt: New stealth checks from you guys since you've had combat.
Laura: Still have Pass Without a Trace going.
Taliesin: Everybody roll who's walking.
Matt: Sam, are you bringing Scanlan?
Laura: Natural 20!
Matt: So, across the board.
Travis: What are we rolling?
Matt: Stealth.
Travis: Oh, I did that already. 23.
Ashley: 35!
Laura: Natural 20.
Liam: I rolled a two, so it's a 27.
Matt: Reliable Talent, man, it's awesome.
Marisha: 29.
Taliesin: 23.
Jon: 19.
Matt: Plus ten.
Jon: Yeah, that was with ten.
Sam: 20, 23, 23.
Matt: Okay!
Ashley: Question!
Sam: Scanlan, Taryon, Doty. I tried to leave them behind, guys!
Laura: But he's in a mansion, he'll just pop out and then he'll be sitting in a tunnel by himself!
Travis: You opened this hole, man, you gotta pay for it!
Liam: Yeah, you've got to juggle these balls.
Matt: All righty.
Laura: Sorry, Matt. What do we do? He's going to kill him! He's going to kill one of them! What should we do?
Sam: Let's go!
Matt: You move further into the tunnel.
Liam: Twins in the lead, point, traps. All that.
Matt: All right.
Laura: Searching, keeping an eye out for any other people as well.
Matt: All right, it's only 80 feet until the winding tunnel opens up slightly. So, make another investigation check partway up, about halfway to that period.
Laura: God damn it.
Liam: 18.
Matt: Okay. You make your way there. And you begin to push towards the entranceway. The soft dust on the ground, which is the same color as the rest of the stonework. Vax, you step onto one section that seems to step in a little further than the others, and you feel a (click).
Liam: Nobody move. Don't move.
Matt: I need you and Vex, and who was following them?
Sam: Everybody.
Matt: I need everybody to make a constitution saving throw.
Laura: Oh no.
Sam: Saving throws are up there.
Liam: Sam. I'm using my first Luck of the new day. Okay?
Sam: Great. That's the third one, then?
Liam: The first one of the day.
Taliesin: Oh, I can reroll a saving throw.
Matt: All right. Grog?
Travis: 17.
Matt: 17. You take 36 points of necrotic damage. Pike?
Ashley: Five.
Matt: 36 points of necrotic damage.
Liam: Constitution saving throw?
Matt: Yep. Vex?
Laura: 16?
Matt: 36 points of necrotic damage.
Liam: 18, but armor after those faces, is set to necrotic damage.
Matt: Right, because you never un-set it from that. Okay. All right, I'll let you do that. All right, so instead of 36, that's 18.
Liam: I rolled an 18.
Matt: You did not succeed on the saving throw, but you halved it.
Marisha: 20 total?
Matt: 20 total? You take 16 points of necrotic damage. You make it.
Taliesin: Out of curiosity, is this a magic saving throw?
Matt: Against a spell effect? Yes.
Taliesin: Then I don't even have to use a resolve. 19.
Matt: 19 does not succeed. You take 36 points of necrotic damage.
Jon: 16.
Matt: 36 points of necrotic damage.
Taliesin: We don't have the bonus hit points, either, do we?
Matt: Nope.
Taliesin: Okay.
Sam: Scanlan, 26.
Matt: Takes 16 points of necrotic damage.
Sam: Is it 18 points?
Matt: Yes, 18.
Sam: Taryon, 26.
Matt: Wow. 18 points of necrotic damage.
Sam: Doty, one.
Matt: Doty takes 36 points of necrotic damage. All righty. You watch as you pull back and the sand sifts in and you see another face below, with a burst of dark energy that echoes out in a 60-foot radius. Fills the hallway with this high-pitched shrieking sound. As it hits all of you and the breath escapes you for a second, this circle of death-like sphere passes all of you, and you hear the shriek echo through both sides of the hallway.
Laura: Well, if anything's going to bring more skeletons, it's that.
Liam: Clicking my boots.
Taliesin: I'm going to burn my quick heal. Might as well.
Matt: What are you guys doing? Pushing forward, staying where you are?
Laura: Should you heal us before we pop into anything more? Can you heal us?
Ashley: Yeah. I can heal us.
Laura: That was a lot.
Ashley: That was a lot.
Liam: I'm doing this.
Matt: Perception check.
Ashley: I'll cast Mass Cure Wounds.
Travis: Pike's doing this.
Matt: Mass Cure Wounds. How much does that heal everybody?
Ashley: 3d8 plus spellcasting ability modifier.
Matt: So whatever you roll plus five.
Liam: 31 perception.
Matt: Okay. You listen out, and you hear what sounds like low voices, things shifting, a slight general humming sound. The bright light that was there before is not there at the moment. You still see the fire.
Liam: Does it sound like anything I've ever heard before?
Matt: Make an intelligence check.
Ashley: Everybody heals an extra 18 hit points.
Liam: Natural 20.
Matt: Natural 20. You do remember it. The low hum that temporarily appears was very close to the sound whenever anybody was throwing something into the dark sphere above the ziggurat.
Liam: I was wondering. All right.
Sam: You said 18?
Ashley: 18 points, yeah.
Jon: They've heard that before.
Matt: Apparently. A different one.
Marisha: No one's rolled initiative. No one knows we're here yet.
Matt: Not yet. You haven't thrown into combat yet. You guys just hit a trap and heard things ahead.
Marisha: If you can wait 60 seconds, I can make us an elemental.
Taliesin: Will the magic fade if we get too close to the ziggurat, though?
Laura: Maybe we'll have to fight things outside of the ziggurat.
Marisha: That's a good question. I have a mild confession, and maybe I should have said this a little earlier, but I'm going to say it now. One night, I might have sneaked down into the middle of the ziggurat, and I stuck my hand in it.
Laura: What the fuck?
Sam: Why would you do that, and what happened?
Marisha: Well, I wanted to find out what would happen, and I found out it's real bad. It's really bad, is what I found out, and it nearly crushed my hand to a point of oblivion and I think I got really lucky, so I think it just crushes anything that it tries to suck in.
Laura: But it's a doorway. I shot an arrow through it.
Marisha: It is. I think your arrow happened to be tiny and fast.
Taliesin: Well.
Liam: Those 60 seconds have passed.
Taliesin: Let's go.
Matt: You were talking instead of casting a spell. Do you want to take another minute to cast a spell?
Travis: Thanks for the confession, though.
Matt: All right, so what are you guys doing?
Laura: Moving forward. Keeping an eye out for those--
Marisha: That's all I mean. Don't jump in.
Liam: Do you want to go elemental?
Laura: No, she wanted to summon an elemental.
Marisha: I wanted to summon an elemental.
Matt: You guys rush forward, and a hot wind is picking up through the tunnel. You're not quite sure directionally where it's coming from. But as you move forward and through the winding passage, maybe 60 feet ahead as it opens up, you see it splits into two different pathways of natural interior rock formations, and you can see a larger chamber beyond that. You have the right and left.
Laura: I pop Trinket out.
Matt: Okay. Trinket pops out of your necklace. What are you guys doing?
Laura: Can I hear the noise of the ziggurat coming from either side more?
Matt: You hear it coming from both sides.
Travis: Let's split up.
Laura: What about wind or anything?
Matt: There's the general wind in the room, but it's (whoosh) whipping around you, picking up sand and dust from the ground.
Laura: Do we see faces on either side?
Matt: Perception check.
Liam: I'll have a look, as well.
Laura: 28.
Liam: 24.
Matt: Okay. You do not see any faces immediately within the two paths that are ahead of you. However, as you glance past one of the edges, within the chamber, you can see the sources of some of that flickering firelight. You see two clay bowls, large clay bowls that are set in the ground that have burning materials inside. Wood, cloth. Who knows what, but they're burning this bright orange-red flame. Not a natural yellow flame. A deep orange-red flame. It's causing this glow to emanate around the room, and you see the flames flickering and moving with the wind that's blowing about.
Travis: Safe to assume this goes to the same room, yeah? Just two different entrances?
Laura: Maybe.
Travis: So let's flank.
Laura: I feel like there's traps.
Marisha: I go with Percy, since we have the robes over top of us.
Matt: All right. Who's going left and right?
Travis: I'm going right.
Jon: I'll go left.
Ashley: I'm going right.
Matt: Left?
Liam: I'll roll with Percy and Keyleth.
Matt: Percy and Keyleth with Vax. Grog on the right. Who else is on the right?
Laura: I'll go right.
Matt: Vex is right. Pike? Right or left?
Ashley: Yeah, right.
Matt: Trinket's with you.
Sam: All my people to the right.
Matt: All righty. Indeed, what looked like two different hallways was one entrance to the chamber that was divided by a singular column in the center. You both flank around as it opens up inside. You see a 50-foot-tall, 70-foot-wide natural cavern chamber that rounds out over the top, and you see it end on the opposite side. There are two pillars nearer to your end that both hold defaced statues of a woman on each. Defaced statues of a woman. Partially destroyed and collapsed. There are elements of it broken on the ground. The heads removed. In the center of the chamber, you see before you a massive stone-stepped pyramid, similar to the ziggurat you've found. The design is a little different, and you get the sense that a lot of it is still buried and it's just the top that has been uncovered and repurposed for whatever this may be. You do see, there are a number of cloaked figures scattered across these steps, and some of them are out looking in your direction as soon as you come around the side. They're all wearing the same black outfits, the cloaks. Some of them have the hoods back; some of them have the hoods on. Roughly, you have what looks to be six or seven from what you can view. There are two of them at the very top that currently have what looks like another crate that has been opened, and there above them, you can see the black orb, exactly like the one you have underneath Whitestone, and they're in the process of taking objects out and throwing them up into the sphere, and you watch as they flash and vanish into the darkness. You see one cloaked figure that's currently shouting out and giving commands right now.
Laura: Do they see us?
Matt: With all of your stealth? You got a 19, correct? One of them shouts out, "We have visitors!"
Laura: Do they only see that side? Do they see us come around the other side of the pillar? They see all of us.
Matt: As soon as they all glance over, you guys are out in the open of a hallway. Once they see him, they see the spread of you. As this happens, you watch as a number of skeletons walk out from the halls on the sides, and one seems to suddenly shake and rise up from the ground: a large skeleton with what looks like giant horns that curve out of the head, standing about 12 feet tall. Looks to be some sort of minotaur-like beast, but bone and anger.
Laura: How far away is the ziggurat?
Matt: The ziggurat from you guys? Let's pull out a map. (cheering)
Ashley: Do you need help?
Matt: I may be able to get this here.
Laura: It's such a big map.
Matt: It's a big one. Actually, Travis, do you want to help me with this real fast?
Jon: This time, it's big.
Matt: We're working out the kinks here, guys. Thank you very much.
Sam: Guys. So many great things available in the store tonight. Those posters? The Scanlan thing. Oh shit.
Liam: Combat. Here we go! This is the real deal.
Laura: Wait, we didn't do this last time, did we?
Jon: If I hadn't sneezed, you guys, we never would have seen this.
Taliesin: They would all be dead right now. We would have taken them all out in one clean kill.
Jon: We would have quietly (blow gun sounds).
Sam: An overhead cam? An out-of-focus overhead cam?
Jon: This is the place, guys.
Laura: Wait, so it's reversed?
Sam: Matt only has to manage 22 individual characters right now.
Matt: No, it's great, guys. I love it; it's wonderful.
Laura: So when we tell you which direction we want to go, Matt, it's from your perspective.
Matt: Well, do the best you can to see.
Travis: The map's right.
Taliesin: Towards and away from the ziggurat, and the ziggurat's 12:00 and we're 6:00.
Sam: We'll just say leeward and windward. Starboard.
Matt: Okay, so. There is a singular figure standing up here that seems to be giving orders and shouting it out to the side. Female voice rings out across the center of the chamber and says, "Remnants, slay the intruders and grant their bodies to the cause!"
Laura: Can I see whose voice that was?
Matt: Make a perception check.
Laura: That was crazy. 27.
Matt: 27. It's hard to see. She's in the dark right there and the sphere doesn't give a lot of light, but the voice sounds familiar.
Sam: Familiar?
Laura: Familiar?
Matt: All right, so at this point the woman pulls an amulet. The woman pulls an amulet out from beneath the robe, and as she clutches it in her hand, the orb shifts from black to white, to a white-gray color, and you watch as the wind (whoosh) gets whipped up even heavier and lights up the area around the space. You watch as the cloaked hood flows back, and for a brief moment, before the grin crawls across her face, you see the face of Delilah Briarwood. (gasps)
Sam: We killed her! She's dead!
Laura: No!
Travis: Look at Percy.
Sam: She's dead. She died. We killed her!
Ashley: Oh no.
Matt: Yet there she is at the top of the ziggurat.
Laura: How?!
Sam: This is like a soap opera!
Laura: Dun dun dun!
Travis: I broke the world for you returns!
Matt: I would like you all to roll initiative.
Travis: (laughs) What?
Laura: I know.
Ashley: This looks like a crazy fight.
Marisha: Natural 20.
Matt: Nice.
Marisha: If only it was for something a little more important, but it's fine.
Taliesin: You get to go first.
Matt: So 25 to 20?
Taliesin: 20.
Sam: 20 for Scanlan.
Matt: What was it?
Marisha: 22, tied with Scanlan.
Sam: No, mine's just 20.
Matt: All right, so Percy.
Taliesin: Percy and Scanlan are tied.
Matt: Scanlan. Okay. All right.
Sam: Wait, does Doty roll? I forget. No, he just goes when Taryon does.
Matt: Yeah, I'm letting him go with Taryon. It's easier to check that. All right, 20 to 15?
Travis: 17.
Sam: Taryon's 16.
Liam: 15.
Matt: All right, so we have Grog. You got, what did you say? 17? Vax, what did you say?
Travis: 15.
Matt: Oh, 15 and you said 17 for Taryon?
Sam: 16 for Taryon.
Matt: All right.
Laura: 14.
Matt: 14.
Sam: What did you get?
Jon: 17.
Sam: He got 17. Did he tell you?
Matt: Oh, he didn't tell me that. Sorry about that.
Ashley: Okay. So many things on the board. I wonder if those statues are going to come to life.
Matt: All righty. So who else is left. Pike?
Ashley: Seven! She's so good at initiative rolling.
Matt: All right, so at the beginning of this initiation, with the orb now flaring this pale gray-white and Delilah Briarwood standing there at the top of the ziggurat, staring down and focusing on the group of intruders that have just rushed in. Keyleth, it's your turn.
Marisha: Oh god. Okay. I am going to, under the cult hood that I have, transform my face with Alter Self into Sylas Briarwood.
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: Her husband. Her dead husband. I'm going to have his face, and I'm going to walk forward and say, Delilah. Don't. It is me.
Matt: Make a deception check.
Marisha: Deception?
Matt: So as you step forward into the chamber.
Marisha: This is not good.
Liam: Sunshine, roll high.
Marisha: I'm not good at this shit. Oh, that's not bad! 14? That's it. 14. That's all I got. 14 is good for me.
Taliesin: It's dark.
Matt: Okay, so that's your action. As you say this to Delilah, her eyes flash over to you, and her face goes--
Sam: She's mad.
Laura: So pissed!
Matt: You have your movement and your bonus, still.
Marisha: Movement and a bonus? (sighs)
Liam: Feeblemind on the dragon.
Marisha: I am going to take my bonus to ignite my form into a fire elemental and rush towards the closest thing to me.
Matt: Okay, there are two skeletons to your right and left. You're turning into a fire elemental.
Marisha: Yeah. I don't know. Where are we?
Matt: There you go, Keyleth.
Marisha: Okay, I have a 50-foot movement. I want to hit as many skeletons as I can by running through them and catching them on fire.
Matt: Okay, so with that, you can do (counting). You can probably get this whole cluster here. All righty. They all catch fire as you rush through. You do get attacks of opportunity on you as you rush by. That is 15?
Marisha: What am I against?
Matt: What's your AC for your fire elemental?
Marisha: Hit.
Matt: All right, so that's 11 points of slashing damage, reduced to half because you take half damage, right?
Marisha: Yep. So five.
Matt: That's a 13?
Marisha: Miss. No, hit. Armor class is 13.
Matt: Another five points of slashing damage. Ten?
Marisha: Miss.
Matt: Eight.
Marisha: Miss.
Matt: Okay. That one and that one. That is a 15 from the minotaur skeleton.
Marisha: Hit.
Matt: You take 17 points of slashing damage, reduced to eight. And the last one is a natural 20, so you take 22 points of slashing damage, reduced to 11. And they are all set aflame. All of them take, I believe, fire damage from impacting you?
Marisha: Yep.
Matt: So we'll say eight damage across the board for all of them. All of them get hit with fire as they swipe out at you, including the giant minotaur that swings over you with this large greataxe in its hands and bursts into flames as it does so. Awesome. All right, that ends your turn, Keyleth. Delilah, who's currently glaring at Keyleth and the rest of you, looks out and goes, "Of course it would be you, wouldn't it?" She takes a step back. Without breaking eye contact, goes, "Finish your work." (foreign words) And slams her hand down on the ground, and you watch as this sphere of rainbow color completely encompasses around the top of the ziggurat. You now see this large orb, this dome of multicolored rainbows that flickers for a second, and then briefly becomes a singular color.
Laura: It's a giant--
Matt: You see it is a giant Prismatic Sphere around. The color you see now as it flickers for a minute becomes stark red, just deep ruby red.
Jon: It's so pretty. Look at it, you guys.
Liam: Taste the rainbow.
Travis: These people kill ducks, Lionel.
Jon: (gasps) Kill them all!
Matt: Percival, Scanlan. What are you guys doing?
Taliesin: Scanlan, you first. My plan just went up the rainbow.
Sam: All right. I'll step forward and I will-- is Vax or Vex near me? Vex is near me, right?
Matt: Vex is near you, yeah.
Sam: I will inspire Vex. I will sing to her. I will sing, (singing) you don't need anybody else. When I stand beside you, I touch you, elf. Whoa. (laughter)
Sam: Something creepy.
Laura: Working your way back up.
Sam: And then I'll cast Reverse Gravity on everybody. Everybody in there. All their shit.
Matt: All righty! What's the radius on that? My templates are still back on the shelf. Can someone grab my templates real fast? That would be awesome.
Sam: 50 feet.
Matt: 50-foot radius?
Sam: 50 feet radius.
Matt: Oh, that's going to get everybody in there, including probably Keyleth.
Marisha: I can take it. I'm into this.
Matt: You can fly, though, right?
Marisha: I can fire hover?
Taliesin: I have sticky feet right now, so I ain't going nowhere.
Matt: Reverse Gravity, perfect. Dexterity save across the board. What's the spell DC with the hand cone?
Sam: 22.
Taliesin: Fuck their shit up!
Sam: Does it affect people in the dome?
Matt: You don't know.
Taliesin: We'll hear a thunk, won't we?
Matt: You see over here, a number of other robed figures and one that looks like it's heavily armored in the front, as well. A couple of small other cultists down on the sides, but they all-- apparently. Okay, the armored one actually manages to grab the stonework and hold on.
Sam: Oh boy, Matt's hating this.
Matt: Everyone else, except for that one armored guard, rises up and (wham) slams into the ceiling 50 feet up. That is 5d10 points of damage. 5d6, sorry. Thank you very much. Perfect.
Marisha: Is that including me, or no?
Matt: That would be including you.
Marisha: Okay.
Liam: Let me just reiterate, we always appreciated Scanlan.
Sam: I just need to hear it more, guys.
Matt: 20 points of bludgeoning damage, which completely destroys these skeletons that were damaged earlier from the fire.
Liam: So long, pawns.
Matt: All right. Are you maintaining it, or letting them fall?
Sam: Maintain!
Matt: All righty, so everyone else is held in the air right now against the ceiling.
Sam: The people inside the dome? No.
Matt: Seem to be unaffected.
Sam: Oh, that ziggurat.
Laura: Anti-magic dome.
Sam: I'll move a little closer in.
Matt: So over here next to Pike?
Sam: Done. Percival.
Matt: That ends Scanlan's turn. Percy, what are you doing?
Taliesin: I'm going to pull out Bad News. Actually, let's pull out Animus. This will be funnier if I'm walking around that way, which is always a fun thing to say. There's that one guy holding on, right?
Matt: There's one guy holding on, yeah.
Taliesin: There's one guy holding on. I'm going to use my gun to make him drop an object of my choosing. And that object is going to be the pyramid. So just remembering how to do this.
Matt: Roll for an attack.
Taliesin: Roll for an attack. That's 29?
Matt: That will hit. All right, he has to make a strength saving throw?
Taliesin: Strength saving throw against 20.
Matt: Nope, five plus five. That is a no, so he goes (whoosh) and slams into the ceiling, as well, taking-- ooh, that is 22 points of bludgeoning damage.
Marisha: Can Keyleth clothesline him on the way up as a fire elemental?
Matt: Sure. Close enough. You swoosh over there; it's fine. More of a flavor element. So all the visible creatures you can see right now are held against the ceiling.
Taliesin: Okay, is he still alive? I don't suppose I have advantage to hit anything that's pinned to the ceiling.
Matt: I'm going to say for the purposes of falling up, a lot of them are prone, so you would actually have disadvantage.
Taliesin: So weird. I'll take it. I hit the wrong thing. There we are. I'll burn another point for advantage and shoot him again. Just with a straight roll. That's 19.
Matt: That hits. Same armored guy?
Taliesin: Same guy. That's nine points of damage, plus three points of psychic damage.
Matt: Okay. All right?
Taliesin: And I'll hit him again. Same thing. Hit him again. This time I'm going to take a bonus for a Hex on him, too, for extra fun. That's 27.
Matt: Yeah, that hits.
Taliesin: So that's not bad. That's 17 points of damage, plus three points of psychic damage and five points of necrotic damage.
Matt: Nice! You're just firing up at this figure. The one shot sends it flying up into the ceiling, and I'd say even before it impacts, as it's still floating up in the air, you shoot it once while it's still falling upward, and then it slams into the ceiling and you get one final shot to hit it while it's there. (grunts) Across the top. It's hard to see if it's really that hurt, but it's currently a little wounded.
Taliesin: Yeah, and he's got disadvantage on dexterity checks for now, because that's funny.
Matt: Are you going to move, Percival, or are you going to stay where you are?
Taliesin: I'm slowly going to make my way towards the ziggurat, so I'm going to be actually walking up on the wall. So you can put me up on the little creases. Yeah, I'm walking sideways, as gravity's reversed right now. I'll make my way, as far as I can get, towards the sphere.
Matt: Okay, and that radius, by the way, is maintained as long as you concentrate on that. So anybody who walks into that radius will have to make a dex save or be flung up into that. So! That being the case, ending Scanlan's turn and Percy's turn, the cultists that are currently flung to the ceiling are going to get up and run this way, so they're technically up on the ceiling right now. Those two are going to continue their work. You don't see what's in there. Grog, you're up.
Travis: Is it me and Chad?
Matt: Let's see here. Actually, no. I disagree. They actually can take an action this turn from that distance. So I need Grog and Pike to both make wisdom saving throws.
Laura: Are you both wise?
Ashley: I have gnome cunning, so I have advantage on wisdom.
Travis: 14.
Matt: 14.
Ashley: What did you say it was, wisdom? 20?
Laura: Roll your advantage. You get advantage.
Ashley: Maybe I don't need it?
Laura: Try it. Maybe you'll roll a natural 20.
Matt: Advantage for which one?
Ashley: I have gnome cunning. I have advantage on wisdom, intelligence, charisma saving throws.
Matt: Just in general?
Ashley: I guess so.
Matt: Against magic, I think it was? So yeah, both of you guys shrug off the effect. You feel the magic try to take hold over the inside of your brain and your muscles seize up and you manage to shrug it off. It's a familiar feeling. It is one that you're familiar with, as well, Pike. It is a Hold Person attempt on both of you.
Ashley: I know what you did. I know what you were trying to do!
Matt: All right, that ends their turn. Grog, you're up.
Travis: Okay, where does that sphere of vertical influence start?
Matt: You're not entirely certain, Grog.
Travis: Awesome. I'm going to go into a rage and haul ass along this wall.
Matt: Okay, as you rush into this wall here, I need you to make a dexterity saving throw.
Travis: I have advantage on those. 14.
Matt: Grog, you start running and then (yelps) go flying up into the ceiling.
Sam: Oh shit, it affects the area?
Travis: (screams)
Matt: You take 17 points of bludgeoning.
Travis: I raged at the beginning.
Matt: So half that. You're now locked on the ceiling, as well. However, that does put you in melee range, and prone, with one of the cultists on the ceiling.
Travis: Totally meant to do that. I'll attack.
Matt: You're upside-down on the ceiling. The guy who cast a spell and it didn't work on you watched you tumble up, land, get up, and stare him down in his face.
Travis: Hi.
Matt: His hood falls off. You see a guy who's staring at you now with one eye plucked out of its socket.
Travis: Might as well make a matching one. Reckless! Natural 20. (cheering)
Matt: Roll some damage.
Travis: So I rolled a ten. Two more of these, seven. 31, 11, 42.
Matt: Okay. You smile at him, bring the axe back, and you completely-- we're talking tree trunk. He slides over and his body attaches to the ceiling and collapses against that, blood splattering out from his midsection. It seems really gross, in a sense. You still have at half movement, about 20 feet to run across.
Travis: Yeah, I'll keep trying to come to this wall.
Matt: This wall? Okay. That's about as far as you get, but you don't have range with your axe.
Travis: That's my turn.
Matt: Okay. Finishes Grog's turn. Lionel. You're over here, currently.
Jon: I move forward and I jump into the radius so I can float up, too. And as I'm flying, I say, I'll save you, Grog!
Travis: Come on, buddy!
Matt: Do you go into a rage first? It will reduce your impact damage as you land.
Jon: Wait, what?
Taliesin: You take less damage.
Matt: If you want to be raging first, you'll take less damage from the impact.
Jon: Yeah, you know what? Let's rage.
Matt: Okay. You joyfully leap into the sky.
Jon: It's the duck rage.
Matt: You take 16, reduced to half, so you take eight points of bludgeoning damage as you slam into the ground at the top, and you stand up and there's about five feet between you and Grog, and one of the cultists is there right in front of you, who's like, "Shit!"
Jon: I rage.
Matt: Do you want to attack him? Go for it.
Jon: I think the anti-gravity is screwing me up. Three, plus 12.
Matt: Three plus 12 still hits, actually.
Jon: He does it clumsily.
Matt: Your first strike is 2d6 plus ten damage.
Jon: Seven. 17.
Matt: 17 points of slashing damage as you pull your greataxe up and rake past. You see his chest split open and he (grunts) pulls back. He's still alive, and as he looks up at you from under the hood, he is also missing one of his eyes. (pants)
Jon: Second attack? Rage, bonus action...
Matt: You have an extra attack as a barbarian, so you get a second attack.
Jon: Okay.
Taliesin: d20.
Jon: Do the same thing.
Taliesin: Natural 20! Now roll 4d6.
Matt: Roll 4d6.
Travis: Stop touching him!
Taliesin: He's so plush, though. It's really nice. Whoa! Does he get to reroll ones?
Sam: Oh, that's a one.
Taliesin: Does he get to reroll a one?
Matt: He does, because of his great weapon fighting, yeah.
Taliesin: Reroll it. Better.
Jon: So it's 17. Plus ten. 27.
Matt: Okay. The first strike cuts him across the chest. (pants) Rears back. Oh, that wasn't enough, and with a second half-assed swipe, he goes down and spills out all across the ceiling. That cultist is done. All righty, that finishes your turn. Taryon.
Sam: Doty, stay here. I'll jump on the broom. I cast Fly on-- no, I don't have to cast Fly. I'm on a broom!
Laura: It's hard to keep track of three characters.
Sam: Well, Matt does it all the time.
Taliesin: The walls are tall enough that you can put that above people and it won't be a problem.
Matt: Possibly. We'll find out. Where are you going, Tary?
Sam: I'm going to fly straight in to the steps.
Matt: All right, so you're doing a dash? Or just your movement?
Sam: Can I get there in one fly?
Matt: What's the speed of the broom?
Sam: It's 40, right?
Matt: You can get there. That's as close as you can get with one movement.
Taliesin: You're close, though. You can throw something at it.
Sam: I can't get all the way there, so I'll cast something. Shit. It's a prismatic thing, right?
Matt: Right now you have this ruby, bright-red dome that's glowing with light right now.
Sam: Would a Prismatic Spray beat a Prismatic Spray? Probably not, right?
Matt: I don't know. What do you think?
Sam: Shit. I'm not going to risk it. I'm going to point straight up. Is there anyone right above me?
Matt: Yes, actually. These guys here are on the ceiling right now. Anything you see there are on the ceiling, currently.
Sam: And I'm up a bit, so I could throw something at them? I guess drop it. I'll drop a thing of fire up there. Alchemic fire. A little pot.
Matt: At which one?
Sam: Can I get two of them? It has a five-foot radius.
Matt: Yes, you can hit these two.
Sam: Great. I'll go for both of them.
Matt: All right, so the skeleton and guy get to make... what's the DC?
Sam: 17.
Matt: 17? Unfortunately, the cultist makes it. Skeleton does not. So the cultist dodges out of the way on the ceiling. It smashes on the ground by the skeleton and bursts into flames. How much damage does it deal to the skeleton?
Sam: I'm 15th level or 16th level?
Matt: 15th.
Sam: Okay. 5d6.
Matt: 5d6 fire damage to the skeleton.
Sam: 16.
Matt: 16 points of fire damage? That skeleton, fire consumes it. It's still currently standing, and now the flames are licking through its ribcage. That ends your turn?
Sam: I will, as a bonus action, cast Sanctuary. Am I within 30 feet of any of my friends?
Matt: Right now? Nope.
Sam: On myself.
Matt: All righty. Vax, you're up.
Liam: Boots on, poof go the wings. I have two actions left. It's really hard to see. How far am I from skeletal minotaur?
Matt: Right there? You're approximately 40 feet. 45.
Liam: And nowhere on the board are any of my allies within melee combat range of any enemy.
Matt: Nope! Anyone that was killed whatever they were fighting.
Liam: That's what I figured. Okay, so I'm going to use my two remaining actions to throw daggers at minotaur skeleton.
Matt: From where you are? From where you're standing?
Liam: I'm 40 feet away. I'm in range.
Matt: Yeah, and you have sharpshooter.
Liam: I didn't say it on the first.
Matt: You have sharpshooter, right? Sharpshooter feat.
Liam: I have it if I choose it, but I don't want to choose it.
Matt: Right, I'm asking because that ignores cover.
Liam: I have sharpshooter. Right, so I ignore three-quarters cover. So the first one is a 19?
Matt: Hits.
Liam: Good, and the second one-- oh, that hits, for sure. That's a 16... 28. Okay, so for the first one, I'm going to unload some Smite into this motherfucker because I know he's undead. That is three, plus eight is 11, plus psychic damage is 17, plus 3d8 because he's undead. So 17 plus eight is 25, 29, 36 for the first attack.
Matt: 36 damage. As you fling the dagger out, it seems to skid across the stone of the pillar in front of it, leaving these bright white sparks as it hits. Comes through and strikes through the chest. As it does, a burst of divine energy. You watch as some of the ribs shatter and scatter across the stonework. (roars)
Liam: Fucking feathers, buddy. And then the second one is four, plus the Smite, and I get four plus eight is 12, 15, 22.
Matt: 22.
Liam: Wait, I can only smite once per round?
Matt: You can smite. I believe so. I think it's whenever you expend a spell slot, so I don't think there's a limitation per round. That's part of what makes paladins so crazy at the higher levels, actually. But just to make sure of that or the internet's going to hate me. No, there's no limitation on that. So 22?
Liam: I'm also going to use my movement. Is there enough room to fly safely over big skeleton?
Matt: Yeah, it's about 12 feet tall, so as long as you get 20 feet over it, you can.
Liam: Then I want to get into the back corner closest to Liam, on the map.
Matt: Over here?
Liam: Yeah. 120 feet of movement.
Matt: Over here, you mean.
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: All right, you're over here in this area.
Liam: As far back from the enemies as I can be. That's good. Done.
Matt: All right, that ends your turn. Vex.
Laura: Has anybody tried shooting anything through the orb?
Matt: Not yet, no.
Laura: Okay. Well, I'm going to try Hunter's Marking Delilah.
Matt: You have no sight on her.
Laura: I don't?
Matt: No. All you see is a sphere of red. It blocks everything. All sight is obscured with light. It's very bright; the whole room is lit up. You almost have to squint a little, looking at it.
Laura: Okay. I'm going to try to shoot an arrow, then, at where I remember her being.
Matt: Okay, go for it. Roll an attack.
Laura: Because it's red. Natural 20!
Matt: Awesome. The arrow shatters. No effect.
Laura: Oh, what a waste. Because it was red. Motherfuck. Okay, then I'm going to Hunter's Mark that big guy and I'm going to shoot him with a flaming bowstring.
Liam: Y'all motherfuckers need Sarenrae.
Laura: Are you fucking kidding me?
Liam: Well, you got a 20 on the last one.
Laura: Yeah, when it didn't fucking count!
Liam: Well, we've all got to eat a little humble pie every once in a while. Even you.
Laura: You motherfuck. Don't rub it in my face when I just rolled a one.
Matt: Anything you want to do with Trinket? Movement?
Laura: No, he has to wait because he's going to get hit. He's going to get bludgeoned.
Matt: Okay, ends Vex's turn. Skeletons are now going to go.
Laura: I am going to move back into the little corner that's next to me.
Matt: Right here.
Laura: Yeah, and Trinket will follow me in there.
Matt: Perfect. The skeletons get up and start rushing in towards the nearest things. This one's going to rush towards Grog. This one's going to rush towards Keyleth there. This one's also going to rush towards Keyleth. The minotaur, who got impacted angrily, sees you dart past. Turns around. You're not within range, so it's going to move up towards (heavy footsteps). This knight is also going to move in towards Keyleth. These guys up at the top are going to focus in that way. All right, first, the minotaur swings with its axe. Makes a giant swing towards you, Lionel. Actually, no. What it's going to do is it's going to rush up, instead, put its head down, and charge forward towards you with its horns in front. It's attempting to strike you with its horns. That's 18 to hit. What's your armor class?
Jon: It is 18.
Matt: 18, okay, so that just barely hits. You suffer 13 plus nine. You take 21 points of piercing damage, reduced to half, so it's ten, because you're raging. I need you to make a strength saving throw.
Jon: So mine's plus ten. That's with this dice, right?
Matt: Yes. Roll that, plus ten.
Jon: 23.
Matt: 23, yeah. You're not pushed. You get the impact and the horns come to your chest and you're like, "ooh, that hurt," but this giant creature's stopped in its tracks. Its hooves are scraping into the ground, and you're immovable. That's the end of its turn. Skeleton attacks on Keyleth. That's 18?
Marisha: Hits.
Matt: 13?
Marisha: Hits. 13 is my armor class.
Matt: All right, you take 22 points of slashing damage, reduced to 11, from the two attacks.
Marisha: 11, so I'm at 52.
Matt: And all right.
Taliesin: Dungeons and Dragons. Yeah.
Matt: The blackguard is going to make three attacks with this giant glaive that it has. Now you've got up close, you can see this jagged black armor. He's going to rush up with his glaive and spins. All three attacks on you. That is 23? 18? And 16. All righty, so you take nine, plus Thunderous Smite damage. That's going to be 21 points of damage. Sorry, it's going to be nine points of slashing, which is reduced to four, and then you take an additional 15 points of thunder damage.
Marisha: So 19 points total?
Matt: Correct. Mark that off.
Taliesin: No, it's the big motherfucker. The minotaur.
Liam: Wait, smite?
Matt: The second strike is going to hit you again. He's going to burn another slot for another smite. On the second one, you take another four points of slashing damage, plus 13 points of radiant damage to you. This would be necrotic damage.
Travis: From the skeleton minotaur?
Matt: No, this is from the armored guy.
Travis: Gotcha. Okay. We've got to get you out of there.
Matt: And the third strike hits you for four points of slashing and a third dark smite. Another 13 points of necrotic damage.
Marisha: That brings me exactly to zero.
Matt: You drop your form.
Marisha: I drop form. Just form. I tanked that motherfucking fight, y'all.
Matt: So at that point, all of a sudden your form drops in place.
Marisha: I'm still on the ceiling, right?
Matt: Yes, you are. The war priest across the way is going to look outward and begin to focus and chant under his breath, and the little bit of light begins to show, once again, the missing eye on most of these individuals. Delilah is not missing an eye, it seems, but the rest of them seem to have this appearance amongst them. As it releases this form of energy, you watch as a familiar, darker-burning flame begins to spill across the ceiling as a Flame Strike makes its way-- not a Fire Storm, Flame Strike. Sorry, so it's a column.
Sam: Am I close to him?
Matt: Scanlan is-- it's a 60-foot range, is what you're asking? Yes, it is.
Sam: I'll Counterspell that.
Matt: Counterspell the Flame Strike?
Sam: Sure.
Marisha: Scanlan!
Liam: I missed you.
Taliesin: It's so nice that this is not a problem.
Matt: I need you to roll a d20. Add your charisma modifier.
Sam: It's just a plus two? Oh, wait. Wrong guy! Ooh, 19.
Matt: 19 will do it. With that, as the flames begin to well out in this column of fire and dark divine energy, you just reach out and snap your fingers and the spell vanishes on the spot.
Liam: Shorthalt.
Ashley: Shorthalt.
Laura: Shorthalt!
Sam: I don't feel the love! I need to go away for another year.
Travis: It's a start.
Matt: That necromancer, however, is going to impact in the center of the chamber a burst of necrotic energy that billows out from the center in a 60-foot radius. It's going to affect all of you guys.
Liam: Me up in the corner?
Matt: Everyone but you because you're away. Mr. Way Out of the Way Guy.
Liam: It's what I do.
Marisha: Ceiling and floor?
Matt: Ceiling and floor, because it's a large enough radius where it affects the entire space. I need you guys to roll a constitution saving throw for me, please.
Laura: Who?
Matt: Everybody but Vax. No, it will still affect Doty.
Taliesin: I have advantage because of Cabal.
Laura: I suck tonight!
Marisha: Yeah!
Laura: I can't help it!
Liam: Mother bitch!
Sam: Laura, did you roll?
Laura: Oh, I can add inspiration! Okay. No, that's not going to save me.
Matt: So over here. Grog?
Travis: 26.
Matt: 26. You take 15 points of necrotic damage. Pike.
Ashley: 15.
Matt: 15? You take 15 points of necrotic damage.
Laura: Ten.
Matt: You take 30 points of necrotic damage.
Marisha: 23.
Matt: You take 15 points of necrotic damage.
Taliesin: Natural 20.
Matt: 15 points of necrotic damage.
Jon: Ten.
Matt: 30 points of necrotic damage. Scanlan?
Sam: 24.
Matt: 24? You take 15 points of necrotic damage, and make a concentration check, please. Constitution saving throw, with advantage because you have war caster.
Sam: Plus anything?
Matt: Plus your constitution saving throw bonus.
Sam: Constitution saving throw. It's a lot. 22 on the first one.
Matt: You have advantage, but yeah. You maintain concentration. You're fine. All righty, and I need Taryon.
Sam: 13 plus seven. 20.
Matt: All right. 15 points of necrotic damage to Taryon. As the wave fades off, you hear the chuckle of the two cultists, and they step backward into the red sphere.
Taliesin: Weren't they on the ceiling?
Matt: Oh, you're right. Sorry. They were on the ceiling. Thank you for the reminder!
Taliesin: They were my least favorite.
Matt: I know. Fair enough.
Sam: Does Doty get hit?
Matt: Doty does get hit, yes.
Sam: He's out.
Matt: Doty is (creak, impact) on the ground. Thank you for the reminder. Sorry.
Sam: Wait, how many points?
Matt: 30. 30 necrotic.
Laura: Trinket.
Matt: Did Trinket roll? Roll for Trinket.
Laura: No.
Matt: 30 points of necrotic for Trinket. All righty. That ends their go there. Pike?
Ashley: Okay, so I am going to hold my turn until after Scanlan goes.
Matt: All you can hold is an action. What action are you going to hold?
Ashley: I have to tell you what I'm going to do?
Matt: Essentially, yeah. As opposed to moving your initiative around in the order, you can still move on your turn, and then if you're going to cast or attack, you start it and then wait for something to trigger it and then release it when that happens.
Ashley: I'm going to cast Guiding Bolt, but I'm going to hold it until after Scanlan's turn.
Liam: He's at the bottom?
Laura: She's at the bottom.
Matt: Scanlan's close to the top. Okay, so you begin casting Guiding Bolt. What's the trigger? For Scanlan to go?
Ashley: For Scanlan to go.
Matt: Okay. You begin concentrating on the spell. End of your turn?
Ashley: Yes.
Matt: Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: Okay. How many people are still on the ceiling with me?
Matt: Grog, Lionel, and a number of skeletons. The blackguard, the two other casters over there, the minotaur skeleton...
Marisha: Okay. I drop form. I'm going to look around and go, (nervous laughter) and drop my staff and do Fire Storm radiating out from me, and I want to try and avoid Lionel and Grog, but basically radiating out, fire floods the ceiling.
Matt: Okay. You can hit him. (counting) You can get everyone but these two skeletons, if you want to do a swath through that.
Marisha: Everyone but the two skeletons?
Matt: Actually, if you started it here, you could go... (counting) You can either avoid the two skeletons or avoid one of those casters. Your call.
Marisha: No, fuck the casters.
Matt: So those two skeletons next to you untouched. Everything else in there has to make a dexterity saving throw against a DC 21. Natural 20 on that first skeleton.
Marisha: What a dick!
Matt: Minotaur does not make it. Let's see. Blackguard does not make it. Natural 20 on that caster there, and a 13 on that one. So this one fails, that caster succeeds, blackguard fails, minotaur fails, skeleton succeeds. Roll damage on that.
Marisha: I get to reroll ones. (counting) 26. Roll two more. 12 more damage. What did I just say?
Taliesin: 26.
Marisha: 26, plus 12 more. 38 damage.
Matt: 38 points of damage. This skeleton is burned into ash and destroyed. The minotaur skeleton, even though it made the save with a 20, it had taken damage from the fall earlier and it was enough to wipe it out. Minotaur skeleton, with that last bit, also burns up. The flames burn around the blackguard, but it stands there, defiant. It seems to almost be relishing the pain as it burns and tears through its armor. You don't see a face. All you see is black armor, jagged at the tips, long cloak that is burned to the back, big glaive that spins in his arm.
Travis: Where is he?
Matt: Right there. He takes half the damage.
Taliesin: Is he on fire, too?
Matt: It doesn't set them on fire. All righty. Keyleth, that's your action. What else are you going to do?
Marisha: Can I move any? Can I back out of wherever I am? Where am I?
Matt: You're right there. Two skeletons get attacks of opportunity on you if you move. It's up to you.
Marisha: I'll stay. Let me back out of it.
Matt: Okay. Two attacks of opportunity on you. That is a 24?
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: And a 17.
Marisha: Yeah.
Matt: All right. You take 22 points of slashing damage.
Liam: Sorry, honey.
Marisha: It's okay.
Liam: You're fine. Oh, you're dead.
Marisha: I'm fine.
Matt: Okay. Delilah.
Sam: Wait, she goes through the thing?!
Matt: Yeah. She walks through.
Liam: She can go wherever the fuck she wants.
Matt: She's going to make a dexterity check to hold on right there, and she rolls a 23. No, a 22. Your DC is 22 for Scanlan? She just steps out of it and holds onto the edge. Actually, she wouldn't have had to do that. She steps to the edge. She succeeded, but she basically just looks out of the sphere. You watch her face appear out, and her hand. She begins to look around for her next target.
Liam: Matt Mercer in drag, shitting all over us.
Sam: All it ever has been.
Matt: She looks over at you, Pike, and goes, "Not this time, my dear." I need you-- Delilah's got the Player's Handbook-- I need you to make an intelligence saving throw, please.
Ashley: Intelligence saving throw? Okay, I get advantages. Okay.
Laura: Don't jinx this.
Travis: The same fucking thing.
Liam: Two eights. Holy fuck.
Ashley: Nine.
Matt: Nine. As her finger reaches out to you, your brain goes a little numb and a little fuzzy, and the spell that you were preparing dissipates, and conscious thought becomes difficult as the Feeblemind spell takes effect.
Marisha: No! Bitch!
Laura: What works on Feeblemind?
Marisha: This is my karma!
Matt: Your intelligence and charisma become one. You can't cast spells, you cannot understand language or communicate in any intelligible way.
Marisha: I might be able to do a Greater Restoration on you, but I don't know if I can help you there.
Laura: Tiberius had it one time. How did we heal him?
Marisha: It was a restoration spell.
Matt: She steps, laughing, back into the orb.
Liam: Back into the Skittle? Fuck you, Delilah. Holy shit!
Matt: Percy, you're up.
Taliesin: God fucking damn it.
Travis: Can you point to where Pike is on the map? Okay.
Taliesin: I'm going to continue further down the wall towards the evil orb of death.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: Is that as far as I can get?
Matt: That's as far as you can get in a 30-foot movement, yeah.
Taliesin: Okay. And the cultist closest to me on the ceiling?
Matt: That's going to be that one right there.
Taliesin: That one right there? Let's do some damage with Animus, and let's add a sharpshooter for it, just for fun.
Matt: Okay.
Taliesin: That's 16 to hit.
Matt: 16 to hit does not hit.
Taliesin: Hold on, I may have done that wrong. 17 to hit.
Matt: Still does not hit. As soon as you fire, it hits but it sparks off what looks like big plate armor on this caster that the robes were obscuring. As it hits, it tears through the cloth and you see the reflection of armor beneath.
Taliesin: That's irritating. All right, forget sharpshooter. One more. That's better. 24 to hit.
Matt: 24 hits, yeah.
Taliesin: This is not the one I have the Hex on, right? Okay, that's fine. I should have done that differently. 12 points of damage and one point of psychic damage.
Matt: All righty. This does hit. (gunshot) Doesn't seem to affect him much.
Taliesin: He's still fine, isn't he? That's fine. I'm going to hit him again.
Matt: Go for it. Scanlan, you're up next.
Taliesin: That's like 35 to hit. Jesus Christ, I rolled a 19. And that's 17 points of damage and one point of psychic damage.
Matt: All righty. Still standing. Not showing any wear and tear. Taking damage, but does not appear to be wounded significantly.
Taliesin: I'm going to use my bonus to heal myself a little bit because goddamn it. Oh, Jesus.
Jon: You're attacking who?
Taliesin: I'm attacking one of the cultists. I'm up to 120 hit points now.
Matt: This isn't the one in the fully dark armor. This is the one that has armor under a cloak. It looks like an older man's face. Has this staff at the side and a mace hanging from the belt and is currently casting spells from the ceiling right now.
Taliesin: Goddamn it. I wanted to throw some electricity on it and I blanked because my brain is made of Swiss cheese. Is it too late?
Matt: I'll let you throw it on.
Taliesin: I'm going to add-- on that last shot, I'm going to add 5d6 worth of electricity damage.
Matt: Go for it.
Taliesin: (counting) 16 points of lightning damage.
Matt: 16 points of lightning damage.
Taliesin: That's five Cabal's. (blast) Five Cabal's.
Matt: All righty. That ends your turn, Percival?
Taliesin: Yeah.
Matt: Scanlan, you're up.
Sam: I don't have much.
Taliesin: Really?
Marisha: You've always ever said that.
Taliesin: You always say that. That doesn't mean anything.
Travis: The minotaur's down, right?
Matt: The minotaur fell, yeah. It was incinerated by the Fire Storm.
Laura: It's cultists and Delilah left?
Matt: And some skeletons.
Travis: And a dark paladin's still up there.
Marisha: The blackguard, yeah.
Jon: The one who's got all that black. The really powerful one.
Laura: Okay.
Taliesin: It's possible we can run straight into the ball.
Sam: Who's with me? Who's near me? Nobody, right?
Matt: Right now? Nobody is near you. Right, Pike is right next to you.
Sam: I can't do anything to Pike or with Pike. (fake sobs) All right. I'll inspire myself. The saddest inspiration. (singing) It's raining gnomes. Hallelujah, it's raining gnomes. Everywhere we go. Short, stout, tough, and mean. The handsomest I've ever seen.
Matt: What are you doing?
Sam: I'm going to Dimension Door into the orb, into the whatever this thing is. The prismatic ball.
Matt: Okay.
Laura: If it's doable to pass through a magic barrier.
Taliesin: It might be concentration-based, and if he can knock it out...
Ashley: Clever gnome.
Liam: Come on, baby.
Matt: I'm going to check one thing. This is important, because this will make a big difference.
Laura: Is it an action to drop anti-gravity?
Sam: I can do it at will.
Laura: They'll all get bludgeoning damage from the fall.
Sam: So will you.
Laura: I'm not on the ceiling.
Matt: All right.
Sam: Not into the orb of death.
Matt: But inside the sphere. I understand. I will say, as is the nature of the spell versus a Dimension Door, I need you, as you begin to pass through, your form folds through the magic, the very powerful magic and intent of this sphere. The dome of red hits you immediately. I need you to make a dexterity saving throw, please.
Sam: Two.
Matt: Two.
Sam: Oh, wait. Plus six. That's eight. Plus, I'm inspired.
Matt: You can inspire and roll on top of that, if you want.
Sam: Ten. So 18.
Matt: 18. Not enough. All right.
Taliesin: Oh god, there's a lot of d6 I hear rolling.
Matt: You take 28 points of fire damage for the red. As soon as you flash through, and there's orange behind it. I need you to make another dexterity saving throw.
Laura: Oh no, it's a whole rainbow!
Jon: Rainbow, ending with indigo!
Sam: 18.
Matt: 18.
Taliesin: Oh no.
Liam: And if you make it in, you're in a death box.
Matt: You take 34 points of force damage. Sorry, lightning damage on this. Acid damage. I'm reading the wrong one.
Sam: Acid, I get halved.
Matt: All right, so you take 17 points of acid damage.
Taliesin: Oh god.
Matt: You pass through that into yellow. Make another dexterity saving throw.
Sam: I thought Dimension Door, I disappear to another plane and reappear.
Matt: The essence of this 9th-level spell is to not let anything pass through it.
Sam: All right. Keep it coming.
Matt: Make a dexterity saving throw.
Sam: 16.
Matt: All right.
Taliesin: Can he bounce off at some point and stop pulling through this fucking rainbow of death?
Matt: This is the first time that I've used this, so I'm making sure that I can...
Liam: Scanlan Shorthalt, killed by ROYGBIV.
Marisha: What fucking spell is this?
Matt: You know what?
Sam: No, keep it coming. I got this.
Matt: No, based on how it's written, it's passing through the sphere.
Sam: What do you mean, passing through?
Matt: Physically passing through the sphere, so I will say, looking at the rules now and really thinking about how it's worded. It doesn't say otherwise. I'll say you can teleport into the sphere.
Laura: Oh my god. You're going to another plane!
Travis: It's not a gimme.
Matt: I'm going to take that damage back.
Sam: I can take it, Matt. Bring it!
Matt: No. You've made a valid point, and the spell does specify "pass through it." You do not pass through it. You appear on the other side. So what's the range on that?
Sam: 500 feet.
Matt: You appear inside. You appear within, and you're now on the inside. You can see, the bright colors are there, blinding you from the interior. Make a constitution saving throw.
Liam: Congratulations. You're in a prison cell with Charles Manson.
Sam: 15.
Matt: 15.
Sam: I still have my inspiration.
Matt: You do.
Sam: 18.
Matt: Okay. The good news is, you didn't take any of that damage as you bamf inside the sphere. Bad news is, you're blinded for a minute.
Sam: Great.
Matt: The colors are so bright in there, your eyes immediately go stark, flashing white. You cannot see anything in there.
Sam: Great.
Liam: Hi, my name's Jeffrey Dahmer. Welcome to my Prismatic Sphere.
Taliesin: You know, I would watch Jeffrey Dahmer's Prismatic Sphere.
Matt: Scanlan, that's your action.
Sam: And my bonus.
Matt: Is that your turn?
Sam: Yeah, that's it. That's all I've got. I can't see the danger I'm in.
Matt: That's true. However, you didn't take any damage, so you didn't lose your concentration on the spell. You're just blinded. All right, so now those cultists have all been slain. I forgot to do the skeletons last time, so I'll have them move in. These two skeletons are going to rush in. This one's going to go ahead and... 25. That's four skeletons on you, Keyleth.
Marisha: Four skeletons on me?
Matt: Yeah. Eight misses you. 13 misses you, I'm pretty sure. Eight again.
Marisha: Miss!
Matt: And a 24. You take 11 points of slashing damage. Three of them are swinging at you and you're dodging out of the way, and then one of them catches you across the shoulder and you're like, (grunts). All right, that ends their go. Grog.
Travis: I'm going to charge in towards the pedestal. What's the first thing that I reach?
Matt: The first thing that you reach over here is a skeleton.
Travis: Yeah. Reckless, great weapon master.
Matt: Go for it.
Travis: 27?
Matt: That hits. Minimum damage, you destroy it, because of the great weapon master. You walk up, smash. There's one also adjacent to you there.
Travis: Yep. Him, too.
Matt: Go for it.
Travis: Reckless again. 20, even.
Matt: 20 hits. Minimum damage shatters that skeleton. You can move five feet in and get a third one, if you'd like.
Travis: Actually, I would like to smash the Titanstone Knuckles together and cast Enlarge on myself.
Matt: Okay. So instead, you go into full, large-size Grog mode here. (impact sound) There you have it.
Travis: Fee fie foe, you're fucked.
Matt: That's your turn, Grog? Lionel.
Jon: Okay. Who's the closest to me?
Matt: Closest to you are the skeletons here, or if you wanted to rush around and get the guy with the big heavy armor.
Jon: That's the old guy?
Matt: There's an old one with a staff, there's a black knight in all the armor with the halberd, or there's some skeletons.
Jon: Can I make it over to the black knight?
Matt: Yeah, you can make it over to him.
Jon: Yeah.
Matt: You get up to him right there.
Jon: Is there any of my teammates? I want to give bardic inspiration to someone. Are you close? You need it? I'm going to give you--
Marisha: We're upside-down on the ceiling.
Jon: L-E-T-S-G-O. Let's go, let's go. (laughter)
Marisha: I'm like, you know how to spell, Lionel!
Jon: That's the only thing I learned.
Marisha: I'm so impressed.
Jon: It's the only song I know, but it works.
Marisha: How much do I get?
Matt: You take a d8, I think?
Jon: 1d8 times three per short rest.
Matt: Yeah, you can use it three times. You get a d8 inspiration die, Keyleth.
Liam: Be aggressive.
Marisha: Be aggressive.
Jon: I'm going to do a Hold Person. I want to hold that guy.
Matt: All right. He's going to make a wisdom saving throw. What's your spell DC?
Jon: 16.
Matt: 16. Natural 20.
Jon: So it doesn't work.
Matt: No. As you begin to cast the spell on him and you reach out for his mind to clench it, he (chuckles) and readies his halberd. No effect.
Jon: Okay. Don't I have another attack? Is raging done with now?
Matt: You're still raging. You can maintain your rage as long as you're attacking things. You used your action to cast the spell instead of attacking.
Jon: So my turn is done.
Matt: That's your turn, yeah. Unfortunately. Sorry, man. All righty, Taryon.
Sam: I don't think I can get through that thing, can I? I'll fly up closer to the orb.
Taliesin: We still have two cultists full of magic.
Sam: Oh. Where are they?
Taliesin: They're above you.
Sam: They're right above me?
Taliesin: On the roof.
Sam: Oh. Well, then I'll attack them, I guess. How wide is my Prismatic Spray cone?
Matt: How wide is your Prismatic Spray cone? What's the cone size on it that it says?
Sam: It's just the standard Prismatic Spray spell.
Taliesin: It's your everyday Prismatic Spray. It sprays in a cone. It's a sugar cone, not a waffle cone.
Matt: Prismatic Spray I'm pretty sure is a 60-foot cone. So it is this big old fun guy. What are you doing?
Sam: Will it hit the protective thing, as well as the people on the ceiling?
Matt: You can try and spray them, as it is a cone. You can aim it up probably to catch the edge of it.
Sam: I'm mainly aiming at the two dudes above.
Matt: All right, so you can hit those guys and the blackguard, if you want to. All righty, so roll a d8.
Sam: A d8? Just 1d8?
Matt: For that guy there.
Sam: Oh, that's right, to pick the color. Four.
Matt: All righty, that's green, so poison for him. For the sphere?
Sam: Seven.
Matt: Seven for the sphere. That is violet. No effect. Okay, that guy there?
Sam: Two.
Matt: Two. Orange. Acid. And the guard.
Sam: Five.
Matt: Five. Cold. All right, so roll 10d6. Failure for him. Failure for the blackguard, who rolled a four. All three of them fail.
Sam: Okay. (counting) 39.
Matt: 39. All righty... This war priest over here, the one on the far end, as you strike. That was with the acid ray. The green ray strikes him and he goes (death rattle) and slowly dissolves into a pile of purplish-red mush that begins to smear across the roof. The other two are impacted by it, and they're reeling from the pain. They're starting to show some real wear and tear now. That's going to end yours?
Sam: Yeah, pretty much. Oh, and I'll fly closer to the sphere. I said that already.
Matt: Yeah. Vax.
Liam: Oh, I'm up? Lionel is right on that dark paladin, right?
Matt: That is correct.
Liam: All right. I would like to use my movement to fly. It's probably not all of it, but 120 feet to get to his backside and stab him in the back.
Matt: You can get there.
Liam: We'll start with that.
Matt: You rush in.
Liam: That is a 19.
Matt: 19 will hit, yes.
Liam: All right, so that is sneak attack damage. He gets three plus eight is 11, plus... where the hell did my d8 go? Okay, 16 plus sneak attack damage. (counting) 45. So that guy took 45 in the back.
Matt: Yes, and as you rush down with the speed of an elven bullet, you drive the blade right into the center of the armor plates, and you watch as he's chuckling with his glaive out, glaring at Lionel. (chuckles, death rattle, thud) And falls dead to the ground.
Liam: Perfect. So that's movement, action, and what I have left is hasted action and bonus action, so I would like to use my bonus action to zip over to Pike, 120 feet.
Matt: As a dash. Okay.
Liam: Yeah, and use my hasted action to carry her out of here, out where there's nobody. Towards the end of your map.
Matt: Okay, grabbing her, you can move at half movement to try and pull her along.
Liam: That's 60 feet.
Matt: Correct. You get her about over here.
Liam: That's great.
Matt: That ends your turn.
Liam: I give her a bonus-bonus action to tousle her hair. Next.
Matt: Easy enough with the wind blowing around. Vex.
Laura: Okay. I'm going to take aim at the other cultist. I'm going to Hunter's Mark them. That's the old one with the staff?
Matt: There are two of them that appear to be staff wielders. The older one has been destroyed with acid. The other one you haven't really gotten close enough to see the face of.
Laura: But they're holding a staff?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: I'm going to bramble shot that one. No. Yeah, I'm going to bramble shot the one that I haven't seen his face yet.
Matt: Okay, so roll to attack.
Laura: That was a 33.
Matt: Yeah, that will hit. Roll damage.
Laura: Okay. (counting) Nobody's standing next to him, right?
Matt: Nope.
Laura: (counting) 27. So 27 damage, and then DC of 17. Strength DC of 17.
Liam: You're a fucking beast.
Matt: Does not succeed. He is restrained. (grunts) As you slam with the arrow from the other side, (grunts) the vines curl up and wrap around, constraining him. He's still holding the staff through part of it, but he's completely unable to move and is restrained.
Laura: But he's holding the staff, still?
Matt: Yeah.
Laura: Okay, I'm going to hit him again.
Matt: Go for it.
Travis: Get him!
Ashley: Get him!
Laura: I can't fucking add! 22?
Matt: 22 does hit. Roll damage.
Laura: I know.
Matt: 100th episode, guys.
Travis: It's extravagant.
Sam: We're onto our bonus material.
Matt: I know. I want to finish this to a narrative beat. Sorry. Thanks for coming along, guys.
Laura: Do I get sneak attack because he's restrained?
Matt: You do.
Liam: Advantage, yeah. Yeah, motherfucker.
Laura: That was the shittiest additional four. Oh no. I don't have any idea what I rolled before that.
Matt: Then roll again.
Laura: Oh god. I'm so sorry! (counting) This is so much better than the first roll. 23, and then. 33.
Matt: 33. Got it. All right, so (arrow impact) the other arrow hits. Blood pours out of the mouth as they're being held there. They're trying to break away, but they're not very strong. End of your turn? Trinket?
Laura: I'm going to get on my broom.
Matt: Okay, you get on your broom. You going to move anywhere?
Laura: No, but I'm going to be ready to.
Liam: (motorcycle revving)
Matt: All righty, so the necromancer that you just hit--
Laura: I Hunter's Marked him, too, didn't I? I didn't add my Hunter's Mark on either of those attacks. An additional seven for Hunter's Mark.
Matt: Okay. All righty. He angrily, from beneath the vines, gets his staff forward and begins chanting something under his breath. Rears back and exhales, and you watch as a cloud of green, billowing, poisonous smoke spills out in this area. That's going to get all of you guys. I want Keyleth, Grog, Lionel, and Percy to all make a constitution saving throw, please.
Taliesin: Is it magical?
Matt: It is magical. It is a Cloudkill spell.
Travis: It's not poison, though, right?
Matt: It is poison.
Marisha: Don't fuck me, Gil. Ooh, that's not great. I'm going to go ahead and roll my inspiration. That's better.
Matt: Okay, so you take--
Travis: I have resistance against poison because of the Belt of Dwarvenkind.
Matt: 15 points of poison damage, reduced to seven.
Travis: Okay.
Matt: All right.
Marisha: 12.
Matt: 12. You suffer 30 points of poison damage.
Marisha: I'm okay. I'm all right.
Matt: Lionel?
Marisha: How much? 31?
Matt: 30 points of poison damage.
Jon: 18, but how does off a duck's back work, again?
Matt: You use your reaction to reduce the damage by half.
Jon: Do I have a reaction? Can I do that now?
Matt: Yes, and you succeed on that, so you actually reduce it to a quarter, so instead it is seven points of poison damage. Percival?
Taliesin: I rolled 27.
Matt: 15 points of poison damage.
Sam: Off a duck's back? Oh mallard.
Matt: The cloud remains in this area, so this whole area is a billowing cloud of bad news.
Laura: I assume we didn't hear that terrible pun from inside the orb of death?
Jon: What was it?
Sam: I said, oh mal-lard. Oh mallard.
Matt: Yes, I understand it happens at the start of their turn, but we're trying to get through this quickly, guys. Don't worry. Calming down the internet. It's fine. Yep. Two skeletons already went. That brings us to Pike.
Ashley: Can I do anything?
Matt: You can move and attack. No spells.
Laura: She can attack. Oh, she can't attack.
Liam: But we're way in the back.
Sam: You can't do anything?
Matt: Not much you can do from this angle, unfortunately. What do you want to do?
Ashley: There's no rolling against it or anything?
Matt: Nope. You get to roll against it in 30 days.
Ashley: Oh, cool. I'll be back in New York.
Travis: We'll time-jump.
Marisha: I can fix it. Just give me a hot second.
Laura: What if you die?
Ashley: Yeah, what if you die?
Liam: We'll have several problems if Keyleth dies.
Ashley: Just wander off? I'll start walking back towards that way.
Matt: This way?
Ashley: Just start wandering. Yeah.
Matt: You can dash again.
Ashley: I don't need to dash.
Matt: Okay. You'll stay back there? We'll say you get that far. That ends Pike's turn. Keyleth, you're up.
Marisha: Who's left on the ceiling with me?
Matt: It's you and Grog and Lionel on the ceiling with two skeletons.
Marisha: Two skeletons? That's it?
Matt: And one cultist.
Marisha: And one fucking cultist?
Jon: He's been pretty hard to kill.
Taliesin: I can't help.
Marisha: Oh my god. A lot of things have changed in a hot second. Okay. What's going on right now?
Taliesin: I can't help. I'm not allowed to help.
Marisha: Where's Delilah?
Laura: She's hiding in the ball. We can't get to her.
Travis: Smoke everybody outside that bitch.
Marisha: I mean, why not? Go big or go home. I'm going to burn my 9th-level Shapechange and go... I'm going to go red dragon?
Matt: Okay.
Marisha: And that's all I can do, right?
Matt: Yep. That is your action.
Marisha: I'm a dragon on the ceiling.
Matt: You can still move if you want to, but you are a dragon on the ceiling.
Jon: Cool.
Liam: Do you have a giant crate of the things she can turn into?
Marisha: He does. He had to pack a lot of stuff because of me. I feel mildly guilty.
Matt: That's fine. What are you doing, Keyleth?
Marisha: Can I move, (impacts) giant dragon walking on the ceiling, and then look down at Delilah backwards and upside down and say, hello!
Matt: You get two attacks of opportunity from the two skeletons as you step over. 18 and 21.
Marisha: No, yes.
Matt: Take 11 points of slashing damage. Do you have damage resistance in your dragon form?
Marisha: Yeah, I do.
Matt: You move over and you look down. It's an orb, it's not a cylinder, so you just see the giant red dome. You can't see her because it's a dome.
Marisha: I can't see her.
Matt: Nope. So, you get up and you glance down. For the purposes of this, you are currently right there and it's just a big red dome. There, it's fine. Reverse Gravity makes this battlefield so easy to keep track of.
Liam: Sorry, Matt!
Matt: It's fine. All right, Keyleth, is that your go? It was an action to cast it and your move.
Marisha: I have Frightful Presence for anyone who might be terrified of me. That's it.
Matt: Nobody sees you right now through the sphere. That ends your turn. All right. Delilah, within the sphere, the cultists next to her end up throwing the last object up and they-- well, no, sorry, they have not been throwing it in there because when the sphere turned, they'd been holding in there waiting for a moment. Delilah glances out and sees the dragon up there, she gets to make her save against your Frightful Presence. That is a 21 wisdom.
Marisha: What's that against?
Matt: The DC of whatever your Frightful Presence is.
Marisha: 19. Versus wisdom save.
Matt: Wisdom saves, yeah, she makes it. She looks out, seeing everyone falling apart out there, pulls back in, looks at Scanlan and goes, "There's more important things to do." She grabs her amulet that she has around her neck and as she holds it again, you watch as the white orb that was glowing turns to black once again. In that instant, Grog, you revert back to your regular size, Keyleth, you return to your form, Percy, you fall off the side of the wall and land on your feet barely. The skeletons just collapse into piles of bones. Tary, you fall and land on the ground there. This Prismatic Wall vanishes.
Sam: Does Feeblemind end?
Matt: Feeblemind, currently, right now, is not affecting you. Meaning, Feeblemind, whatever the spell is right now, doesn't seem to be having an effect. All of a sudden, your consciousness comes back to you.
Ashley: Really?!
Matt: Uh-huh.
Ashley: Oh, fucking hell!
Matt: She, clutching the amulet, gives a nod to the two other cultists and all three of them step into the black orb. You watch as their forms (whooshing noises) and vanish.
Travis: They disapparated.
Ashley: They stepped into the circle?
Matt: Yep!
Laura: The orb, they went into the orb!
Travis: They're moving freely and it looked like pretty familiarly--
Matt: Through the sphere.
Marisha: They went into the thing! They're gone forever!
Taliesin: No!
Travis: And they've done it before.
Laura: That's how they got over here!
Matt: Scanlan, I want you to roll a perception check.
Sam: Not great. Five.
Matt: Okay. Never mind.
Marisha: If she went in the tiny thing.
Matt: Yep!
Marisha: I still have Shapechange for another hour.
Sam: No, it's gone, you're done.
Marisha: Wait, did she cancel my spell, or is it just the orb that's done?
Matt: You sense the concentration is still there, but the spell has no effect where you currently are. By the way, Lionel and Grog, you both (falling sounds) slamming into the ground.
Travis: Dexterity?
Matt: Nope! You guys suffer 15 points of bludgeoning damage. So, reduced to half for both of you because you're raging, so seven bludgeoning damage each.
Liam: And are the wings schlorped back in?
Matt: Yes. Your wings (retracting sound).
Jon: Mine says "while raging, resist bludgeoning damage."
Matt: That's what I'm saying, you're taking half damage from this. You take seven, as opposed to 15.
Sam: Am I still there?
Matt: You're still there, right next to the orb.
Taliesin: I am going to unload a couple shots into the orb and see what happens.
Matt: Okay, go ahead and take a shot.
Taliesin: Animus freezes up, I throw it. Pull Bad News. Bad News freezes up. I pull Retort. That hits.
Matt: Technically, fire, discard, quick draw, right? Quick draw means you can do it as a free action as a part of it?
Taliesin: Yeah, I'll burn an action surge for this.
Matt: We'll say because you only used your bonus action to-- oh, not to reload. As a quick draw, you can pull it as an attack, you're fine. So, you do three attacks, the third one fires. You fire (bullet) and it vanishes into the orb.
Taliesin: I'm going to sit and fix my guns.
Travis: Are there any enemies left on the map?
Matt: Currently, there's the one right there who's being held by the brambles. The brambles have vanished, and he's currently still conscious, and it's not his turn yet. So, Percy took all the shots into the orb. It is now Scanlan's turn.
Sam: I will draw my blade and scream and hit that thing with my sword. No, the guy! The guy, not the orb.
Matt: You rush towards the guy as the brambles wither away and fall to the ground. He turns around to rush towards the orb just as you rush towards him. Your bardic battle cry just "Argh!" with Mythcarver. Go ahead and make your attack.
Sam: Jon's dice. 11 plus I think it's ten. Somewhere.
Matt: That'll hit. His armor class isn't very high; it's just a mage armor of 15.
Laura: Yay!
Sam: It's just a sword; it's not even magical now. Shit, I can't find anything, I think it's 1d8 plus two.
Matt: It's 1d8 plus your strength.
Sam: 1d8 plus three. Right?
Matt: Well, it doesn't have a magical bonus right now. So just 1d8 plus your strength modifier. What's your strength modifier?
Sam: I can't even find it. I think it's one, but this is an old sheet.
Matt: So, 1d8 plus one, your strength hasn't gone up.
Sam: Thank you. Seven.
Matt: Seven damage.
Sam: Plus one. So eight damage.
Matt: Eight damage. How do you want to do this, Scanlan?
Laura: The most lackluster how do you want to do this!
Matt: He had, like, three hit points left. How do you want to do this?
Sam: I'll just stab him in his toes over and over and I'll say, this is what you get for separating me from my friends! Who I want to be around forever because I love them! Is this what we're supposed to do now, is this the thing?
Travis: Don't question it.
Sam: Okay. Yeah, my friends!
Matt: As you repeatedly stab it in the feet, he's like, "Ow! Ow! Ow! Ow! Ow!" and it's like trying to pull away from you down the side of the pyramid ziggurat. "What are you doing?!" as you keep stabbing it over and over again into the feet until it falls unconscious. Bleeding out through his ankles. How very Scanlan.
Travis: Through his ankles.
Laura: (laughing) That is the stupidest death!
Travis: All right, we're going in the little sphere. Here we go.
Laura: No!
Marisha: So, what? What?
Travis: No, no, no.
Marisha: So it's only a dark magical, anti-magical field because she wants it to be?!
Travis: She manipulated it.
Laura: She turned it into that.
Marisha: Which means--
Laura: She succeeded on the previous one. This a pathway into some other world now.
Marisha: She can change it!
Jon: She did something. It was black before, then she turned it white, and I don't know if that allowed magic. But when she turned it black again, all magic stops, so.
Travis: Which is like the one that we've been around.
Liam: I mean, she knows what she's doing.
Travis: Who has Speak with Dead?
Laura: We can't do anything in here.
Taliesin: We're going to drag this cadaver outside.
Laura: Okay, let's take the cadaver outside.
Marisha: So, it's just very strong magic which makes her change what it is?
Liam: She knows how it works. We don't know why she's here, but she figured shit out the last time.
Laura: We fucking killed her. How did we kill her before? How did she die?
Matt: You killed her in the hallway as she was trying to escape back to Castle Whitestone when you were fighting Orthax.
Laura: Like, she fully fucking died.
Matt: You killed her and threw her body in the acid pit.
Laura: Holy shit.
Taliesin: Yeah.
Travis: Not a lot of remains to be, you know.
Taliesin: Resurrected.
Marisha: All of their magic was necromantic.
Sam: What if it's just her soul or something?
Laura: What if it's not really her?
Travis: Well, listen, we're not going in the orb, right?
Taliesin: No.
Travis: Yeah, so let's drag one of these smart-looking fucks outside and have Pike do Twenty Questions.
Sam: I'm a little worried that once we walk outside, Pike becomes dumb again.
Laura: Well, she can Greater Restoration her as soon as we walk outside.
Marisha: I can.
Taliesin: Let's take this outside. Just take it outside. Nothing good happens here.
Marisha: Wait, before we go. Pike, does Sarenrae know anything about this? Anything?
Ashley: I can check.
Travis: Sam, I think you're right.
Taliesin: You're just going to waste your attempt in here.
Jon: There might be some ducks.
Matt: Are you going to try to have a brief communion with Sarenrae in the temple?
Laura: I mean, you could try.
Liam: If you lose your brain, you can't do it, so why not?
Ashley: I'll try.
Matt: You drop to your knees for a moment and concentrate, hoping for her wisdom. Go ahead and make a general wisdom check. Roll a d20 and add your wisdom modifier. Plus five.
Ashley: Wisdom modifier?
Matt: Yeah, I believe it's plus five.
Ashley: Okay. 22.
Matt: 22. As you concentrate, you feel the warmth of Sarenrae's embrace descend from the darkness of the inside of your eyelids. You see the angelic form of her flaming aura come down and her hands touch the sides of your cheek. She turns your head around towards the orb. And, where previously you saw the little black dot, instead, you see a large oval doorway. Around it, it is flickering madly like a hundred spinning razors around the edges, but just beyond it you can see what appears to be a desolate, gray landscape, what looks to be a scattering of city buildings across this broken, black shadowland, and in the center a singular black obsidian tower that rises up to where you can't quite see the top from your current angle. And she gets down really close to the side of your ear. You feel the warmth of her divine breath against your face. She says, "This is the destiny. This needs to stop. Only terror will come through this."
Ashley: We have to go there?
Matt: "Whatever way you can. Our reach cannot go beyond the Divine Gate."
Ashley: If I go there, will you not be able to go with me?
Matt: "I will be diminished, if at all able to."
Ashley: Okay. Thank you.
Matt: And her finger touches your head and she kisses the top of your forehead and you feel the warm presence again, and she withdraws. As she withdraws, the cold is even harder with her absence because now the proximity of that shadow, of this room, just this general sense of negative energy and death that emanates from this direction behind you. As soon as you watch her light vanish and you open your eyes again, you're chilled to the bone.
Ashley: Okay. Well, it's a doorway, and we have to go there. It's the only way to stop this.
Laura: Stop what?
Ashley: I don't know.
Laura: Well, we can't go through now.
Taliesin: Can't we?
Marisha: Is it just like this now? Like the ziggurat in Whitestone?
Taliesin: I don't know. Can't we?
Travis: Yeah, we can.
Laura: Oh, fuck. But, we're not even healed. They just went through. We're going to go through and just die immediately.
Sam: We have to go at least find out if the spells are still affecting us. If we go through and Pike's dumb--
Ashley: Maybe we should back out.
Marisha: The last time I put my hand in the sphere when it was black it nearly tore me apart. We could try again.
Laura: It was just a doorway?
Ashley: It was a doorway, and it opened into a city of sorts and in the middle was an obsidian tower.
Laura: That's what I saw through the other one!
Ashley: Okay.
Liam: Do I feel anything? Sense anything?
Matt: In what way?
Liam: From my patron.
Matt: Do you wish to try to concentrate there?
Liam: Yeah.
Matt: Make a wisdom check. d20, add your wisdom modifier.
Liam: Use my last Luck of the day. Same thing. It's shit. Seven.
Matt: Seven? You concentrate and you get the sense that the proximity of this orb and something about the nature of this whole occurrence is interfering with your connection with your deity temporarily. You try and reach out to her, but nothing is returning your call.
Travis: Yeah, let's step out of the range, see what happens.
Laura: Can we back out and see how far the range goes? Is it the same distance as our ziggurat?
Matt: So, you drag a body, you said?
Laura: Yeah, one of the bodies.
Travis: Which one, the dark paladin?
Liam: Yeah, that asshole.
Matt: So, you take the black guard, drag it behind you. The rest of you all continue down the pathway. You get to about where that T-intersection was and Pike, your brain goes numb once more.
Ashley: (laughing) No!
Marisha: Keyleth goes over to Pike and puts her palm on her head and casts Greater Restoration.
Matt: The spell immediately loses its hold and you regain control of your facilities.
Ashley: Disaster averted, Keyleth. I throw my arms around her and I kiss her on the forehead, on the cheek.
Laura: Just full on her lips.
Ashley: Sorry, I'm just so intense.
Marisha: The amount you've saved us. It's nothing. I've learned it from you.
Ashley: Okay, do we need to talk to this dead person?
Travis: Yeah.
Marisha: No.
Travis: What? We don't need to talk to this dead person?
Marisha: Sorry, I was answering a different question. Continue.
Travis: Do it.
Ashley: I'll cast Speak with Dead.
Matt: Speak with Dead. You watch the plate armor rouse ever so slightly as the fresh corpse begins to clink and tense against the metal plates. You hear the creaking sound of breath trying to escape from the reedy thin slit where, apparently, part of the dagger blow that you had shoved in the back of its neck went through and cut part of the vocal cards.
Laura: Eww! Fucking gross!
Matt: You have its attention.
Ashley: Is this one of the ones where his eye is missing, is he one of those guys?
Matt: As you glance closer to the black guard, because the helmet's still on, you'd have to pull the helmet off.
Ashley: He's the guy with the-- yeah. Pull it off for sure.
Matt: Pull the helmet off-- it's missing its eye.
Sam: By the way, while this is going on, I'm dragging Doty out.
Matt: Okay. (creaking)
Laura: I help. Trinket helps, too, because he's stronger.
Ashley: Okay, what do we want to know?
Matt: Five questions.
Ashley: Why an eye is missing?
Travis: How they access the gate.
Taliesin: What is it?
Liam: You've got five?
Ashley: Five.
Liam: Is the gate safe for us to travel?
Ashley: Who do you work for? Okay. Is it safe for any of us to get through the gate?
Matt: You can see the lips are curled back against the teeth and the skin is stretched tight against the skull. While once living, this had some sort of necrotic twisting to its flesh, whether it be by proximity or practice. But the jaws open. (gasping) Through the jaw doesn't move, you hear the escaping thin air forming words that say, "You need one of the crafted stones to pass unharmed."
Laura: Or the blade, the sphere!
Matt: (gasping) "Or be hearty enough to survive its ravishing doorway."
Ashley: Who do you serve?
Matt: "We are the Remnants. Small parts of the whole, given purpose to come together and remake the vessel of the Undying King."
Ashley: Why do you have one eye missing?
Matt: "To bequeath ourselves of the highest Remnant order to the Whispered One is to gift our sight like he did. Be granted knowledge he keeps."
Laura: There's only two more questions left.
Liam: Suggestion. How did Ripley return--
Laura: Not Ripley. Delilah.
Liam: That's what I meant to say. Delilah.
Ashley: Was that Delilah?
Laura: Yeah.
Liam: Yeah.
Liam: How did Delilah return?
Ashley: I have one job!
Laura: It's stupid!
Ashley: How did Delilah return?
Matt: "I know not the means. But she is a powerful necromancer, and with the right preparation, even death can be averted."
Ashley: What did you say?
Laura: Or, do they have plans to attack through the orbs? Or how many orbs are there on this plane?
Liam: He didn't know the answer to the last one. So he might not know the answer.
Laura: Yeah, are there plans to come through the orbs?
Ashley: Yeah, that's a great one.
Liam: Is there anything that Delilah is afraid of?
Laura: Nah, he wouldn't know that.
Ashley: What are your plans? What are The Remnants' plans?
Matt: The whisper becomes a slight chuckle. (chuckling) "His return is nigh. The Whispered One will come. His acolytes will help him complete his destiny through the Ritual of Seeding. From within the gate he will rise, the solitary tyrant and lord of Exandria. And with the sole crown of creation guarded upon his head, we who were his body will be rewarded with life eternal at his side." (gasping) And the spell fades.
Taliesin: Did he not have one more?
Matt: That was five questions.
Laura: Great.
Matt: As you sit here in the cavern, contemplating what these words mean, what the next step of your accelerated involvement in this plot, we're going to end tonight's episode. Ran a little over, guys; hundredth episode, that's a record.
Marisha: What time is it? 12 41! Oh my god!
Liam: 12 41?!
Laura: Is that the longest we've ever gone?
Matt: Holy shit. For those who are still here, hanging out, thank you for staying! For those who aren't, enjoy your two-parter!
Marisha: A lot to unpack, there.
Taliesin: Tune in next week for a shopping episode.
Laura: Yeah, for sure.
Taliesin: Critical Role goes to the beach.
Liam: Scanlan, Taryon. Wow.
Taliesin: Doty.
Marisha: The eight characters on this side of the table.
Matt: Yeah, seriously. Dude, thank you again, Jon, for joining us! (cheering)
Matt: Thank you guys so much for watching. Thank you for being part of our hundredth episode.
Laura: Thank you, Marvel Puzzle Quest!
Matt: Thank you, Marvel Puzzle Quest for being our amazing sponsor. Thank you, Critters, for being amazing. I'm going to get my, like, four hours of sleep before getting on a plane to a convention. So I'll see you guys in Texas!
Liam: Real soon.
Matt: Yep. Anyway, love you all. Have a wonderful night, and is it Thursday yet? Good night! [music]

[END OF EPISODE]